Business Review Responsibility and sustainability strategy Corporate responsibility Our Group vision is to be the best global consumer packaging company.
This extends to our vision for our actions in and around Rexam is committed to running its business in a responsibility and sustainability.
Our strategy is predicated on a triple responsible and sustainable manner.
We believe bottom line: environmental responsibility for our planet, economic performance for our prosperity and progress for our people.
that this is fundamental to helping ensure success for our business now and in the long term.
In CR, value is at the centre of all we do, whether it is creating value or protecting the value we have created.
This aligns with our business In line with our Group strategy, our responsibility and sustainability strategy and complements those of our partners along the supply activities focus on creating value for stakeholders.
By aligning activities chain, so that the work we do and the actions we take make a direct with our business strategy we put sustainable thinking at the heart of impact on both our sustainability and that of our customers.
By focusing our decision making process.
on material responsibility and sustainability issues, our efforts in this area will be traceable back to the balance sheet.
Rexam is a significant consumer of natural resources.
We use metals for our beverage cans and oil based polymers for our plastic We set out below the three main areas of our CR strategy and report packaging products.
Across both businesses we consume electricity, on progress made during 2009.
The CR section on our website water and natural gas that generate carbon and other greenhouse provides a full range of information for all our stakeholders regarding gases that have been linked to adverse climate change.
We also our approach and our progress in this area.
transport our products by road and rail to our customers sites.
Environmental responsibility In order to protect what we have today and ensure a successful Climate change mitigation long term future, we must continually improve our stewardship Studies show that the carbon footprint of the packaging supply of these elements.
chain is now largely decoupled from GDP growth.
The diagrams Our Corporate Responsibility CR programme makes good business on page 27 show this to be the case for both plastic packaging sense and there is an inherent commitment to sustainability among and beverage cans.
all our operations and employees manifested in our focus on six 2009 was a benchmark year for us in terms of carbon measurement sigma and lean enterprise.
Improving resource efficiency in our own and disclosure.
We registered fully our global carbon performance operations and continual improvement are at the very core of our with the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, an international reference manufacturing processes, not least because of the material benefits organisation dedicated to reducing the carbon impact on the they bring to us and the whole packaging supply chain.
The CDP allows us to demonstrate publicly In 2009, we formalised our responsibility and sustainability activities to our customers and other stakeholders our commitment and progress with the appointment of a Group Head of Corporate Responsibility.
towards lowering our carbon footprint and reducing our impact on We broadened our approach, defining all the areas where CR can adverse climate change.
best create and protect value for Rexam, identifying the most effective According to CDP, our CO footprint in 2008, our baseline year, levers and deploying suitable mechanisms for improvement, control, 2 was 1.24 million tonnes which classifies us as a medium impact measurement and communication to our key stakeholders.
We are committed to abide by CDPs requirements in expanded our range of key performance indicators and set out a mitigating adverse climate change and our target is to reduce this clear strategy in and around our raw material stewardship in figure.
We will do this by continuing to reduce energy and raw Beverage Cans and Plastic Packaging.
material consumption per tonne of product and by optimising logistics in the supply chain.
In 2009, our CO footprint improved to 1.09 million tonnes.
Going 2 forward we will report carbon intensity per kilogram of raw material converted so that we continue to compare our annual performance on a like-for-like basis.
Energy consumption Energy efficiency is a key focus of our Lean Enterprise programme.
We can demonstrate a very positive track record on energy consumption reduction over the years.
Significant savings have been made by reducing electricity and gas consumption through applying best practice for air compressors, lighting systems, efficient electrical motors and injection moulding technology.
Our overall energy consumption in 2009 decreased by 11% partly due to the economic downturn.
As can be seen on page 25, energy consumption per tonne of production continued to move in a positive direction in 2009.
According to CDP, our CO footprint classifies 2 us as a medium impact business.
In 2009, we reduced our carbon footprint to 1.09 million tonnes 2008: 1.24 million tonnes.
24 Rexam Annual Report 2009 In 2009, we continued to lead the industry in reducing the amount Energy consumption energy tonnes of production MWh tonne of metal used to make each can and, following extensive testing with Group customers, we started supplying cans with midwall thickness less than 1 2007: 3.81 100 microns, thinner than a human hair.
Can ends are getting 2 2008: 3.68 lighter, too, through the use of thinner material.
3 2009: 3.52 Recycling substantially lowers the carbon footprint of beverage cans Beverage Cans 4 2007: 4.15 and is therefore critical to their environmental performance.
Recycling 5 2008: 4.12 saves enormous amounts of energy and CO up to 95% of the energy 2 6 2009: 3.84 used to make a can from virgin material.
Many countries already Plastic Packaging have excellent recycling rates.
In Brazil, for example, it is above 7 2007: 3.13 95%, but where this is not the case, we invest considerable funds 8 2008: 2.75 and resources to improve the collection and recovery infrastructure 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 9 2009: 2.77 in the countries in which we operate.
In Europe, for example, we are closely involved in the Every Can Counts collection and recycling Group Beverage Cans Plastic Packaging programme initiated in 2009 in the UK and which is now being replicated in other European countries.
In the US, our plants, working Resource consumption processed raw material tonnes tonnes closely with local organisations to promote recovery and recycling of production cans, collected more than 1,360 metric tonnes of aluminium cans Group over a six week period leading up to Americas Recycle Day in 1 2007: 1.44 November.
In South America, the business encourages and promotes 2 2008: 1.48 recycling amongst the staff with in-house recycling programmes at 3 2009: 1.42 each and every plant.
As an industry, our global goal is to ensure Beverage Cans that every empty can is recovered and the metal reused.
4 2007: 1.62 5 2008: 1.69 Plastic packaging 6 2009: 1.59 Whereas beverage cans focus on the two Rs, our strategy in Plastic Plastic Packaging Packaging revolves around five Rs Reduce, Re-use, Recycle, 7 2007: 1.08 Recover and Replace.
8 2008: 1.04 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 9 2009: 1.03 Material reduction, for example, is not only a cost saving but it also reduces transport demands and increases fuel and logistics Group Beverage Cans Plastic Packaging efficiencies in the supply chain.
In terms of re-use and recycling, waste plastic is a vital resource.
In Raw material sustainability stewardship our plants we make sure that, where possible and where permissible, Our key raw materials are aluminium, steel and plastic resins from every kilo of process scrap is fed back into the raw material stock fossil based fuels.
In 2009, we continued as a Group to improve through closed loop recovery systems.
Already we partner with performance in terms of tonnes of raw material per tonne of established ethical brands to provide packaging that uses between production, driven by excellence in performance best practice 40 and 70% of recycled post industrial plastic waste.
sharing initiatives and the continued application of our lean enterprise philosophy and toolset.
Significant volumes of waste As plastics have high energy content and have CO emission factors 2 and spoilage were recycled through conversion back to process 1 25% less than coal, we support the use of recycling and energy feedstock via third parties.
recovery from waste EFW reclamation where other more sustainable options are unavailable and landfill is the only option.
In 2008, The availability of raw materials is vital to Rexams future and we are recycling and EFW in Europe increased giving a total recovery rate taking more ownership for their sustainability.
The strategy for each 1 for plastics of 51.3%.
material is similar in terms of conservation and efficiency but is different in terms of end of life recycling or substitution.
Finally, in terms of replacing fossil fuels, we are collaborating with a number of universities, R&D departments and customers to evaluate Beverage cans sustainable eco-friendly polymers to replace fossil fuel derived types.
Beverage cans are made entirely from metal that is both fully However, effective substitution with plant based biopolymers remains recoverable and recyclable as an infinitely reusable material.
Our a technical and environmental challenge.
Performance is still a raw material contains scrap that has been reprocessed many times restriction to substitution, as is the quantity of water and land necessary over.
Sufficient reprocessing infrastructure exists on a global scale to grow the base crops from which these biopolymers are derived.
to recycle every beverage can manufactured.
Our environmental strategy for beverage cans on a global scale centres on the two key Rs Reduce and Recycle.
In Europe, for example, over the past 25 years, consumption of drink cans has increased 50% but through rigorous lightweighting and improved recycling rates the amount of virgin material required to make these cans has decreased 50%.
Rexam, as a leading global canmaker, is leading this decoupling effect across its operations and demonstrating the principle of achieving more from less.
1 Plastics Europe AISBL, Association of Plastics Manufacturers Technical Report 2008.
Rexam Annual Report 2009 25 Business Review Measuring progress In 2009 we introduced additional metrics by which we will measure our performance and chart our progress.
We measure many things at a process level, particularly around effective stewardship of the sustainability of our key raw materials, but as indicated in the table below, we have chosen to focus on eight measurements for reporting purposes: four that focus on responsibility and four on sustainability.
They tie our responsibility and sustainability strategy to our balance sheet.
We realise that external influences may necessitate changes but for the foreseeable future we believe these measures will add the most value and deliver the most progress for Rexam.
The table summarises the areas of focus, our goals, our progress and how they link to our strategy.
Our focus Our goal Our progress in 2009 Strategic link Environmental Zero significant uncontrolled There were no significant uncontrolled or abnormal releases Operational excellence management or abnormal releases in 2009.
Implementation of All our major operating sites have robust environmental management systems management systems EMS in place.
We encourage them to strive for independent external certification.
Where this is not appropriate we adopt EMS that stand up to internal verification against key elements of ISO 14001.
46 2008: 37 of our 105 plants are verified against ISO 14001.
1 Safety systems All plants at RAS best All our major operating sites have robust health and safety Operational excellence practice level management systems in place.
A winning organisation 40 2008: 42 of our 105 plants are verified against 3 OHSAS 18001 Behaviour Based Safety programme was launched in 58 plants.
Accident rate Long term: zero work Lost time accident rate LTAR reduced 27% compared with Operational excellence reduction related injuries 2008.
A winning organisation Annually: reduce by 10% Energy efficiency Continuous reduction Energy consumption per tonne of production continued to Operational excellence in consumption tonne move in a positive direction in 2009 see chart on page 25. of production Water efficiency Continuous reduction We do not use large quantities of water in our processes but Operational excellence in consumption tonne recognise the value of this increasingly precious commodity Customer relationships of production which is central to all our beverage customers.
In 2009 we collated data to establish a baseline for future measurement of improvement.
Raw material Continuous reduction Raw material efficiency continued to reduce year on year Best performance efficiency in consumption tonne see chart on page 25 based on benchmark year 2007.
Customer relationships of production Operational excellence Carbon emission Continuous reduction Total gross global scope 1&2 GHG emissions for 2009 was Best performance in consumption tonne 1.09m metric tonnes of CO equivalent compared with 2008 2 Operational excellence of production baseline of 1.24m metric tonnes CO equivalent.
2 Carbon Disclosure Project 2 compliance Global reporting Maintain accreditation Maintained international benchmark accreditation status Best performance accreditation FTSE4GOOD.
Customer relationships Operational excellence A winning organisation 1 Rexam Audit System for attaining benchmark performance in health and safety structure and performance.
2 Carbon Disclosure Project CDP submission from Rexam PLC 2008.
3 2009 reduction due to disposal of Petainer.
26 Rexam Annual Report 2009 Economic performance Decoupling of plastics waste and landfill Efficiency & cost reductions 30 We use simple and well proven continuous improvement tools such as six sigma and 5S to drive a culture of efficiency and economy 25 in all we do.
Growth rates 20 This Lean Enterprise approach is well suited to support our 1 Total post-user plastics 1 sustainability strategy.
It enables us to minimise waste in our raw waste: c. 3.0% per year 15 materials whilst reducing our consumption of electricity and other 2 Disposal: -1.1% per year 10 natural resources.
We build internal capability to do this in all our 2 operations and then certify achievement of progress through our own 5 award system of Bronze, Silver, Gold and Beyond Gold.
EU15 NO CH until 2004 and EU27 NO CH from 2005 Source: PlasticsEurope Supply chain integrity Driven by retailers via our major customers, the entire consumer Plastics continue to decouple the growth in demand packaging supply chain is under pressure to continually improve its sustainability and responsibility performance.
We are expected from the amount of material to landfill.
to actively participate and contribute to this improvement in a measurable way.
As a consequence, the requirements for continuous improvement form part of our supplier excellence programme and we will continue to embed responsible sourcing of our goods and services in order to deliver the expectations of our customers and their customers.
In our relationship with our suppliers, we drive performance improvement and value within the supply chain applying both strategic procurement and Lean Enterprise tools.
As part of our continuous improvement, we use supplier relationship management programmes to set targets for quality, supply, cost and innovation, define improvement plans and work with our strategic suppliers to deliver those targets.
Reducing the environmental footprint of the can In 2009, Rexam continued with Phase 2 of the Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals REACH compliance 250 programme.
This followed the successful implementation of Phase 1 during which Rexam worked closely with suppliers and customers 200 1 and was not required to pre-register any chemicals.
1 GDP 150 2 Can market Customer attraction 2 3 Metal tonnage used The majority of our customers have well articulated responsibility and 100 4 Net energy consumption sustainability strategies and clear targets and often their reputation 3 rests, in part, on leading a responsible and sustainable supply chain.
50 4 Packaging optimisation and reduction or conservation of energy and water the latter, especially among our beverage customers are 0 invariably at the centre of their sustainability strategies.
Our aim is to align ourselves with our main customers to support their corporate EU15: 1980 Index 100 Source: Beverage Can Manufacturers Europe responsibility, sustainability and business strategies, and leverage this across the supply chain.
Even whilst enjoying strong market growth, In 2009 we continued to participate in and contribute to a number the beverage can has reduced its environmental of our customers sustainability activities.
Investor attraction We remain an established member of the FTSE4Good index and our aim is to maintain an international performance benchmark.
The expectations fit comfortably with the way that Rexam believes business should be conducted to deliver sustainable success such as environmental management: upholding human and labour rights: ethical business practices: supply chain labour standards and climate change mitigation.
Rexam Annual Report 2009 27 Mtonne 000 Business Review Progress for our people For us, a significant incident is one that results in 30 days or more of One of our key strategic aims is to build and maintain a winning lost time or restricted work.
In 2009 there were eight such incidents organisation and make Rexam a great place to work.
This entails including broken limbs owing to falls, hand crush injuries and severe providing the skills, knowledge and structure to deliver the services cuts to hands.
In each case immediate action was taken to make the that our customers want and ensuring that our people understand existing situation safe.
Further investigation was completed to the expectations customers place on our organisation.
establish the root causes, understand the lessons learnt and implement a get well programme of improvement to prevent a Rexam employed an average of 22,900 people worldwide during reoccurrence of the incident.
The key learning points were then 2009. shared with other sites.
The Group aims to attract, develop and retain the best people We use the number of work days away and or restricted time by providing a safe and stimulating working environment, offering DART as a measure of severity.
Our Group DART figure for 2009 appropriate employment conditions and terms as well as rewarding shows a 10% deterioration from 2008.
This figure, however, masks career opportunities.
We are committed to providing a working significant improvements in the DART performance for our Plastic culture that is inclusive to all.
We do not condone unfair treatment of Packaging, Beverage Cans Europe & Asia and Beverage Cans any kind and offer equal opportunities for all aspects of employment South America sectors of 28%, 55% and 32% respectively.
and advancement regardless of race, nationality, sex, age, marital Heightened pandemic preparedness status, disability or religious or political belief.
Following the World Health Organisations pandemic alert In 2009, we continued to build on making Rexam a safe place to to the H1N1 virus, we responded immediately issuing a global work and on developing, motivating, engaging, and recognising our communication through our intranet and then provided regular people to extend their capability to drive excellence in business updates and guidance on infection prevention and control.
response matched the mild to moderate severity of the illness and helped us to continue to deliver on our business commitments whilst Health and safety keeping our employees and customers safe.
The impact on the Providing employees with a safe, fair and enjoyable place to work business was negligible.
is core to our business and characterises our approach to people.
We recognise the link between good environmental, health and Managing performance safety EHS performance and improved business gains.
Rexam has a globally consistent performance management and development system for all levels of management.
The online In 2009, under our Physical Risk Management PRM strategy, performance development system requires individuals performance we embedded further our commitment to protecting our people, the to be reviewed by their respective manager and business objectives environment in which we operate and our assets.
Our cross sector and personal development goals to be set for both the near as well working group, comprising senior sector EHS directors and as the long term.
In 2009, 89% of all managerial staff completed managers, further developed standards and processes to help build a performance review.
a culture of continuous improvement in PRM performance.
The system will be extended to all salaried employees in 2010.
Rexam has a good track record in safety when compared with other industries.
We recognise that, even though our performance is good Training and development in comparison with our industry sector, any injury, and impact As part of creating a winning organisation, Rexam is committed to detrimental to the environment or damage to our assets is helping people reach their full potential through ongoing development.
Our target is zero accidents.
In practice we know We have various levels of development programmes ranging from we have to work hard to achieve that goal by learning from every the Rexam Horizon Program that addresses the needs of senior incident that occurs.
leaders to programmes to improve the skills of our plant operators.
In 2009, our health and safety incident performance showed further In 2009 we continued our focus on succession planning and talent improvement and since 2004 it has improved 46% as measured by development.
The first intake of alumni graduated from the newly lost time accidents rates LTAR.
Further analysis indicated that the root established Rexam Academy.
The Academy is an important causes of 66% of our incidents had their foundation in inappropriate investment in our future talent.
It provides them with a clear actions and behaviours.
As such, we continue to implement our development plan, ideas for career options in Rexam and a mentor programme of behaviour based safety BBS improvements, whereby for those who are at an early stage in their Rexam career.
During the critical behaviours are observed and feedback is provided to year, we extended the concept to our operations in China, reinforce safe behaviours and identify any potential barriers to establishing a specific Chinese-speaking Rexam Academy.
preventing the same type of accident occurring again.
By the end of To improve further organisational capability and individual 2009, we had successfully implemented BBS programmes at more performance to deliver competitive advantage, in 2010 we plan to than half 58 of our operating sites.
Our aim is to continue to roll out create an overarching Rexam business school that encompasses the the programme across all our operating units in 2010.
Horizon Program and the Rexam Academy.
The school, which builds Rexam uses a clearly defined and strict approach to assessing and on and leverages a proven model already used by Beverage Cans recording lost time accidents by including not only lost time incidents Europe & Asia, will focus on front line leadership, manufacturing and but also restricted work days in our statistics.
LTAR showed an supply chain, sales and marketing, finance and human resources.
Now 38% of our sites are reporting will be open to all employees and will help drive our values and zero LTAR compared with 37% in 2008 and 27% in 2007. culture through the organisation.
Beverage Cans showed an improvement of 35% on 2008 to move to an LTAR of 0.9 whilst Plastic Packaging maintained its performance at an already excellent LTAR of 0.4.
28 Rexam Annual Report 2009 Engaging our people In 2009 We use a range of communication tools in order to reach different employee groups within the business.
A regular groupwide team a number of sites achieved milestone briefing process reinforces the strategic messages and serves to performance in terms of safety: Greenville, a US cascade news and information to local business and plants.
Regular news bulletins give people a broad view of Rexams activities and Plastic Packaging plant, reached 6 years without focus on highlighting and illustrating the four strategic aims of the a lost time accident whilst our beverage can plant Company.
The Chief Executive posts regular video broadcasts on in Fairfield achieved a 5 year run.
the intranet through the year covering important events such as Group results announcements, or when there is a need to reach a wider we introduced a group standard on behaviour audience quickly.
The various businesses also publish their own newsletters and magazines to keep their employees informed of based safety BBS.
we reduced Lost Time Accident Rates.
Although surveys have been made at local business level, we have not formally measured the level of engagement of our people on a groupwide basis since 2007.
We plan to carry out a full global LTAR Lost Time Accident Rate per 100 employees per year survey in 2010 to measure the engagement of our people and to provide a baseline for measuring Rexam as a great place to work.
We will report back on this in 2011.
Beverage Cans 1 Industry: 3.5 Reward and recognition 2 2007: 2.0 The Rexam Vision, to be the best global consumer packaging 3 2008: 1.0 company, gives clear and consistent direction and sense of purpose.
4 2009: 0.9 This is reinforced by our four core values: Continuous Improvement, Plastic Packaging Trust, Teamwork and Recognition, encapsulated in and represented 5 Industry: 3.7 by The Rexam Way.
These values establish a common framework 6 2007: 0.8 and a set of fundamental beliefs for everything that we do across 7 2008: 0.4 our operations.
We know that the foundation of delivering our vision 8 2009: 0.4 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 and values is through the performance of our people.
To support our goal of attracting and retaining the best people, we Industry based on US data 2006 Beverage Cans Plastic Packaging provide competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits in the markets in which we operate.
For 2008 we introduced a series of relevant Rexam-specific leadership practices to develop people and manage performance across the Group.
Following this, for senior managers we implemented reward differentiation related to individual performance against the Rexam leadership practices and the achievement of personal objectives as part of the short term incentive plan.
Long term incentive awards proposed in 2009 were discontinued as one of the cost reduction initiatives implemented to meet the challenging economic environment.
We will award long term incentives in 2010.
Going forward, all senior managers will be rewarded on the metric of growth in earnings per share to align them to the creation of shareholder value.
