DPSQPSBUF TPDJBM SFTQPOTJCJMJUZ Our people similar belief, connections with a national minority, sexual Our people are our largest resource and our most highly orientation, gender, gender reassignment, marital status, valued asset.
We are proud of our people and the mixture membership or non-membership of a trade union, disability, of talent and experience that they bring and we depend on or any other classication as prescribed by law.
their skills and commitment to achieve our objectives.
Our cultural style is bolstered by an open and honest $IBSJUBCMF BDUJWJUZ communication environment and by investment in ensuring During 2009, our employees continued to support the that all employees have a profound understanding of NSPCC, our Company nominated charity and we continue to Rightmoves core values and goals.
We achieve this through encourage all our employees to devote time and fundraising a combination of a rigorous selection process, an off-site efforts to charitable causes of particular importance to them residential course to ensure all Rightmovers understand our as individuals.
During 2009 a considerable number of staff core values and the role that they perform, ongoing coaching have been active in raising money or supporting the and mentoring, and cross-functional team building events fundraising activities of others.
Staff opinions are frequently sought Environment through regular staff forums with senior managers and employee online surveys.
Rightmove actively considers its environmental impact.
We have also expanded our Rightmover-led training Since our operation is primarily ofce-based, the direct academy designed to provide a structured means for environmental impact is relatively low.
Indeed Rightmoves employees to expand and diversify their skills and knowledge business creates opportunities to reduce the overall and explore new ways of working with one another.
Given environmental harm associated with a variety of aspects the specialised technical nature of the work we do and the of the whole home hunting process.
services we provide, we also support ongoing external Traditional ways of nding a home tend to involve large professional development where appropriate.
amounts of paper and printing, whether in the form of During 2009 we have explored new ways of ensuring newspaper advertising, property particulars mailed to that Rightmovers are aware of the additional benets that applicants through the post or leaet drops by agents.
they are entitled to access, and which have proved to be a Rightmove reduces the need for print media and the useful retention tool.
This is achieved not only via our environmental damage that goes with them.
Rightmove takes induction process and intranet but also through benets fairs.
care to design the layout of property particulars to reduce the In November 2009, the Companys first Sharesave contract total number of pages that need to be printed out in those matured allowing a large cross section of employees to cases where a home hunter does want a physical copy.
invest and benefit from the success of the Company over Enhanced information on properties also reduces the the last three years.
42% of employees currently participate amount of time home hunters waste in visiting properties in the Sharesave scheme.
that rapidly turn out to be inappropriate.
As a high proportion Rightmove has a strong commitment to equality of of viewings involve a car journey, any reduction in wasted opportunity in all our employment policies, practices and viewings has an environmental benefit.
We take a proactive approach throughout our worked hard to increase the number of photographs of recruitment and selection process to ensure that we attract, each property and has introduced more comprehensive hire and retain a diverse and talented workforce and this is maps and aerial photographs which help home hunters to kept under close and regular scrutiny.
No existing or potential identify the specic location of a property.
The higher quality employee will receive less favourable treatment due to their the information presented about properties the less carbon race, creed, nationality, colour, ethnic origin, age, religion or footprint is generated by prospective buyers making wasted journeys.
20 rightmove plc annual report 2009 The Rightmove.
co. uk website includes functionality for FBMUI BOE TBGFUZ our customers to display Energy Performance Certicates The Group considers the effective management of health and which allow prospective buyers to evaluate the energy safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
During efficiency of a property they are considering buying and to 2009, we continued our re safety, first aid and work place identify opportunities to improve the energy efficiency once safety training.
The Groups ongoing policy on health and they have purchased the property.
safety is to provide adequate control of the health and safety We take the environmental impact of our own operations risks arising from work activities, through further consultation very seriously.
As an internet-based Group with most staff with, and training of, employees, the provision and employed in three ofce locations, we believe our own maintenance of plant and equipment, safe handling and use environmental footprint is small and that there are no of all substances and the prevention of accidents and causes by-products of our operations which have a clear negative of ill health.
The Group will maintain safe and healthy working impact on the environment.
Our staff are encouraged to take conditions for employees, visitors and contractors, and keep proactive steps to address our environmental responsibilities.
the policy on health and safety up-to-date with regular For instance, we continue to operate comprehensive reviews and necessary alterations to the policy as required.
recycling schemes which were established in consultation with local authorities and recycling partners.
As an operator of an online property portal, the main environmental impact is the power usage of our data centres.
Our procurement policy is to purchase hardware with the best computational performance which uses the least electrical power.
For example, in the period, we have completed a partial refresh of our data centre hardware replacing old less efficient servers with half the number of new efficient units.
This refresh has not only reduced our electrical power usage, but has allowed us to serve over six billion page impressions to our customers, an increase of 23% above that of 2008.
As an online Group, our culture emphasises a paperless environment.
We also recognise that our responsibilities do ii ii qi encourage all our customers, business partners and suppliers not to unnecessarily print out emails sent by us in the signature of all our emails.
Moreover in 2008 we introduced e-communications for our shareholders, including an interactive copy of the annual report to enable investors and people with an interest in the Company to print specified pages thereby reducing the quantity of printed material we distribute.
In 2009, we introduced e-mail invoicing for our new homes developer customers and have plans to roll out e-mail invoicing to the wider customer base in 2010, where practicable to do so.
