corporate responsibility report Objectives and management structure Over the last year, Sunbelt had 492 reported incidents relative to a The Group is committed to operating in a safe, ethical and responsible workforce of 6,700 2008: 535 incidents relative to a workforce of 7,300 manner.
We place high priority on compliance with our legislative and whilst the UK had 367 incidents relative to a workforce of 2,300 2008: regulatory obligations and on maintaining the safety of our workforce 384 incidents relative to a workforce of 2,500.
It should be understood across the Group.
that an incident for this purpose does not necessarily mean that an employee was hurt or injured.
Rather it represents an event that, under This year we have introduced a new Group Risk Committee which is our health and safety management policies, we want to track and report charged with overseeing the Groups environmental, health and safety for monitoring and learning purposes.
and risk management processes and ensuring that the separate efforts of Sunbelt and A-Plant in this area are co-ordinated so that experiences Legislation in the US and UK fide fines reportable accidents under rules in one business are shared with the other.
The Group Risk Committee which make the data non-comparable between the two countries but reports to the Group chief executive and the Audit Committee.
comparable within each country relative to other businesses.
Under these fide nitions which generally encompass more accidents in the US than in It is chaired by an executive director of Ashtead Group plc, currently the UK, Sunbelt had 298 OSHA recordable accidents in 2008 9 which, Ian Robson, with its other members being: relative to total employee hours worked, gave a Total Incident Rate TIR the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants risk and safety teams: of 3.41 2007 8: 2.96.
In the UK, A-Plant had 42 RIDDOR reportable UK and US legal counsel: and incidents which again, relative to total employee hours worked, gave the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants performance standards internal a RIDDOR reportable rate of 1.04 2007 8: 0.64.
Relative to national operational audit teams.
average statistics for the construction industry in their respective markets, both Sunbelt and A-Plant performed well.
The Group Risk Committee provided the Audit Committee, and through them the Board, with a comprehensive report on its activities including In order to compare accident rates between the US and UK, for the first details of the areas identi ed in the year as requiring improvement and time this year, A-Plant also applied the US OSHA fide nitions to its the status of the actions being taken to make the necessary improvements.
accident population which gave a gure of 96 OSHA recordable accidents In this way we now are able to ensure that there is an effective chain in the UK.
On a like-for-like basis in the year ended April 2009, Sunbelt of command within the business in relation to environmental, health therefore had 44 OSHA recordable incidents for every 1,000 employees and safety and risk management issues.
whilst A-Plants equivalent incident rate was 42.
Whilst we view any incident as a potential issue, this benchmarking provides comfort that our safety efforts in both businesses are delivering comparable results.
Health and safety We have extensive programmes to develop and maintain safe working Regular employee education and awareness training is probably the most practices across the Group and to remind our employees of the need to effective way of improving and sustaining safety standards across our be safe at all times.
We also spend signi cant time drawing our customers businesses.
The Group is at the forefront of the drive to promote higher attention to the importance of these issues for their own employees.
standards and to educate our employees and our customers about new and A copy of the relevant formal statement of the Groups policy on health improved methods of ensuring employees operate in a safe environment.
and safety is required to be displayed at pro t centres in both the UK and the US.
We make a considerable annual investment in ensuring that our Safeguarding the environment rental equipment meets or exceeds the latest safety standards, as well The Group is committed to taking reasonable actions to minimise the risk as providing health and safety advice and materials, as required, to of adverse impact on the environment from our business.
We achieve this accompany each rental.
by a policy of investing in: Evidence of this commitment was given when shortly prior to year end, the regular renewal of our rental eets to ensure that the equipment we A-Plant was advised by the British Standards Institute that it had achieved provide to our customers mostly incorporates the latest environmental ISO 14001 Environmental management and OHSAS 18001 Occupational management thinking available from our chosen manufacturers.
This completes a process At 30 April 2009 the average age of our eet was approximately 3 years: begun in 2008 some eight months ahead of schedule.
The certi cation our network of pro t centres to ensure that they are adequately gives us con dence that we have in place the appropriate policies, training equipped to operate in a safe and secure way, protective of the programmes and auditing and monitoring processes to minimise our environment.
Key matters which are addressed in this programme are: impact on the environment and ensure the safety of our workforce.
wash-down bays to collect and safely dispose of materials released We maintain sizeable internal health and safety teams to ensure that when we inspect and clean equipment returned from rent: enclosed the correct health and safety precautions are in place throughout our paint booths and spray shops to ensure that repainting of equipment business.
We track and analyse any incidents which occur to enable us can be conducted safely and securely: bunded fuel tanks and designated to identify recurrent issues and implement preventative improvements spill areas to ensure secure fuelling of our eet and, where relevant, across our UK and US networks.
vehicles: and proper arrangements to ensure the collection and secure disposal of waste fuels and oils, tyres and other old or broken parts released as we service and maintain our rental eets: a modern and ef cient delivery truck eet to ensure that our vehicles are purchased with the latest available emissions management and fuel ef ciency available from our chosen suppliers.
47 We also support the initiatives of the Carbon Trust in the management of Contributing to the community harmful carbon dioxide emissions.
We participate in its annual survey and The Board supports giving back to the communities where we do are committed in future to reporting on our carbon dioxide consumption business as well as further a eld.
We have a number of such community in our annual report.
Across the Group our estimated total CO emissions programmes across both the US and the UK.
In the US, we continued our 2 in the year to 30 April 2009 were 220,000 tonnes 2008: 220,000 tonnes support for a programme that combines our local and national resources This comprised 192,000 tonnes at Sunbelt 2008: 189,000 tonnes and to provide consistent support to charitable organisations and leverages our 28,000 tonnes for A-Plant 2008: 31,000 tonnes.
Through this partnership, Sunbelt provides an annual contribution of equipment and services to community projects Whilst these emission levels are low relative to our revenues and employee undertaken by the national charitable organisation, Habitat for Humanity.
numbers, we recognise that most of our emissions are generated by our delivery truck eet in transporting our equipment to customers job sites.
A-Plants community support programmes in the past year included Our customers expect and pay for this delivery but we are working on involvement in the Junior Citizen Scheme in Hounslow, London.
This a number of initiatives to enable our customers to help us reduce our scheme consisted of a number of borough based events organised by the emission levels and the delivery charges we make to them.
For example, local youth and community sections of the Metropolitan Police.
A-Plant on big, long term construction sites, we are increasingly placing pools of supported this initiative by providing accommodation units and other our equipment at the job site enabling equipment to be sourced on-site equipment.
A-Plant is also supporting Constructionarium events across and therefore reducing the sites overall transportation needs.
Constructionarium is a construction industry programme supported by universities across the country which is designed to give students hands-on experience of the industry to enable Employees them to better understand and appreciate the attractions of making their Our employees are our greatest asset and we place enormous value careers in construction.
on the welfare of our employees, as well as the superior level of service they provide for our customers.
At 30 April 2009, we had approximately 8,200 employees across the Group.
Our employees bene t from extensive on-the-job training schemes and are incentivised to deliver superior performance and customer service.
Geoff Drabble We pride ourselves on many of our staff remaining with us throughout Chief executive their careers, something which is increasingly uncommon.
Several of our 17 June 2009 most senior staff started out at entry level within our pro t centres and their continuity of employment is testament to our focus on employee development.
We are committed to ensuring equal opportunities for all our staff, as well as to prioritising local employment, such that our businesses predominantly recruit from the areas immediately around our facilities.
We make every reasonable effort to give disabled applicants and existing employees becoming disabled, opportunities for work, training and career development in keeping with their aptitudes and abilities.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
