Biodiversity integrity Business y t i r e p rights S Land s o Human o c i r a l p w c i e l m l engagement Water b o Stakeholder n e o i c n E g Greenhouse Closure gas and energy use Performance Sustainable development review We are focused on long term sustainable development We remain an active member of the Strategy Our focus on sustainable International Council on Mining and Sustainable development is an integral part Metals ICMM www.
com, which development provides the of the way in which Rio Tinto conducts its evolved from the Global Mining Initiative business, with leadership coming from the framework in which our in 1998 and which aims to provide board of directors and the chief executive.
leadership on scientifi c and policy matters, business operates.
It allows Our global code of business conduct, The maintain dialogue with all stakeholders, us to maintain a highly way we work, reinforces our commitment and promote best practice performance to integrate sustainable development standards employing sustainable regarded reputation that thinking in the way we make decisions development principles.
ensures ongoing access to about fi nding, acquiring, developing, and operating assets around the world.
To assist Key achievements people, capital and mineral our people to understand what is expected The way we work, our global code of resources.
This in turn of them, we launched Leading at Rio Tinto business conduct, and Speak-OUT, our in 2009.
This requires seven leadership helps us to deliver better confi dential whistleblowing programme, competencies to be demonstrated at each were revised.
return for our shareholders, level of our organisation and includes promoting sustainable development.
It is Of the electricity we used in 2009, manage risk effectively, being incorporated in our recruitment and 70 per cent was from low carbon sources, reduce environmental selection, performance management and mainly hydro.
impacts, cut operating We achieved a 16 per cent reduction in our Sound governance and high standards of costs, attract and retain all injury frequency rate during 2009. conduct are sources of competitive advantage for us.
They contribute to long term business We completed the health, safety high calibre employees success by securing access to talent and and environment integration of Rio and provide more business capital, enhancing reputation and improving Tinto Alcan.
operational performance and supply chain development opportunities.
Rio Tinto remains the largest private sector management.
Environmental performance, employer of indigenous Australians.
community relations, employee wellbeing and View more about our approach to sustainable transparency are just as important to us as the Our new global leadership competency development at www.
com technical aspects of mining and processing.
model, Leading at Rio Tinto, was launched.
Materiality assessment We use a materiality assessment to focus our report on our most signifi cant sustainable development impacts.
Our assessment process has been developed in line with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3 guidance on materiality and completeness.
It involves identifying issues affecting our business and its stakeholders, prioritising their importance over the next three years from internal and external perspectives and validating issue prioritisation.
Performance data for our most material sustainable development issues are subject Sustainable development to external assurance.
Omission from the issues covered in our report does not mean that the issue is not managed by the company.
In line with the outcomes of our assessment, we have also further discussed the most material issues fi financial performance, safety and greenhouse gas emissions in the product group operating and fi financial reviews within this Annual report.
24 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Community p engagement i h and regional operations s development Non managed d G r a o v w e r e Our people n t a Supply chain s n c l a e t s n Health y e s m t e n o r m i performance v s Financial n Safety E Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information Why gender matters, a resource guide for our development of the communities The way we work does not stand alone: it is Communities work, was published.
and regions where we work which supported by the Group policies, standards are consistent with the Millennium and guidance notes, which are available Our Pandemic Infl uenza Preparedness Plan Development Goals.
on our website, local laws and voluntary was developed and rolled out to manage commitments.
We are subject to the local laws Six per cent reduction in total greenhouse the swine infl uenza H1N1 pandemic.
of the many countries in which we operate.
gas emissions per unit of production.
We We retained our listing on the FTSE4Good, We build on compliance with these laws and are also targeting a further four per cent Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and where our policies and procedures are more reduction by 2015, to deliver an overall Climate Disclosure Leadership Index, stringent, we operate to those standards ten per cent reduction.
and ranked fi first on the Resources Global regardless of where our operations are located.
Six per cent reduction in our freshwater Professionals corporate governance survey.
All employees are required to complete online use per tonne of product.
or classroom training on The way we work Key priorities every two years.
Online training is available Performance data Continue to reduce injury rates toward our in 12 languages.
We complete a variety of Rio Tintos sustainable development data goal of zero, including zero fatalities.
internal and external assurance activities to are reported for calendar years and, unless Implement our improved contractor safety verify implementation of our Group wide otherwise stated, our inventories represent management system and our new health, systems and controls, see page 32.
100 per cent of the parameter at each safety and environment framework for managed operation, even though Rio Tinto Business integrity major project development.
may have only partial ownership.
Rio Tinto conducts its business with Implement our wellbeing strategy to guide Data reported in previous years may be integrity, honesty and fairness, building from development of a global framework for modifi ed if verifi cation processes detect a foundation of compliance with relevant local health and wellbeing programmes.
material errors, or if changes are required local laws, regulations and international to ensure comparability over time.
Expand our employee diversity focus to standards wherever we operate.
Wherever possible, data for operations Business integrity training is required for all acquired prior to 1 October of the reporting Continue engaging on and preparing for managers, of which 6,279 completed training period are included.
Divested operations evolving energy and greenhouse gas GHG covering anti-bribery, anti-corruption and are included in data collection processes up emission regulation.
political involvement during 2008 and 2009. until the transfer of management control.
We do not directly or indirectly participate in Embed our energy use and GHG emissions Former Alcan operations with the exception party politics and we do not make payments intensity reduction programmes.
of the Engineered Products and Packaging to political parties or individual politicians.
Explore ecosystem service values of our divisions, which are in the process of being Mining is a heavily regulated industry and non operational landholdings, in particular divested have adopted our reporting we maintain continuous dialogue with defi nitions and have been included in our carbon, water and biodiversity opportunities.
governments and public authorities at national, inventories since 1 January 2008.
Continue to strengthen our management provincial and municipal levels.
We make We report in line with the Global Reporting systems by developing and implementing representations on matters affecting our Initiative GRI G3 guidelines at Application strategies to manage our key sustainable business interests and those of our stakeholders.
level A. development risks and improve performance.
We were a founding supporter of the We have implemented ICMMs ten sustainable Support our new Group wide health, safety, United Nations Global Compact www.
development principles and disclosed the environment and communities performance unglobalcompact.
org, a voluntary initiative alignment of our policies, strategies, standards targets, building on the successes and for businesses to align their operations and and practices with ICMMs principles and challenges of our previous targets.
strategies with ten universally accepted position statements on our website.
principles in the areas of human rights, Goals and targets labour, environment and anti-corruption.
The remainder of this section details the We have set 2008 2013 targets for a range of status and implementation of our systems We are active in promoting transparency and sustainable development metrics including: and approaches to manage our material high standards of corporate governance more sustainable development issues and widely, and support a number of voluntary Measuring progress towards our goal of our performance in these areas.
Further zero injuries and zero fatalities through initiatives designed to counter bribery and information on our data defi nitions, reporting our all injury frequency rate.
corruption, to promote transparency and to criteria, our GRI report and our target setting protect human rights.
In particular, through Thirty per cent reduction in the rate and assurance processes can be found on our ICMM we are a company endorsing member of of new cases of occupational illness.
the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI www.
We engage in Ten per cent reduction in the rate of Governance systems the promotion and implementation of the EITI employees exposed to an eight hour The way we work reaffi rms our commitment to in candidate countries where we operate.
noise dose of more than 85 decibels.
It covers issues related Operations having in place locally to the workplace, human rights, communities Additionally, we have a long standing appropriate, publicly reported social and environment, business integrity, Group partnership with the Dundee University performance indicators that demonstrate assets and information management and Centre for Energy, Petroleum and Mineral a positive contribution to the economic government, media and investor relations.
Law and Policy to sponsor postgraduate www.
com 25 Performance Sustainable development review continued studies contributing to the creation of a We provide clear and timely communication of which were introduced to us through stable international legal and investment concerning business performance and acquisitions, to ensure our closure standard environment www.
corporate developments through meetings, and sustainable development principles are newsletters, websites, videos, and social applied in these areas.
Human rights media such as Twitter www.
com Our closure standard and communities We support and respect human rights riotinto and YouTube www.
com standard require our operations to engage consistent with the United Nations Universal RioTintoVideos.
regularly with stakeholders, including Declaration of Human Rights and we actively We are a member of a number of industry employees, traditional land owners, local seek to ensure that we are not complicit associations and of representative bodies communities and governments.
Together, we in abuses committed by others.
Rio Tinto including the World Business Council for identify preferred sustainable development endorses several international commitments Sustainable Development www.
options for closure and seek stakeholders and standards on human rights and remains org and maintain active partnerships with endorsement.
Examples include: dedicated to meeting them.
other organisations to achieve our shared Training on human rights is provided for Argyle diamond mine engages with goals more effectively.
We work closely employees at the general manager level Traditional Owners on rehabilitation with international and non governmental or above as well as our contract security methods for waste rock dumps and organisations to develop appropriate personnel.
Human rights training was preferred vegetation types as it transitions standards and guidelines for our industry.
completed by 2,797 employees during to an underground operation.
There were no reported During 2009 the US$1 million annual Rio Kestrel coal mine, still with more than 20 incidents of breaches of our human rights Tinto Prize for Sustainability continued to years of predicted life, has surveyed local policy during 2009. recognise signifi cant contributions made by communities and employees on their non profi t, non governmental or civil society Richards Bay Minerals concluded its Broad expectations for closure and incorporated organisations promoting and implementing Based Black Economic Empowerment outcomes in post-closure land use plans as sustainable development.
Trees, Water and transaction with a consortia of local part of Rio Tinto Coal Australias Mine Life businesses and community groups during People www.
org, based in Planning programme.
It is now fully empowered in the US and working in Central America, Haiti accordance with the South African Mining and the American West, was the most recent Rio Tinto Alcan applied a regional Industry Charter fi five years ahead of the recipient of the prize.
industrial development process during the required date in 2014. decommissioning of the Lannemezan and Closure Anglesey smelters.
This involved engaging Rio Tinto operates in a manner consistent We have a multidisciplinary approach to with stakeholders and encouraging new with the UN Declaration on Indigenous closure planning, involving communities, Peoples and sovereign obligations.
We post-closure uses for industrial facilities human resource, environmental, engineering respect the land connection of indigenous so as to maintain regional socio-economic and fi financial specialists.
Integrating closure communities and work with them on their benefi ts.
planning into all aspects of our business, from land in a spirit of reciprocity, transparency We continue to participate in initiatives to the earliest stages of project development to and recognition of their culture.
We recognise enhance closure planning guidance for our the decommissioning of facilities, is essential that every indigenous community is unique industry through recognised bodies such as to leave a positive legacy of sustainable and reach specifi c agreements with affected the International Council on Mining and development, minimise unforeseen fi financial communities on how they want to engage Metals, the Responsible Jewellery Council impacts and ensure stakeholder expectations with us in the development and performance www.
Achieving a reputation for positive of our operations.
the Minerals Council of Australia closure outcomes assists us to gain access for Stakeholder engagement www.
Genuine engagement with stakeholders At the end of 2009 our close down and Social wellbeing is a critical element of successful business restoration provisions were US$6,916 million.
We are committed to providing a safe and practice.
Issues such as climate change, Our closure management plans are updated healthy workplace for our employees where water and poverty alleviation are globally every fi five years to ensure they address key complex and require stakeholders to their rights and dignity are respected.
We risks, incorporate sustainable development work together to explore and develop set out to build enduring relationships with opportunities and include accurate appropriate solutions.
our neighbours that demonstrate mutual fi financial provisions.
Since 2005 43 closure respect, active partnership, and long term Building strong working relationships with management plans have been completed, commitment.
those who are affected by, or have an interest including eight in 2009.
Guidance and best in, what we do is essential to our operations.
In 2009 we set new fi five year targets for a practice examples are shared across the We engage with a broad range of organisations range of social wellbeing metrics which are Group to improve performance.
and individuals including our employees, discussed in the following sections.
During 2009 our closure standard and investors, governments, communities, guidance were updated to incorporate Safety academia, industry bodies, and civil society considerations for long life industrial groups to help us identify and manage risks.
We Our goal is to achieve zero injuries and zero type facilities following the Rio Tinto then implement internal controls to minimise fatalities.
We believe that all injuries are Alcan integration.
threats and capitalise on opportunities preventable and our aim is for everyone to go presented through this exchange of sustainable We have established a team of specialists home safe and healthy at the end of each day.
to manage our legacy sites, the majority We strive to create a culture where everyone 26 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information 39 3,524 47 3,355 22 3,778 36 3,985 48 3,937 0.82 0.98 1.21 1.10 1.35 We have also implemented a signifi cant All injury frequency rate New cases of occupational illness potential incident reporting measure which Per 200,000 hours worked Per 10,000 employees promotes identifi cation, investigation and sharing of lessons learnt from critical incidents and introduced streamlined root Rio Tinto Rio Tinto including former Alcan Rio Tinto Rio Tinto including former Alcan cause identifi cation training for leaders to reinforce our incident investigation processes.
Contractor safety was a particular area of focus for us in 2009.
Following a review of internal and external best practices, we strengthened our health, safety, environment HSE and quality management systems for supplier and contractor management and met with senior leadership of major contract companies to raise the profi le of our HSE management expectations.
Our Safety Leadership Development Programme continued to be a pillar of our sustainable safety process.
An updated 05 06 07 08 09 05 06 07 08 09 programme focused on developing HSE skills within the Group was launched in 2009. feels that they can make a difference in Reported illnesses are mostly related to Rio Tinto has taken an active role in the an environment where all employees stress, musculo-skeletal disorders, and noise Flight Safety Foundation, the worlds and contractors have the knowledge, induced hearing loss.
Therefore ongoing foremost independent aviation safety competence and desire to work safely.
reductions will require further improvements organisation.
We co-championed in the management of risks posed by Regrettably we did not meet our goal of zero development of new aviation standards for manual handling and noise exposure, as fatalities in 2009.
Four people were fatally the global mining and onshore resources well as supporting healthy lifestyles through injured while working at Rio Tinto managed industry.
These new standards are being workplace wellbeing programmes.
The fatal incidents occurred at supported by a growing number of major the Lugo di Vicenza aluminium packaging mining companies and are expected to Employees exposed to an eight hour noise operation in Italy, the Palabora copper mine improve aviation safety for everyone dose of more than 85dB A and the Richards Bay Minerals titanium involved in our industry.
Per 10,000 employees average over full shift dioxide feedstock mine in South Africa, and at the Awaso bauxite mine in Ghana.
We also support the Australian Royal Flying We continue to provide support and Doctor Service.
The Rio Tinto Life Flight counselling to the families and workmates provides free of charge emergency jet services who are impacted by these incidents.
We to patients in need of evacuation when time shared the lessons from these and other and distance are critical.
serious incidents across our business.
We are developing a framework to ensure new We measure progress toward our goal projects are managed safely and in line with of zero injuries through the all injury our sustainable development requirements frequency rate AIFR which includes data throughout their development life cycle.
At the end This framework will defi ne our expectations of 2009 our AIFR was 0.82, an improvement for implementation of Group standards and of 16 per cent from 2008.
Over the last systems, requirements for and training of fi five years we have reduced our AIFR by leaders, and the assurance process for health, 46 per cent.
Our lost time injury frequency safety and environment engagements.
rate has also improved and was 0.43 per Health 200,000 hours worked in 2009.
05 06 07 08 09 Low injury rates do not mean that serious Our goal is no new cases of occupational incidents will not happen.
Whilst we have signifi cantly Quantitative Risk Assessment SQRA reduced the number of occupational We have also set a new Group target of a process provides a rigorous approach to illness cases reported over the last fi five ten per cent reduction in the number of the identifi cation and evaluation of higher years, we have set a new Group target to employees exposed to an eight hour noise consequence lower frequency hazards.
further reduce the rate of new cases of dose of more than 85 decibels by 2013 from The risk reduction resulting from occupational illness per 10,000 employees a 2008 baseline.
In 2009, the number of application of the SQRA process is used by 30 per cent between 2008 and 2013. employees reported as exposed increased by as a Group wide leading indicator for The 2008 baseline for this target excludes six per cent per 10,000 employees, primarily safety performance.
Additionally we operations that were divested or fl agged due to further improvements in monitoring undertook seven process safety reviews for divestment during 2009.
In 2009 we programmes and operational changes such of our higher risk facilities in 2009. achieved a 21 per cent improvement.
as moving from surface to underground www.
com 27 102,000 106,000 106,000 35,000 32,000 Performance Sustainable development review continued activities, leading to changed exposure By engaging with our employees about Employees profi les at a number of our operations.
the business and their career aspirations, Number implementing individual development Assessing major noise sources and then planning, coaching and feedback processes implementing practical and cost effective and valuing each individuals contribution, we Rio Tinto Rio Tinto including former Alcan noise controls is complex, particularly for position the organisation to achieve change heavy mobile equipment and noise sources and improvement in this key risk area.
We have therefore established a community of practice to share learning Our total rewards strategy is designed to and assist with the development of more attract, retain and motivate our workforce.
effective noise reduction methods, including Base pay is reviewed regularly and adjusted engineering solutions and alternative ways taking into account the individuals role of working.
and local market trends as necessary.
We also offer allowances, bonuses, share plans During 2009 our Pandemic Infl uenza and healthcare benefi ts appropriate to the Preparedness Plan was revised to incorporate local markets.
Short term incentive plans the lessons we learned from the fi first wave allow individuals to participate in the of the H1N1 pandemic virus.
Our European fi financial success of the business, while long and North American sites were affected term incentive plans help align individual by the second wave, and the plan assisted objectives with shareholder interests.
them to manage the situation with minor 05 06 07 08 09 disruptions to their daily activities.
As a result of the fi first Group wide employee engagement survey in 2008, We believe that supporting healthy lifestyles or her current duties, every effort is made targeted actions were implemented will reduce health related risks such as to offer suitable alternative employment across the Group to increase levels of fatigue, stress and obesity, with resultant and to assist with retraining.
We do not employee engagement in the areas of improvements in health and safety employ forced, bonded or child labour and business leadership and direction, image performance and productivity.
we actively favour local employment where and corporate social responsibility, and local candidates meet job requirements Our new health and wellbeing strategy will safety.
The impact of these actions will and laws allow.
We recognise the right result in greater support for our employees be measured in a further survey in 2010. of all employees to choose to belong to a to lead healthier lives.
We have continued to union and seek to bargain collectively.
We roll out our Achieve Health programme at Approximately 380,000 attendances strive to build a workforce that is aligned our Australasian businesses and more than were recorded for training courses in with our values, and that represents the 3,000 of our people around the world signed health, safety, environment, sustainable diverse communities and geographies in up for our Be Active challenge in 2009.
Four development and technical operational which we operate.
months after the challenge ended 65 per skills in 2009.
This is a signifi cant increase cent of people surveyed rated their health as on 2008 and is primarily due to increased In 2009, we employed 102,000 people, above average or excellent, compared with availability of technology based learning.
including the Groups proportionate share of only 33 per cent before the challenge started.
consolidated companies and equity accounted We employ graduates from many disciplines Rio Tinto operates in countries where the units.
Of these approximately 28,000 were including mining and process engineering: prevalence of HIV, tuberculosis and malaria located in North America, 28,000 in Europe, geology and geosciences: fi finance: human is high.
We are working closely with the 20,000 in Australia and New Zealand, 8,000 resources: health, safety and environmental international community engaged with these in Africa and 7,000 in Latin America.
In 2009, 200 graduates attended our problems not only in Africa, but globally.
Graduate Development Programme and we As a result of the impact of the global Where we have operations located in regions employed over 600 apprentices.
Our targeted fi financial crisis on Rio Tinto, we reported a with a generalised HIV epidemic as defi ned representation of women in the graduate planned reduction of 14,000 roles globally by UNAIDS we actively encourage all intake fell slightly to 29 per cent in 2009.
8,500 contractor and 5,500 employee employees to know their HIV status through roles in 2008.
The workforce was reduced Our local employment commitments are voluntary testing.
We also require that all by around 16,000 with careful monitoring to often managed through directly negotiated employees and their nominated partner ensure no discrimination occurred and that community benefi t agreements.
For have affordable access to treatment, care the organisation has the talent necessary example, in 2009: and support, including antiretroviral drugs.
to deliver shareholder value in the future.
We remained the largest private sector Our people A diverse and skilled workforce is critical employer of indigenous Australians and to our business success in the long term.
Rio Tinto employs on the basis of job maintained our proportion of indigenous requirements and does not discriminate Excluding the chief executive, 20 per cent Australian employees at eight per cent of on grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, of the chief executives executive committee our Australian workforce.
gender, sexual orientation, politics, are women.
However, we have not met In Madagascar a transparent job seeker religion or disability.
Group companies our target of 20 per cent representation of database was developed to assist with employ disabled people and accept the women in senior management by 2009, need to maintain and develop careers for achieving a 13 per cent representation.
In employment of local people.
If an employee becomes disabled 2010, our diversity focus will be expanded have 512 local employees and a Malagasy and, as a result, is unable to perform his to address ethnicity and nationality.
28 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information 92.5 100.0 100.0 113.1 110.2 110.8 109.4 119 135 107 96 93 In Oman, where there is not an established demonstrate a positive contribution to the Community contributions pool of highly skilled potential employees, economic development of the communities US$ millions we almost met our fi five year commitment and regions where we work, consistent with to locally hire 70 per cent of the Sohar the Millennium Development Goals.
Aluminium smelter workforce within its Environmental stewardship fi first year of operation.
We continue to proactively manage climate Rio Tinto expects all employees to treat each change, water, land stewardship, biodiversity, other and external contacts with integrity, mineral and non mineral waste, air quality fairness and respect in line with our values.
These programmes include input Our Speak-OUT programme was revised and from our local communities as well as from reinforced in 2009, providing employees with experts in these fi elds, and are supported an independent and confi dential means of by our external partnerships with BirdLife, reporting concerns to senior managers.
Earthwatch, Fauna & Flora International and Community engagement and regional Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
economic development In 2009 we set new fi five year targets for a By understanding our socio-economic range of environmental metrics which are interaction in the regions where we operate, discussed in the sections below.
We also made we optimise benefi ts and reduce negative progress with the development of a formal 05 06 07 08 09 impacts for communities and our operations relationship with IUCN.
This interaction includes relationships with local suppliers, training and local Greenhouse gas emissions of fi findings and corrective actions employment, support for small to medium We accept the urgent need for climate change identifi ed through these assessments.
enterprises, optimal distribution of taxes action and recognise the issue as being one We have systems that actively involve and royalties, and support for multilateral of our greatest challenges and opportunities.
communities in decision making processes socio-economic programmes.
Infrastructure Reducing the greenhouse gas GHG about issues affecting them.
At our Weipa developed for our mines or processing plants emissions intensity of our production is a key bauxite mine, land management processes can also benefi t local communities and local performance indicator for the Group and we ensure that all relevant traditional businesses and governments.
aim to improve the energy intensity of all our landowners are consulted and their inputs Increased cash availability and wealth operations.
We are also working to identify sought together with our staff about land resulting from our presence in regions where step change opportunities to improve our clearing on the mining lease.
there was previously little can infl ate the price performance over the longer term.
In 2009, Rio Tinto businesses supported of goods and services locally.
We manage such 2, 479 socio-economic programmes scenarios to avoid these negative outcomes.
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity covering a wide range of activities At our mineral sands project in Madagascar, Indexed relative to 2008 including health, education, business for example, we developed and implemented Rio Tinto excluding former Alcan development, housing, environmental infl ux and infl ation mitigation strategies Rio Tinto including former Alcan together with the local community.
Women in communities often We spent an estimated US$119 million disproportionately bear the burden of on community assistance programmes in change brought about by mining and 2009 and payments into benefi ts receiving other developments.
In recognition of trusts set up in directly negotiated this, we have launched Why gender matters, community impact benefi t agreements.
a guide to better incorporate gender This is in addition to direct and multiplier considerations in our communities work.
The guide is available on our website, Without a planned approach to local www.
enterprise development, local and sustainable supply chain opportunities To enable us to target the delivery of can be eroded by a global approach to socio-economic programmes refl ecting procurement.
Accordingly, Rio Tinto the priorities of local communities, we 05 06 07 08 09 Procurement developed a strategy to conduct community baseline, social impact specifi cally nurture local business and social risk assessments to identify potential positive and negative impacts linkages in 2009.
Similarly, Rio Tinto of our presence, including human rights Alcans regional industrial development As a result of the Alcan integration, the impacts.
We use this information along programme seeks to facilitate downstream emissions intensity of our production with community input to develop multiand diversifi ed economic development.
decreased by ten per cent between 2007 and year communities plans at each operation.
2008, refl ecting the high percentage of low In 2009 we established a Communities carbon energy within Alcans smelter portfolio.
During 2009 we completed 19 site target, which requires all operations to have Removing the effect of this acquisition, our managed community assessments, and we in place by 2013 locally appropriate, publicly intensity would have increased in 2008. improved how we monitor progress reported social performance indicators that www.
com 29 497 553 540 257 245 Performance Sustainable development review continued In 2009 we set a new target to reduce our Due to global demand, coal is likely to Total energy use total GHG emissions intensity by six per cent remain a signifi cant source of energy for the Petajoules between 2008 and 2013.
A further four per foreseeable future.
We are therefore investing cent reduction is targeted to give an overall in developing and commercialising carbon ten per cent reduction by 2015 as a result of capture and storage CCS technology.
In Rio Tinto Rio Tinto including former Alcan the expected completion of planned capital particular, we continued to progress our studies projects.
We index our performance relative on the Hydrogen Energy California project, a to 2008 as the base year.
Rio Tinto is a founding member of the Global CCS Institute and During 2009, our GHG emissions intensity supports other collaborative efforts to deploy reduced by 7.5 per cent, largely as a result the technology, such as the CO2CRCs Otway of divesting the Ningxia aluminium smelter Basin geosequestration project in Australia.
in China, which is powered by coal based electricity, and reduced production at a Where we can infl uence our customers, we work number of operations with a higher than to develop effi cient downstream processes, and average emissions intensity.
We expect some our metals and minerals can bring energy and reversal of this positive performance in future emissions benefi ts.
For example: years as production levels increase.
Uranium is used in low carbon Our total GHG emissions, defi ned as the sum power generation.
of on site emissions and those from the net Our high purity ductile iron is used 05 06 07 08 09 purchase of electricity and steam minus net in the production of wind turbines.
carbon credits voluntarily purchased from, or Aluminium makes cars lighter, reducing sold to, recognised sources, were 41.0 million in its energy mix, which represented 70 per the amount of fuel used during their tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent, nearly cent of our electricity use in 2009.
A number operation, and it can be effi ciently recycled.
nine million tonnes lower than in 2008.
This of new projects and technology upgrades that is the result of asset divestments and reduced During 2009 climate change legislation are either under way or planned will ensure levels of production at some operations.
Rio was debated in a number of jurisdictions that we use electricity available from our Tintos on site emissions were 26.1 million in which we operate.
Rio Tinto continued hydroelectric sources with greater effi ciency.
tonnes in 2009. to participate in collaborative efforts to To drive improvement in energy effi ciency promote effective public policy frameworks We operate in an energy intensive sector our businesses have set a range of local to address climate change, including the US and we seek to improve the greenhouse energy targets that cover nearly three quarters Climate Action Partnership and submissions gas emissions over the full life cycle of our of the Groups energy use.
on proposed legislation to governments in products.
For instance, Rio Tinto Alcan Australia, the US, the EU and Canada.
A is a leader in the development of energy The Group is working to reduce the energy comprehensive programme is under way to effi cient aluminium smelting technology.
intensity of new projects through demand prepare the Group for climate legislation.
While it represents 71 per cent of the reduction using asset design and the Groups energy use, it only produces development of alternative sources of energy Rio Tintos operations are exposed to the 64 per cent of our total GHG emissions supply.
We are also currently developing physical risks of climate change.
In 2009 our due to its low carbon energy portfolio.
step change technologies for several of our Energy & Climate Strategy group commenced products, including the drained cathode We recognise that there are signifi cant a review of progress in identifying, managing cell for aluminium production.
This has the GHG emissions associated with the and communicating these risks to better potential to signifi cantly reduce the amount transportation, processing and use of Rio coordinate and support the integration of of energy required to produce aluminium.
In 2009, the three most projected physical climate change risks in signifi cant sources of indirect emissions project planning and operations.
Water associated with our products were: Energy use Our water strategy provides a framework Approximately 4.5 million tonnes of COe 2 for addressing water related business risk Rio Tinto both consumes energy in its associated with third party transport of our and improving performance, and we focus operations and produces it, with signifi cant products and raw materials.
on ways to minimise the amount of water electricity generation at our hydropower An estimated 120 million tonnes of COe 2 we remove from the environment, reuse facilities in Canada and in other locations.
associated with customers using our coal in it whenever we can, and return it to the Our smelting and mineral processing electricity generation and steel production.
operations are energy intensive and depend Approximately 330 million tonnes of COe 2 on hydroelectricity, nuclear power, coal, oil, Following the increase arising from the associated with customers using our iron diesel and gas to keep them running.
inclusion of water withdrawal data for ore to produce steel.
These emissions are This year our energy use decreased from the former Alcan operations in 2008, our not in addition to the coal use emissions 553 to 497 petajoules.
This change has been freshwater withdrawal decreased by six per above, as some customers use both our cent to 487 billion litres in 2009, with lower infl uenced by the divestment of the energy iron ore and our coal to produce steel.
water demand at a number of operations intensive Ningxia aluminium smelter and Emissions associated with third party reduced production for some commodities.
transport and combustion of our coal reduced signifi cantly in 2009 with the Rio Tinto uses a signifi cant portfolio of hydro, We set a new Group water target to reduce divestment of Rio Tinto Energy America.
nuclear and other renewable power sources our freshwater use per tonne of product 30 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information 402 3,410 471 1,373 418 1,154 401 1,112 376 1,083 67 420 70 448 411 392 370 footprint doubled in 2009, primarily stakeholders and employees.
Rio Tintos Freshwater withdrawn because the land utilised for Rio Tinto future success depends on our ability to Billion litres Alcans hydroelectric dams in Quebec was manage these issues.
Our biodiversity reported for the fi first time in terms of Rio Freshwater withdrawn strategy, launched in 2004, provides this Freshwater withdrawn and used Tintos reporting defi nitions, following full management framework with a goal to have Freshwater withdrawn and discharged without use implementation of our land use stewardship a net positive impact NPI on biodiversity.
standard by former Alcan operations.
We continue to work with our conservation In line with leading practice, we aim to partners to improve implementation of rehabilitate land as it comes out of mining the strategy and have commenced piloting use rather than waiting until all operations at offset methodologies in Madagascar and the the site have ceased.
By the end of 2009, 24 Hunter Valley, Australia.
per cent of our disturbed land excluding land Tools and methodologies have been developed disturbed for hydroelectricity dams had been to assess the biodiversity values of Rio Tintos rehabilitated.
An internal rehabilitation target landholding.
In 2009 a methodology for helps to drive performance improvements.
developing biodiversity action plans BAPs was completed in collaboration with Fauna Land footprint & Flora International FFI.
A public version Square kilometres of this methodology is available on the FFI website www.
05 06 07 08 09 Disturbed Rehabilitated Thirty two per cent of our operations where the baseline biodiversity status had been by six per cent by 2013 from a 2008 fully assessed ranked as having very high baseline.
Freshwater use excludes water biodiversity values and 21 per cent ranked that is extracted for ground control and with high values in 2009.
Our biodiversity discharged without use in our processes.
values assessment has now been rolled out to the former Alcan operations, enabling In 2009 we increased our freshwater use implementation of our biodiversity strategy.
per tonne of product by four per cent.
Although total freshwater use did decrease 2009 also saw a strong focus on the this year, the scale effi ciencies achieved implementation of BAPs at sites with very with high production rates in 2008 were high and high biodiversity values.
Rio Tinto not maintained as water use is not directly Coal Australia completed regionally focused related to production rates at all operations.
BAPs for fi five sites in New South Wales and Internal local recycling and ecological Queensland.
BAPs are under development at a further 23 sites in seven countries.
targets support the Group water target.
Biodiversity action planning will continue 05 06 07 08 09 We continued to support the development through 2010 at sites that have been ranked of water strategies at our businesses as having very high and high biodiversity aligned with the Rio Tinto water strategy, values.
An internal target supports our goal In 2009 we formalised a programme to and supported new projects to ensure that of achieving NPI at these sites.
explore the threats and opportunities for effi cient practices are in place at mine the Group arising from emerging green commencement.
Our water risk reviews Economic prosperity markets in biodiversity, carbon, water and support this strategic work and a total of 40 We use our expertise to harness resources, other ecosystem services.
The Natural operations and new projects have completed creating prosperity for our shareholders, Capital Project has commenced exploring reviews since 2005, including fi five in 2009. employees, communities, governments and the ecosystem service values of our extensive business partners.
Rio Tinto engages with governments on non operational landholdings.
We chair a water Our direct economic contribution into the our collaboration with the IUCN economics working group as part of the Minerals Council local and regional economies where we group we have undertaken a preliminary of Australia with the main focus in 2009 operate was US$44,844 million in 2009. assessment of the biodiversity value of forest being development of a water account for This amount includes: conservation projects in Madagascar.
This Australian industry as part of a  work is being developed US$6,696 million spent on wages industry project to report on consistent water as a pilot project as part of the WBCSD and salaries.
We also engage on Ecosystem Valuation Initiative.
Rio Tinto US$21,363 million in value add, equivalent key water initiatives with organisations also sponsored an IUCN paper on the cost to the sum of all labour payments, the taxes committed to sustainable water management of Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and royalties disbursed to governments such as the World Economic Forum.
This paper was and others, plus all returns to capital.
published as part of the Copenhagen Climate Land Change discussions in December 2009.
Supply chain We manage just over 41,000 square kilometres We adopt a life cycle view of our products Biodiversity of land, excluding our exploration leases.
At so as to maximise the value to society while the end of 2009 our activities had impacted The potential for impact on biodiversity minimising negative impacts of products, nine per cent of this area.
Our disturbance makes our projects sensitive for external www.
com 31 23,481 21,363 28,412 29,653 17,241 16,277 14,441 10,999 12,136 8,606 Performance Sustainable development review continued and encouraging those along the supply Chemicals legislation and the UN Globally The mine continues to refi ne its management chain to adopt similar practices.
Harmonized System of Classifi cation and of its tailings discharge, including Labelling of Chemicals.
containment, understanding revegetation In 2009, we spent US$23,481 million and long term closure options.
There have on goods and services with over 58,000 Rio Tinto is engaged in industry wide been signifi cant improvements in tailings suppliers, a US$6,172 million reduction stewardship initiatives to support management at the Grasberg mine, including compared to last year, due to reduced responsible production and help develop construction of lateral dikes to limit the capital spending, capacity curtailment leading practices and recognised standards.
surface area disturbed by tailings deposition and cost reductions.
Our programme of We are an active member of the Responsible in the lowlands and protect adjacent river supplier engagement includes sustainable Jewellery Council, and of stewardship systems, diversion of the Ajkwa river system development criteria in its contracts, and initiatives for other commodities such as our statement of procurement principles is to preserve its water quality and enhance uranium, copper, steel and aluminium.
tailings retention within the deposition The supply of our products often involves area, successful progressive rehabilitation of Payments to suppliers are a major benefi t marine transportation which can impact the now inactive tailings within the Ajkwa to the economy, generating employment oceans, and we have joined the World diversion area and of new islands forming and creating wealth.
As an example in Ocean Council to help create a responsible at the mouth of the diversion area, and 2009 a US$200 million mining contract ocean business community.
We completed was awarded to a joint venture between completion of an ecological risk assessment.
a strategic review of environmental risk native title holders the Eastern Guruma related to our shipping activities as part Rio Tinto and Ivanhoe signed an Investment and a mining services company, NRW.
The of our marine stewardship programme.
Agreement with the Mongolian Government contract to build, mine and transport iron to develop the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project ore from Rio Tintos Western Turner Syncline Non managed operations in 2009.
As a result we increased our stake in deposit is the fi first signifi cant mining joint Rio Tinto holds ownership interests in Ivanhoe to 19.7 per cent.
venture for the Eastern Guruma people, companies it does not manage.
However, we and continues the comprehensive Rio Tinto This 30 year agreement commits all parties remain closely engaged through membership commitment to indigenous contracting in to supporting the regional development of of the boards of directors and of technical the Pilbara region of Western Australia.
It also commits Oyu committees.
We believe that the principles in We develop and regularly update lifecycle Tolgoi to employing a minimum of 60 per cent The way we work are universal.
In our dealings assessments for all our major products, Mongolian workers, including contractors, with joint venture partners and non controlled including aluminium, iron ore, copper, coal, during construction and 75 per cent companies in which we participate, we uranium, gold and silver.
By understanding Mongolian workers, including contractors, therefore make every effort to ensure that the health and environmental impacts and during operations.
It further commits Oyu the standards of conduct in The way we work benefi ts of our products over their complete Tolgoi to no less than a 90 per cent Mongolian are respected at all times.
life cycle, we gain knowledge on how to workforce as direct employees of the business Examples include Escondida copper mine improve our processes, expand our information throughout the life of the operation.
There in Chile, the Grasberg copper-gold mine in to the marketplace, and differentiate our was one fatality at Oyu Tolgoi in 2009.
Indonesia, and the Oyu Tolgoi copper project products from our competitors.
Assurance This knowledge is also used to ensure Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in compliance with new chemicals regulations, Our Corporate Assurance function has Escondida, which is managed by BHP Billiton.
such as the European Union Registration, accountability and responsibility for Our seats on the mines Owners Council Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of providing assurance to the board that: allow us regular input on strategic and policy matters.
We also played a part in establishing Rio Tintos policies, standards and controls Direct economic contribution are adequately designed and effective for US$ million the Escondida Foundation, which is funded their intended purpose: and that by one per cent of the mines pre-tax profi ts and is the vehicle through which Escondida These policies, standards and controls are Payments to suppliers Value added fulfi ls some of its social responsibilities.
consistently implemented by all Rio Tinto The Grasberg mine is majority owned and sites on a timely basis and as designed.
operated by Freeport-McMoRan Copper & In addition, we engaged an independent Gold.
Rio Tinto has a 40 per cent joint venture external assurance organisation, interest in Grasbergs 1995 mine expansion  PwC, to provide and is represented on the joint ventures the board of directors of Rio Tinto plc and operating committee.
There were two Rio Tinto Limited assurance on selected fatalities at Grasberg in 2009. sustainable development subject matter, Both Rio Tinto and Freeport-McMoRan support as explained below.
the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and continue to work together PwCs assurance statement satisfi es the to ensure practice is consistent with these requirements of subject matters one through four of the ICMM assurance procedure while principles.
At least one per cent of the mines our online GRI report has been checked by net sales are committed to support village based 05 06 07 08 09 programmes which represents cumulative GRI, satisfying subject matter fi five of the funding of US$400 million since 1996.
32 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information New cases of occupational illness per characteristics of the subject matter and 10,000 employees the methods adopted for the defi nition Employees exposed to an 8 hour noise and gathering of information.
Qualitative Independent Assurance Report to dose of more than 85 dB A per 10,000 interpretations of relevance, materiality and the Directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio employees average over a full shift.
the accuracy of sustainable development Tinto Limited on selected sustainable Total greenhouse gas emissions data and assertions are subject to individual development subject matter Total energy use assumptions and judgements.
It is important Total freshwater withdrawn to read the subject matter in the context of For the purposes of this Report, the Group Rio Tintos Reporting Criteria.
comprises Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto We note that the selected subject matter did Limited and the entities they control as at not extend to: Assurance work performed 31 December 2009 hereafter Rio Tinto.
Rio Tintos self declared application level We conducted our assurance engagement As a founding member of the International of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI in accordance with International Standard Council on Mining and Metals ICMM Rio G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines on Assurance Engagements 3000 Revised Tinto has committed to obtaining assurance ICMM Subject Matter 5 or Assurance Engagements other than over specifi ed subject matter in its Report The alignment of Rio Tintos sustainability Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial in line with ICMMs Sustainable Development policies against ICMM position statements.
Information issued by the International Framework: Assurance Procedure the ICMM Auditing and Assurance Standards Board Assurance Framework.
Our procedures applied to the We have been engaged to provide limited selected subject matter primarily comprised: Rio Tinto management and assurance on selected sustainable  Making enquiries of relevant management development subject matter the selected of Rio Tinto The directors of Rio Tinto are responsible subject matter included in the Sustainable for preparing the selected subject matter based Development Review Section SDR Section Evaluating the design of the key processes on Rio Tinto Criteria for Reporting on of Rio Tintos Annual report the Annual and controls for managing and reporting Sustainable Development Performance the Report for the year ended 31 December 2009. the subject matter Reporting Criteria.
The Reporting Criteria are Testing, on a selective basis, the preparation The selected subject matter available on Rio Tintos website www.
and collation of the subject matter prepared com ourapproach.
The selected subject matter was chosen by Rio by the management of Rio Tinto Tinto with consideration given to the subject Our responsibility is to express a conclusion matters contained within the ICMM Assurance Undertaking analytical procedures over on the selected subject matter based on our the reported data Framework ICMM Subject Matters.
The procedures selected depend comprises the following information reported on our judgment, including an assessment of Reviewing a sample of relevant within the SDR Section of the Annual report: the risks of material misstatement.
management information and Rio Tintos assertion that it has documentation supporting assertions We read other information included within incorporated the requirements of the ten made in the subject matter the SDR section in the Annual report and Sustainable Development principles of the consider whether it is consistent with the A limited assurance engagement is ICMM into its own policies, strategies and knowledge obtained through our procedures.
substantially less in scope than a reasonable standards ICMM Subject Matter 1 We consider the implications for our report assurance engagement under ISAE 3000.
It Rio Tintos assertions regarding the if we become aware of any apparent material generally excludes procedures such as testing approach that it has adopted to identify inconsistencies with the selected subject the operating effectiveness of controls and and prioritise its material sustainable matter.
Our responsibilities do not extend to corroborative data testing.
development risks and opportunities any other information.
included within the SDR Section of the Conclusion This report, including the conclusion, has been Annual report ICMM Subject Matter 2 Based on our review, which is not an audit, prepared for Rio Tinto to assist the directors in Rio Tintos assertions regarding the nothing has come to our attention which reporting Rio Tintos sustainable development existence and status of implementation of causes us to conclude that the selected subject performance.
We consent to the inclusion of systems and approaches used to manage matter for the year ended 31 December 2009 this report within the Annual report to enable Rio the following sustainable development risk has not been prepared in all material respects Tintos members to verify that the Directors have areas ICMM Subject Matter 3 : in accordance with the Reporting Criteria.
discharged their governance responsibilities Safety by commissioning an independent assurance Health report in connection with the selected Greenhouse gas emissions subject matter.
We do not accept or assume Energy use responsibility for our work or this report to  Water anyone other than the directors as a body and to The following performance data related to Rio Tinto save where terms are expressly agreed the material sustainable development risks and with our prior consent in writing.
identifi ed under ICMM Subject Matter 3 Inherent limitations ICMM Subject Matter 4 : Liza Maimone, Partner All injury frequency rate Non-fi financial performance information is Melbourne, 5 March 2010 Lost time injury frequency rate often subject to more inherent limitations Liability Limited by a Scheme under Professional Standards Legislation Number of fatalities than fi financial information, given the www.
