Robert Wiseman Dairies 16 Business Review: Environment Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Like for like annualised figures for our dairies continue to show improvement.
However overall metrics for the Group are affected in the current year by the addition of our new dairy at Bridgwater which completed its commissioning phase during the first half of the year.
Its environmental performance improved as volumes grew during the year and will be optimised when it consistently produces higher volumes than those experienced over the financial year 2008 09.
We continue to look for further opportunities for improvement throughout our operations in order to maintain our position as the most efficient dairy company in the UK.
Martyn Mulcahy, Group Operations Director At Wiseman we believe in operating efficiently to minimise the amount of resource we require to collect, process and distribute Wiseman: our product.
Greater levels of efficiency result in higher levels of environmental sustainability.
Our environmental strategy is to have the right, sustainable resources in the correct an efficient place, to use those resources efficiently and to strive to continuously improve our environmental performance.
sustainable business Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review: Environment 17 20 of our commercial fleet vehicles run on Liquefied Natural Gas LNG The right, sustainable resources Effluent treatment plant These fridge units are driven by the truck engine, The largest contribution to our sustainability agenda As we explained last year one of the major cutting out the need for another diesel engine will come from our employees themselves and it is investments made at our new dairy in Bridgwater which in turn reduces exhaust emission.
pleasing to report the enthusiasm and commitment is in an effluent treatment plant.
We are delighted To lower the amount of fuel used we plan to make to improving our performance at all sites.
with the performance and benefits resulting from further advances in the monitoring of our fleet and this investment.
We have continued to grow our central environmental driving standards by: team with the appointment of an Energy Manager Water Monitoring fuel efficiency by using GPS telematics in addition to the three full-time environmental staff.
Wiseman recognises that water is a valuable natural In addition each site has an environmental champion resource and has therefore embarked on a water Setting standards for route performance with who is supported by a site Environmental Team made management review.
The objective is to create a Truck stop fleet management up of volunteer staff from different areas of that site.
framework for reducing water consumption through Raising driving standards with the Safe And Fuel efficiency savings and reuse recycling opportunities.
We have also asked our employees to look at their Efficient Drivers SAFED programme.
own personal commitment to good environmental Carbon Management Programme practice and we have supported this by undertaking In addition to ensuring that our own operations are In conjunction with the Carbon Trust and Scottish workshops for staff with the Energy Saving Trust, with efficient and sustainable, all resources we use undergo Enterprise, Wiseman has developed a Carbon Waste Aware Scotland and Love Food Hate Waste.
quality evaluations to ensure that the resources are Management Programme Implementation Plan of a suitable quality.
In addition for the likes of our We continue to invest in plant and equipment which gives us a long-term plan with the objective polybottle suppliers that operate on our sites we designed to improve our performance and review of improving the monitoring of our carbon footprint require ISO14001 accreditation.
This ensures that our our working practices to ensure that we are working and, ultimately, reducing it.
key suppliers have the same environmental objectives as effectively and efficiently as possible across our and standards in place that we expect of our own In addition an Energy Management Plan has been entire supply chain.
staff and business at each of our sites.
developed to provide a 3-year framework for all New vehicle programme Wiseman sites and activities that consume energy.
Resources in the correct place The Group is keenly aware of the need to reduce This plan is a critical aspect of the Groups objective As can be seen from the map overleaf our sites are vehicle emissions and when we acquire vehicles we to reduce its energy consumption.
strategically located near to the main milk producing consider the fuel efficiency of the vehicle.
All of the regions in Great Britain and the main road networks, vehicles we purchase are of the highest specification, enabling us to minimise the number of miles we need using the latest engine technology and the same to transport milk from farm to dairy.
can also be said for the fridge units for our vehicles.
Robert Wiseman Dairies 18 Business Review: Environment Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Once the milk has been processed at our dairies it overly complicating matters.
For example we currently Dairies are located near to milk fields is transported to our network of distribution sites, make the vast majority of our supplies to customers situated throughout the country.
Here, the milk is in trolleys which are then placed directly into the shop loaded into vehicles appropriate to the customer floor or the product is decanted into a fridge.
We believe this is the most efficient ensures that there is no excess packaging required method of transportation and delivering milk to all for direct delivery to store, therefore eliminating waste.
Efficient delivery Packaging is manufactured on site at four of our We have continued to roll out Safe & Fuel Efficient dairies.
These Hole Through Wall facilities, where the Driving SAFED training to our drivers which packaging is fed directly into our processing operations is aimed at improving both the safety and economy from immediately adjacent packaging manufacturing of their driving.
In addition in the current year plants, have helped our efficiencies and reduced the we are commissioning a new fleet management environmental impact associated with transporting system Isotrak, following successful trials which empty packaging by road.
showed further reductions in fuel usage by our distribution fleet.
Efficient use of resources Investment We place a very high priority on efficient management We have invested heavily in designing and developing and use of resources.
strong environmental controls throughout our business but a key part of our strategy has been to seek out, Packaging assess and when appropriate, invest in new technologies designed to improve environmental performance or Lightweighting of caps and bottles reduce environmental impact.
All of our capital projects In the current year along with some of our key are subject to an Environmental Impact Assessment that suppliers we have sought to reduce the amount enables us to determine the potential environmental of plastic in our packaging.
We believe that we impact of any project prior to approval.
have now managed to take as much weight as possible out of the packaging without affecting its Working with others performance and are delighted that this innovative In addition to the above internal projects we have Electric approach has resulted in a reduction in plastic used also been involved in the following programmes and 08 09 30.69 of circa 1,500 tonnes per annum.
studies designed to assess, educate and or improve sustainable performance: 07 08 29.25 Recycled HDPE resin in packaging We continue to work closely with the rest of the Carbon Trust 06 07 Management Programme 27.60 industry to develop a standard for recycled HDPE Scottish Enterprise sustainable learning journeys 05 06 27.39 packaging and as soon as this process is complete we shall aim to introduce this product into our business Envirowise workshops and best practice 28.78 case study.
04 05 through these suppliers as soon as it is practical to Current year performance do so.
The Milk Industry Road Map sets targets of In the current year we have made a change to the 10% recycled content by 2010 and a stretching Head office way that we report our environmental performance 30% by 2015.
Processing dairy in order that we are consistent with the methodology Distribution depot Recycling quality that has been agreed amongst all of the major dairy RWD along with its label partner Systems Labelling Dairy and depot under construction processors operating in the UK.
Gas and blowmoulding partner Alpla were successful in Milk fields by Production Density This methodology will be used as part of Dairy UKs being awarded the tender by the Waste & Resources Electric No milk fields benchmarking exercise on each production site 08 09 98.22 Action Programme WRAP to run a project looking throughout the UK.
It uses milk intakes rather than 08 09 30.69 at improving the quality of recycled milk bottles.
07 08 99.85 sales volume as this allows comparison of all dairy sites The project started in January 2009 and to date 07 08 29.25 irrespective of whether the site produces liquid milk, 06 07 95.88 has made excellent progress.
cream, cheese or a combination of all of these.
06 07 27.60 05 06 96.77 Our 5 key performance indicators for environmental 05 06 27.39 We try to avoid waste due to both the financial impact 04 05 98.59 performance within the business are: and environmental impact it creates on our business.
04 05 28.78 Electricity: kw hr of electricity used by our milk Waste processing sites per tonne of milk used We mentioned in our last annual report that we were looking to roll out the Zero landfill project across the Gas: cubic foot of gas used by our milk Group.
This roll out has been highly successful with Water processing sites per tonne of milk used our best performing site achieving 93% of waste Electric 08 09 0.64 Water: cubic metres of water used by our milk recycled in one quarter during the year.
With increased 08 09 30.69 processing sites per tonne of milk used Gas volumes of product, increased packaging variants, 07 08 0.60 07 08 29.25 more sites and a 53 week period compared to 52 CO2 in processing: kilogrammes of CO2 per 06 07 0.57 weeks for 2008 it is pl08 09 easing to report a reduction 98.22 tonne of milk used at our processing sites 06 07 27.60 in total volume of materials sent to landfill of 44%.
05 06 0.62 07 08 99.85 Landfill: tonnes of material sent to landfill.
