l a c i t i r c n o i s s i m 08 Business review Global activity Reliable power is mission critical for our customers The power systems we deliver are critical to the operations of our customers.
On land, sea and in the air we deploy the worlds most advanced technologies for those who depend upon us.
Civil aerospace Airlines and their customers rely 1,000,000 67,000 on Rolls-Royce.
We recognise Aircraft powered by Rolls-Royce Airlines look to us to deliver safe, the responsibility that is placed fly one million miles every hour, reliable power on behalf of their keeping society and the global customers to ensure this, we on us to produce the most economy on the move.
monitor 67,000 hours of engine reliable engines with the data every day, in real time.
650 650 airline, freight and lease customers are Rolls-Royce powered and they fly the equivalent of six million flights around the world each year.
Defence aerospace Pilots of 160 armed forces need 103 15 to know that they can depend Rolls-Royce products provide Rolls-Royce is powering 15 on the power from Rolls-Royce the defence power systems for different aircraft types in 103 countries.
Afghanistan, supporting engines instantly, whenever combat, transport, medical they call for it.
Our engines evacuation, tactical and are employed in all the key surveillance operations.
Rolls-Royce powers 85 per cent of the UK MoDs aircraft in frontline operations.
The UK military on average performs over 2,000 search and rescue missions annually, many are powered by Rolls-Royce.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 l a c i t i r c n Financial statements Corporate governance Business review o i s s i m l a c i t i r c n o i s s i m Business review Global activity continued 09 Rolls-Royce is a global company producing mission critical power solutions for customers in aerospace, marine and energy markets.
Marine There are 30,000 commercial and 3,000 40 naval vessels operating with Our design of specialist vessels The Littoral Combat Ship, USS can secure an offshore platform Freedom, is one of the fastest Rolls-Royce equipment, ensuring at depths of up to 3,000 metres warships afloat.
Powered by that sea trade of all types keeps on with pinpoint accuracy two Rolls-Royce MT30 gas the move and that coasts, national helping access the worlds deep turbines it has a top speed of and international waters are safe water oil and gas reserves.
Rolls-Royce has a wider range of marine products than The latest Rolls-Royce nuclear any other single supplier.
plant, that powers the Royal Navys Astute class submarines, can circumnavigate the globe without surfacing and will never need to be refuelled in its life.
Energy Societys energy demands continue 500 60 to grow.
We are providing essential Over 500 of our gas turbines are Over 60 major pipelines in operating in hostile weather 26 countries depend on power for the oil and gas industries environments, offshore of 25 Rolls-Royce gas turbines to to meet these needs and countries, delivering the critical transport oil and gas essential increasingly our clean and efficient power needed on oil and gas arteries in the worlds energy gas turbines are providing local platforms.
Rolls-Royce is also at the forefront of low carbon and renewable energy products.
16 Our new Trent 60 gas turbine has been sold to 16 countries and the fleet can generate enough power for three million homes.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 l a c i t i r c n Financial statements Corporate governance Business review o i s s i m
