42 Business review Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility The business case for corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is a fundamental part of the Groups business strategy.
It is not conducted as a separate and self-contained activity, but is integral to the business.
Promoting science and engineering Rolls-Royce supports the UK Cub Scout Scientist badge encouraging interest in science.
Corporate responsibility is an integral part of our business Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Corporate responsibility continued 43 We see corporate responsibility as making a key contribution to the External recognition success of Rolls-Royce.
We believe that conducting business in an ethical and responsible manner creates competitive advantage by Rolls-Royce is ranked in a number of external indices which enabling us to: benchmark corporate responsibility performance, see below: attract and retain the best people: build goodwill and maintain successful working relationships with customers, suppliers and governments: and support the global communities in which our employees live Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index BitC and work.
The BitC Index assesses the extent to which corporate strategy is integrated into business practice throughout an organisation.
It The Groups values of reliability, integrity and innovation are embedded provides a benchmark for companies to evaluate their management in our Global Code of Business Ethics.
This provides a framework for our practices in key areas of corporate responsibility and performance stakeholder relationships worldwide, the strength of which helps to in a range of environmental and social impact areas.
In this years shape the Groups reputation.
BitC Index, Rolls-Royce retained its Gold status with an overall score of 93 per cent.
With around 38,500 employees in more than 50 countries, our strongest contribution to society is the wealth generated by the thousands of 9 10 highly skilled jobs we provide worldwide.
Dow Jones Sustainability World and European Indexes DJSI Governance Rolls-Royce has retained its position in the DJSI for the eighth Each area of corporate responsibility has its own governance process or consecutive year, thereby achieving international recognition of being managing committee.
These include: amongst the best-in-class for addressing a range of sustainability the ethics committee, consisting exclusively of independent nonissues.
Our overall score of 80 per cent represented an improvement executive directors: of one per cent on last year and we once again achieved first position the health, safety and environment committee, chaired by the in the Aerospace and Defense sector.
The Group scored 100 per cent Chief Executive: for environmental reporting, product impact and operational the Environment Council, chaired by the Director Engineering and eco-efficiency and the best sector score for both climate strategy Technology: 91 per cent and occupational health and safety 95 per cent.
the Environmental Advisory Board, chaired by a senior academic from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology: the Global Council, chaired by the Director Human Resources: the Global Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group, chaired by the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP Chief Operating Officer: and The CDP is an independent not-for-profit organisation holding the the Group community investment and sponsorship committee, largest database of primary corporate climate change information in chaired by the Chief Executive.
Thousands of organisations from across the worlds major economies measure and disclose their greenhouse gas emissions Individual subject matter expertise is reviewed by the Corporate and climate change strategies through CDP.
Responsibility Steering Group, which reports to the Board.
This group comprises the Director Human Resources, Director Public Affairs, For the second consecutive year, Rolls-Royce has been included Director of Risk and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
within CDPs FTSE350 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, in which In addition, the corporate responsibility risk register uses the Group the quality and depth of a companys response to the annual CDP risk process to identify the potential risks and opportunities, as well questionnaire is scored.
as mitigation plans to address these risks.
Additional information can be found in the Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 24 to 26.
Rolls-Royce has a long history of being a responsible business.
We are committed to building on our track record and our obligation to behave responsibly.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
