Business review Corporate responsibility continued 55 Society Rolls-Royce has a firm, long-standing commitment to the communities in which we operate around the world.
Sustained investment in communities makes a positive Investing in science difference and delivers tangible benefits to our business.
Corporate responsibility is also a key enabler in delivering our global supply chain strategy.
6.7 The Group donated 6.7 million in 2009 for good causes.
Rolls-Royce Science Prize Our flagship education programme, the 120,000 Rolls-Royce Science Prize, recognises excellent and innovative science teaching Each year the Rolls-Royce Science in the UK.
Prize awards 120,000 to schools to help them develop science teaching methods.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 56 Business review Corporate Responsibility continued We are committed to working with suppliers to eliminate waste.
Success Good supplier relationships in recycling metals within our manufacturing facilities has been The Group sets and manages rigorous performance standards for suppliers extended to support suppliers in recycling their waste metals.
In 2009, through its quality system, Supplier Advanced Business Relationships.
we further extended our remit on metal recycling by engaging with selected customers to ensure that their time-expired engine parts enter the recycling process.
In addition, in 2009 over 4,000 tonnes of highvalue metals were returned from Rolls-Royce factories directly back to our own supply chain for re-use.
Local sourcing policies reflect government regulations, such as in the US where particular rules towards working with small and disadvantaged businesses apply.
Community investment The Group has a long-standing commitment to support its local 4,000 communities.
Community investment is an intrinsic part of the way we do business, supporting the Groups strategy and future success, In 2009, 4,000 tonnes of high-value metals were returned to our own particularly in the areas of: supply chain for re-use.
recruitment and retention of employees, especially by investing in the science skills we need: employee engagement, by encouraging a sense of loyalty, pride and motivation in our organisation: Society development of professional and personal skills such as teamwork, The Group continues to foster productive supplier relationships which: leadership, adaptability and ethical behaviour: and deliver mutual business benefits: reputation, by building proactive and mutually beneficial relationships minimise the environmental impact of business operations: in the communities in which we operate.
encourage the highest standards of ethical behaviour: and promote human rights.
During 2009, we conducted our sixth global survey of community and sponsorship contributions, including cash, employee time and We also set and manage rigorous performance standards for suppliers gifts in kind, using the London Benchmarking Group model.
through our quality system, Supplier Advanced Business Relationships The Groups total contributions across all these areas amounted to SABRe.
This includes a supplier code of conduct, which is approximately 6.7 million.
complemented by the Groups purchasing code of conduct to ensure suppliers and employees work to the same standards.
Donations and sponsorship The Groups charitable donations policy is to directly support causes We are an active member of the UK MoD Industry Sustainable primarily relating to educational, engineering and scientific objectives, as Procurement working group, and look to proactively engage suppliers well as social objectives connected with the Groups business and place in this topic.
In 2010, we aim to address the integration of Sustainable in the wider community.
Procurement into our sourcing decision process.
The Groups charitable donations amounted to 2.3 million, of which Over the last few years Rolls-Royce has voluntarily and publicly 1.5 million were made in the UK.
These included support for declared our carbon emissions by having our data analysed by the Community Foundations, Emmaus for homeless people, and the main Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
As part of our membership of the armed service benevolent funds.
Rolls-Royce made charitable donations CDP we were able to extend this analysis into our external supply of US$800,000 in North America, 135,000 in Germany and 200,000 in chain by inviting some of our suppliers from around the world to other regions.
These donations included support for the work of United declare their carbon emissions.
Due to the success of this analysis, Way in North America and for the victims of natural disasters in Vietnam, we plan to extend this pilot programme in 2010.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Corporate responsibility continued 57 A further 2.1 million was contributed in sponsorships and educational programmes, including the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in North America, the Brandenberg Summer Festival in Germany and sponsorship of The Big Bang fair for young scientists and engineers in the UK.
The Group has a stated policy of working closely with governments and institutions to highlight the many career opportunities that science and engineering can offer.
Our flagship education programme, the Rolls-Royce Science Prize, recognises excellent and innovative science teaching in the UK.
This years winner, Kells Lane Primary School in Gateshead, England, received a total of 20,000 for its project, in which teachers developed a wind tunnel to test pupil-designed wind turbines.
In all, 120,000 was awarded, with the help of the UK Science Learning Centre network, to 59 schools to improve science teaching and learning.
As part of the Science Prize, the Group sponsors Project ENTHUSE which provides free professional development courses to teachers in the UK through the National Science Learning Centre.
Employee time Employee time contributed during 2009 is estimated at a value of at least 1.5 million, with more than 5,000 employees participating in activities such as community projects and team-building activities with societal benefits.
Over 200 employees in the UK, North America and Germany took part in 20 projects during the year as part of their personal development.
These projects are recognised at the Groups Annual Learning and Development Awards.
Employee giving In addition to the Groups own contributions, Rolls-Royce finances the administration of a Payroll Giving Scheme for UK employees, enabling them to make tax-free donations to their chosen charities.
In the UK during 2009, employees gave almost 430,000 to more than 350 charitable causes of their choice.
The scheme is recognised as Gold Award standard by the UK Governments Payroll Giving Quality Mark, with approximately 14 per cent of UK employees participating in the 5,000 scheme.
In North America, employees have contributed over US$550,000 directly from payroll to good causes through the United Way Almost 5,000 employees scheme, a percentage of which is matched by the Group.
Employee giving In-kind support Employees contributed over US$550,000 through the United Way scheme.
The Group also supports community and educational organisations with in-kind donations, including places on Group training courses and the loan of engines and components.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
