Business review Corporate responsibility continued 51 Employees We aim to attract and retain the best people and create an inclusive working environment in which creativity, capability and motivation flourish.
By continually improving levels of employee performance, we deliver on our commitments.
Attracting new employees Rolls-Royce aims to attract and retain the best people by having an inclusive working environment.
5 2009 was the fifth year that the Global Council had met.
Its aim is to improve consultation and employee engagement.
Global council Delegates at the council can hear the discussions translated into their 42 own languages.
A total of 42 employee delegates and a selection of senior management attend council meetings.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 52 Business review Corporate responsibility continued Since 2008, we have conducted an annual strategy storyboard, an Engagement survey interactive Group-wide briefing on corporate direction and As a result of the survey, feedback performance.
The storyboard is delivered globally through small improvements are being face-to-face briefings and ensures all our employees have a good implemented.
A pulse check of understanding of the Groups key objectives and the contribution each employee perceptions will be individual can make towards meeting them.
Our Employee Engagement Survey was redesigned at the end of 2008 to give clearer and more comprehensive feedback and was incorporated into a two-year rolling global engagement programme.
The first improved global employee survey was conducted in January 2009 with 80 a participation rate of 80 per cent, a marked increase from the 46 per 80 per cent of employees cent participation in 2006.
The new reporting format has allowed us to completed the engagement survey.
develop improvement activities that are being implemented across each business and function.
A pulse-check survey to gauge employees perceptions of progress will be undertaken in early 2010.
Rolls-Royce provides competitive pay and benefits in all its locations and actively encourages share ownership by offering ShareSave plans to all employees.
Our employees have currently committed around 106 million to these plans.
In the UK, statutory arrangements enable employees to receive part of their annual bonus in shares and to make monthly share purchases from their salary.
Engaging employees At the end of 2009, Rolls-Royce employed 38,500 permanent staff in over Encouraging diversity 50 countries.
The long lifecycle of the Groups products makes it The Group is committed to developing a diverse workforce and equal imperative that we have a skilled workforce that is committed to opportunities for all.
This includes encouraging more women and delivering excellence to customers over the long term.
To achieve this people from minority backgrounds to pursue engineering careers.
and help improve performance, we aim to create an inclusive working Our global governance framework for diversity includes a senior environment that attracts and retains the best people, enhances their executive Global Diversity Steering Group that provides leadership flexibility, capability and motivation and encourages them to be and shapes strategic direction.
involved in the ongoing success of the Group.
During 2009, we recruited MBA students from 11 nations, graduates for In 2005, we formed a Global Council to improve our consultation and our worldwide graduate programme from 34 nations and apprentices in employee engagement.
The full council meets twice a year and involves the UK, and Germany from five nations.
42 employee delegates and a selection of senior management representatives from each business and function.
Employee delegates In Asia, we continue to make good progress in attracting the highest are elected to represent both employees that are members of unions quality leadership talent.
Several key management roles have provided and those who are not.
An executive committee of eight elected the opportunity to recruit new senior management locally.
As the need delegates meets senior management an additional four times for early career high potential talent strengthens in the region, we have throughout the year to ensure regular dialogue and timely consultation also engaged with several universities to encourage students to apply between council meetings.
for our graduate recruitment and development programmes.
In 2009, our global election process saw 30 per cent of Global Council Launched in 2006, our UK Womens Network focuses on personal and delegates take up the responsibility for the first time.
Due to the professional skills development as well as providing support through changing shape of our global workforce and the need for delegates to networking and mentoring frameworks.
Participation continues to grow have effective communication and interaction during and in between and, during 2009, we supported the launch of a Womens Network in Global Council meetings, we ran cultural awareness training for all Indianapolis, North America, and we are currently supporting the launch delegates in 2009. of a network in Germany.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Corporate responsibility continued 53 Our policy is to provide, wherever possible, employment training and development opportunities for disabled people.
We are committed to supporting employees who become disabled during employment and to helping disabled employees make the best possible use of their skills 34 and potential.
During 2009 we recruited MBA students from 11 nations, graduates Learning and development from 34 nations and apprentices In December 2008 we launched MyLearning, a global system providing from five nations.
access for all employees to both instructor-led and online learning.
Through this web-based system, employees are now able to view the training available, book onto a course, undertake online learning and review their training history.
By the end of December 2009, employees from 44 countries had accessed the system, with over 11,000 employees undertaking more than 65,000 hours of online training.
We have begun to roll out a programme of competency definitions that will align generic jobs to behavioural and technical competencies.
These competencies will allow all our employees to assess their skills and knowledge against those required to carry out their job successfully.
Through MyLearning, employees can run a self-assessment and are then offered training to ensure that they develop the skills needed to meet the required competency levels.
During 2009 our learning and development team provided 9,000 days of leadership training and delivered learning and development programmes that supported capability development for individuals and the business.
We continue to use trained facilitators to deliver global training programmes such as business ethics and our annual strategy storyboard to all employees.
About 1,000 employees have benefited from financial support and time off work to attend further education programmes at local colleges and universities and we provided 1.7 million to finance this type of learning.
Trainees During 2009, we recruited 199 Overall, we invested 24 million in the education, training and graduates and 254 apprentices and professional development of employees during the year.
technicians worldwide onto Rolls-Royce programmes.
Resourcing and deployment We continue to focus on the recruitment, development, and deployment of leadership and professional capability across all of our functions globally.
Leadership succession and individual career development is managed through development meetings held on a regular basis with senior leadership teams throughout the Group.
Discussions in these forums are directly linked to the development of resourcing plans which identify the need for specialist, managerial, MBA, graduate and apprentice employees.
Development meetings operate at four different levels in the organisation, ensuring a balanced Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 54 Business review Corporate responsibility continued focus on the development and advancement of employees including, high potential employees, technical specialists and senior executives.
This ultimately enables effective deployment of people throughout the business.
During 2009, we recruited 199 graduates onto Rolls-Royce graduate programmes and 254 apprentices and technicians worldwide and an additional 256 students were employed on short-term training projects in the UK and North America.
We remain in the upper quartile of The Occupational health Times Top 100 Graduate Employers survey and are ranked in first The primary objective of the Groups position for engineering companies.
occupational health strategy remains a culture of prevention rather than cure.
Health and wellbeing The Group is committed to promoting best practice in occupational health and provides professional expertise through highly regarded service providers.
The primary objective of the Groups occupational health strategy remains a culture of prevention rather than cure.
The strategy maintains four key areas of focus: screening and surveillance: rehabilitation: health promotion: and education.
We continue to demonstrate good progress against our screening and surveillance targets.
These are detailed in the Responsible Operations report, published in April 2007 and subsequent updates available on the Groups website at www.
45 The Know your body metrics health promotion campaign designed to 45 per cent of respondents made complement the Owners Handbook on wellbeing rolled out in 2007 beneficial lifestyle changes.
and 2008 has been continued in 2009 following popular demand.
The programme is designed to raise awareness and understanding of cardiovascular risk factors.
An anonymous online questionnaire found that the Owners Handbook and the Know your body metrics booklet were rated as good to excellent by more than 80 per cent of respondents.
Some 45 per cent said they had made beneficial lifestyle changes as a result of the information.
A pilot programme in one of our business units took place with the Sainsbury Centre for Mental Health based on the successful Australian programme entitled beyondblue.
Further training and awareness are planned to help managers identify depression in the workplace.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
