Business review Corporate responsibility continued 47 Health, safety and the environment HS&E Rolls-Royce is well placed to help society address the problems of climate change and energy security.
We also believe that good HS&E performance in our operations is synonymous with good business.
Our objective is to achieve Policy and management world-class performance at every site.
arrangements The Groups arrangements for HS&E governance and management systems implementation are detailed in our published booklet.
Future product developments As part of the European Commission Clean Sky Joint Technology Initiative we are leading research on low fuel burn geared open rotors.
Strong HS&E culture An underlying theme of our strategy is to continue to develop a strong 50 HS&E culture.
We are targeting a 50 per cent reduction in Total Reportable Injuries by 2012.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 48 Business review Corporate responsibility continued HS&E management implementation.
During 2009, efforts have again focused on raising We believe that all cases of work-related ill-health, injuries and awareness within our supply chain, such that appropriate arrangements environmental incidents are avoidable.
Our vision is to have world-class for compliance and business continuity are introduced well ahead of levels of performance on every site and be recognised for the excellence deadlines.
We continue to support the development of international of our HS&E performance.
The Groups arrangements for HS&E standards within aviation, for the phased declaration of substances governance and management systems implementation are detailed supplied to us to facilitate future REACH compliance and, where in our Policy & Management Arrangements booklet available on required, industry-wide substitution programmes.
Performance improvement is delivered through to consult widely with the European Chemicals Agency ECHA on the implementation of a focused strategy, the core elements of which pertinent matters relating to implementation and compliance within cover: leadership, commitment and involvement: full implementation our sectors.
of the company HS&E management system and related standards: and implementation of best practice and reducing risks through the removal We continue to participate in and meet our ongoing commitments or minimisation of hazards in the workplace.
under various climate change agreements such as the EU Emissions Trading Scheme and the US Chicago Climate Exchange greenhouse An underlying theme of our strategy is to continue to develop a strong gas emissions trading scheme.
The Group is also preparing for the latest HS&E culture.
A team of HS&E professionals supports line management carbon emissions reduction regulations in the UK under the Carbon at the corporate, business and site levels.
During 2009, we have made Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Such measures, further progress to strengthen the capabilities of the HS&E function.
alongside the underpinning science, are fully considered when setting Group greenhouse gas reduction targets.
All the Groups businesses have third-party certification to the environmental management system standard ISO 14001.
During 2009, Operational performance we consolidated all of our third-party certification and surveillance Shaped by our HS&E strategy, we continue to implement prioritised activities into one provider Bureau Veritas Certification.
This is aimed work programmes across all our sites to meet the challenging objectives at increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the global programme.
and targets that have been set.
In the past year, we have made excellent This also supports our drive to provide consistent standards across the progress against these targets.
There were no fatalities in the Group Group and to focus our efforts on key issues.
In this way we will derive during 2009 and no prosecutions against the Group for HS&E offences.
greater benefit from the certification process.
Comprehensive improvement programmes, with an enhanced level of support from the Corporate HS&E team, were initiated at the poorer The Group has recently committed to a programme of third-party performing sites during 2009.
A significant improvement in performance certification to OHSAS 18001, the standard for Occupational Health has been achieved at these target sites.
and Safety management systems, across all businesses by 2012.
This will provide independent assessment across all of the elements of our During 2009, we introduced a web-based, global reporting system, HS&E management system.
Both the ISO 14001 and the OHSAS 18001 which now provides the facility to collect and review HS&E performance international standards are supported within the Group by a in our operations on a monthly basis.
This provides improved tracking of comprehensive range of Rolls-Royce standards and guidelines.
performance at site, business and Group levels.
Our latest progress report is available on the Groups website at www.
com cr We operate three sites in the UK which together manufacture, test reports.
Our data collection and reporting is subject to independent and support nuclear reactor cores for the Royal Navys submarines.
assurance and recommendations for improvement by Deloitte LLP.
The Nuclear Propulsion Assurance Committee regularly monitors the performance of both the submarines and recently formed civil nuclear businesses and seeks evidence that the highest standards of HS&E are maintained and that fit-for-purpose processes are followed.
The Groups contribution to developing best practice through thirdWeb-based reporting system party collaboration continues.
We are taking a leading industry role Our new system allows us in Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals to collect and review HS&E REACH, the latest EU chemicals regulation and continue to work data globally.
with other companies, trade bodies, sectors and regulators on Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Corporate responsibility continued 49 Our 2007-2009 objectives and targets were to: Protect health Reduce the incident rate of occupational diseases and other work-related ill health by ten per cent by the end of 2009 Prevent injury Achieve a 15 per cent reduction in the lost-time injury rate Greenhouse gas targets Reducing environmental impact over one day by the end of 2009 An absolute reduction target for A new target has been set of increasing company facility greenhouse gas the company recycle rate for solid emissions of five per cent has been set waste to 70 per cent by the end of Reduce environmental impact for the period 2010-2012.
Achieve a ten per cent reduction in energy consumed normalised by financial revenues by the end of 2009 Achieve a ten per cent reduction in solid waste normalised by financial revenues by the end of 2009 Product environmental performance Rolls-Royce is both committed and well placed to find solutions to the Achieve a 58 per cent recycle rate of solid waste by the end of 2009 substantial challenges posed by climate change.
The Group believes that technology must be applied on an industrial scale, through companies Detailed results will be published during 2010 on our website at such as Rolls-Royce with global reach, to achieve significant reductions www.
com cr reports in emissions.
A new set of objectives and targets for the period 2010-2012 The Group closely monitors developments in the underpinning science have been agreed and are set out below: to help steer the significant research and development programmes undertaken across all product ranges.
Such knowledge, supplemented Protect health by independent expert advice from the Groups Environmental Advisory Reduce the Group incident rate of occupational diseases and other Board, made up of distinguished academics who are leading authorities work related ill-health by 10 per cent by end 2012 in their respective fields, is also vital to the overall business strategy and design process.
Prevent injury Reduce Company Total Reportable Injury TRI rate by 50 per cent In civil aerospace we have used our technological expertise to by end 2012 significantly reduce the fuel consumption of our products and consequently carbon dioxide emissions, since the first jet aircraft entered Reduce environmental impact service.
For example, the Trent 1000 engine is 25 per cent more efficient Five per cent reduction in company facility in greenhouse gas than the first RB211 engine.
The Trent 900 and 1000 engines, for the emissions by end 2012 absolute Airbus A380 and Boeing 787 respectively, and in future the Trent XWB for the Airbus A350 XWB, help us demonstrate progress towards meeting Ten per cent reduction in total Group greenhouse gas emissions by our Advisory Council for Aeronautics Research in Europe ACARE goal end 2012 normalised by financial revenues of a 15-20 per cent reduction in engine fuel burn by 2020 compared to 2000 levels.
The Company also continues to drive for reductions in noise Ten per cent reduction in total Group production waste solid and and improvements in air quality.
liquid by end 2012 normalised by financial revenues We are taking a leading role in research, including the Environmentally 70 per cent Group recycle rate of solid waste by end 2012.
Friendly Engine EFE, a combined UK Government, industry and university programme, as part of our continuing drive to improve the environmental performance of our aero engines.
As part of the European Commission Clean Sky Joint Technology Initiative, we are leading a Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 50 Business review Corporate responsibility continued 400 million engine research programme, where our efforts are focused Environmental performance is fundamental across all of our businesses.
on demonstrators for low-weight advanced turbofans and ultra-low fuel For example, in the marine sector, our market leading Azipull thrusters burn geared open rotors.
Rolls-Royce is also leading other joint use 16 per cent less energy than conventional thrusters, resulting in Government industry programmes, including: lower emissions.
We are also extending our range of marine Strategic Investment in Low-carbon Engine Technology SILOET : reciprocating engines capable of running on liquefied natural gas LNG, Strategic Affordable Manufacturing in the UK through Leading which compared with diesel fuel in conventional engines, provide Environmental Technologies SAMULET : and significantly lower CO, NO and SO emissions.
The Group continues to explore opportunities in low emission and Rolls-Royce is an active member of the UK Sustainable Aviation Council, alternative energy products and is working in partnership with the UK which comprises manufacturers, airlines, airports and air navigation Energy Technologies Institute.
As part of this work programme, a service providers and is an industry body committed to building a prototype tidal device has been developed and will be tested at the sustainable future for aviation.
Its second progress report, published European Marine Energy Centre, in Orkney, Scotland.
in 2009, includes an emissions reduction Roadmap detailing that significant abatement is feasible in the UK by 2050.
Nuclear power is expected to represent an important component of future low-carbon electricity generation.
Rolls-Royce has substantial capabilities in this area gained through supplying power systems for the UK nuclear-powered submarine fleet over many decades and, in 1 Fuel saving % response to the formidable challenge posed by climate change, has formed a civil nuclear business unit.
00 Trent 895 A new factory is planned to manufacture, assemble and test Trent 500 components for new civil nuclear power stations.
These include pressure -05 vessels, heat exchangers and other large and complex reactor parts, Trent 900 manufactured to exacting nuclear standards.
The facility will have strong links with the Nuclear Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre, -10 announced by the UK Government in July 2009, in which Rolls-Royce Trent 1000 will be the leading industrial partner.
Trent XWB ACARE -15 engine goal -20 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 1 SFC: fuel consumption normalised for engine power ACARE: Advisory Council for Aeronautics Research in Europe The aviation sector is closely examining the potential of bio-fuels to offer a sustainable lower-carbon alternative to kerosene.
Rolls-Royce has supported a number of flight trials, whilst remaining conscious of the wider sustainability issues.
Our position is that, to be acceptable, candidate alternative fuels must: be technically suitable: be deployable on a scale sufficient to displace a significant quantity of kerosene use: avoid harmful impacts on food availability and cost, water demand Improving product efficiency Azipull thruster and ecosystems: and The Trent 1000 engine is Market leading Azipull thrusters use offer an overall life cycle carbon footprint significantly lower 25 per cent more efficient than 16 per cent less energy than than kerosene.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review % CO or fuel burn 2
