Business review Corporate responsibility continued 45 Business ethics Rolls-Royce has a long history of conducting business responsibly and ethically.
Our commitment to act with integrity is at the heart of the way we operate and we regard ethical behaviour as key to maintaining and In 2009 the Group completed a strengthening our reputation.
programme of face-to-face training on ethics for employees.
30 We have over 30 confidential reporting lines worldwide.
4,600 The ethics training programme included leadership workshops for 4,600 managers around the world.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 46 Business review Corporate responsibility continued The Board strongly believes that the Groups business should be facility includes telephone lines and an external website.
Rolls-Royce conducted in a way that reflects the highest ethical standards.
The ethics employees can call any one of over 30 telephone numbers in countries committee was established in 2008 to oversee the implementation of across the world to report any concerns they may have with regard to the Groups global ethics strategy and the management of ethical and business conduct.
Calls are made in total confidence, being handled reputational risk.
The committee consists exclusively of independent independently by the partnership LRN EthicsPoint.
Reports are non-executive directors and met four times in 2009.
Further details of investigated by the business ethics and compliance team with support the committee and its principal terms of reference can be found on from the businesses, security, legal counsel and human resources as page 73. required.
An ethics report steering group meets quarterly to review cases, identify trends and manage the associated ethical and In 2009, as a demonstration of the Groups commitment to setting reputational risks.
The ethics committee monitors cases reported, the industry-leading standards of ethical business conduct, Rolls-Royce management of cases and the results for high risk investigations signed the statement of adherence to the Aerospace and Defence undertaken.
Industries Association of Europe Common Industry Standards.
Global Code of Business Ethics In 2009, Rolls-Royce published an updated version of its Global Code of Business Ethics the Global Code and issued a personal copy to every employee.
The revised Global Code sets out the principles for employees to follow when conducting business and provides practical guidance to help identify, resolve and report any ethical issues or dilemmas they may face.
It sets standards of ethical behaviour on working together, conducting business with customers, suppliers and joint ventures, running our company, health safety and the environment, and working within our communities.
Principles and guidance for managers and employees are provided in key areas such as diversity, discrimination and harassment, bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest and safe working.
The Global Code encourages employees to ask for help and assures them that concerns can be raised without fear of reprisal.
It is available in 16 languages and can be viewed on the Groups website at www.
Global Code of Business Ethics In 2009, Rolls-Royce published an updated version of its Global Code of Business Training and awareness programme Ethics and issued a personal copy to every employee.
In 2009, the Group completed a programme of face-to-face training for all employees to strengthen awareness of the Groups values and embed the Global Code.
The training programme included facilitated half-day leadership workshops for almost 4,600 managers across the Group.
The aim of these workshops was to set the tone at the top, make managers aware of the content of the Global Code and equip them with the necessary tools 16 to deal with ethics-related issues appropriately.
Employee briefings were subsequently delivered by these managers to their teams using supporting Our Global Code of Business Ethics is available in 16 languages.
materials including briefing guides, Global Code wall charts and a corporate values and ethics video.
A tailored ethics e-learning course will be available in 2010 to reinforce the face-to-face training provided in 2009.
Confidential reporting Independently operated and Confidential reporting line confidential ethics reporting lines An independently operated and confidential ethics reporting facility is are available for employees to raise available worldwide so employees can raise issues or concerns regarding issues or concerns regarding business conduct independently of the normal management chain.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
