Corporate Social Responsibility ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ISSUES Environmental Committee Social Issues Committee Chaired by a Divisional Director, meetings are formally held at least once a year.
Chaired by a Divisional level Director, the The Environmental Committee has responsibility for: Social Issues Committee has responsibility for: The Environmental Management Reviewing legislative change System Social issue policies Review of all incident reports The committee uses Resource Futures as HR policies Review of Environment Audit Report the Group's Environmental Consultant CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE CSR Chaired by the Group Chief Executive, the CSR Committee has the following sub-committees covering health & safety, the environment, ethics and social issues.
HEALTH & SAFETY ETHICS Health & Safety Committee Ethics Committee Chaired by a Divisional Director, meetings are formally held four times a year.
Chaired by the Group Legal Director, the The Health & Safety Committee has responsibility for: Ethics Committee has responsibility for the development of Group Ethics policies and Reviewing all accident and incident Reviewing legislative change procedures.
reports Management of Group health The Committee includes a qualified & safety health & safety professional.
The diagram above, sets out the Group's remains committed to the principles laid Support a culture of consultation with Corporate Social Responsibility structure.
down for its inclusion in the FTSE4Good employees, key stakeholders and other The Group Chief Executive chairs the Index and the ten Principles of the UN interested parties: CSR Committee which reports to the Global Compact of which it is a signatory.
Provide environmental information, Rotork Management Board and through guidance and training that meets best the Group Chief Executive to the Board Environmental practice: of Rotork p. l. c. The Groups Environmental Policy Monitor, measure, audit and seek applies to the Company and all its continuous improvement in its The Committees act as a focal point for subsidiaries worldwide.
The policy environmental performance: further development of the subject matter includes commitments to the prevention Work with external agencies and within their remit.
Underlying all their work of pollution, compliance with all relevant bodies to ensure continued adoption is a determination to embed the Groups legal and regulatory requirements of best practice solutions in Corporate Social Responsibility values and to the continuous improvement of environmental management: within all its activities.
Communicate best practice and are contained in our vision and mission publish internal and external statement which can be accessed The group environmental policy can be information detailing its aims and at www.
com under investors found at www.
com in the investors achievements: strategy.
section under Corporate ResponsibilityFoster open communication with Environment.
employees, customers, suppliers The Company has considered the and other stakeholders via both guidelines on Social Responsibility In support of the above policy, Rotorks electronic publishing and face-to-face published by the Association of British Environmental Management System will: discussion.
It takes full account of the significance of environmental and ethical Allocate formal environmental matters in the conduct of its business and responsibilities to ensure compliance in its risk assessment processes.
Rotork with legislation: 24 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business Review Environmental performance Water use Rotork has developed an improved data Water consumption has been measured collection tool during the year which by the Group throughout the year to will assist in evaluating the data used monitor water efficiency.
For the majority in its Environmental Reports.
These of sites, water consumption derives from The Board of Directors is enhancements will improve the accuracy normal operational and sanitary water and completeness of the data collected.
The Groups water is supplied by committed to ensuring local utility providers, except in Rotorks high levels of ethical Greenhouse gas emissions facilities in Lucca, Italy and Chennai, The Groups greenhouse gas emissions India, where water is metered and practice and conduct by derive from the use of energy, electricity, extracted direct from boreholes.
We record our all Rotork employees.
emissions of greenhouse gases in Ethics and values accordance with the Greenhouse Gas The Board of Directors is committed to Protocol GHG Protocol, developed ensuring high levels of ethical practice jointly by the World Business Council and conduct by all Rotork employees in for Sustainable Development and the all their dealings.
This standard differentiates between direct Scope 1 Rotork is a signatory to the United emissions and indirect emissions from Nations Global Compact and its ten At the beginning of 2010, Rotork formed the generation of supplied electricity Universal Principles.
These Principles are an Ethics Committee whose members and supplied heat e. g. district heating derived from the Universal Declaration of include the Group Finance Director and Scope 2 emissions.
Certain other Human Rights UDHR and incorporate Group Legal Director.
The Committees remit includes review of the Group indirect emissions known as Scope 3 human rights, labour, environment, emissions are currently not part of our bribery and corruption.
The Group Ethics Policy and further development of systems and procedures for appropriate carbon data collection.
supports the UDHR and the International Labour Organisations Declaration of monitoring of the policies together with provision of suitable training for Waste management Fundamental Principles and Rights at The majority of the waste generated Work.
Rotork supports all United Nations employees.
The Ethics Committee reports into the CSR Committee whose Chair, by the Group is non-hazardous waste.
efforts to ensure the effective abolition Hazardous waste accounts for only 5% of child forced compulsory labour and the Chief Executive, reports into the RMB and Board on ethical matters.
General of the total waste generated.
Hazardous will never use any such labour in any of waste is usually defined to include its operations worldwide.
At Rotork the Managers of all Group subsidiaries worldwide have recently received training items such as batteries and electronic rights of every employee are respected.
Non-hazardous waste The Company acts in ways that ensure on the Groups current ethical policies to enable them to ensure their staff are all typically includes materials such as all employees are treated with openness, paper, card, plastic and metal.
Rotork mutual trust, dignity and respect.
aware of and understand the policies.
has identified waste as its most significant Everyone working at Rotork will be treated environmental impact and is therefore fairly and without discrimination on the The Groups Whistleblowing Policy was further reviewed during the year by the working with its suppliers to improve basis of race, gender, language its waste recycling systems.
reducing the Groups environmental impact, there is a cost benefit to reducing Rotorks ethics and values policies This policy can be viewed on our website.
com in the and recycling the waste.
which are applicable to all employees regardless of seniority have recently been Investors' section under Corporate Responsibility - Workplace & Waste recycling is one of the Groups updated and can be accessed at rotorks non-financial key performance indicators website www.
com in the Investors Community KPI, which is measured as a section under Corporate Responsibility - percentage of total waste generated by Ethics & Values.
Suppliers Business integrity and fair dealing is the Group.
Last year, there was a 5% reduction in total waste generated, which The Ethics and Values policies specifically key to the Groups relationships with its suppliers and contractors.
The Group in part resulted in a 2% reduction in the state that Rotork will never offer pay, amount of recycled waste see page 21 solicit or accept bribes in any form.
is committed to long term relationships with its supply base.
These relationships for more details of this KPI.
Group internal audits are being expanded to include Ethics policy compliance are reinforced through procurement and supplier quality visits.
ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 25 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Effective management of our Health and help us to understand the accuracy and Safety Programme enables us to: completeness of the health and safety Minimise the risk of injury to our data collected by our businesses and will employees, customers and suppliers be used to improve our data analysis and and damage to property reporting in future publications.
It enables Rotork aims to provide Reduce costs associated with us to benchmark performance within all a safe and healthy employee illness, injury and loss of businesses in the Group and over time will physical assets be a sound basis for assessing progress environment for all Reduce the risk of legislative breaches and trends.
Protect our reputation employees and visitors to Three key measures are monitored across The Company operates a behaviourthe Group: accident frequency rate, lost its premises.
This requires time rate and incident frequency rate.
managers and supervisors to encourage By monitoring the results of these safe working practices by: measures we will be able to identify Promoting regular safety observations areas of strong performance which can Regularly asking employees for their then be shared across the Group, it will suggestions for improving safety at also enable identification of areas of Supplier site visits involve observations their facility weakness and consequently activities that of safe working methods, correct handling Holding employees accountable for may benefit from additional resources and procedures and the correct use of observing these practices training.
We continually seek to identify hazardous materials.
Any irregularities Providing managing safety courses areas for improvement and share good observed are pointed out to suppliers.
for line management practices across the Group.
Supplier visits monitor employment Regular Health & Safety training on ages.
Supplier audits are distributed subjects such as manual handling The Companys target is to achieve internally within the Group.
The intention and confined spaces lower than industry averages in health is to roll out these methods Group wide.
and safety performance for our sector.
Assurance is also sought that suppliers In all our sites, the safety of people and In 2009, the rate at which industrial uphold all local laws generally applicable property in relation to our operations accidents occurred across all our facilities to their locality and operations.
Rotork employees are was 0.57 injuries per 100,000 hours suppliers are registered to ISO 9000. engaged in activities which include worked.
The Company undertakes to manual handling of heavy objects, keep the number of working hours lost Supplier development is ongoing and mechanical lifting, operating machinery through health and safety incidents to involves elements developed in the motor and driving to suppliers and customers a minimum.
Whilst the number of near industry of the QS 9000 system which is locations.
In addition to working in the misses reported has increased, the part of ISO 9000.
Companys facilities, Rotorks Site Service number of actual accidents has fallen.
Engineers work on customer sites, which The increase in near misses during the Health and safety are often inherently more hazardous.
year is regarded as a positive indicator Rotork aims to provide a safe and healthy that safety awareness is improving environment for all employees and visitors The Group focuses on ensuring throughout our businesses due to the to its premises and will not compromise practices are aligned around the Group improved accuracy in our reporting.
the health and safety of any individual.
so that data is collected in a consistent The Group Health and Safety Policy, format and to enable identification of The Accident Frequency Rate over the endorsed by the Chief Executive, sets out efficiency improvements.
During the last five years is shown on page 21. the Companys requirement to meet or year, an internet-based data site has exceed legislation and other requirements been established to facilitate costShareholders in the countries in which Rotork operates.
effective communication in different Information on our relationship with time zones and to support the Groups shareholders, a key stakeholder group, The policy can be viewed on our website objective to continue to improve health is contained in the Corporate Governance www.
com in the investors section and safety performance across our section on page 36. under Corporate Responsibility operations.
These enhancements will Workplace & Community.
26 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business Review Community involvement Rotork considers it important to contribute to and engage positively with stakeholders in the communities in which it operates, especially where it has substantial sites with relatively large numbers of employees.
Rotorks community objectives include being a good community neighbour.
The Group regards this as part of its ongoing responsibilities as a corporate entity.
We seek to be regarded as a good corporate citizen.
This links into the Groups corporate values which include producing a positive and beneficial impact in the areas in which we operate.
Rotork pursues a policy of community involvement through financial support and fostering partnerships with local charitable and voluntary organisations, trusts and local support groups.
For many years, a Charity Committee made up of employees and management representatives has considered local community charitable and similar requests at the Bath site.
Projects are then followed up with visits and reports by employees and feedback to the Charity Committee.
An example in 2009 was Rotorks visit to the Great Western Air Ambulance following our 5,000 donation this year.
Whilst a number of worldwide subsidiaries are already engaged in local charitable giving, in a new initiative all worldwide subsidiaries have been provided with guidance and support to set up Charity Committees on a similar basis to the one run in Bath.
The charity funding previously annually accessed largely by the Bath Charity Committee will now be shared around the Group subsidiaries based on their pro-rata contributions to Group profit.
The Group has also launched a new Maya at a water point, Indira Colony, annual charitable cause initiative.
For Sheopur district, Madhya Pradesh, India.
2010, the chosen charity is WaterAid.
Employees will be able to choose other Photograph courtesy of WaterAid Marco Betti causes in future years.
ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 27 Corporate Social Responsibility continued In 2010 Rotork employees will be invited provided the Group with an opportunity to fundraise for a WaterAid project in to further develop links with Bath the Mysore district of Karnataka state, University and to form links with Bath Southern India which aims to provide City College in addition to the local safe water, sanitation and hygiene schools.
A Company representative through training and building relationships is a member of the Industrial Advisory between the community and local Board for the Mechanical Engineering government as well as construction of Department of Bath University.
Rotork water points and latrines.
Rotork Group is also a member of an initiative of the has undertaken to match employee Engineering Development Trust and fundraising Group wide for this project sponsors a science project currently as well as making its own contribution.
being undertaken by pupils in the sixth Rotork will be the sole funder of this form of a local Bath school.
project in 2010, when it is scheduled to be completed.
Individual employees or groups of employees also engage in community Sponsorship is provided to local youth activities and the Charity Committees and sporting clubs and to cultural will normally match monies raised by and social events.
There is also direct employees who undertake charitable engagement in community issues events personally.
During the year for example, providing transport for the Bath Charity Committee paid the charitable events in the area.
The entry fee for employees participating in Company is the industry member of the the Bath Half Marathon and matched Bath Educational Trust, which has as sponsorship sums raised by employees its objectives educational advancement for their selected charities.
The Company in local schools and the promotion of has made a contribution to the Haiti community cohesion.
Other members of Earthquake Disaster Appeal.
Bath Education Trust are Bath University, Bath City College and two local Bath schools.
Since the Trusts launch in 2008 9 work has already begun to offer children exposure and understanding of Peter France industry by undertaking programmes at Chief Executive the Bath site.
Bath Education Trust has 1 March 2010 28 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009
