Corporate Responsibility 30 RPS has supported TreeAid for over four years with charitable contributions for some of Africas poorest rural communities to help in the fight against poverty and the effects of climate change.
Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Across our businesses we have Social Responsibility Conflicts of Interest 31 contributed to a wide range of charities and Sustainability All RPS employees must avoid personal or and initiatives.
At Group level we made RPS is committed to ensuring that it professional activities and financial interests a donation of 25,500 to Tree Aid in conducts its business in a responsible that could conflict with their responsibilities support of its educational, tree planting and sustainable way.
Taking care of to the Group.
If a conflict of interest does and woodland conservation programmes our clients, suppliers, employees, the arise then this must be acknowledged and in Sub-Saharan Africa.
RPS has supported wider community and the environment openly reported.
Employees must not Tree Aid for several years with charitable and conducting operations with a high seek personal gain from third parties, or abuse their position within the Group for contributions, fund raising and gifts in kind.
standard of business integrity are all personal gain.
Any gifts received must be In 2009 RPS was acknowledged as the essential to the success of our business.
leading corporate sponsor of Tree Aid.
The Group requires its staff to adopt We are proud to be associated with their high standards of behaviour in their daily Community Involvement award winning work that assists some professional conduct or when travelling RPS has supported community and of Africas poorest rural communities to on business.
Employees are required to charitable fund raising with gifts in kind and succeed in the fight against poverty and be sympathetic to the cultures of and financial contributions throughout the year, the effects of climate change.
comply with the laws and regulations of the mostly at office level.
In 2009 the Group countries in which they operate, also giving and its staff gave or raised 480,000 in Environmental Management due regard to the safety, the well being and charitable contributions 2008: 421,000.
RPS contributes to environmental the human rights of all project personnel Taking into account the 105,000 spent management through the projects that and relevant local communities.
on academic bursaries and educational it undertakes for clients.
The Group RPS has set itself the task of reducing per initiatives 2008: 168,000, the Groups advises international bodies, governments, capita energy consumption by 5% each total contribution to the communities in local authorities and private companies year using 2007 as the base.
This would, which it operates was 585,000 2008: on improving their environmental if acheived, halve our per capita energy 589,000.
While the value of social performance.
A wide range of services use by 2020. contributions decreased slightly by 0.7% are available from conducting ecological on the previous year, this represents surveys through to carbon trading.
Clients a small increase as a proportion of In the organisation there are many The Group aims to develop and maintain Group turnover: 0.130% 2008: 0.125%.
employees with professional qualifications strong and lasting relationships with its The continuing efforts of our staff in in environmental management, some clients.
RPS endeavours to deliver all contributing to this are greatly appreciated.
have achieved international recognition services and reports to the required for their work and play a leading role in quality and specification within the professional bodies.
time frame agreed with the client.
RPS employees work with their clients to meet and anticipate their needs.
com Corporate Responsibility RPS seeks to manage and reduce its own A significant proportion of the Group has The specific target set by the Board is to 32 environmental impact.
All businesses in achieved ISO14001, the internationally reduce energy consumption by 5% per the Group are required to put in place recognised environmental management annum on a per capita basis.
This target systems to ensure that they identify and system standard.
was not achieved in 2009 with overall reduce potential environmental liabilities.
energy consumption increasing by 8.5% Waste recycling facilities are in place at over the prior year.
This increase was Using these management techniques, RPS most of our offices.
roughly proportionate to the increase in endeavours to: Climate Change office space occupied as noted above.
n comply with all relevant national and RPS has extensive skills that enable us to Despite the challenging economic climate regional legislation as a minimum understand and advise upon the causes and RPS will continue in efforts to reduce standard: effects of climate change.
RPS undertakes energy consumption and its related impact projects that involve developing strategies n comply with codes of practice and on carbon emissions.
Over 80% of to reduce our clients carbon emissions and other requirements such as those electricity purchased in the UK during 2009 adapt buildings and infrastructure to cope specified by regulators and our clients: was on Green tariffs, which compared with with anticipated climatic changes.
This is from energy sources n utilise suppliers that offer products expect the workload in this area that are either derived from renewable which are sustainable, recyclable or to increase.
sources such as wind, capture waste energy environmentally sensitive wherever such as landfill gas or are from good practicable and economic: The carbon footprint for RPS in quality combined heat and power plants.
2008, recalculated in accordance with n promote practical energy efficiency Due to the ongoing debate over the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and current and waste minimisation measures: and integrity of using green tariffs in carbon Defra guidance amounted to 14,258 n provide a shared inter-office IT footprint calculations and in accordance tonnes, which was equivalent to 3.2 tonnes network and communications with government guidance the green for each employee.
In 2009 the total technology that reduces the need for tariff element was not included within footprint increased to 14,695 tonnes.
a year that saw a significant reduction in overall headcount, this was equivalent to In order to achieve this RPS: 3.7 tonnes for each employee.
Despite n ensures employees are trained and the reduction in headcount, office space motivated to conduct their activities in occupied showed a small increase with an environmentally responsible manner: a corresponding impact on both the n reviews the policy on a regular overall and per capita numbers.
In addition basis to take into account any numbers were affected by the expansion new developments in legislation, in the Australian business and its related or environmental management or impact on travel patterns.
shareholder expectations: and n allocates sufficient management resources to ensure effective implementation of the environmental policies.
Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Responsibility 33 Cardiff Waterfront RPS is shaping major regeneration schemes across the UK, including landmark urban renewal projects in Belfast, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow, London, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Nottingham, Plymouth and Sheffield.
com Corporate Responsibility 34 Shareholders The Group conducts its operations in accordance with what it believes are principles of good corporate governance.
Our aim is to provide shareholders with a return on investment that rewards their financial commitment.
The Board understands the importance of strong cash flows and earnings and develops its business in such a way as to grow these in a sustainable way as far as possible.
The Board endeavours to maintain involvement of shareholders by keeping them informed on major actions or decisions affecting their investment, through a year-round Investor Relations programme.
RPS employees in possession of information which, if disclosed, could affect the market price of its shares are prohibited from trading in securities until after public disclosure of such information.
Liveability Volunteers Day, London The Chairmen of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee attend the Annual General Meeting, and are available to answer shareholders questions.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director are available to discuss governance, strategy and any issues of concern or interest with any major shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet frequently with major institutional shareholders and fund managers.
Investor Relations is discussed at every Board meeting which enables the Board to keep abreast of and develop an understanding of the views expressed by major shareholders.
RPS sponsor Galaxy Under 14s Girls football team Report and Accounts 2009
