Sustainable development Despite the difficult economic conditions we will not compromise our commitment to sustainable development.
It is a core part of our business.
It underpins our ability to grow and our licence to operate.
We understand that our long-term profitability depends on being part of successful economies where jobs are created, incomes grow and quality of life improves.
Integrating sustainable development A new water strategy During the year we engaged into business planning Water is a key raw material for beer.
Our  to review our Our 10 sustainable development priorities analysis suggests that 12 markets across all smallholder farming projects around the focus us on the risks and opportunities that continents will face water scarcity by 2025. world.
Typically, smallholder farmers own the company faces from environmental, During the year we announced a new water small plots of land, often less than four social and economic issues.
These priorities strategy which takes a comprehensive hectares, on which they grow crops such as were developed through extensive internal approach to managing water risks within barley or sorghum for use in our breweries.
Our approach reflects our value chain.
Our aim was to understand how these our decentralised corporate structure and projects could best be structured, both style of management, allowing operations At the core of the strategy is a target to to deliver business value and to improve to function within a global framework while improve our own water efficiency by 25% per their socio-economic impact.
Covering giving them the flexibility to implement litre of lager produced, reducing consumption five markets in Africa and India, the review programmes that best meet their local from 4.6 hectolitres of water per hectolitre of concluded that the most successful projects circumstances.
The table on pages 40 lager produced hl hl to 3.5 hl hl by 2015. were those based on genuine partnerships and 41 details our 10 priorities, our progress We have also made commitments to in which governments, local NGOs and against them in the last financial year, and engage with agricultural suppliers to international agencies played different our targets for the coming year.
understand the water risks they face and and appropriate roles.
to work with local communities to provide Sustainable development is integrated clean water where we can.
In addition, we Our business in Africa is creating new lower into business strategy and planning are building partnerships with NGOs such cost beers for consumers who currently buy at local, regional and group executive as WWF and The Nature Conservancy to alcohol produced in the informal sector with committees and reviewed by regional reduce water risk in some of the agricultural all its associated risks of lack of regulation and group Corporate Accountability and areas and watersheds where we operate.
We are striving to Risk Assurance Committees CARACs.
use locally sourced crops in our products, We have also developed a robust strategy creating employment for both smallholder in response to the critical issue of climate farmers and distributors.
In Africa we have 25% reduction change.
At the heart of this strategy is a plans to buy crops from up to 44,000 local new target to reduce fossil fuel emissions farmers by 2012. from energy use on our sites by 50% per hectolitre of lager produced by 2020.
We Discouraging irresponsible drinking Our target for reduction in our aim to achieve this through greater energy Following the launch of our Alcohol average water use per hectolitre efficiency and by utilising renewable energy Framework last year, we have developed a of lager by 2015 opportunities such as spent grains from the comprehensive internal alcohol education brewing process.
programme, which is currently being rolled out across our business.
The programme In 2008 we undertook further internal Enterprise development provides a common platform for all our dialogue and analysis to understand which Our value chains can have a major impact on employees to further understand, debate of the 10 priorities were most material to our national economies.
As we reported last year, and embrace their role in promoting alcohol businesses around the world.
The exercise independent research showed that while we responsibility in the workplace, at home highlighted alcohol responsibility, water employed around 9,000 people directly in and in the community.
It also has a module and enterprise development as the top South Africa, nearly 380,000 depended on for employees who work in marketing, three.
Focusing our resources in this way our value chains for their jobs a multiple of trade marketing and sales to ensure that enables us to pioneer new approaches, nearly 1:40 or 3% of employment in South we continue to market and advertise our form productive partnerships and make a Africa.
This year, Professor Ethan Kapstein beers responsibly.
meaningful difference on issues material of INSEAD Business School researched the to our business and our stakeholders.
In impact of our business in Uganda.
Here he We launched the TalkingAlcohol.
com website the last 12 months, for example, weve found that while we employ around 430 last year.
The site provides accurate and developed new models for managing our people directly, some 44,000 depend on balanced information to parents, retailers, water resources and enterprise development the value chain for employment a factor medical and health experts, policy makers and have continued to embed our new of around 1:100.
The challenge now is and consumers.
It has been translated into Alcohol Framework across the business.
how we can enhance this contribution.
six languages Czech, Hungarian, Italian, 38 Sustainable development SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information For our full Sustainable Development Report go to SABMiller.
com Protecting the watershed that supplies our brewery in Bogot Polish, Russian and Spanish.
All of these and management and executive learning sites have now been launched with the programmes delivered through the latest Colombia: Working in partnership exception of the Italian version which e-learning technologies or facilitated by to protect a river basin will go online in the next year.
Our Colombian business, Bavaria, is working with The Nature Conservancy and Bogot For further details refer to Principal Risks Our employees cover a vast mix of cultures, Water Company to protect the basin that on page 10. beliefs and backgrounds.
We value and provides water to Bogot.
The basin is being respect this diversity and seek to create an seriously deforested, particularly by cattle breeders wanting to create grazing land to inclusive culture where variety is positively produce milk.
Deforestation affects the local 50% reduction encouraged.
We recognise that diversity is ecosystems and, while it doesnt reduce applied differently according to local norms the capacity of the basin to produce water, and regulations, but we require all operations it means that more sediment is washed to establish policies and processes covering Our target for fossil fuel emissions into the supply.
This in turn means higher ethnicity, gender and disability.
costs for the water company and ultimately from our on-site energy use per its customers.
hectolitre of lager produced by 2020 Health and safety Bavaria has invested US$145,000 in the During the year we recorded 1,310 industrial project.
This money will be used to develop injuries, down from the 1,446 reported last partnerships with the cattle breeders to Partnerships for sustainable growth year.
Overall days lost through injury are improve their production methods and Any business that wants to succeed over the down to 11,728 from 12,809 in 2008. reduce sedimentation in the river.
long term knows that flourishing, sustainable communities are at the heart of development.
It is with regret that we report three employee We support the principles of the United fatalities in our business during the year.
The Nations Global Compact UNGC and we first involved one of our sales representatives were a founding signatory of the UNGC CEO in Honduras who was killed during a robbery.
As part of our support of In response we have established a mini-depot the Millennium Development Goals MDGs, to reduce the number of smaller customer were seeking partners from civil society and visits that we have to make in the area.
government to help improve the development In Malawi an employee, together with a impact of our business activities.
Through contractor, were both killed during a robbery our engagement with the Business Call to when returning from a sales visit.
The third Action on the MDGs, as a member of occurred in Angola and related to an Business Action for Africa and as a partner accident at one of our operations.
company of the World Economic Forum, we are learning from civil society and other Transparency and Ethics businesses and sharing our own insights.
During the year we introduced a new Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which Valuing and empowering our people applies to all employees.
We also expect all We attract, develop and reward people third parties acting on our behalf to comply who are passionate about the growth of with this code in all their interactions.
We the business and want to make a significant have a whistleblowing system to alert senior contribution.
We recognise our employees management to any cases where individuals desire to make a difference and seek to may fall short of legislation and our internal provide a culture of accountability, challenge codes and standards.
For further details and opportunity that will enable them to refer to the corporate governance report do so.
We reward employees for their on page 56. contribution and aim to provide a safe, fair and rewarding working environment.
The Sustainable Development Report is available on our website and contains a We invest in training and development in detailed overview of our activities across each many forms including structured courses of the 10 sustainable development priorities.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Sustainable development 39 Sustainable development continued Overview of progress Our 10 sustainable development priorities focus on the opportunities and risks resulting from the overall impact of our activities environmental, social and economic.
The table below shows why we consider each to be a priority, the progress weve made and our future direction Discouraging Making more beer Reducing our Packaging reuse Working towards irresponsible with less water energy and carbon and recycling zero-waste drinking footprint operations Why it is a priority Why it is a priority Why it is a priority Why it is a priority Why it is a priority Our beer adds to the Water quality and availability We use energy to produce Packaging protects our Much of our waste can enjoyment of life for the are under threat in some and transport our products.
products but has wider be a valuable resource for overwhelming majority parts of the world.
We aim We must become more impacts.
By reducing the farmers and food producers of consumers.
We care to be more efficient in our efficient, manage our carbon weight of our packaging, as well as a potential energy about the harmful effects water use, understand our footprint and explore cleaner reusing bottles and source.
We aim to minimise of irresponsible alcohol watersheds and engage sources of energy.
This will encouraging recycling, the amount of waste we consumption and we with our suppliers.
This will save money and resources were saving money and send to landfill, so saving engage stakeholders cut costs, reduce risks and and reduce our greenhouse raw materials and reducing money and reducing its and work collectively benefit local communities.
pressure on local waste environmental impact.
with them to address services.
Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Conduct an alcohol Improve water efficiency.
Trial biodegradable shrinkReduce the percentage education programme for Undertake watershed Develop a flexible carbon wrap in further markets with of waste going to landfill.
mapping exercises footprinting tool to evaluate different climate conditions Investigate new Continue to engage with key for around 30 sites in the carbon impact of e. g. South Africa.
opportunities for our alcohol stakeholders at the areas at risk of long-term business decisions such as Identify more sustainable brewing wastes, including local and international level.
choice of packaging material packaging materials and renewable energy.
Launch a website to provide Undertake a detailed or distribution method.
accurate and balanced water footprinting exercise Partner Coca-Cola to trial Evaluate recycling and resources on alcohol for to evaluate the water use eKO low greenhouse gas reuse infrastructure for our consumers, employees in our supply chain.
emission fridges in our soft markets which may and other interested drinks division in South introduce PET packaging.
Progress we have made Progress we have made Progress we have made Progress we have made Progress we have made Strengthened internal Developed new water Established new carbon Biodegradable shrink-wrap Percentage of waste we capabilities by developing strategy.
strategy and target i. e. trial successfully completed reuse or recycle has a comprehensive employee Agreed new global water reduce fossil fuel emissions in South Africa.
reduced to 89%, this is alcohol education target i. e. reduce water from our sites per hectolitre PET recycling and reuse partly due to improved data programme.
Training of used per hectolitre of lager of lager by 50% by 2020. infrastructure research collection and reporting.
Improved energy efficiency begun but not completed.
Formed partnership with UK Engaged with a range Improved water efficiency to 143 MJ hl lager.
Researched sustainable Government and University of stakeholders including to 4.5 hl hl.
Developed carbon packaging material and inks of Nottingham to look at the WHO.
Undertook watershed footprinting tool now to determine their potential.
generating energy from Launched TalkingAlcohol.
com mapping in approximately deployed throughout spent grains.
website to provide accurate 30 sites.
European brewing and balanced information.
chain water footprinting Trialled low-carbon fridges exercise in South Africa.
Targets for this year Targets for this year Targets for this year Targets for this year Targets for this year Continue with the alcohol Make progress towards Make progress towards Extend the evaluation of Investigate more ways education training new global water target.
recycling and reuse PET to reuse brewery waste.
programme for all SABMiller Undertake detailed value Develop renewable energy infrastructure with market Increase percentage of employees.
chain water footprint in the toolkit for our operations.
reviews in Honduras, waste recycled reused Continue regular Czech Republic.
Improve our management Romania, South Africa, in line with aspiration to engagement with Develop new stakeholder of carbon in distribution USA and Zambia.
achieve a zero-waste independent experts on partnerships to address and retail refrigeration.
Develop bottle selection brewery system.
water supply and quality tool to assist lightweighting.
Invest in a total of four new waste water treatment plants within our African, European and Latin American regions.
com  water energy packaging waste 40 Sustainable development SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Encouraging Benefiting Contributing to the Respecting Transparency enterprise communities reduction of human rights and ethics development in our HIV Aids value chains Why it is a priority Why it is a priority Why it is a priority Why it is a priority Why it is a priority We recognise that our The prosperity of communities The HIV Aids pandemic We conduct our business There is both a demand and influence extends beyond and that of our operations is particularly relevant to with respect for national an opportunity for companies our own immediate operations are co-dependent.
Our our operations in Africa.
We cultures and different local to be more transparent about to include those of our value corporate social investment have programmes in place laws, norms and traditions.
their sustainable development chain partners for example, CSI activities aim to improve for our employees and their We promote the values of SD performance.
Were suppliers of raw materials and the quality of life for local families and are developing the international community, committed both to transparent distributors of our products.
people, helping us to build programmes for local notably the Universal SD reporting and to high strong relationships with communities and suppliers Declaration of Human Rights.
These To this end, we have a Code and our employees.
initiatives are helping to of Business Conduct and ensure the wellbeing of our Ethics which applies to all staff and the stability of our employees.
all third parties acting on our behalf to comply with this code in all their interactions.
Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Review our smallholder Improve the focus of our Increase participation Introduce our new Code Conduct detailed farmer programmes to activities on our strategic of employees and their of Business Conduct and investigations into understand the business CSI issues of water, spouses in annual voluntary Ethics.
sustainable development and social value added enterprise development counselling and testing Contribute to human rights issues throughout the and expand and improve and HIV Aids.
dialogues on a national and value chain in four of their impact.
Continue to expand our Increase the percentage of global level.
Include social, ethical and entrepreneurship HIV-positive spouses and Improve qualitative dialogue environmental criteria in programmes and identify the dependants on managed between operations through evaluating suppliers of value added to improve the healthcare programmes.
training sustainable raw materials such as quality of these activities.
Increase number of peer development champions packaging.
Progress we have made Progress we have made Progress we have made Progress we have made Progress we have made  Increased our focus on the Increased the percentage New Code of Business Conducted detailed PwC review of smallholder global priorities of water and of employees and spouses Conduct and Ethics investigations in 10 markets farmers completed and enterprise development.
launched and rolled out through internal reviews report published.
Undertook internal review Of the spouses forecast to across the group.
Created new enterprise of entrepreneurship be HIV-positive, 20% are Engaged in human rights Began training sustainable development model programmes and developed now on managed healthcare dialogues in Colombia development champions.
Developed and launched Increased the number smallholder farming project of peer educators by 47%.
We continued to communicate our Responsible Sourcing Principles to suppliers.
Targets for this year Targets for this year Targets for this year Targets for this year Targets for this year Publish analysis of the Expand scope and funding Further increase percentage Engage in community Train regional sustainable economic impact of our of our entrepreneurship of HIV-positive employees impact studies of the value development champions activities in the value chain development programmes.
and spouses on our chains of our soft drinks through web seminars in Honduras and Uganda.
Develop water CSI managed healthcare business in El Salvador with leading experts.
Increase number of programme for Africa.
Continue stakeholder smallholder farmers Undertake an updated Participate in international dialogues on alcohol, water within our value chain.
cost benefit analysis of our dialogues on the basic right and enterprise development.
to water through UN CEO Water Mandate.
com  communities hivaids humanrights transparency SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Sustainable development 41
