The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 32 Corporate responsibility We aim to measure our progress and whilst any standards Industry established by local legislation will apply as a minimum, we intend With over six million customers, to achieve best practice in the local context of every country in most of which are small to medium-sized which we operate and to share this across the Group for continuous businesses, Sage is in a unique position improvement.
Our approach also builds in flexibility for our to have a positive impact on the world businesses to enable them to focus on the areas of strategic of industry and commerce and we importance to them locally.
have focused on two key areas this year: We established this policy in 2008 and it has continued to apply supporting SMEs through the recession during 2009.
The policy has four areas of focus industry, people, and developing the entrepreneurs community and environment.
These initiatives, and some examples, of tomorrow.
are illustrated here but please visit our website www.
com to read our full Corporate Responsibility Report, which includes many more examples of our policy in action.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 33 Making a difference Sage is committed to acting as a responsible corporate citizen.
We take a pragmatic approach to Corporate Responsibility CR which enables us to focus our commitment on areas that are the most relevant to Sage, to our people and where we believe we can make a difference.
Regular business briefings are held by People Environment senior managers to inform our people Our focus on people remains We are not in an industry considered of the financial performance of the unchanged.
We continue to work hard to be a high energy consumer.
business and the economic factors to develop talent, improve leadership Nevertheless it is responsible practice which impact our industry.
These include and raise engagement levels.
It has to understand better the impacts face-to-face meetings, videos hosted on been a challenging year as we have we have on our environment and the our intranet, podcasts and newsletters, had to make some jobs cuts and impose opportunities we have to reduce this.
especially around our half and full-year recruitment freezes in some parts of Our work this year has focused on financial results.
our business in response to difficult improving our approach to measurement market conditions.
However, we have of the carbon emissions resulting from Community introduced development programmes use of electricity and gas at our offices at a local and global level to improve our scope 1 and scope 2 emissions One of our strengths is the fact that the quality of leadership, extended local we are not a homogenous organisation.
and this includes both serviced and programmes to recognise exemplary owned properties.
We have also Sage designs, develops, sells and employee performance and celebrated supports the vast majority of its continued our work to reduce successes and enhanced local internal products locally, which means that the packaging in our products using communication in many countries.
jobs we generate are local, supporting electronic downloads where possible.
We continue to survey our employees the local economy.
Our people naturally regularly to understand our strengths choose to support and give back to and weaknesses as an employer and the communities in which we work action improvements in response.
and Sage supports this activity in a myriad of ways.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 34 Corporate responsibility Legislative impacts In Poland, Sage has been granted Industry The rapid destabilisation of the economy Association of Chartered Certified Sages decentralised structure helps us has led to intervention by governments Accountants ACCA Approved Employer to remain close to customers and their in a number of countries and in some status to recognise the support it gives issues as our teams are working in local cases this has resulted in changes to ACCA members for continuing markets with people in business every in legislation which affects business.
professional development and to trainers day.
This unique perspective has ensured studying towards their ACCA status.
In many countries we have helped that we are close to the problems and our customers navigate through these issues our customers feel everyday.
Helping people start out in business changes.
For example, Sage Portugal Each year, Sage France interviews launched a new website designed to 60,000 companies, including customers Supporting SMEs help SMEs understand the changes and non customers, to find out more in challenging times surrounding the implementation of the about their views on the current business In the last 12 to 18 months we have new International Accounting Standards climate.
Following these surveys witnessed unprecedented levels of that will come into effect in Portugal in Sage France decided to set up the economic turbulence.
Sage Institute to provide SMEs with the banking crisis and resulting lack of com, contains information for SMEs on additional support and tools to thrive.
credit has affected SMEs in many of our the implications of the new regulations The Sage Institute will work by providing markets.
We have taken a number of and details of potential difficulties in entrepreneurs and SMEs with a chance tangible steps to help our customers transferring from existing accounting to interact, both face to face and online manage their businesses through these systems to a new compliant one.
Sage Portugal is providing a conversion Web portals have also been developed tool which will help an estimated Providing practical help in North America for the start-up 80,000 Sage customers prepare for We have amended our pricing and community, including www.
introduced new payment terms as well com which has numerous free tools such as free offerings to provide customers as Billing Boss, an easy to use web-based Developing the with more flexibility to manage their invoicing tool, as well as many advice entrepreneurs of tomorrow cash flow.
We have also developed papers and a community forum where services to provide help in managing The values on which Sage was founded entrepreneurs can exchange ideas.
Simplicity, Trust, Integrity, Innovation, For example Sage in Germany launched Agility capture the spirit of entrepreneurship People a new module in its HWP 2009 and are the lifeblood of business.
Helping Building a stronger Sage team construction software designed to help to create the entrepreneurs of tomorrow its customers assess the health of their is something we are passionate about.
At Sage, we continue to focus on building businesses.
The online questionnaire, a strong successful team through careful The next generation of entrepreneurs called , is helping talent management, development of Softline, Sages business in South Africa, customers to analyse what they need to people and leadership and by improving has sponsored the Life College Xchange do to combat decreasing order books, engagement.
This has been challenging programme to promote the development for example by analysing whether their in a year when it has been necessary to of entrepreneurial skills amongst the company is putting enough resources cut jobs or freeze recruitment in some Life College students.
The Xchange is into marketing and customer retention.
markets most affected by the economic a trading floor for ideas and opportunities downturn.
Where this has been Following the healthcheck, customers can which these young entrepreneurs can necessary we have focused on delivering then download free guides from Sage on use to interact with prospective investors.
clear and concise communication so our marketing and customer retention.
people know what to expect and when.
Engaging with customers and the business community www.
com right contains information for SMEs in Portugal on the implications of new regulations and advice on migrating to new compliant accounting systems.
In France, we set up the Sage Institute which will provide entrepreneurs and SMEs with a chance to interact, both face to face and online through www.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35 Developing talent In addition, a review of leadership Sage UK also provided a call centre As we continue to shape our strategy reward has been undertaken to to help process donations for a national and look to our future we have continued determine how this may be more charity day, Comic Relief.
Over 860 to focus on leadership in Sage and closely linked to business performance hours were worked by Sage volunteers develop the leadership qualities we need and the attainment of future strategic on the phones throughout the evening to be successful.
The changes in the policy on and into the night to help collect global leaders developed an aspirational the allocation of awards under the donations on behalf of the charity.
leadership standard against which all of Performance Share Plan PSP Mainland Europe our current leaders and emerging talent implemented this year reflect that, and In Poland, Sage supports the are now benchmarked.
The new participation in the PSP itself is now Iskierka foundation which helps standard sets out our vision for what linked to our talent management process.
successful leadership looks like in Sage Initiatives to raise money for the charity and defines the behavioural and cultural Community include an auction of art works by the attributes we need and expect.
children and a winter promotion of a 5% Supporting our local communities Communication and engagement discount on our products forwarded Our people have a long history of actively All of our major operating companies as a donation for Iskierka foundation.
supporting a wide range of charities and now undertake an employee survey community organisations that are most North America which highlights strengths in Sage as meaningful to them locally.
Activities like In North America, we have expanded an employer and areas for improvement.
fundraising, sponsorship and volunteering our community and charitable activity The findings differ from one region to are very common in Sage offices around this year.
Our Giving is Living charitable another and some of this is driven by the globe.
Some examples are shown programme was extended to support a cultural differences.
However, the results below but these are just a sample of the wider range of organisations.
Through the would suggest that in many countries great work our people have undertaken programme, which encourages employees the Sage business is more highly rated to support their local communities during to donate to charities of their choosing, overall than the benchmark standard.
Sage provides a 50% match to donations.
However, this is not the case in all In 2009 over $175,000 was donated to Royal Recognition regions and work will continue in 2010 charities through the programme.
Our commitment to our local to work to raise engagement levels in communities starts at the very top.
Rest of World the areas where the greatest gaps lie.
In recognition of his work in the Following the bushfires that raged across Reward and recognition community, Paul Walker, Sage Group Australia, our people in Sage Australia This year our focus has been on getting Chief Executive, was awarded the decided to work together to raise position of North East Ambassador the building blocks in place to align funds for those who had been affected.
of the Year 2009 for Business in the more closely reward with the strategic Our people also donated much needed Community by His Royal Highness performance of the business.
The blood to the Australian Blood Bank The Prince of Wales.
Group Reward Policy has been clarified to help burns victims.
In total, the 270 and expanded to ensure more robust employees in Australia raised AUD9,000 UK & Ireland which was matched by Sage resulting in processes are in place for target-setting, The team has a structured approach determining pay budgets and managing an AUD18,000 donation to the Australian to volunteering and charity efforts Red Cross.
This has already and this year completed over 817 hours begun to introduce consistent principles of volunteer work in the local community and parameters in reward practice at all on numerous projects to help charities employee levels.
Community work in UK BP Sustainability Awards Sage UK once again acted as a call centre Stacey Rodgers of Sage UK wins the North East In 2009 The Sage Group plc alongside The Sage for Comic Relief and employees gave up their Volunteer of the Year award.
Gateshead won the prestigious BP Sustainability own time to take calls from those who wished Award which celebrates successful collaboration to donate to the charity.
between business and the arts.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 36 Corporate responsibility We have continued our work to We have also updated our carbon Environment reduce packaging in our products calculations process this year to Understanding our by using electronic downloads where take account of the new international environmental impacts possible.
We have also begun work emissions factors provided by the Sage is an office-based organisation to capture levels of waste and UKs Department for Energy and and as such our environmental impacts recycling across our organisation but Climate Change DECC, although are less than those of many other we need to continue to embed our we have chosen only to report carbon industries.
In fact, whilst it is difficult to reporting systems before we can dioxide emissions for all countries rather quantify the savings made, our role in begin to report meaningfully on this.
than a broader collection of greenhouse automating business processes helps gases for those countries where such Carbon emissions organisations reduce their environmental data is available.
This helps provide Last year we introduced carbon impacts by the use of electronic comparability between the footprints emissions reporting across our transactions.
of our various businesses which businesses through a six-month will help us to see opportunities for Last year, for the first time, we started pilot data capture process.
to measure the carbon footprint This year, we are pleased to be able from energy use in our main offices.
Energy awareness and to publish the carbon footprint for Our work this year has focused on reducing consumption offices with more than 25 people in the improving our approach to measurement Our operating companies are countries shown see diagram below.
of the carbon emissions scope 1 and encouraged to seek ways to minimise scope 2 from energy use in all offices As a large proportion of our offices impact through employee education with more than 25 Sage employees and are serviced we have chosen the and awareness.
On Sage Day 2009 developing a consistent and robust ambitious target of including the carbon we launched a campaign called system for gathering and reporting this emissions from serviced offices where Change One Thing which focused data.
We believe we have made significant available, and have chosen to make on educating employees on climate steps in establishing this system and sensible estimates for the consumption change and how small changes in have learnt a lot from the process.
of offices where we are still working with personal behaviour can make a Next year we hope to improve this landlords to establish a regular reporting difference.
Through our global intranet process further and use the data to process.
In total, 6% of our energy use we encouraged employees to share target energy efficiency opportunities has been estimated using equivalent personal stories of commitment to and therefore take positive steps to office data.
change and these ideas were captured reduce our footprint.
in an electronic booklet which was We plan to continue developing made available to all Sage countries for these reporting systems in future translation and electronic distribution.
years to improve the completeness and timeliness of this data.
Total carbon emissions from energy Change One Thing On Sage Day 2009 we launched a campaign called Change One Thing which focused on 25,377 tonnes educating employees on climate change and how small changes in personal behaviour can make a difference.
Operating company and total carbon emissions from energy in nearest whole tonnes 454 54 232 Germany Austria Poland 3,993 UK & Ireland 12,830 North America 38 China 1,825 102 484 Spain Portugal France 72 155 Malaysia Singapore 4,498 641 South Africa Australia Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37 Reducing waste Risks These may apply across all of our Sage UK has taken a further step in its It is expected that legislation operating companies.
The processes recycling initiatives by removing individual surrounding the area of environmental to identify and manage the key risks to bins at desks and providing central reporting will increase over forthcoming the success of the Group are an integral bins alongside office recycling stations.
years as governments look to fulfil their part of the internal control environment.
This has resulted in an average increase carbon reduction commitments.
To this end, to ensure that risks are of 48% in recycled waste per month.
Currently we are planning for the identified and monitored, the Group has anticipated changes in UK legislation formed a Risk Committee consisting UK preparation for Carbon in this area and our approach this of the Group Chief Executive, Group Reduction Commitment CRC year to check and improve our carbon Finance Director, Group Risk Director, We have appointed an external service accounting process will help us prepare Company Secretary and certain other provider to assist us in preparing for for any changes in legislation that members of the Group Executive the CRC.
This three-year partnership do emerge.
The UK business is expecting Committee.
will help us not only to fulfil our legal to report under the UKs CRC scheme requirements but also to develop and Opportunities and is preparing to do so.
implement strategies to reduce our Increasing legislation and a likely Climate change may also represent UK carbon footprint.
As part of this increase in carbon reporting does a risk to organisations.
None of our preparation we are working with the present an opportunity for Sage to operations are in a geographical Carbon Trust to gain the Carbon Trust help provide businesses with software location associated with significant risk Standard in the UK.
and services to manage these business although long-term changing weather processes.
Business owners and patterns as part of global climate software users are also looking for ways Governance, risks, change could impact on any of our to minimise their impacts and using Sage opportunities and CR locations.
All of our locations operate software can help.
People increasingly Leadership and CR business continuity plans in order to wish to minimise waste and energy use.
Corporate Responsibility matters are ensure we would be able to continue We have already done a great deal of reviewed on a quarterly basis by the to provide a quality service to our work to support electronic transaction Group Executive Committee.
Application customers should a site be affected.
processing within and between our of the CR policy is led by the CR We believe this approach is part of good products and with government agencies Steering Committee which is led by business planning.
the Group Director of Human Resources Whilst climate change and increased This has huge potential to reduce and Corporate Communications and energy costs represent long-term the amount of printing that is includes Board representation through risks to our business, like many necessary within the average SME the presence of the Company Secretary.
other office-based businesses these and will be very attractive to SMEs are limited.
These risks include: Governance to simplify processes, limit their own In some countries the economic crisis Increased energy costs energy environmental impact and improve has led to concerns about how large restrictions and regulation: their waste management activity.
businesses are managed and run.
This area continues to grow steadily.
Increased supplier costs due to Sage continues to work towards the their increasing energy costs : Electronic processing and transactions highest standards of governance and are now further supported through Increased oil petrol costs influencing more details on this can be found in our payment processing services.
employee travel habits which may the section Corporate Governance This electronic network is, in some affect the target recruitment market within the annual report.
areas, extending to suppliers who or impact on other employment To support this, we have embedded can transact electronically through policies such as home working: our Code of Ethics in all operating a developing Sage ecosystem.
Water restrictions: and companies and have extended our Rising cost of business travel.
channels by which employees can anonymously report any concerns about fraud, bribery or corruption.
