Health and safety performance Corporate social responsibility 2009 saw 2.7 million man hours expended on operated activities.
Zero lost time incidents were recorded and Salamanders lost time incident free Salamander is aware that rapid growth performance to date is such that the company is brings with it an associated need to ensure outperforming the Oil and Gas Producers OGP that growth occurs in a responsible manner.
index for South East Asia.
Salamanders total These responsibilities include: ensuring recordable incident frequency rate TRIFR is also SALAMANDER the health and safety of our employees and people in line with the OGP average.
ENERGY impacted by our activities: protecting the environment: and respecting the interests of communities amongst Environmental performance which we work.
There were no significant environmental incidents in In 2009 Salamander formalised its commitment to 2009.
A focus throughout the year was on formalising CSR with the formation of local CSR committees environmental reporting processes at both Group in each operating unit.
These local committees are and operating level.
Group level metrics for headed by the general manager of the respective operated activities will be published on an annual operating units and report back to the Group CSR basis, with the Group aiming to both outperform the Steering Committee, headed by the Group Chief OGP index for Southeast Asia and improve on its Executive.
The Group has also taken the decision own previous year performance.
to broaden its CSR reporting metrics and for the In 2009 the Group considerably outperformed first time is reporting on its health, safety and against the OGP index.
Group GHG emissions were emissions data.
These key metrics identify 105 tonnes per thousand tonnes production the material issues for Salamander.
compared to the OGP average for Asia of 179.
The Group is committed to adhering to the World Carbon dioxide emissions were 97, again Bank Equator principles that provide a benchmark for significantly better than the OGP average for Asia of ensuring projects are socially responsible and reflect 147.
The one material change compared with 2008 sound environmental management practices.
With was in the volume of gas flared or vented which the International Finance Corporation IFC being increased as the Kambuna field came on-stream a lender, shareholder and partner to Salamander, the during the second half of the year.
Reduction Group is regularly audited by the IFC to ensure that initiatives underway include commissioning the it is fulfilling its commitments in this regard.
permanent Kambuna production facilities at Pangkalan Brandan, and introduction of a gas fuelled As Salamander continues to grow, the need for the power system at our Bualuang field in Thailand.
Group to act in the best interest of all its stakeholders, including local communities, is magnified and it is a challenge that the operating units readily accept.
Key metrics 2009 2008 Lost Time Incident LTI Lost Time Incident Frequency LTIFR Total Recordable Incidents TRI 6 17 Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate TRIFR 2.2 5.6 Hours worked millions 2.7 3.0 CO2 emissions tonnes 34,020 N A CO2 emissions tonnes per thousand tonnes production 97 N A 1 GHG emissions tonnes per thousand tonnes production 105 N A Flaring and venting MMscf 72.8 4.7 Oil and chemical spills number 5 8 Total spilt litres 3,041 235 Oil and chemical spills released to the environment litres 9.5 9.5 Produced water discharged tonnes 383 0 Oil in produced water discharged tonnes 0.02 0 1 Sources: 2009 Guidelines to Defra DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting V2.0 30 9 2009 Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative http: www.
org calculation-tools all-tools 23 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009 Corporate social responsibility continued In Vietnam, we expanded the scope of the successful project undertaken in 2008, in conjunction with PetroVietnam, to distribute 20,000 notebooks to disadvantaged children in Hoa Binh, Tra Cu and Duyen Hai Districts, and on the island of Cu Lao Projects successfully completed in Thailand included Dung.
In 2009 we also completed a renovation of the release of 25,000 sea bass and 1,000,000 shrimp the Dong Hai A Primary School in Tra Vinh province.
into the mangrove areas of the Mu Kok Chumphon This comprised plastering and painting walls, retiling National Park.
According to research the mangrove floors and repaving the school yard.
See pictures acts as a natural sanctuary for released juvenile on opposite page.
marine life and improves the chances of survival compared to release into the open sea.
The Mu Kok In Lao PDR, activity has focussed on a number of Chumphon National Park is the closest coastal area schools near the location of the Bang Nouan-1 to the Groups offshore Bualuang oil field.
A first stage refurbishment of the Ban Naphabang Yai school has been completed.
The CSR Steering Committee noted that local CSR This involved rendering and painting the perimeter efforts tended to focus on projects with a social wall, painting the roof, building a separate toilet impact.
As a result the committee requested that block and supplying footballs, goalposts and nets.
all operating units expand the scope of their CSR Further schools have been identified for similar operations in 2010 to also include projects with an projects during 2010.
Salamander is working with an environmental focus.
A variety of projects are under NGO, Handicap International, to help promote safe active consideration including coral reef mangrove motorbike riding practices, including the provision monitoring and preservation, working to support of helmets.
Salamander Lao also supports COPE, local bird sanctuaries and helping to replenish a charity that provides prosthetic, orthotic and local fish stocks.
rehabilitation services to people who have been maimed by unexploded ordnance.
Community and society The Group adopts a pro-active approach to building Employees relationships with local communities and our The Group is an equal opportunities employer and local community liaison officers organise frequent provides a working environment in which employees meetings within the communities in which we and consultants are recruited and promoted fairly on operate.
These meetings allow for a constructive the basis of their ability for the job.
We will prevent dialogue between the Group and the community discrimination based on race, religion, gender, representatives: Salamander learns about the sexual orientation and age and will not tolerate concerns of the local communities and areas where sexual, physical or mental harassment.
we can provide help and assistance: the community learns about the Groups operational plans and any We are committed to creating a challenging local training employment opportunities.
environment of empowerment and development, generating both a common sense of purpose and In Indonesia, our projects in North Sumatra have pride in working for the Group.
We will seek to increased in line with the commencement of realise the potential of employees and consultants, production from the Kambuna field.
Our initial efforts recognise individual and team contributions and here have focussed on small social projects that reward competitively relative to our success.
are important to the communities and can have an immediate impact.
At the end of 2009 we renovated the public hall in the village of Teluk Meku, provided materials for refurbishing dilapidated housing with poor sanitation near to the Kambuna pipeline, provided breakfast for local orphans during Ramadan and sponsored the local hospitals circumcision programme that reduces risk of disease amongst disadvantaged and orphaned boys.
24 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009 Ethics The Group is committed to conducting its business affairs with integrity and in compliance with the laws, regulations and standards which apply to its business activities.
All Group employees and consultants are expected to conduct their business dealings honestly, openly, fairly and safely and we expect the same standards of all those with whom we do business.
The Group Code of Conduct was published in May 2009.
Outlook In 2010, the Group will continue to actively manage its corporate social responsibility programme to meet the challenges associated with an increase 1 in operated activity.
Salamander will be rolling out an improved HSE monitoring programme that will see each operating unit given specific HSE targets that are in line with Group targets.
As part of this programme the number of senior management inspection tours will be increased to reinforce the commitment to achieving excellence in terms of our HSE performance.
The Group will continue to engage and support local communities, and will be expanding our activities in each region to include environmental projects as well as social.
2 Refurbishment of Dong Hai A Primary School Tra Vinh province Vietnam 1 Children returning to refurbished school on opening day of new term.
3 25 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009
