Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:20 Page 50 50 Corporate We can only achieve our vision if we are trusted by responsibility all those who touch our business our customers, people, partners, suppliers and the communities we work in.
This means we must consider our responsibilities in everything we do.
Since our inception, we have been a values-led business.
Our Governing Principles set out these values see page 5 and our systems and culture ensure that we operate in the right way.
We divide corporate responsibility into Safety four pillars safety, people, community Our approach to safety is simple: we and the environment.
Our work for our never compromise.
Operating safely is customers encompasses all four pillars, vital if our people, customers and but there are many things we do which society are to trust us.
go beyond our contractual or Often our work is safety-critical: carrying legal requirements.
train passengers, enabling flights with air Our approaches to safety, community traffic control and expert support for the and the environment are summarised nuclear industry are just some examples.
Page 47 details how we engage In these areas, you would expect our with, develop and manage our people.
safety systems to be robust.
But we We also publish a separate Corporate must have appropriate and consistent Responsibility Review, which contains standards wherever we operate, with many examples of how we put our strong leadership and engaged people.
It is, of course, morally unacceptable for The Business in the Community BitC people to suffer avoidable injuries, but it Corporate Responsibility Index providers is also good business sense to prevent a useful overall measure of our them.
Avoiding an incident saves time, performance.
We were pleased that for repair costs and insurance expenses.
the third year running, we achieved a These, though, are only the immediate gold rating.
Lost trust is much harder and more expensive to restore.
Where necessary, then, we go beyond our legal obligations to improve safety.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:21 Page 51 Our performance 51 Our focus on safety resulted in a our sector 82% and for the index and experience to work safely.
significant reduction in our reportable 79%.
The Royal Society for the Continually refreshing their thinking accident rate, from 995 per 100,000 Prevention of Accidents RoSPA gave about safety is fundamental here.
This our businesses 29 awards and The second strand is the development of was partly due to an increase in the commendations in 2009.
This included our monitoring of near misses, so we number of employees who joined Serco both finalists for RoSPAs highest can learn from them and stop them or in relatively low-risk occupations.
accolade, the Sir George Earle trophy.
a real incident from happening again.
Adjusting for this gives a reportable Northern Rail won, with the National accident rate of 930, a good reduction Physical Laboratory as runner up.
The Across Serco, we are also getting better on the previous year.
British Safety Council also rewarded at standardising many aspects of our our court escorting contract with a operations.
Our policies set the The lost time injury rate fell from 1,587 Sword of Honour.
requirements, but our businesses have per 100,000 employees to 1,034, often developed their own ways of although the average lost time per In the US, the safety of our air traffic meeting these requirements.
By incident rose by nearly 7%.
We continue control services was recognised again standardising, we help our businesses to focus on the prevention of accidents.
this year when, for the fifth time since meet our requirements and free them to In addition, Human Resources are 2003, a Serco-run tower won the Willie F focus on their customers.
reviewing the broader issue of all Card FAA Contract Tower Service Award.
absence and developing a more The award is given for excellence in We also share best practice.
For consistent policy for managing it, as well safety and customer service.
example, our team at Port Kembla, as more active absence management.
Australia, has passed more than We want to continue to improve our one million hours since their last lost We are always pleased when others safety performance and we approach time injury.
Their approach to safety has recognise our efforts.
Our BitC score for this in two ways.
The first is to now become a reference point for Serco health, safety and well-being was 92%, emphasise competency and training, so in Asia Pacific.
significantly better than the average for our people have the skills, knowledge Key objectives for 2010 Our key health and safety objectives for 2010: Objective Comment Continued focus on reducing 30% reduction by end of 2012 against 2008 reportable incidents baseline Reduce the amount of lost time 50% reduction by end of 2012 against 2008 as a result of incidents through baseline active rehabilitation Develop systems and processes We will establish a baseline for future target to manage and monitor near improvements for 2012 miss events more effectively Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:21 Page 52 52 Corporate responsibility continued Community Customers increasingly use us to drive Our people respond generously to Much of our work directly benefits the social improvements.
For example, this year, local communities where we operate.
councils want the leisure centres we run our Australian and Middle Eastern Many of our people also live in those to improve health and inclusion, and businesses raised significant sums for communities and we want them to be reduce crime and joblessness in their area.
the victims of natural disasters.
Sercos proud of what we do.
For our business Executive Committee spent four days Time and again, though, we go beyond to thrive, we need communities to trust building houses for Habitat for Humanity, the contract with innovations that help us to work in the right way and make a while others supported causes close to both us and the community.
Employability, for example, is a common Recruiting from local communities is an theme in our community work.
In total, we aim to invest 1% of our preimportant part of our integration.
The tax profits into the community, through Sercos sponsorship and bursary for the case studies on the Dubai Metro page donations, assets, gifts in kind and Duke of Edinburgh Award equips 31 and our Australian immigration employee time.
In 2009, we invested disadvantaged children with vital life centres page 21 are just two examples 1,746,261, representing approximately skills: building trust, teamwork, of how we do this.
We also continued to confidence and self-esteem.
We also significantly outperform both the BitC sponsored Business in the Communitys index average and our sector for Big Conversation campaign, to make community management.
We scored work experience meaningful, relevant 100% for community investment and and inspiring.
Contracts ranging from achieved a substantial increase in our RAF Fylingdales to the National Physical community partnerships score, which Laboratory showed school students rose from 69% to 83%.
Key objectives for 2010 Our key community-related objectives for 2010: Objective Comment Increasing work experience We will develop and implement a sustainable for students in the UK project to increase the number of worthwhile and interesting work experience placements for students and share this knowledge across the business.
Capture knowledge and improve We will develop guidance to help both business working practices with the third and third sector organisations work together sector through better understanding of each others practices.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:21 Page 53 Our performance 53 Environment information in the world.
Requests are The environment also represents a Sercos aim is to minimise our impact issued on behalf of institutional significant opportunity for Serco, and our on the environment.
Reducing our investors, purchasing organisations and services are increasingly geared towards carbon dioxide emissions is central to government bodies.
This was the first helping our customers manage their our environmental work, both in year in which Serco has participated in responsibilities and winning new work delivering our contracts and our this Project.
Serco achieved a creditable using our environmental expertise.
This is at the Sustainability Management Services approach this with the same rigour we high end of our market sector.
business advises customers and bring to managing safety.
We also During 2009 we reduced our carbon have a great depth of experience in Notwithstanding our moral obligation to dioxide emissions from 257.3m tonnes to environmental services for local cut our carbon footprint, and the 226.7m tonnes, a decline of 11.9%.
financial savings we can make, we also The majority of our CO emissions come 2 need to comply with tightening laws and Finally, it is important for us to use our from electricity usage.
These include the UK knowledge to inform our customers programmes is the installation of smart Governments CRC Energy Efficiency environmental agendas.
We do this not utility meters.
Traditional meters only Scheme formerly known as the Carbon only through our day-to-day interactions allow us to track our energy Reduction Commitment, which begins in with them but also by joining in the consumption on a quarterly basis.
Smart April 2010. public debate, on our own behalf and meters give us real-time information, through bodies such as the Serco completed the Carbon Disclosure enabling us to monitor usage and devise Confederation of British Industry and the Project.
This is an independent not-forways to cut it.
We can also identify Private Sector Council in the US.
profit organisation which holds the largest trends and act quickly when something Businesses and public services have an database of corporate climate change such as faulty equipment causes usage important role to play in protecting the to rise.
Overall, we reduced our environment, and we are determined to electricity consumption by 6.5% in 2009. take on our full responsibility in this area.
Key objectives for 2010 Our key environment objectives for 2010: Objective Comment 10% reduction in CO m We will continue the work completed in 2009 to 2 revenue by end 2010 against drive a number of initiatives with a view to further 2008 baseline 0.0735 reduce our emissions.
These are specific to divisions and will be monitored through our internal board structure.
Embed a single environmental We will be using our experience of implementing management system and an integrated health and safety management operating procedures across system in the development and implementation of all operations the environmental management system.
Work has commenced and is being monitored by the Environment Oversight Group.
Implement a carbon accounting Following a competitive selection process, we system to ensure accurate purchased Greenstones Acco2untenterprise consumption reporting on energy, system.
This system will go live in the early part of fuel used for business, travel, 2010 and provide reporting provision for the CRC waste and water Energy Efficiency Scheme, Carbon Disclosure Project and Carbon Trust as well as supporting Serco Group reporting.
