36 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility SIG is continually developing its approach to Corporate Responsibility and is a constituent member of the FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible companies.
As such, SIG fully recognises its corporate responsibilities to its Shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice in all its activities.
SIG continues to develop its approach to Corporate Responsibility CR and is pleased to be able to inform its stakeholders of the measures which it is taking to continue to monitor and improve its CR performance reporting.
The Company is a constituent member of the FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible companies.
2009 was both difficult and economically challenging for the Group and whilst not deterring our commitment to the continued implementation of our CR programme, the extensive restructuring of the Groups operations has affected the speed and scale of the progress achieved in 2009.
Nevertheless the Group has put in place a three-year rolling CR plan with objectives to drive and demonstrate improvement in its CR performance.
SIG is able to confirm that the Board takes regular account of the significance of FTSE Group confirms that SIG plc has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become social, environmental and ethical matters to the business of the Group and that it a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index has in place a comprehensive risk management and internal control process which company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed identifies and assesses the significant risks to the Companys short and long term to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met value arising from such matters.
The Board receives a report on CR issues at stringent social and environmental criteria, and are positioned to capitalise each of its Board meetings.
CR issues form part of the overall internal control on the benefits of responsible business practice.
process and are covered in the training of Directors.
SIG recognises its corporate responsibilities to its Shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice in all its activities.
The Board believes that the progressive integration of CR across the Group and the inclusion of broader social and environmental issues into its decision making will help us to achieve our business goals and act as an essential building block for growth in Shareholder value.
SIG has in place a Group-wide Ethics Policy, which sets out a number of fundamental principles, which all Group companies are required to follow.
In addition we have in place a Group-wide Anti-corruption Policy and Ethical Trading and Human Rights Policy.
These policies underpin SIG is a member of Business in the Community in the UK and has worked with our CR programme and support our business integrity.
that organisation to develop its approach and practices.
SIG has certification under ISO 14001:2004 Environment and OHSAS 18001:2007 Health and Safety.
This certification covers all of the Groups UK sites with Moody International and BSI being the appointed Assessors.
BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AND CODE OF ETHICS The Groups Ethics Policy, which has been issued to all employees, sets out a number of fundamental principles, which all Group companies are required to follow.
The policy can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
The Ethics and Anti-corruption Policies include the Companys prohibition on the giving or receiving of bribes or other payments.
The key business principles contained in the Ethics Policy are set out below: SIGs policy is to operate within applicable laws: discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: SIG aims to be a responsible partner within its local communities: the legal and moral rights of others will be taken into account in all SIGs business transactions: 2 SHI ar09 middle.
indd 1 06 04 2010 14:11:33 Corporate governanCe SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37 Focus, Specialisation and Service BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AND CODE OF ETHICS CONTINUED During 2009 a pan-European policy was agreed, and a copy signed by the we will maintain a safe and healthy environment for people to work in: Group Chief Executive.
Copies of the policy are displayed in the local language at each Mainland European trading location.
Meetings were held at the head we will be proactive in managing our responsibilities to the environment: office of each country region to agree procedures to enable the strengthening we will not knowingly make misrepresentations: of our carbon footprinting data capturing and to review the progress of the 2009 objectives.
as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: The Group has received no prosecutions relating to environmental matters no bribes can be given or received: during 2009. conflicts of interest must be avoided and in all cases must be reported: and In the UK, during 2010, the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency employees are encouraged to report any suspected wrongdoings.
Scheme CRC will be introduced, requiring SIGs UK operations to provide auditable records and evidence for energy and heating fuel consumption, leading ENVIRONMENT to the purchase of carbon allowances in 2011.
SIG has in place a Low Carbon The Chief Executive, Mr. C. J. Davies, is the Board Director responsible Committee, which has assessed the impact of the CRC on its operations and for the environmental performance of the Group.
Each individual subsidiary is working with the Carbon Trust to identify ways to reduce its carbon emissions.
Managing Director is responsible for the environmental performance of their Objectives and an agreed action plan have been identified to reduce carbon own business.
SIG is committed to minimising the environmental impact of emissions from energy and fuel consumption in order to meet the Groups Low its activities through good environmental management practices.
Any carbon reduction initiatives will be shared across the Group to ensure that the maximum benefits can be gained in this next step towards As a leading international supplier of insulation and related materials our core achieving a low carbon business.
business is focused on the reduction of energy consumption and the subsequent reduction in harmful environmental impacts.
The Groups Environmental Policy was The Group has identified the significant environmental impacts of its operations, reviewed in 2009.
The policy is displayed in all trading sites and offices throughout which are summarised on pages 37 to 40. the Group and on the SIG website.
Environmental objectives and targets have ENERGy AND TRANSPORT been established at relevant functions and levels within the organisation.
As a founder member of the Association for the Conservation of Energy, SIG is active in SIG believes that it is in the Groups best interests to be aware of, and seeks to promoting and encouraging the raising of mandatory standards for thermal insulation.
minimise the risks arising from, the social and environmental impact of its activities Reducing energy consumption is a priority for all of our operations.
This is targeted and is committed to conducting its activities and operations in line with current both through reducing the amount of fuel used in delivery, by increasing the efficiency legislation and best environmental practice, seeking continual improvement and of heating and lighting and maximising the use of natural light in the Groups properties innovation within all Group businesses and activities.
and by environmental awareness training at UK sites.
Throughout 2009 significant All Group companies actively seek to: improvements were made in the recording and monitoring of electricity and gas consumption at each location, with sophisticated reporting technology being installed minimise the use of all materials, supplies and energy and wherever possible at larger locations.
In the UK, energy brokers have been instructed to, where use renewable or recyclable materials: practicable, purchase energy from renewable sources.
minimise the quantity of waste produced in all aspects of our business: SIG has recently launched its own UK R oad Risk Policy, the main objective of adopt an environmentally sound transport policy: which is to ensure that our vehicles operate safely and efficiently throughout our organisation.
As part of this policy we have launched a driver training communicate our Environmental Policy to all staff and encourage them programme provided by Mercedes Benz.
This training will be focused to participate in the achievement of our goals: on economical fuel efficient and safe driving as well as contributing to supply and promote, wherever possible, those products which contribute the Driver Certificate of Professional Competence.
to energy conservation and do not damage the environment: and In 2010, SIG will be introducing Key Performance Indicators KPIs to ensure that the Company continues to meet present and future environmental specifically monitor the performance of its drivers and vehicles in terms of standards and legislation.
It is planned to use this information to support incentives for drivers and provide further training and support for those who are not ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT performing to an acceptable level.
The Group has in place in the UK an Integrated Management System for Health, The City Initiative in the UK, which commenced during 2009, is supporting Safety and Environment, certified to ISO 14001 Environment and OHSAS 18001 collaboration across different business streams to make better use of vehicles and Health and Safety.
resources within SIGs branch network.
This initiative looks at efficient sharing of Throughout 2009 SIG has continued to progress towards being a Carbon Managed vehicles, routes and collections to the branch network within a local geography, business.
During 2009 improved data capture procedures across the UK and Mainland cutting down on empty running vehicles and duplication of delivery areas.
Europe have resulted in significant improvements in the accuracy, quality and quantity SIG has a policy of introducing the most energy efficient vehicles commercially of the data captured.
During 2010 these procedures will continue to be strengthened available currently considered to be Euro V category engines, which the and developed towards achieving the Groups strategy of reducing its carbon footprint.
2009 was the third year for quantitative benchmarking, with all of the Groups SIG employs staff to train drivers in driving techniques aimed at reducing UK locations being internally audited by the Health, Safety and Environmental HSE accidents and damage safe driving and to drive vehicles using methods and Advisers with the average audit scores across all the divisions again increasing practices which will reduce fuel consumption.
In addition SIG is in the process of against the prior year.
putting in place a structured driver risk assessment process which will be launched in 2010.
Equipment is fitted to commercial vehicles to measure ongoing driver efficiency in particular fuel and braking.
All vehicles are regularly serviced to ensure that vehicle emissions are kept to a minimum.
indd 2 06 04 2010 14:11:33 38 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility Continued SIG has in place a Low Carbon Committee, which has assessed the impact of the Carbon Reduction Energy Efficiency Scheme on its operations and is working with the Carbon Trust to identify ways to reduce its carbon emissions.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED CARBON CO EMISSIONS 2 ENERGy AND TRANSPORT CONTINUED SIGs disclosures of emission are for all of its operations with the exception of the The Transport Co-ordinators at each trading site throughout the Group are Air Trade Centre business operations which represent 2% of Group turnover.
required to make the most efficient use of vehicles, consistent with meeting SIG has reported emissions of CO according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, 2 customer requirements.
Techniques used include maximising vehicle loading which was jointly developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable within legal limits so reducing vehicle numbers and route planning, to minimise Development and the World Resources Institute.
The protocol differentiates between distances travelled and thereby fuel usage.
emissions for which businesses are directly responsible Scope 1 emissions SIG continues to fit vehicles with logistics tracking systems and navigation and indirect emissions from the generation of supplied electricity and supplied planning equipment.
This is aimed at using the most fuel efficient route heat Scope 2 emissions.
Certain other indirect emissions Scope 3 emissions for each journey.
do not form part of the pure carbon footprint.
As it is impossible to know or control the negligible downstream emissions generated when products sold by the Group Video conferencing equipment is used in nine key locations across the Group are used, they have been excluded from this report.
Similarly, reporting on the in order to reduce, in particular, overseas travel with the consequent reduction upstream emissions of our business would currently rely heavily on estimates in the Companys carbon footprint.
and, as a result, they have also been excluded from this analysis.
However, wATER given the nature of our operations, the Group does believe that it is appropriate Water consumption throughout the Group is minimal as the majority to report on the emissions from third-party provided air and rail transportation.
of consumption is from welfare use.
At present SIG is unable to provide These Scope 3 emissions, together with our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, consumption information relating to the water used throughout its are included in the data reported below.
operations: however as part of the ongoing data gathering process improvements it is envisaged that future reports will include this data.
CO emISSIOnS SCOpe 1 DIreCt 2 Metric tonnes Source Definition Data source and calculation methods Group 2009 Road vehicle fuel Emission from vehicle use Fuel cards and direct purchase records in litres 82,675 converted according to DEFRA guidelines Plant vehicle fuel Emission from vehicle use Direct purchase records in litres converted according 1,973 to DEFRA guidelines Natural gas Directly purchased gas, which generates Actual or estimated consumption in kWh converted 4,481 greenhouse gases including CO emissions according to DEFRA guidelines 2 Gas oil Directly purchased gas oil, which generates Actual or estimated purchases in litres converted according 4,158 greenhouse gases including CO emissions to DEFRA guidelines 2 Coal coke Directly purchased coal coke, which generates Actual or estimated purchases in tonnes converted according 55 greenhouse gases including CO emissions to DEFRA guidelines 2 Kerosene Directly purchased Kerosene, which generates Actual or estimated purchases in litres converted according 38 greenhouse gases including CO emissions to DEFRA guidelines 2 Total 93,380 The data relating to CO emissions has been collected from all of the Groups operations: with the exception of the Air Trade Centre businesses.
2 The above table does not include CO emission data relating to the wood burning generation of heat at the Crawley, Nottingham and Barnstaple operations 2 as these operation are deemed to be carbon neutral.
indd 3 06 04 2010 14:11:33 Corporate governanCe SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39 Focus, Specialisation and Service ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED CARBON CO EMISSIONS CONTINUED 2 CO emISSIOnS SCOpe 2 InDIreCt 2 Metric tonnes Source Definition Data source and calculation methods Group 2009 Electricity Directly purchased electricity, which generates Actual or estimated consumption in kWh 28,438 greenhouse gases including CO emissions converted according to DEFRA guidelines 2 Total 28,438 The data above comprises of CO emission data captured from businesses representing circa.
98% of Group revenue for the year ended 31 December 2009.
2 CO emISSIOnS SCOpe 3 Other InDIreCt 2 Metric tonnes Source Definition Data source and calculation methods Group 2009 Business travel Third-party provided transport air and rail Actual or estimated distance travelled converted 244 according to DEFRA guidelines Total 244 The data relating to Business travel has been collected from all of the Groups operations: with the exception of the Air Trade Centre businesses.
Emissions per m of revenue Scope 1, 2 and 3 45.5 metric tonnes The scale of the Groups operations has changed significantly over the previous actively taking part in recycling and reclamation schemes through the Companys year as a result of the economic environment, the consequential effect on the memberships with Valpak and Veolia working closely with suppliers to improve Groups business markets and the significant restructuring programme in the UK.
SIG meets its responsibilities under the packaging waste For these reasons, including the improved quality of data gathering since last year, regulations in the UK through Valpaks compliance scheme.
As part of the it is deemed not to be useful to provide a direct comparison with the Groups Companys ongoing development in this area, it has entered into a national environmental performance in previous years, nor does it provide a useful agreement with Veolia for waste removal.
Veolia operates its own waste indication of future trends.
We expect to improve the scope and integrity of recycling and reclamation compliance scheme: the data that we collect to present a basis for year on year comparisons in SIG embraces electronic communication within its businesses, which future reports.
has resulted in a significant reduction in internal and external paperwork PACKAGING AND wASTE REDUCTION throughout the Group: and SIG works with its suppliers to minimise primary and secondary packaging, the continued expansion of the Groups waste paper and ink cartridge while maintaining necessary levels of packaging to ensure that the product arrives recycling activities at principal administrative centres and where practicable with the customer in perfect condition.
All of the Groups businesses comply with at site level.
their applicable waste management regulations.
As a break bulk supplier, SIG has recognised that the major impact of the organisation on environmental waste is SIG actively seeks to reduce the number of printed copies of its Annual Report through packaging and has taken a pro-active approach to minimise the amount and Accounts and will be actively encouraging Shareholders to elect to receive of new packaging entering the market and the amount of waste generated at their communications from the Company in electronic form.
trading site level going to landfill.
SIGs commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report This is achieved by: which has been printed on Satimatt Green and Revive 50, both recycled paper stocks comprising 75% recycled fibre and 25% virgin fibre.
This document was environmental awareness training at all sites, including the distribution of printed by CPG using vegetable-based inks and water-soluble lacquers and all energy reduction awareness information and reminder aids to all employees: production processes used make the minimum demand on the environment purchasing recycled and recyclable packaging where practicable, including and produce the minimum amount of waste.
Both the printer and the paper pallets and cartons: mill are registered to ISO 14001 and FSC approved.
returning reusable pallets to suppliers and similarly recovering used pallets WaSte manaGement from customers: SIG recognises its responsibilities to measure and minimise the waste generated by its business operations with over 42% of waste generated in the UK being reusing packaging for internal transfers and deliveries: diverted from landfill.
In addition improved paper and cardboard recycling has resulted in saving over 35,921 trees based on the calculation that one tonne of waste recycled equates to the equivalent of 17 trees saved.
Waste data is divided into hazardous and non-hazardous.
indd 4 06 04 2010 14:11:33 40 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility Continued SIG recognises its responsibilities to measure and minimise the waste generated by its business operations.
The Group has in place policies to ensure that its customers receive the level of service and the quality of product that they have come to expect from SIG.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PACKAGING AND wASTE REDUCTION CONTINUED WaSte manaGement COntInueD HAzARDOUS WASTE Absolute tonnes Definition Data source and calculation methods Group 2009 Landfill Hazardous waste sent to landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 33.5 Recycled Hazardous waste diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 761.5 Incinerated Hazardous waste incinerated Volume per annum converted to tonnes 13.2 Total 808.2 Hazardous waste per m of revenue 0.3 absolute tonnes NON-HAzARDOUS WASTE Absolute tonnes Definition Data source and calculation methods Group 2009 Landfill Non-hazardous waste to landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 17,696 Incinerated Non-hazardous waste incinerated Volume per annum converted to tonnes 160 Total 17,856 OTHER WASTE DIVERTED FROM LANDFILL Absolute tonnes Definition Data source and calculation methods Group 2009 WEEE Waste, Electrical Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 11 and Electronic Equipment Glass Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 194 Wood Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 5,260 Metal Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 1,157 Plasterboard Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 441 Paper cardboard Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 2,113 Plastic Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 1,376 Other Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 1,057 Total 11,609 The data above comprises of waste data captured from businesses representing circa.
98% of Group revenue for the year ended 31 December 2009 and is based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
Non-hazardous and other waste per m of revenue 11.0 absolute tonnes 2 SHI ar09 middle.
indd 5 06 04 2010 14:11:33 Corporate governanCe SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 Focus, Specialisation and Service SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS The Group has received no prosecutions relating to health and safety matters The Group has in place a supplier audit programme.
The programme is conducted during 2009. by way of questionnaire and includes a request for details of the health, safety and In the UK, HSE Advisers who are either company or regionally based support environmental aspects of the suppliers operations.
Health, safety and environmental the increased focus on health and safety education and awareness at workplace management will be one of the criteria considered when examining a suppliers level.
As part of the management systems audit process each location is annually qualifications for Group orders.
The Group has a policy that, when specified, timber benchmarked, any corrective actions are identified and a plan put in place to purchased for use in its manufacturing activities must be from renewable resources.
In the UK all locations were internally audited by the This is a relatively small part of the UK operations but where accreditation and HSE Advisers in 2009 using a quantitative benchmarking system, with the average forest stewardship schemes are applicable and available, SIG uses these in its audit scores across all divisions improving against prior year.
Within the Group sourcing procedures.
the continuing improvement of health and safety performance is a key priority.
The Group has in place policies to ensure that its customers receive the level A Health and Safety Training Manager is in place to ensure that all UK subsidiary of service and the quality of product that they have come to expect from SIG.
company directors and managers receive appropriate training in health and safety in order to meet their responsibilities.
HEALTH AND SAFETy Following the benchmarking of the Mainland European and Ireland businesses The Group has in place in the UK an Integrated Management System for Health, in 2008 against the Groups established management system, objectives for Safety and Environment, certified to ISO 14001 Environment and OHSAS 18001 2009 were implemented across the business to achieve a pan-European Health and Safety.
The Group is committed to high standards of health and safety for all of its Forklift and commercial driver training form an important part of SIGs Workplace employees and the Health, Safety and Environmental Policy was reviewed Safety Policy, which impacts on reduced insurance costs, enhanced pedestrian and in 2009.
The policy is displayed throughout the Groups workplaces and is site safety and an improved working environment.
Daily inspections complement available on the Companys website.
Whilst Mr. C. J. Davies, the Chief Executive, periodic training to keep the vehicle and driver at peak performance.
is the Board Director responsible for the health and safety performance of the Group, the SIG systems ensure that responsibility exists throughout all of the The Groups accident performance is monitored by the Board on a monthly SIG businesses.
Health and safety objectives and targets have been established basis.
The overall rate of workplace accidents within the UK operations within relevant functions and levels within the organisation.
increased slightly in 2009 however the overall Group performance showed a slight improvement.
There was a reduction in the number of major injuries During 2009 the management system was brought into line with the revised both for the UK and the Group.
The number of injury accidents reportable to standard OHSAS 18001:2007 for all of the Groups UK Mainland operations the HSE under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence as part of the certification renewal process.
Regulations RIDDOR was 16.8 per 1,000 employees in 2009, compared with 15.0 per 1,000 employees in 2008.
ACCIDENT AND INCIDENTS UK Rate per 1,000 employees 2009 2008 2007 Major injury 2.5 2.9 1.8 Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 13.2 11.7 13.2 All RIDDORS 16.8 15.0 15.5 Average UK headcount 7,211 8,230 6,845 Lost work day rate number of work days per 100 employees 33.4 28.5 33.3 GROUP Rate per 1,000 employees 2009 2008 Major injury 2.0 2.6 Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 18.7 19.0 All RIDDORS 21.4 21.8 Average Group headcount 12,348 13,520 2 SHI ar09 middle.
indd 6 06 04 2010 14:11:33 42 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility Continued SIG has Group-wide ethics and anti-corruption policies in place to underpin the Corporate Responsibility programme and includes broader social and environmental issues in its decision making process to help achieve business goals.
COMMUNITy The Group endeavours to contribute to the communities in which it operates particularly those neighbouring its sites.
SIG is a member of Business in the Community in the UK and has worked with that organisation to help to develop its approach and practices.
This is mainly achieved through charitable donations and other initiatives that help the community.
2009 saw the second year for which SIG Insulations was the main sponsor for the Sheffield Half Marathon event, which raised a record breaking 95,000 for good causes.
The HR Director has responsibility for community issues within the Group and reports to the Chief Executive who is responsible for community issues at Board level.
DONATIONS During the year the Group made donations of 138,000 2008: 193,000.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no political donations were made in the year 2008: nil.
The Group has a Charitable Donations Policy.
The policy, in addition to supporting local causes where SIG employees are involved, is to provide support for three main charities for a period of three years.
For the three years commencing January 2008 the three main charities that the Group will be supporting are Henshaws College, http: www.
uk a charity working with young people, all of whom are visually impaired with additional disabilities, Action For Kids, http: www.
org a national charity working with disabled children and young people, their parents and carers and St Lazarus Hospice, http: www.
pl a charity providing assistance for terminally ill individuals and help and support for families in Krakow, Poland.
During 2009, SIGs donation funded a Henshaws College Volunteer Co-ordinator to facilitate the running of a volunteer service, that has been able to recruit, train and support volunteers who help people affected by sight loss to reach their true potential in life.
Through SIGs support Henshaws College now has 68 regular volunteers with specific roles, who during 2009 generously gave 6,200 hours of their time to help support the work of Henshaws Yorkshire.
Volunteers can learn about volunteering opportunities and are able to have training sessions, such as visual impairment awareness, sighted guides and health and safety for visually impaired people.
This training has enabled new and existing volunteers to work safely and effectively.
Kevin Moore and Brian Raven competing in the Sheffield Half Marathon for Henshaws and Action for Kids.
Presentation of artwork by Simon Haw, Henshaws Yorkshire Art-maker.
Candidates and assessors for the Young Manager of the Year award 2009, at the Holt, Surrey.
indd 7 06 04 2010 14:11:37 Corporate governanCe SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 Focus, Specialisation and Service DONATIONS CONTINUED Employment opportunities are available to disabled persons in accordance with their 2009 saw the second year of SIGs partnership with Action For Kids, a national abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with other employees.
If an employee becomes charity working to create independence, provide opportunities and offer support disabled during employment the Group makes every effort to enable them to to disabled children, young people and their families all around the UK.
continue employment, with retraining for alternative work where necessary.
During 2009, SIGs funding continued to allow disabled young people to receive The Group continues to enhance and expand talent management activities with a relevant training programmes focusing on office skills and preparation for entering UK Talent Manager being recruited to develop further the links between business the workplace.
In addition access to SIGs E-Learning programme was made available strategy and the identification and management of talent.
to the charity enabling employees to enhance their computer based skills.
The Company continued its investment in Senior Management development 2009 was the second year of the Groups support of the St Lazarus Hospice in mainly through the Executive Development Programme run in conjunction Krakow, Poland, which was nominated by European employees.
SIGs support with Sheffield Hallam University.
Sponsorship on specific external programmes during the year enabled essential building repairs to be completed, modifications was also provided where appropriate.
of the air supply system and the purchase of vital equipment such as Pulse Oximeters The Young Manager of the Year Award was launched and 84 managers with and anti-bedsore mattresses.
less than three years experience were nominated from across the business.
Staff are kept informed of charitable activities and are encouraged to attend events The careers of all of these people are being tracked through the talent as appropriate, as a means of encouraging them to be personally associated with management process.
charitable work and in particular with the causes supported by the Group.
This The Group continues to invest in the future through the recruitment of graduates, has included sponsorship for individuals entering specific events and support in and a new Regional Graduate Scheme was introduced in the UK providing kind for building projects.
individuals with an opportunity to work on development projects and across The Group has in place a Payroll Giving Scheme, which is available to all UK business streams.
This is providing broader experience and a wider range of employees.
Employees are free to choose one of the current SIG sponsored opportunities for permanent career moves.
charities listed above or any other charity of their choice.
Despite the challenges The Sales Academy continued to provide coaching and support for sales faced during the year donations of 25,682 were made through the scheme an professionals across the UK and Ireland, while in France a Management increase of 53% on the previous year.
Development Programme was launched for Regional and Branch Managers across all of the Groups French businesses.
EMPLOyEES 2008 and 2009 have been difficult years for the Group, requiring it to restructure and to SIG has introduced a workplace E-Learning programme which provides an downsize its operations particularly in the UK to match its resources against both current engaging way for all employees to increase their knowledge through online and anticipated future demand.
Regrettably these actions have resulted in a significant training courses such as Induction Training, Computer Literacy, Product and number of job losses across all our operations, with around 2,800 employees having Data Protection Awareness, and it is envisaged that this form of training will left the Group through redundancy.
We endeavour to handle any job losses in a increase further through performance reviews.
sympathetic and caring manner and in all cases we comply with local employment SIG recognises the importance of good communication with its employees and law when making an employee redundant.
dedicated personnel were appointed during the year to focus on this.
The Company SIG relies on the expertise and commitment of its employees whose knowledge introduced team briefing to provide structured two-way communication.
Several and experience differentiate it in the market place.
During 2009 significant new internal publications were also introduced.
Considerable effort was made in restructuring took place in the UK providing a wide range of opportunities for upgrading the Company website, www.
com, as well as the content of internal employees to take up new positions and work within new product streams.
Directors in operating businesses tended to focus on local roadshows and In the UK the City Initiative was launched to bring individuals in different presentations to communicate to a wider audience rather than focus on management operating companies within the same geographic area closer together.
The SIG Basics programme was introduced to provide coaching and has provided opportunities for employees to be involved in project and support for branch based personnel and the Chief Executive continued to update cross-company working outside their normal responsibilities.
colleagues on business priorities and performance via webcasts, the publication of transcripts and the provision of question and answer opportunities.
The Group operates a culture of openness and has in place a confidential hotline service so that employees can raise, on a confidential basis, any concerns about Employees are encouraged to become Shareholders in the Company.
how we conduct our business.
The service is provided by an independent third The Group introduced a Share Incentive Plan SIP in November 2005 in party and a full investigation is carried out on all matters raised and a report is place of the Save As You Earn Scheme.
The Company gives one matching share prepared for feedback to the complainant.
The confidential hotline service is for each share purchased by the employee up to a maximum of four matching available to all SIG employees.
At 31 December 2009 there were 1,352 employees saving under the Companys SIP.
The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities to all existing and prospective employees.
SIG recognises that its reputation is dependent on The Group operates a number of employee pension schemes across its businesses.
the quality, effectiveness and skill base of its employees and is committed to In the UK it operates a defined contribution scheme, which is open to all employees.
the fair and equitable treatment of all its employees and specifically to prohibit The Groups UK defined benefit scheme has been closed to new members discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, sex, disability, sexual orientation, since 1997. age, nationality or ethnic origin.
A project to improve monitoring and reporting The HR Director has responsibility for HR issues within the Group and reports was undertaken within the UK during the year, from which organisational priorities to the Chief Executive who is responsible for HR issues at Board level.
