 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Approach Smith & Nephew recognises that companies have a wide responsibility to the community, the environment and the quality of life enjoyed by society at large.
As a leader in its markets, Smith & Nephew believes it should also be a leader in setting and meeting standards of sustainable development.
The Group monitors progress and views sustainable development as anintegralpart ofthewaytheGroupdoes business.
Smith & Nephews approach to sustainability is governed by the policies and principles it has developed to cover four key areas of corporate and social responsibility, namely: corporate governance and business integrity, health, safety and environment, social responsibility and economic contribution.
These policies and principles are available at www.
The Group has published a Sustainability Report, annually, since 2001.
The tenth Sustainability Report, which gives detailed information on the actions and performance in the four key reporting areas during the last year, is expected tobe  duringMay2010at www.
Smith & Nephews progress is measured by leading organisations that assess sustainable development.
In 2009, the Group was again included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI and is a member of FTSE4Good.
Corporate Governance and BusinessIntegrity See the Corporate Governance Statement section on pages 47 to 59 for a discussion of Smith & Nephews governance structures and procedures, which include the principal duties and actions during the year of the Ethics and Compliance Committee as well as details of the Groups Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics for .
Health, Safety and Environment Management TheGroupshealth, safety andenvironmental HSE commitmentisto: give due regard to the effects of its operations on the environment and community to create a sustainable business:  , :  toachievetheHSE standards specified bythe policy: seek to improve HSE performance through continuous evaluation and development of measures to control risk, : and recognise, promote and reinforce the responsibility of employees, contractorsand visitors to worksafely and followprocedures.
15 Group Description The Groups manufacturing processes are relatively low in environmental impact.
Particular emphasis is placed on the control of energy, and waste in manufacturing and research and development.
Improvement targets are set and performance is measured against these targets.
The Groups key environmental measurements over the last five years areas follows: 2009target 2009actual Changeover 2009actual change change last 5years EnergyConsumption 156.8GWh None i 6% -13% Non-hazardouswaste 4,456tonnes None ii 1.6% -27% Totalwaste 6,792tonnes -20% -0.5% -10%  iii 0.57 -5% 23% -5% OSHA  iv 1.20 -5% -3% -37% i There wasnoGroup targetforenergy reduction.
iii Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate is measured as the number of accidents resulting in the loss of a day or more per 200,000 hours worked.
iv Occupational Safety & Health Administration OSHA definition measured as the number of incidents resulting in lost time, medical treatment , , per 200,000 hoursworked.
In the 2009 Sustainability Report, Smith & Nephew published targets for the above environmental measurements for the third year.
These targets were based on figures normalised for changes in production levels using 2009 as the base year rather than the absolute figures.
This ensures any impact arising from changes in production is takenintoaccount.
 thepublishedtargets isas follows: Energy consumption increased by 6%, primarily because of an expansion in warehousing and distribution within Orthopaedics.
Endoscopy showed a 15% reduction in energy consumption when normalised for production.
The start up of a new factory in Suzhou, China and the stock build up in Largo, Florida from 2008 to enable the transfer of production to Suzhou, meant that energy consumption in Advanced Wound Management increasedby3%.
The Groups carbon emissions are calculated from its energy consumption.
The Groups emission of carbon dioxide was 74,090 tonnes in 2009.
Carbon emissions depend on the mix of energy consumed and, in the case of electricity consumption, the emission factor of the local provider.
It includes both direct emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels on sites and secondary emissions from the generation by utility companies of the electricity consumed.
Changes in the site of manufacture and the mix of fuel meant that  despite .
There were 4,456 tonnes of non hazardous waste in 2009, representing an increase of 1.6%.
An increase in waste within Endoscopy and Orthopaedics resulted from building and development work, and the closure of the Endoscopy site in San Antonio, US.
This increase was off-set by progress in reducing waste and improving recycling within Advanced Wound Management which led to an actual decrease in Group waste of 3% in absolute terms.
However, when normalised for production, Group non-hazardous waste rose by 1.6%.
There were 517 tonnes of hazardous waste in 2009, representing an increase of 8.3%.
The Orthopaedics site at Aarau, Switzerland and the Endoscopy site at Mansfield, US showed the largest increases as they disposed of cutting fluids.
The Orthopaedics sites at Aarau and Warwick, UK are the Groups largest producers of hazardous waste.
Both manufactured fewer goods in 2009, which impact the figures when .
Exploration of new recycling options within Advanced Wound Management proved very successful and their percentage of waste recycled rose from 29% to 44%, giving rise to an increase in the Groups recycling from 30% to32%.
There was a total hazardous, non-hazardous, and recycled waste combined of 6,792 tonnes of waste.
This represents afall of6%inabsolute terms, .
The Groups lost time accident frequency rate rose from 0.47 to 0.57, principally due to an increase at the Advanced Wound Management site at Hull, UK, as well as country specific incidents.
In the case of Hull, the total number of lost time accidents rose from three to six.
However, an independent health and safety audit in October 2009 gave the site a 93% rating and found no serious defects.
The increase is not, therefore, thought to reflect any underlying deterioration in performance.
The rise in country specific incidents was drivenbySpain, whichreported seven lost timeaccidents, andSouthAfrica, whichreported four.
A full analysis of these measurements and key health and safety performance measures will be included in the .
16 BusinessPartners Smith & Nephew is committed to establishing mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers, customers and business partners.
The Group seeks to work only with partners whom it believes adhere to principles and health, safety, social and environmental standards consistent with that of the Group.
Additional work continues each year to improve the monitoring of supplier standards for service quality and activities relevant to their corporate responsibility.
Additional focus on supplier standards has been implemented in the manufacturing area to ensure Smith& Nephewshighstandards .
Social responsibility Employees The Human Resources HR Policy Framework introduced in 2006 continues to provide a framework of key HR policies, values, behaviours and management principles that provide the structure within which the business units and Global functions plan and deliver successful results.
There is also an HR strategy which provides direction on how the Group intends to attract, retain and develop the right talent to meet the business needs and create a culturethat isalignedtoSmith&Nephewvalues  strategic plans.
The Groups employment policies are based on equality of opportunity regardless of colour, creed, race, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, mental or physical disability unrelated to the ability of the  functionsofthejob.
Smith &   a set ofpolicies that ensure flexible, family-friendly practices and non-discrimination.
It aims to provide an open environment based on constructive relationships and regular and timely dissemination of Group information and encourages feedback and ideas.
An employee global opinion survey is conducted every two years and used as a catalyst for improvementsandplans withallemployees andrepresentative bodies.
The 2008 Global Opinion Survey was completed towards the end of 2008 and the results reported to employees in early 2009.
Across the Group, the response rate was good with nearly 6,500 employees taking the survey.
Overall, the results were positive and indicated continued high levels of employee engagement with the values and direction of the Group.
The feedback identified several areas where the Group needed to improve, including the alignment and enhancement of systems and processes to enable better execution of plans and greater visibility of results.
During 2009, the Group has worked diligently to address the issues raised by employees and reinforcethe positiveaspects ofthefeedback received.
Other employeeengagement indicators In 2009, the Group continued to assess indicators of employee engagement.
These measurements are a useful  mechanismforactionas wellas .
The data below relates to the Groups US and UK population approximately 60% of the total employees as these regionshave themostestablished androbustdata collectionprocesses inplace.
Positions filled by internal candidates through promotions This measure is an indicator of how well the Group believes it is developing its employees and the success of the Groups internal recruitment policy.
In 2009, the percentage of vacancies filled by internal applicants averaged 32%.
The total for non-management positions was 29% and for management positions was 51%.
The Group target for all employees is 40%, including management positions which management believes is challenging but achievable.
The Group has a policy of open advertising and providing opportunities for existing employees wherever possible, while recognising the need to bring in new ideas and approaches that external recruitmentbrings.
Labour turnover The Group measures various labour turnover rates.
The average voluntary labour turnover rate during 2009 was 6.5%, a decrease from the 2008 equivalent rate of 9%.
The average involuntary labour turnover rate was 10.7%, which management believe is indicative of the Groups continuingprogramme .
An indicator of this is that the Groups headcount remained broadly unchanged on the prior year.
In addition, the Group measures labour turnover relating specifically to employees who have been with the business less than two years.
This measure is an indication of how well the Group recruits and then retains its employees so that they can make a contribution to the business.
The average voluntary turnover for employees leaving the Group within two years of joining was 10.1%, a decrease on the 2008 equivalent rates of14%intheUS and11%intheUK.
17 Group Description The Group is committed to providing training and information so that all employees can make the best contribution possible.
To ensure that the Group continues to improve in this important area, the central global organisational development team continued expanding their programmes to lead talent management, performance management and learning and development across the whole of the Group.
Learning and development programmes are used to attract, retain and develop employees.
These programmes are linked to formal performance appraisal and development planning.
The Group operates training programmes under the banner of Management Excellence.
These provide the key management skills required to be successful managers and leaders, covering the requirements of both new and experienced individuals.
Further programmes were added in 2009 and the Group has developed a common and comprehensive on-line learning resource for  quarterof2010.
Societyand Community The Group works with national and local governments and other organisations to meet its legal and civic obligations, manage its impact on the environment, and contribute to the development of laws and regulations that affect its business.
Smith & Nephew values community involvement and is an active member of its local  employees .
The Groups principles for charitable giving are based on criteria relevant to its business, with priority given to medical education.
Individual company sites support their local communities in a range of charitable causes , gifts .
The Group realises that its technologies and products do not reach everyone.
To address this issue, the orthopaedics business has created a relationship with a charitable and humanitarian organisation.
This links up with physicians and non-profit groups engaged in medical philanthropy that receive donations of Smith & Nephew products through sponsorship and help from the Groups employees.
The Group considers that working   charitablegiving.
In 2009, direct donations to charitable and community activities totalled $1,866,000, of which $396,000 was giventothe Smith&NephewFoundation.
Economic Contribution The Group contributes economically in three principal ways: i its financial performance brings economic benefits to shareholders, employees, suppliers, governments and local authorities: ii it aims to deliver overall cost savings to healthcare systems by reducing the cost per episode of care, and iii through the provision of medical .
 savingsto healthcare systems Smith & Nephews innovation is focused on designing products, instruments and techniques which provide clinical and cost benefits.
Efficiency benefits include reduced frequency of dressing changes, shorter operating theatre times, reduced length of time spent in hospital, faster recovery and reduced infection rates.
Examples of suchinnovationsthat : VISIONAIRE Patient Matched Instrumentation materially shortens procedure time by eliminating sizing and .
BIRMINGHAM HIP Resurfacing System has significant cost advantages over alternative treatments which consist of many years of traditional pain management followed by a total hip replacement, as well as giving  qualityoflife.
DYONICS BONECUTTER ELECTROBLADE Resector, whichcombines technologies to perform the work of three separate resectiondevices, .
BICEPTOR Tenodesis System to re-attach the biceps tendon in the shoulder simplifies and shortens proceduretimes.
Negative Pressure Wound Therapy can significantly reduce wound healing times while reducing hospital costs bypermittingpatients tobe dischargedearlier.
ALLEVYN Ag Gentle Border incorporates the anti-microbial protection of silver which reduces the incidence .
18 Medical education The Group is committed to supporting surgeon, clinician and nurse training both associated directly with the .
Examples during 2009 include: Orthopaedics continued to expand its KLEOS programme, which is a medical education platform which offers seminars, fellowships, instructional videos and literature reviews.
Orthopaedics also contributed by providing grant support for research, graduate medical education fellowships and continuing medical education through the independent Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation.
Endoscopy hosted a two-day fellowship meeting, The Wider Scope of Arthroscopy, that involved over 100 visiting surgeons, including Fellows from some of the most prestigious programmes in North America.
In addition, during 2009, the Group opened or commissioned surgeon training facilities in Shanghai, China: Lucerne, Switzerland:York, UK: andMemphis, US.
More examples of the programmes supported by the Group to deliver medical education are given in the 2010 SustainabilityReport.
LookingAhead Smith & Nephews vision is to be the best in helping people regain their lives by improving and healing the human body.
The Group believes that it can achieve this by setting and meeting ambitious performance targets, by constant innovation in products and services and by earning the trust of its stakeholders.
In all its business activities, the drive towards sustainability is an ongoing process and Smith & Nephew is committed to maintaininga consistenteffort toimprove.
EMPLOYEES The average number of full-time equivalent employees in 2009 was 9,764, of whom 1,639 were located in the UK, 4,131 were located in the US and 3,994 were located in other countries.
The Group does not employ a .
Theaverage numberofemployees forthepast threeyears bybusiness segment: 2009 2008 2007 Orthopaedics 4,853 4,840 4,405 Endoscopy 1,888 1,849 1,798 Advanced WoundManagement 3,023 3,068 2,987 9,764 9,757 9,190 Where the Group has collective bargaining arrangements in place with labour unions, these reflect local market circumstances.
Smith & Nephew operates share option plans that are available to the majority of employees for further information see Note 26 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
The Group has no share plans in which shares have  arenotexercisable directlybyemployees.
