46 SmithsGroupplc Annualreport2009 In2008,  Code Corporate :these , responsibility honesty, .
Smithsemployeeshave been trained on the revised Code of Business Ethics through the intranet, .
The : Chief Ethics Officer has the responsibility to report to the Audit Committee periodically on ethics issues and suspected or actual 1 Wecomplywiththelaw breachesoftheCode.
2 Wecompetefairly  3  , , education, training,  4 Wetreatoursuppliers, partnersandcustomers assessmenttools.
properly  5  SmithsGroup,  effectivelybemanaged: 6 , safeandsecure environment, healthandsafety EHS  workplaces line management and are overseen through a Group-wide EHS steeringcommittee,  7  co-ordinators: 8  security, , iscontrolledthrough : 9    : :  keepingandreporting , although  .
TheHelplineis managed by the Chief Ethics Officer, assisted by the Ethics and ComplianceManager.
Inpractice,  based environmental management systems to drive improvement occupational health and safety management system standard .
 Smiths manufacturing sites with more than 50 employees.
ISO14001 ensures that a culture of continual .
Target August2007July2010 2009result   19outof88 Target August2007July2010 2009result  certied   9%reduction    1.03  31%reduction 9% Losttimeincidentrate  Notargetset 0.51 Waterconsumption 21%reduction 9%  48 SmithsGroupplc Annualreport2009 Employees Corporate .
Smithsrecruits,  responsibility qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude.
In employment-related decisions, Smiths complies with all applicable anti-discrimination continued ,  ofrace, colour, nationalorigin, gender, maritalstatus, sexualorientation, religiousbelief, age, .
Smiths believes in good communications with employees and in promoting consultation, .
Smiths offers employees in the US and the UK opportunities to participate in share plans that enable employees to benefit from  .
Developingtalent  and enhance core leadership competencies.
These development  learning styles, incorporating workshops, experiential learning, mentoring, .
Our businesses identify leadership talent and .
  prospects of the business in which they are involved by means of employeecouncils, , andother .
In addition to providing employment opportunities and playing a ,  .
However, Smiths  from a central budget.
Consideration is given to charities and organisations that demonstrate how a donation will enhance the , healthandwelfare orenvironment.
 to the industries in which we operate are the primary focus of Smithssupport.
Throughthe programme,  in summer school courses in engineering and technology.
TheSmithsMedical   is an important example of long-term funding that has enhanced  medicalcare.
Thefirst All sales of defence equipment and export-controlled products or    .
the European Union export control regulations, the United States International Traffic in Arms Regulation ITAR and Export  Administration Regulations EAR, and the laws of several other .
Whilst we are not complacent ,  external recognition of our corporate responsibility initiatives and .
