46 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 In 2008, Smiths introduced a revised Code of Business Ethics Code Corporate that sets out 12 broad principles for how Smiths does business: these standards are based on a set of common values based around integrity, responsibility honesty, fairness and transparency.
These principles cannot address all areas or all circumstances, but they provide a framework for wider Our Code applies to all businesses and employees policies and programmes.
The Code aims to offer clear standards and of Smiths Group worldwide.
Compliance with our guidance for the business dealings of every employee.
The Code applies to all businesses and employees of Smiths Group worldwide.
The Code, Code helps to sustain and enhance the good in 12 languages, has been provided in a printed copy format and on the reputation of the Company and contributes to Smiths intranet for each employee.
long-term value creation for shareholders.
Smiths Code of Business Ethics is available to the public on the Smiths We believe that every employee plays their part website, www.
in building and strengthening the Group as a whole.
In 2009, in order to communicate the revised Code and provide ethics We operate a non-retaliation policy: any employee training to individuals across the Group, a Smiths Code of Business who in good faith reports any act of apparent Ethics training course was created.
In collaboration with Global IT this misconduct or unethical behaviour will not course was launched online through a custom-built electronic training platform, the Global LearningResource GLR, and installed on a Smiths be victimised or treated adversely.
training portal available through the intranet.
Smiths employees have been trained on the revised Code of Business Ethics through the intranet, portal or classroom-style training.
The GLR and portal is designed to support future employee training in the areas of business ethics, compliance, safety, and security.
Managing corporate responsibility The Code Compliance Council for the Code of Business Ethics the Smiths Code of Business Ethics 'the Code' Council acts as the steering committee for the ethics programme.
The is based on 12 principles: Chief Ethics Officer has the responsibility to report to the Audit Committee periodically on ethics issues and suspected or actual 1 We comply with the law breaches of the Code.
The Council and its Chair are assisted by a dedicated, full-time Ethics and Compliance Manager for Smiths Group.
2 We compete fairly Compliance support to Smiths businesses is provided through legal 3 We act with integrity in all our business dealings counsel serving the businesses and other experts who provide advice, export control policies, education, training, guidance materials and risk 4 We treat our suppliers, partners and customers assessment tools.
properly Responsibility for managing specific issues lies at different levels within Smiths Group, depending on the nature of the issue and how it can most 5 We treat our co-workers respectfully effectively be managed: 6 We contribute to healthy, safe and secure environment, health and safety EHS issues are the responsibility of workplaces line management and are overseen through a Group-wide EHS steering committee, a technical implementation committee and local 7 We respect the environment co-ordinators: 8 We contribute to our communities security, also a line management responsibility, is controlled through a Group-wide Security committee: 9 We participate in relevant public debates employee issues are managed by line management and through the Human Resources function: 10 We respect human rights supplier and customer programmes are managed by each business: 11 We have high standards of financial recordand keeping and reporting community programmes are principally managed locally, although 12 The Code applies to all of us there is also some Group-level activity.
Smiths maintains an Ethics Helpline, accessible by both phone and email, to answer queries relating to ethics issues, as well as to act as a confidential reporting line for concerns and allegations.
The Helpline is available worldwide to all Smiths employees.
There are toll-free phone numbers in approximately 40 countries where Smiths has businesses staffed by individuals who speak the local language.
The Helpline is managed by the Chief Ethics Officer, assisted by the Ethics and Compliance Manager.
47 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Health and safety Environment Smiths is committed to conducting all its activities in a manner which Smiths is committedto ensuringthat, as far as is , achieves the highest practicable standards of health and safety.
any detrimental effects of its activities, products and services upon the environment are minimised.
In practice, this means using performanceIn 2007 Smiths made the commitment to achieve certification to the based environmental management systems to drive improvement occupational health and safety management system standard throughout the business.
OHSAS18001 by July 2010 at all of its manufacturing facilities with more than 50 employees.
The environmental management system ISO14001 is required at all Smiths manufacturing sites with more than 50 employees.
New The success of OHSAS18001, together with other targeted initiatives, acquisitions, or businesses that grow above the 50 employee threshold, is measured against the recordable incident rate RIR performance.
are required to seek certification.
Currently, 67 out of 88 manufacturing In 2007, we established a RIR goal of 1.5 recordable incidents per 100 sites are certified.
ISO14001 ensures that a culture of continual employees to be achieved by mid-2010.
We have outperformed this improvement is embedded throughout the organisation.
goal early, achieving a RIR of 1.03 in 2009, a 46% reduction over our baseline 2007 performance of 1.89 RIR.
Since 2004, we have achieved a Three-year targets were set in August 2007 to be achieved by July 2010 steady reduction in our RIR with 2009 being our safest on record.
for greenhouse gas emissions, waste disposal and water consumption.
Each of our key indicators has shown improvement, currently beating Performance against targets our goal.
Target August 2007 July 2010 2009 result Performance against targets OHSAS18001 certication 19 out of 88 Target August 2007 July 2010 2009 result Certification at all sites with more certied than 50 employees by July 2010 Greenhouse gas emissions 9% reduction No absolute increase over the 2007 baseline Recordable incident rate Better than 1.5 per 100 employees 1.03 Total non-recycled waste 31% reduction 9% reduction over three years Lost time incident rate normalised against turnover No target set 0.51 Water consumption 21% reduction 9% reduction over three years normalised against turnover 48 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Employees Corporate It is theCompany's policyto provideequal opportunities for employment.
Smiths recruits, selects and promotes employees on the basis of their responsibility qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude.
In employment-related decisions, Smiths complies with all applicable anti-discrimination continued requirements in the relevant jurisdictions, including concerning matters of race, colour, national origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, religious belief, age, or physical or mental disability.
Disabled people are given full consideration for employment and subsequent training, career development and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
All Smiths employees are treated with respect and dignity.
Accordingly, any harassment or bullying is unacceptable.
Smiths respects the right of each employee to join or not to join a trade union or other bona fide employee representative organisation.
Smiths believes in good communications with employees and in promoting consultation, co-operation and teamwork on matters of mutual concern.
Smiths offers employees in the US and the UK opportunities to participate in share plans that enable employees to benefit from increases to the companys share price and to align their interests more closely with those of shareholders.
Smiths invests in employees' skills and capabilities, which in turn helps the Company and its businesses to succeed.
Current priorities for Smiths are talent development, succession planning and employee engagement.
Developing talent  and enhance core leadership competencies.
These development programmes are designed and tailored to address a wide range of learning styles, incorporating workshops, experiential learning, mentoring, team working and project experience.
Smiths continues to be actively involved in training and developing young people, including initiatives designed to ease the transition from school or study to work.
For example, Horizons is a two-year programme for newly and recently appointed graduates and those early in their career.
It provides an understanding of the Group and the business world in general, and develops personal and team-working skills.
Succession management Smiths operates a systematic succession management process for leadership roles.
Our businesses identify leadership talent and development needs using common tools and a consistent language.
Development plans are monitored by senior management to optimise effective succession opportunities.
Employee engagement Smiths provides information to and communicates with employees as an important part of doing business.
Employees are regularly provided with a wide range of information concerning the performance and prospects of the business in which they are involved by means of employee councils, information and consultation forums, and other consultative bodies that allow their views to be taken into account.
49 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Communities Smiths contributes positively to the communities in which we operate.
In addition to providing employment opportunities and playing a beneficial role in local economies, we support community involvement through charitable giving and education initiatives.
This activity is primarily managed at a divisional level.
However, Smiths does offer some support to community and charitable organisations from a central budget.
Consideration is given to charities and organisations that demonstrate how a donation will enhance the well-being of people through improved education, health and welfare or environment.
Projects local to our operational facilities or connected to the industries in which we operate are the primary focus of Smiths support.
Education is a major recipient of our support.
For example, working together with the Royal Academy of Engineering in the UK, the Smiths Technology Education Programme is now in its third year.
Through the programme, school students are offered the opportunity to participate in summer school courses in engineering and technology.
Those students who then go on to take an engineering or technology degree course at university are eligible to receive Smiths bursaries.
Smiths also supports the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at St Andrews University by funding a research assistant.
Smiths divisions also deliver significant support.
The Smiths Medical Chair of Anaesthesia and Critical Care at University College Hospital Young Everest study published is an important example of long-term funding that has enhanced Smiths Medical continues to sponsor a Chair of Anaesthesia and Critical medical care.
care at University College Hospital, currently held by Professor Michael In addition to donations, Smiths people devote time to local community Mythen.
As part of the endowment, support is given to the Portex Unit projects around the world.
For further information, please see the 2009 of Paediatric Anaesthesia, Pain Research, Critical Care, Respiratory Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
Medicine, Physiology and Physiotherapy located at the Institute of Child Health.
In June 2009 the unit celebrated the 40th anniversary of its Export & Import controls founding, with Smiths having sponsored the unit since 1991.
The first All sales of defence equipment and export-controlled products or major publication from the Smiths Medical Young Everest Study was technology are undertaken in accordance with government export and published in April 2009 which investigated the effects of altitude and low import approval procedures and regulations.
These regulations include oxygen levels on children.
the European Union export control regulations, the United States International Traffic in Arms Regulation ITAR and Export Smiths Medical continues to work on developing some of the concepts Administration Regulations EAR, and the laws of several other derived from the studies conducted on Mount Everest.
In particular work countries in which these sales are made or the products used.
These continues to find ways of delivering oxygen to patients in an efficient laws restrict or prohibit export of certain items to specific countries.
In manner whilst maintaining an active lifestyle.
This involves working with addition, Smiths adheres to all relevant government guidelines designed clinicians in Europe and the United States to understand and define to ensure that products are not incorporated into weapons or other exact requirement.
It is hoped that one such product will enter active equipment used for the purposes of terrorism or abuse of human rights, development within the next year.
with internal controls to ensure compliance with these guidelines.
FTSE4Good In 2009, Smiths was again awarded membership of the FTSE4Good Index which acknowledges companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Whilst we are not complacent about the ongoing work required, we were pleased to merit again this external recognition of our corporate responsibility initiatives and business ethics programme.
