SOCO International plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Responsibility Our goal is to be a positive presence Business Review SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 SOCO has greater CR influence over some projects than others.
In projects where we hold the operating interest, we are able to exercise direct influence.
Our influence is less direct where we hold a minority interest as an investor or participant in a project.
However, in both scenarios, our approach is to clearly communicate our values and to promote sound CR management practices.
SOCO endorses the Policy SOCO is an international oil and gas exploration SOCO is committed to applying widely accepted guidelines set out in the Extractive Industries and production company headquartered in the Transparency Initiative and supports its goal of good practice in CR management.
The detailed United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock guidance set out by the World Bank Group and strengthening governance through improved Exchange.
With three operating licences in the transparency and accountability.
incorporated into the Equator Principles is the Africa region and five non-operated interests in basic benchmark SOCO has adopted.
South East Asia and Africa, SOCO has interests This report focuses on the CR values which within regions having multifarious economic, SOCOs framework of policy documents and define our business policies and how these social and environmental conditions and cultures.
are implemented in terms of: procedures is reflective of the relatively small scale and nature of the Companys operations and Our management of CR Our engagement with stakeholders size of organisation.
SOCOs Code of Business Our commitment to our employees and Conduct and Ethics the Code is a dynamic policy The host countries in contractors that was approved by the Board in 2004 and is Our commitment as a customer regularly reviewed.
The Code encapsulates the which we operate are Our commitment to local communities values of the Company in its economic, social primary stakeholders Our commitment to the environment and environmental performance.
The Code sets and to sustainable development out the standards of business conduct that the in each of the Company requires of its personnel to ensure that respective projects The examples provided in this report focus its day-to-day business affairs are conducted in primarily on our three operated interests, which a fair, honest and ethical manner.
are the Marine XI and Marine XIV Blocks located Whilst the Boards primary responsibility is in shallow waters in the Lower Congo Basin, The Code is disseminated from the Board to return value to its shareholders, the Board offshore the Republic of Congo Brazzaville, and to senior management and to the country recognises that consideration of its other the Nganzi Block, located onshore in the managers and employees.
Implementation is stakeholders interests are core factors in the Bas-Congo Province of the Democratic Republic the responsibility of all personnel of the Group, Company effectively achieving its business of Congo DRC.
each of whom are given detailed guidelines for objectives and reducing its risk profile.
The guidelines include criteria and host countries in which we operate are primary SOCOs non-operated interests are the Bualuang checklists for ethical decision making on an stakeholders in each of the respective projects.
field in Block B8 38 located offshore in the Gulf of individual level so as to directly impede This is due to the potential for positive and Thailand, Block 5 located onshore in eastern DRC, inappropriate and corrupt business practices.
sustainable economic and social benefit on near to the border with Uganda and including part a national scale that natural resources from of Lake Edward, and the Cabinda Onshore North SOCOs health, safety and environment HSE a successful project could generate.
Our Block which is bordered in the north by Congo policy, which has been in place since the relationships with our business partners, host Brazzaville and in the south and east by the Companys inception, conforms to international governments, local communities, contractors and DRC.
SOCOs interests in Vietnam, which are best practice and includes bespoke HSE employees are highly valued.
The Board therefore operated through the Hoang Long and Hoan Vu management systems tailored to the Companys embraces the opportunity to promote sustainable Joint Operating Companies JOCs, are located projects.
Formal reporting to the Board is development on an economic, social and offshore in the Cuu Long Basin and comprise oil mandatory for all HSE incidents.
Any HSE incident environmental level and to engender corporate production from the Ca Ngu Vang CNV field and report is automatically investigated to determine responsibility CR good practice and values appraisal development operations in the Te Giac the cause and identify actions for prevention of into its management and corporate culture.
Trang TGT and Te Giac Den TGD fields.
SOCO International plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Responsibility continued SOCO commits to meet legal and regulatory requirements governing environmental practices, as a minimum standard, and strives to ensure its activities are consistent with sound environmental The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing In DRC, the local communities of the Bas-Congo management and conservation practices.
We all areas of the Groups corporate risk province, particularly in the region of Kipholo, seek to minimise the adverse effects of the management processes, including HSE CR.
The were impacted by SOCOs activities that began by-products of our processes on the natural effectiveness of these processes is monitored in 2008 relating to the Nganzi Block.
Consultation resources and ecosystems in which we operate.
on a continuous basis and a formal assessment meetings were held with the Governor of SOCO routinely engages third parties to review is conducted at least annually.
The Senior Bas-Congo and with community leaders.
The our compliance with existing systems and to Independent Director, who has experience in the development initiatives were overseen by update systems to reflect project evolution, relevant area, reviews HSE CR performance in SOCO DRC Exploration & Productions Assistant including the Code and HSE policy.
detail with senior managers and is kept routinely Director, who is a DRC national.
The consultation informed of any material performance issues as resulted in dynamic support from the local they arise.
population for SOCOs recruitment campaign and interest from other stakeholders to invest We are committed External advisors are utilised to ensure that best in the region.
practice is achieved and CR objectives are met.
to applying good Deployment of external, rather than dedicated SOCOs corporate website also serves as a practice in CR internal, resources ensures optimal access to platform through which stakeholders across sound expertise in each area which is not the world and any member of the public may management compromised by management numbers and electronically interface with executive layers and which would not otherwise be management on any subject.
available in a staff of our size.
Management of CR Our reporting and participation in public The Chief Executive Officer is the Director Engagement with Stakeholders benchmarking activities reflect the size and responsible to the Board for HSE and other SOCO maintains an open and active dialogue nature of our operations.
He delegates day-to-day with its shareholders.
The Company maintains responsibility for managing HSE CR matters to a website wherein important information can Commitment to our Employees the Vice President-Operations and Production, be posted and disseminated promptly to a wide and Contractors who is invited to attend all Board meetings.
At a minimum, the Company provides SOCOs policy is to maximise local employment matters are reported to the full Board in a monthly three personal communication forums annually: and contract outsourcing in all the operations we operations report and a separate agenda item at the Annual General Meeting, the presentation control.
Whilst realising the positive benefits of each Board meeting addresses any significant this approach, the Company recognises the CR of Annual Results and the presentation of Half HSE CR issues.
Year Results, whereby shareholders can directly management risks that a highly localised approach can introduce.
SOCO manages this area interface with Company executive management.
The country managers report to the Board Additionally, management have met directly with of risk carefully, both in its selection of contractors through senior management and are responsible investment stakeholders on approximately 200 and the subsequent monitoring of their for implementing the Companys CR strategy on occasions during 2009. performance.
Through its recruitment and training processes, the Company recognises that key Reporting into the Board through the senior We promote a workplace culture where each managers and operations personnel have a managers, SOCOs country managers are person is treated with fairness and respect.
specific role in the success of the Companys responsible for the local channels of The Company is committed to providing our CR commitment.
It is a priority consideration, communication in our host countries both with employees with a working environment that is therefore, that the relevant employees each have regulators and with the wider local population.
free from harassment and discrimination and an understanding of the importance of CR and In Congo Brazzaville, DRC and Angola, project where each individual has the opportunity to have knowledge of what constitutes best practice updates are disseminated in the form of a develop their talents and capabilities and to standards.
This fosters informed decision making newsletter which highlights employment and fulfil their potential based on merit and ability.
and an instinctive appreciation of the relevant contractor opportunities arising from direct SOCO is committed to protecting the health and business implications associated with each operations as well as a broad range of indirect safety of all its employees and to safeguarding operation.
Business Review SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 The Board embraces the opportunity to promote sustainable development SOCO International plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Responsibility continued SOCO is dedicated to improving the wellbeing of the people who are affected by our presence and our operations Business Review SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31 We endeavour to facilitate honest, timely and two-way communication and to maintaining avenues for the equitable resolution of employee complaints.
In Congo Brazzaville, a formal representative body has been set up for staff, Commitment to Local Communities in accordance with local regulation, and was SOCO understands that its operational success operational throughout 2009.
Its formation is highly dependent on the support of the involved the election, under the supervision of a communities in which it operates.
Maximised state official from the Ministry of Labour, of two local involvement is our policy in all the operations workers to act as staff representatives.
The we control, providing potential for positive, representatives are allotted with 10 hours per economic and social benefits, both on a local and month to perform their duties and are assigned national level.
Our operations are underpinned In Angola, the contractor group which includes to record feedback from staff, to meet with with a strong commitment to build and utilise SOCO provided a medical centre with nurse management on a monthly basis and present accommodation at Massabi and assisted in skills among local communities through the any suggestions or complaints, to advise their creation and expansion of local infrastructure, the providing fresh drinking water at Dinge by colleagues as to their rights and duties and recovering an existing water well, constructing a creation of jobs, exposure to training of a high to have access to the countrys Labour international standard and support for technical water distribution branch and installing a generator.
Feedback to the staff is provided A water well was also drilled at Inhuca, where a co-operation and capacity building.
This has resulted water tank was re-commissioned and the water in open and harmonious dialogue between distribution system was restored.
A primary school In SOCOs operations, virtually all personnel are management and employees.
A representative nationals of the host country.
In Vietnam, the JOCs with six rooms and accommodation for teachers body, organised on similar lines, has also been was provided at Benfica.
In DRC, SOCO sponsored currently have 110 employees and contractors of set up for staff working in DRC and has been whom 86 are nationals.
Across the Africa region, the refurbishment and extension of school operational since December 2009. buildings, which included the headmasters SOCO has 62 personnel, 58 of whom are nationals, of whom 17 received formal training office and four classrooms.
sponsored by SOCO at various international training centres in Canada, Congo, Dubai, France, In the United Kingdom, SOCO donated 10,000 We promote a during 2009 to Action for M. E. the UK charity Gabon, South Africa, UK and USA during 2009. dedicated to improving the lives of people with workplace culture Myalgic Encephalomyelitis.
SOCO also supports local communities by where each person is providing resources to the non-profit sector and by supporting local education.
In Vietnam, through treated with fairness the JOCs, SOCO focuses its social development and respect Maximised local commitment through programmes aimed primarily at projects which serve those most at involvement is our need in society, particularly children, the elderly policy in all the As part of our HSE procedures, processes were and those with limited ability to work.
In Africa, in put in place to handle potential incidents or addition to providing access to employment and operations we control emergencies during the drilling campaign.
A training, the focus of SOCOs support for the Level 2 Emergency Response Exercise was community is through the provision of educational successfully carried out in October 2009 to test facilities, medical care, provision of fresh drinking the effectiveness of these processes.
HSE audits Commitment to the Environment water and local infrastructure.
were carried out during the Congo Brazzaville Emissions Marine XI drilling operations and affirmed that The Company recognises the environmental During 2009, SOCO provided support to medical there had been no occurrence of lost time centres and local charities working with children impact of emissions from both its operated and accidents or cases requiring medical treatment non-operated activities.
Currently, SOCO supports and vulnerable adults in Congo Brazzaville.
built a maternity ward in Mbomo, a district in the Operator effort to reduce joint venture emissions, while SOCO currently has minimal the Cuvette-Ouest Region of western Congo Our Commitment as a Customer Brazzaville, and purchased medical equipment operated emissions in terms of carbon dioxide SOCOs policy is to settle the terms of payment equivalent.
As part of its growth in operations, for two clinics in Pointe-Noire, where SOCO has its with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each offices.
In the capital, Brazzaville, electrical and gas the Company is reviewing the most appropriate transaction to ensure that suppliers are made means through which the environmental impact stoves were purchased for the Soeurs des Pauvres aware of and abide by the terms of payment.
Donations were also made to Halte Side, an of operations is measured, and continues to seek Our tender processes include relevant due ways of reducing its emissions of greenhouse organisation for children orphaned by HIV, and to diligence measures.
the National Association for the Blind.
SOCO International plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Responsibility continued In Thailand, the Bualuang oil field, in Block B8 38 in the Gulf of Thailand, commenced oil production in August 2008.
The crude oil is processed and Manpower for both the seismic acquisition work Environmental Impact then stored in a floating production storage and and the related development initiatives was Assessments EIAs offloading facility vessel prior to sale.
Under the sourced from the local population.
Approximately EIAs were carried out in Congo Brazzaville, terms of the petroleum licence, SOCO contributes 450 local employees were recruited for Vietnam and Thailand during 2009.
At the time of in the form of a petroleum royalty on production geophysical work and given the relevant seismic this report, an EIA is under way over the Nganzi to Thailands Petroleum Fund, which is a drilling, topography and recording training.
Block, onshore DRC, and preparations have monetary reserve used to stabilise the domestic Housing improvements can be seen across the commenced for an EIA over Marine XIV offshore retail price of petroleum.
Sustainability initiatives area, reflecting raised employment levels during Congo Brazzaville.
in Thailand supported by SOCO include the the seismic campaign.
Fisheries Resources Conservation Project, Commitment to Sustainable involving the release of juvenile fish and shrimp Development larvae and compensation to fishermen during We continue to Sustainable Development seismic activity on the Block.
SOCO has also in South East Asia supported local fundraising activities to promote develop policies that The first flow of crude oil and wet gas from the tourism in the Chumporn Province, the onshore promote sustainable CNV field, in the Cuu Long Basin offshore Vietnam, area adjacent to the Companys offshore occurred in July 2008.
In December 2009, prior to the 3D development transported via a subsea pipeline system to the seismic programme which was acquired in the processing facilities at Bach Ho.
Crude oil is Bualuang field during the first quarter of 2010, processed and then stored in a floating storage compensation of approximately 8 million Thai and offloading vessel prior to sale.
The wet gas is Carbon Footprint in the United Baht was paid to local fishermen.
separated offshore and transported to an onshore Kingdom Sustainable Development in the Although not qualifying for the CRC Energy gas facility for further distribution to meet domestic demand.
Africa Region Efficiency Scheme in the UK, the Company has The Nganzi Block is located in the Bas-Congo measures in place at its UK offices to reduce its The CNV field utilises an unmanned platform that Province of the DRC.
Efficient road and air access energy usage and to enable office equipment, was a focal consideration in SOCOs preparation furniture, stationery and packaging to be recycled.
is tied back to the Bach Ho central processing platform.
This is the first project in the Vietnam for the seismic campaign and planned drilling programme and the Company invested in the Outlook petroleum industry to utilise the existing facilities in order to maximise the life of existing introduction and upgrade of transportation As SOCO embarks on its most active drilling infrastructure across the area.
This included the campaign in the Companys history, the Board infrastructure, minimise the investment costs and reduce the impact on the environment.
Oil building of a 1,000 metre airstrip with related recognises the business imperative to act responsibly and we continue to develop policies production passes to existing offshore facilities, infrastructure at Kipholo, the construction of six so the principal impact is an extension of the bridges over the Lukunga, Lubuzi and Lemba rivers and practices that promote sustainable development on an economic, social and useful life of these assets, thus having a and the maintenance and improvement of 135 beneficial sustainability influence.
The most kilometres of road.
These building initiatives will environmental level.
Our goal is to be a positive presence, building value for our host countries material environmental issue is the production provide lasting infrastructure for the local populace of significant quantities of associated gas.
This and has already inspired indirect socio-economic and local communities, as well as our shareholders.
Regardless of the success represents an important economic asset for the benefits by opening up the rural area.
This has Company and for the Vietnamese people and the stimulated an increase in trade and other of individual projects, SOCO is dedicated to improving the wellbeing of the people who are Company is party to a gas sales agreement for stakeholder interest, including the building of a national use.
medical clinic by a non-governmental organisation.
affected by our presence and our operations.
Governance SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 Governance
