Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities 33 Performance process development, manufacturing and A strategic approach distribution of biologics, including worldwide Our business strategy drives our approach supply of MAbs and influenza vaccines.
to managing human resources HR issues Our biologics production capabilities are across AstraZeneca.
Identifying and building scalable, which enables efficient management skills and capability for the long term is critical of our combined small molecule and if we are to deliver that strategy successfully.
To that end we have been developing a strategic workforce planning SWP capability.
Managing sourcing risk Our global procurement policies and SWP generally takes a longer-term view of Lynn Tetrault Executive Vice-President, integrated risk management processes are five to seven years and is designed to ensure Human Resources and Corporate Affairs aimed at ensuring uninterrupted supply of we have the right capabilities in the right sufficiently high quality raw materials and other location at the right time.
SWP also addresses key supplies, all of which are purchased from issues such as ensuring a diverse workforce Our people are the key to our past a range of suppliers.
We focus on a range of and the challenges of attracting and retaining and future success we need to risks to global supply, such as disasters that talent globally.
nurture our talent and develop the remove supply capability or the unavailability leaders of tomorrow.
of key raw materials, and work to ensure Targets and accountabilities that these risks are effectively mitigated.
Clear targets and accountabilities are essential Contingency plans include the appropriate use for ensuring that people understand what is of dual or multiple suppliers and maintenance expected of them as we deliver our business Employees by geographical area Employees by geographical area of appropriate stock levels.
The Board and the SET are of raw materials may fluctuate from time to responsible for setting our high-level strategic time, our global purchasing policies seek to objectives and managing performance avoid such fluctuations becoming material to against these see the Reserved matters A A our business.
We also take steps to ensure the and delegation of authority section on page F F quality of the raw materials that we receive 92.
Managers across AstraZeneca are from third parties: for more information see accountable for working with their teams B B E E the Product quality section on page 32. to develop individual and team performance targets that are aligned to our strategic C C We also take into account reputational risk objectives and against which individual D D associated with our use of suppliers and are and team contributions are measured committed to working only with suppliers and rewarded.
that embrace standards of ethical behaviour that are consistent with our own.
See the Our focus on optimising performance is Responsible procurement section from reinforced by performance-related bonus and G Ge eo og gr ra ap phi hical cal a ar re ea a % % page 23. incentive plans.
AstraZeneca also encourages A A U UK K 14 14.. 3 3 employee share ownership by offering the B Sweden 15.3 B Sweden 15.3 People opportunity to participate in various employee C C R Re es st o t of E f Eu ur ro op pe e 1 17.
7.5 5 With nearly 63,000 employees worldwide, share plans, some of which are described D D N No or rt th A h Am me er riic ca a 25 25.. 3 3 we value the diverse skills and capabilities in the Directors Remuneration Report from E E L La at tiin A n Am me er riic ca a 6 6.1.
1 that a global workforce brings to our business.
page 101 and also in Note 24 to the F Africa, Asia and Australasia 21.5 F Africa, Asia and Australasia 21.5 We work continuously to align these skills and Financial Statements from page 161. capabilities with strategic and operational T Th he p e pe er rc ce en nt ta ag ge o e of e f em mp pllo oy ye ee es b s ba as se ed i d in t n th he U e UK K a as r s re ep po or rt te ed l d la as st y t ye ea ar r, i, in nc cllu ud fide ed e d em mp pllo oy ye ee es w s wh ho o needs, whilst maintaining high levels of Learning and development w we er re a c e a co os st t t to A o As st tr ra aZ Ze en ne ec ca U a UKL KLiim miit te ed a d allt th ho ou ug gh h employee engagement and commitment.
We encourage and support all our people t th he ey w y we er re n e no ot b t ba as se ed i d in t n th he U e UK K. O.
On nlly e y em mp pllo oy ye ee es s This means providing employees with effective in achieving their full potential with a range b ba as se ed i d in t n th he U e UK h K ha av five b e be ee en c n co ou un nt te ed f d fo or t r th he p e pu ur rp po os se es s o of t f th he a e ab bo ov five g e gr ra ap ph h.. leadership, clear targets, open lines of of high quality learning and development communication, learning and development L&D opportunities around the world.
opportunities and a healthy and safe workplace.
All this needs to take place in We are implementing a new global approach, a culture in which diversity is valued and backed by the creation of our global individual success depends solely on personal L&D organisation, which aims to ensure merit and performance.
that standards of best L&D practice are consistently applied in the most efficient AstraZeneca is committed to making full use way.
During 2009, we have continued to of the talents and resource of all its workers develop and deploy global on-line and other within the organisation.
We therefore have development resources, as we seek to make policies in place to ensure that we avoid any L&D tools and programmes available to all discrimination, including discrimination on the employees, creating a common platform that grounds of disability.
These include recruitment increases access to learning and supports and selection, performance management, self-development across the organisation.
career development and promotion, transfer and training including re-training, if needed, for employees who have become disabled and reward.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 34 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities During 2009, we implemented a refreshed activities are consistent with our high-level direction provided by senior leaders had also on-line L&D portal, with access to all core improved.
The survey also identified key areas principles.
As we continue to develop our leadership and management development that continue to require attention, in particular global platform for managing HR we seek tools.
We also launched a number of specific the need for further strengthening leadership to ensure that the strength of our local business area websites.
management approaches is not undermined.
capability in effective communications and change management.
In addition, our scores Our leadership development frameworks are around work-life balance decreased slightly There are particularly well-developed focused on six core capabilities, which we in some functions.
Our leaders take this arrangements for interactions with trades believe are essential for strong and effective unions and employee representative groups feedback very seriously and targets that leadership: passion for customers, strategic address employee engagement and across Europe.
Before it became a legal thinking, acting decisively, driving performance, the effectiveness of senior leadership requirement under European law in 1995, both working collaboratively, and developing people communications in particular are included in our heritage companies, Astra and Zeneca, and the organisation.
These capabilities apply had European Consultation Committees the SET business performance management to all employees and are used across our HR framework for 2010.
In 2009, we complemented the ECC comprises trade union representatives core leadership capabilities with the launch Managing the impact of business change and locally elected employees, and is chaired by a SET member.
The committee meets of a set of manager accountabilities.
These Our continuing strategic drive to improve define what we expect from all managers efficiency and effectiveness through our once a year and a sub-committee meets across the dimensions of ethical conduct previously announced restructuring quarterly to discuss, among other things, and compliance, people management and programmes has resulted in the delivery of a business developments and any potential impact these may have on the workforce.
engagement, as well as fiscal and financial gross reduction of approximately 12,600 awareness.
Building line manager capability positions during the period 2007 to 2009. has been supported by the launch of a To ensure that a consistent approach, based We are always striving to improve consultation number of global learning programmes, which on our core values, was and continues to be arrangements.
For example, in 2009 the Joint Consultation and Information infrastructure in address key elements of people management.
adopted throughout the programme, specific guidance was provided for the HR teams and the UK was changed and a new arrangement Talent management line managers throughout the organisation.
was agreed and implemented in full To ensure we maintain a flow of effective Differences in the legal frameworks and the consultation with representatives.
The new arrangement enables dialogue, participation leaders, we work to identify individuals with customary practice in the different geographies the potential for more senior and complex in which we operate is a challenge.
The global and involvement of employees in a process roles.
These talent pools provide succession guidance provided aims to ensure that the that is more responsive and flexible to candidates for a range of leadership roles same or similar elements are included in local changing needs than the one it replaced.
across AstraZeneca that are critical to our implementation of business change.
We regard include, for example, open communication Human rights these individuals as key assets to the and consultation with employees, face-to-face AstraZeneca is fully supportive of the principles organisation and we therefore focus on meetings, re-deployment support and set out in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our Code of proactively supporting them to reach their appropriate financial arrangements.
In line potential with, for example, targeted with our core values, we expect the people Conduct and supporting policies outline the development opportunities.
affected to be treated with respect, sensitivity, high standards of employment practice with fairness and integrity at all times.
It was which everyone in AstraZeneca is expected to comply, both in spirit and letter, worldwide.
Engagement and dialogue therefore encouraging that the engagement We aim to provide an inclusive environment scores in our 2009 FOCUS employee survey that encourages open discussion and continued to improve despite business change Overall accountability for progressing the debate at all levels throughout AstraZeneca.
that typically involves headcount reduction.
human rights agenda within AstraZeneca lies with our Global Human Resources As well as line manager briefings and team meetings, we use a wide range of media to Consultation function, supported by our Global Corporate communicate with our employees around We work to ensure a level of global Responsibility Team who co-ordinate with the world.
consistency in managing employee relations, relevant functions to ensure that human rights issues continue to be appropriately integrated whilst allowing enough flexibility to support the To support our goal of promoting high levels local markets in building good relations with into responsible business strategies.
of employee engagement, we also use an their workforces that take account of local annual global employee survey FOCUS laws and circumstances.
To that end, relations In January 2010, AstraZeneca signed up to the United Nations Global Compact UNGC, to track employee opinion across a range with trades unions are nationally determined of key topic areas.
The results, which are and managed locally in line with the applicable a strategic policy initiative for businesses that communicated to all employees, provide legal framework and standards of good are committed to aligning their operations valuable insights that inform strategic planning practice.
Managers throughout AstraZeneca and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, across the business.
are trained in consultation requirements as well as relevant employment law, where employment, environment and anti-corruption.
Eighty six percent of our employees applicable.
Training is done at a local level We are now working within the framework of participated in our 2009 FOCUS survey, and we have a range of HR and line manager the 10 UNGC principles to understand how these principles apply to our business, what reflecting their continued confidence in this networks for sharing experience and good feedback mechanism.
Results showed that practice, and promoting alignment across the we are doing well and where more work may employee engagement scores which were organisation.
At a global level, we have a Head be needed.
already very strong had improved compared of Employee Relations who supports national to 2008 and employees felt that the clarity of management in ensuring that their local AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities 35 Performance More information about our commitment in Safety, health and wellbeing AstraZeneca employees: cases of 1, 2 human rights-related areas is included in this Providing a safe workplace and promoting occupational illness per million hours Annual Report including access to medicines, the health and wellbeing of all our people 2009 1.37 diversity, safety, health and wellbeing, remains a core priority.
A safe, healthy 2008 1.04 employee relations, sales and marketing working environment not only benefits 2007 0.99 practice and working with suppliers.
employees, it supports our business through Full details are available on our website, improved employee engagement, retention astrazeneca.
AstraZeneca employees: accidents 1, 2 with serious injury per million hours Diversity We continue to make significant investment 2009 2.24 With a global workforce comes a rich diversity in providing a wide range of health and 2008 2.28 of skills, capabilities and creativity.
We value wellbeing improvement programmes across 2007 2.65 highly the benefits that such diversity can AstraZeneca.
These vary according to 1 bring to our individual employees, to our health risk profile, function and local culture, Data exclude MedImmune.
2 With and without days lost.
stakeholders and ultimately to our business.
and include general health initiatives aimed at increasing exercise levels, reducing tobacco We aim to foster a culture of respect and use, improving nutrition and managing stress.
fairness, where differences are recognised, We also have plans in place to deal with the valued and harnessed, and where individual effect of pandemic flu, including the provision success depends solely on ability, behaviour, of anti-virals for employees based in areas work performance and demonstrated where adequate supplies may not be was launched in 2008 across Europe, Latin potential.
Every manager across AstraZeneca available through national treatment regimes.
America, the Middle East and Africa.
Roll-out is responsible for ensuring that this happens.
was completed during 2009 with the launch Work-related stress is currently our greatest in Asia Pacific, including Japan.
As we continue to reshape our organisation single cause of occupational illness, with and our global footprint in line with business continued business change, high workloads During the year, we also commissioned objectives, our continuing challenge is and interpersonal issues being identified a global assessment of our driver safety to ensure that diversity is appropriately as significant factors.
As part of our ongoing programmes by an external expert in this supported in our workforce, reflected in our efforts in this area, we are adopting an field, the results of which were presented to leadership and integrated into business and increasingly proactive, risk-based approach, the SET.
Both programmes were reported people strategies.
using wellbeing risk assessment tools to to have a solid foundation on which to build.
identify high-risk areas and target interventions Key findings centred on the need for clear In 2009, to further strengthen our drive in this more effectively.
global and local improvement targets and area, we appointed a Global Diversity Leader, closer alignment of the two programmes.
a new position, whose role is to develop We regret that during 2009, one of our sales In response, we have developed a set of a global Diversity & Inclusion strategy, in representatives in Thailand died in a traffic KPIs and global targets, together with a new partnership with senior leaders who will accident whilst driving on AstraZeneca Global Driver Safety Standard, all of which be accountable for its implementation in the business.
We work hard to identify the root will be introduced across the organisation business.
We are currently working to identify causes of any serious accident and use during 2010. key areas of strategic focus, considering how a range of investigation procedures to help best to implement a global strategy with the us avoid repetition.
Learning is shared with Our KPI for safety, health and wellbeing flexibility needed for local interpretation and management and staff, and our conclusions combines the frequency rates for accidents implementation, and agreeing KPIs.
about underlying causes are used to improve resulting in serious injuries and new cases our management systems.
of occupational illness into one KPI, with As part of this work, during 2009 we an overall target of a 50% reduction in the identified the need to look more closely at In recent years, our strengthened efforts combined rates by the end of 2010, compared the advancement of women in AstraZeneca.
to promote driver safety worldwide have with a 2001 2002 reference point.
The overall Our data shows that we have 52% of women delivered some improvements and we are serious injury accident rate for AstraZeneca and 48% of men in our workforce of the maintaining focus in this important area employees decreased by 2% in 2009, whilst 40,000 people currently in our global HR at all levels of the organisation.
the occupational illness rate increased by database and 24% of 82 senior managers 32%.
This equates to a combined increase reporting to the SET are women.
We are now Our long-standing Road Scholars scheme of 9% compared to 2008.
The occupational working with an external expert in this field in the US the home to our largest sales illness rate increase is due largely to a number on a global research project designed to help force continues to be a valuable channel of suspected cases in 2008 being confirmed us better understand some of the causes for building awareness and improving driver as work-related during 2009 and therefore underlying the data.
The outcomes will inform skills.
A driver safety objective is now also included in the 2009 data, rather than in the the ongoing development of the Diversity & included in the US performance 2008 data.
We remain on track to achieve Inclusion strategy.
Outside the US, the targeted 50% reduction by the end of our Drive Success programme takes into 2010.
Data on our performance over the account the different driving environments last three years is shown above.
in the various countries in which we operate and provides a high-level framework of We are currently in the process of finalising a common standards to be adopted by each new safety, health and environment strategy, country.
The Drive Success programme including associated safety and health targets.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
