76 Directors Report | Environmental Sustainability 1, 2 Environmental suppliers to introduce fleet reporting to track Greenhouse gas emissions the CO emissions of new and existing fleet 2 COequivalents million tonnes 2 Sustainability vehicles and are introducing CO caps on new 2 car acquisitions in our major markets.
We also 2009 1.12 continue to invest in advanced driver training 2008 1.22 In this section, we describe our commitment to improve both safety and fuel efficiency 2007 1.30 in key areas of environmental sustainability associated with driving.
Other areas in managing our impact on climate change, which we are pursuing further improvement Index tonnes $m sales managing our waste and understanding the include the implementation of green 2009 36 potential impact of pharmaceuticals in the technology principles in our process design 2008 40 environment.
More information about our and exploration of the potential for further 2007 45 work in these areas and in others, such as investment in low carbon and renewable resource efficiency, biodiversity and emissions energy options at our sites.
Figures are calculated in line with the Greenhouse Gas GhG Protocol guidance ghgprotocol.
to air and water, can be found on our website, astrazeneca.
Our current climate change targets, approved 1, 3 by the Board in 2005, aim to ensure that our Waste production Our current set of five-year targets and absolute emissions in 2010 will be no greater Total waste thousand tonnes objectives takes us to the end of 2010.
We are than they were at the start of the decade and in the process of finalising a new environmental 55% less than they were in 1990.
This requires 2009 50.0 sustainability strategy, including associated substantial efforts to be made across our 2008 54.1 targets and objectives, which will drive our business to produce, by the end of 2010, an 2007 57.6 continued commitment in this important area.
absolute reduction of 12% in global warming emissions from all sources other than pMDIs, Index tonnes $m sales Climate change when compared with 2005.
We have made 2009 1.60 We continue to work hard to manage good progress in recent years in reducing 2008 1.79 our impact on climate change without greenhouse gas emissions and, in 2009, our 2007 1.99 compromising our ability to deliver new total emissions from all sources were 9% lower 1 medicines that make a difference in than in 2008.
For data on our performance Data exclude MedImmune.
2 The 2008 and 2007 gures have been revised important areas of healthcare.
over the last three years see opposite.
due to improved data capture.
3 We have replaced the ozone depleting potential ODP We believe that our primary responsibility is Across all our activity, we work with our KPI with waste production as we believe this is now a more meaningful KPI.
ODP data continue to be published to reduce our carbon footprint by, amongst partners to share learning and foster best on our website, astrazeneca.
other things, improving our energy efficiency practice.
We are also increasingly participating and pursuing lower-carbon alternatives to in the global debate on what business can fossil fuels.
The use of carbon offset or other do to help mitigate global warming and third party reduction credits to address adapt to the unavoidable consequences of the environmental burden of new production residual emissions is something we will not climate change.
processes under development, integration of consider as an alternative to driving our own environmental considerations in purchasing efforts to reduce emissions.
Waste management and internal waste awareness programmes.
The management of waste associated For data on our performance over the last In common with most businesses, our with our activities is another key element of three years see above.
emissions arise from the energy we use at our environmental sustainability strategy.
our facilities and from the various means of We are working to reduce our total waste Pharmaceuticals in the environment transport we use.
Our carbon footprint is also index to meet our 2010 improvement target We understand, and take seriously, concerns affected by some of our respiratory therapies, 40% by the end of 2010 from a 2001 2002 about the detection of trace amounts of specifically our pressurised metered dose reference point.
pharmaceutical residues in the environment.
inhaler pMDI products which rely on We work continuously to improve our propellants such as hydrofluoroalkane, which Our waste is categorised as hazardous understanding of the science and how is a greenhouse gas, to deliver the medicine waste or other waste according to national pharmaceuticals interact with the environment to the airways.
Patients who are unable to use legislation, which varies in its definitions.
and the risks that they may pose.
our Turbuhaler dry powder inhaler, which does The majority of our hazardous waste not require propellants, need these pMDI consists of solvent and aqueous streams The presence of trace amounts of products.
We believe that the expanded from manufacturing activities.
Other waste pharmaceuticals in the environment PIE treatment choice and potential benefits that includes general waste from our facilities resulting from patient excretion is an inevitable they offer outweigh the potential impact on around the world.
result of the way most current medicines work: the environment.
pharmaceuticals need to be stable enough Our primary objective is waste prevention.
to have a useful shelf-life and oral dosage We continue to drive the management of Where this is not practical, we focus on waste forms must be robust enough, in most cases, our carbon footprint across key areas of minimisation and appropriate treatment or to pass through the stomach intact.
For example, recognising disposal to maximise the reuse and recycling the significant global warming emissions of materials, including energy recovery from We are committed to identifying any potential from business road travel for sales and the incineration of waste streams.
Programmes adverse effects on the environment that marketing activities, we are maintaining designed to reduce the amount of waste we our medicines might have and responsibly a strong focus in this area.
We are working generate include the continual improvement balancing these against the benefits that with our fleet management and leasing of existing production processes, minimising these medicines bring to patients lives.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
