Directors Report | In the Global Community 77 Reviews We actively engage and partner with other In the Global Morakot struck Taiwan, AstraZeneca Asia pharmaceutical companies, NGOs, scientists, Pacific made a $200,000 donation to the regulators, patients and prescribers to share Community local Red Cross.
learning and experience and to promote responsible management of PIE issues, in At a global level, we also made a further line with current scientific knowledge.
Wherever AstraZeneca is located worldwide, contribution of $240,000 to the Red Cross we aim to make a positive contribution to our Centre in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, established Dedicated research local communities through sponsorships, in 2006 by the Red Cross with $700,000 The levels of pharmaceutical residues detected charitable donations and other initiatives that of funding from AstraZeneca.
The Centre in the environment are generally extremely low help to make a difference.
Our activities are continues to play an important role in disaster and are unlikely to pose a risk to human health.
focused on bringing sustainable benefit in relief in the Asia Pacific region.
With preFor example, the levels detected in drinking ways that are consistent with our business positioned emergency supplies, the Centre water are so low that, to ingest one single of improving health and quality of life, and was able to respond quickly to the events in patient dose, someone would have to drink of promoting the value of science among 2009, distributing hygiene kits to thousands more water than is possible in a lifetime.
of people in need in the affected areas.
However, whilst improving all the time, Our 2009 donation, coupled with one of understanding of the potential for long-term In January 2009, we launched a revised and $200,000 that we made in 2008, has enabled effects of PIE, for example to aquatic life, strengthened global Community Support the Red Cross to maintain appropriate levels requires further research.
Policy to provide an enhanced platform of emergency relief stock at the Centre.
for capturing, aligning and maximising the benefit of our community support This is an ongoing priority for our scientists In January 2010, following the earthquake in at our Environmental Laboratory in Brixham, commitments worldwide.
Targeted training Haiti, we donated medicines and contributed UK, who are at the forefront of this field of for all relevant staff is being provided.
As well a total of $500,000 to the British Red Cross science, working both independently and in as community support, the policy describes Emergency Appeal.
We also committed an the requirements regarding product donations collaboration with other companies, leading additional $500,000 to support a longeracademics and regulatory bodies to advance and support to patient groups and other term disaster recovery programme that will PIE-related research.
Work at Brixham is healthcare organisations.
give the people of Haiti the help they need to focused on improving our understanding of re-build their lives and their communities.
In 2009, we spent a total of $882 million 2008: the processes leading to the breakdown and removal of pharmaceutical residues $718 million on community sponsorships In the developing world in sewage treatment plants and the wider and charitable donations worldwide, Whilst we remain committed to making environment, and improving the predictability including our product donation and patient a contribution to improving healthcare in assistance programmes which make our the developing world, we believe that real of the potential adverse environmental effects through the development of novel medicines available free of charge or at progress can only be made through the ecotoxicological test methodologies.
Our expanded patient commitment of all the related stakeholders, assistance programmes in the US contributed including governments, NGOs and the to a total commitment of $786 million worth international community, as well as the private Product stewardship We conduct environmental risk assessments of product donations valued at an average sector.
Only by working together can for all our new, and many of our established, wholesale price 2008: $646 million.
products in accordance with applicable The increase is because more people enrolled in our US AZ&Me patient assistance The medicines in our range today are not for regulations.
Going beyond the regulatory requirements, we have also reviewed the programme and used more medicines in the treatment of tuberculosis TB, HIV AIDS environmental risk assessments for many of 2009 due, we believe, to the economic and malaria, currently the developing worlds our older established products and, where recession.
Our community support spend most significant disease challenges, but $96 million included a contribution during we are applying our skills and resources to appropriate, have undertaken additional voluntary testing to refine the assessments.
the year of $25 million to the AstraZeneca helping in other ways.
Our contribution centres HealthCare Foundation for its cardiovascular on two main areas of activity dedicated TB We have also introduced Environmental Risk programme which is focused on improving research and working in partnership to help cardiovascular health in the US.
Management Plans that will accompany all new medicines throughout their life-cycle.
These plans enable all available environmental We also contribute where possible to disaster Dedicated TB research data to be taken into account at key decision relief efforts.
During 2009, when typhoons Our dedicated research facility in Bangalore, Ketsana and Parma hit the Philippines, India is focused on finding a new, improved points during drug discovery and development, and to provide early warning of medicines that causing widespread devastation, we donated treatment for TB, which is a major cause of could pose a potential risk to the environment.
medicines to the relief effort and 15 of our illness and death worldwide, especially in Asia employees did voluntary work with the and Africa.
AstraZeneca is the only major Philippine army, helping over 1,000 flood pharmaceutical company with a research We make environmental risk data for our existing products publicly available via the victims.
We responded similarly with programme in India totally dedicated to TB.
Swedish Doctors Prescribing Guide website donations to the local relief effort when Further information can be found in the fass.
se, using the voluntary disclosure system earthquakes hit Indonesia and, when typhoon Therapy Area Review in the Infection section on page 64. introduced by the Swedish Association of the Pharmaceutical Industry.
AstraZeneca has a leading role in developing the guidance for this activity.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 78 Directors Report | In the Global Community Working in partnership Our partnership with the African Medical Engaging at international level In some parts of the developing world, and Research Foundation is focused on As part of our focus on TB, we actively the availability of medicines is not always the developing a model for the integrated engage in international efforts to help in the main challenge.
Access to healthcare also management of TB, HIV AIDS and malaria fight against this devastating disease.
depends on having a functional healthcare at both national and local levels in Uganda, system, trained healthcare workers and where there is a high incidence of all three AstraZeneca participates in the Gates Global effective supply and distribution mechanisms diseases.
This integrated management Health CEO Roundtable, the purpose of in place to ensure that medicines are used approach has not been widely addressed which is to bring together the worlds leading to their full effect as part of overall health previously and we are one of the few pharmaceutical companies with the Bill & management.
To help meet these challenges, organisations involved in such work.
A pilot Melinda Gates Foundation to leverage our alongside our ongoing TB research, we programme is now underway in the high respective areas of strength and expertise in partner with NGOs and other organisations incidence areas of the Luwero and Kiboga the pursuit of global health priorities.
We will working with local communities to strengthen continue to partner with the Bill & Melinda districts of central Uganda.
Key targets their frameworks for delivering healthcare in TB include increasing laboratory diagnostic Gates Foundation on TB in a variety of and other disease areas in a sustainable way.
capacity and improving community-based projects spanning early phase drug discovery healthcare management.
Progress to date through to development of suitable regulatory Key principles for our partnerships are that pathways for new agents.
includes the completion and handover to they lead to positive, measurable outcomes, local district management teams of three can be scaled up and potentially replicated new laboratories and the establishment of During 2009, we also continued our to improve outcomes for a greater number, 144 village health teams, with a total of over involvement with the Stop TB Partnership, and can deliver a sustainable framework which aims to forge a more effective response 750 people trained in health promotion in that can ultimately be owned and managed their local communities.
to TB, and strengthen strategic impact, by locally, without the need for our support.
engaging a broad range of stakeholders, We also aim to ensure that such partnerships In Ethiopia, our partnership with Axios including the private sector, foundations, can contribute to our business development, academic and research institutions, the media, is focused on building local capability in by enabling us to understand better the health managing breast cancer, which is the second NGOs and civil society.
needs of, and to build important relationships most common cancer among young women in, markets of the future.
The project has focused AstraZeneca is the only major pharmaceutical company involved in the New Medicines for on strengthening diagnosis and treatment Our current partnerships are primarily capabilities, including the creation of TB project, begun in 2006.
Funded by a grant focused on helping hard-hit communities previously unavailable treatment protocols from the EU Framework VI programme and in Asia and Africa to combat TB, which is and standardised reporting guidelines for use consisting of around 15 groups of Europes on the increase in these regions, but we also most prominent scientists and researchers across the country.
Benefits to the patient have some programmes in other disease have included reduced time between in the field, this consortium seeks to combine areas and in other countries.
diagnosis and surgery from 12-18 months academic and pharmaceutical skills to further in 2006 to three to six months in 2009. the discovery of new therapies for TB.
Our long-standing partnership with the British Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies Our support to Voluntary Service Overseas includes support to community-based VSO includes working in partnership to programmes in Central Asia that are helping help them further develop their strategy and to combat TB and to improve the quality framework for delivering their health goals.
of life of people living with TB and TB HIV We also fund VSO volunteers working to co-infection in the hard-hit areas of build local healthcare capabilities in underTurkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan.
served communities across Africa and Asia.
To date, these programmes have helped over Alongside this, our employees are able to 10,000 people living with TB or TB HIV to volunteer for placements in appropriate complete their TB treatment, with treatment countries to support VSO, drawing on the completion rates reaching 89%, 92% and broad range of skills they can offer in human 73% in Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan and resources, finance, information technology Kazakhstan, respectively.
Alongside this, and communications, as well as health the Red Crescent Society has delivered TB and medicine.
awareness campaigns that have reached over two million people in the region.
The long-term More information about these partnerships and presence of the Red Crescent Society in our other activities worldwide is available on Central Asia has enabled the organisation to our website, astrazeneca.
build effective and far reaching community programmes.
These activities continue to contribute to a reduction in TB incidence and mortality in Central Asia.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
