Corporate Social Responsibility Spectris is committed to creating business growth through adding value for customers whilst ensuring that its own impact on the environment is minimised.
Spectris operates from 160 offices in 29 countries around the world.
The companys Our Values products are used to monitor and control research and manufacturing processes, enhancing productivity and reducing environmental impact for customers in a wide range of industries.
Spectris is committed to creating business growth through adding Honesty such value for its customers whilst also ensuring that its own impact on the environment Acting with absolute integrity is minimised.
Spectris continues to meet the criteria for membership of the FTSE4Good index, the leading responsible investment benchmark.
The index series is designed to track the Empowerment performance of companies meeting international corporate responsibility standards.
Creating an environment of The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria are enhanced regularly and demand continued autonomy in our operating improvement in order to maintain inclusion in the index.
The criteria are assessed on a regular basis by the independent research organisation EIRIS.
companies where people are expected to take the The policies and information described below apply to all Spectris operations.
Policy setting and monitoring Overall responsibility for developing corporate policies on environmental, social, ethical, Ownership and health and safety matters, and for reviewing their effectiveness, lies with the Spectris Taking personal ownership of Board.
These policies are mandated across all business units and applied within each the responsibility of our roles.
particular business, taking account of local legislation and regulation.
All policies are reviewed periodically and any updates are communicated to the operating companies.
Delivery Currently, operating companies may establish additional non-financial policies and Performing to the highest appropriate key performance indicators relevant to the nature of their operations and standards against the their customers.
However, in order to develop a more comprehensive approach to our sustainability worldwide, the Board is reviewing the feasibility and value of establishing commitments we make both group-wide metrics during 2010. internally and, especially, externally to our customers.
Reporting and compliance Conformity with the above group policies is monitored by self-certification, on an annual basis, by the managing director and finance director of each operating company that Speed their business has complied in full.
Any instances of non-compliance must be reported.
Ensuring that our business decisions are made and actions Such certification forms an integral part of the companys risk management and corporate governance processes, and is regularly reviewed by the groups internal audit executed with a sense of urgency.
function and considered annually by the companys external auditors.
Compliance testing is a formal part of internal audit reviews.
Through a structured review process, the internal audit function undertakes visits to group locations on a rotational basis.
These visits involve an assessment of the business key internal controls as well as compliance with the groups policies and procedures.
The results of internal audits and any noncompliance events are reported to the Audit Committee.
Risk assessment The key potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the groups long-term performance are described on pages 26 and 27 of this Business Review.
The group does not consider that there are any material environmental, social or governmental risks which may impact the business.
Nevertheless, the process for 28 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements identification of potential risks to the business and the procedures for their mitigation are regularly reviewed by the groups internal audit function and the Audit Committee.
A very small proportion of our products and processes have potential environmental risks.
The PANalytical business, which supplies instrumentation for X-ray analysis, makes limited use of beryllium in detector windows and X-ray tubes, whilst certain NDC Infrared Engineering products utilise low-level sealed radioactive sources.
In all cases, the legal requirements for the correct handling and labelling of such products are documented and regularly audited for compliance.
Procedures also exist for the disposal of contaminated waste and for recovering used products from customers and disposing of them safely.
The Servomex gas analysis business requires the storage of flammable and toxic gases at its technical centre.
Operating procedures for the movement and use of cylinders containing such gases are in accordance with the appropriate legal requirements and are inspected annually by an independent authority.
Chemical and hazardous waste is disposed of in accordance with written procedures.
Environment Our core business of providing instruments and controls for the design and manufacturing processes of major industrial companies helps our customers to reduce their environmental impact in a number of ways.
We offer our customers products and technologies to reduce energy consumption, make more efficient use of resources, and control emissions.
A number of our products are used in the development, manufacture and maintenance of renewable energy generation technologies such as wind turbine generators and solar panels.
For example, our Brel & Kjr Vibro business has developed a remote monitoring solution for wind farm operators enabling them to minimise Renewable energy generation maintenance downtime and prevent breakdown.
Our test and measurement segment is A number of our products are used in a leader in providing test equipment to develop the transport vehicles of the future, with the development, manufacture and energy efficiency and emissions reduction being critical design constraints.
Many of our maintenance of renewable energy businesses are engaged in the optimisation of manufacturing processes, resulting in a generation technologies such as wind beneficial impact on the environment.
For example, Servomex supplies analysers which turbine generators and solar panels.
are used to monitor exhaust gases.
The information these analysers provide enables customers to enhance the efficiency of their combustion processes and thus reduce emissions of pollutants and harmful gases.
Further examples of the use of Spectris products having a direct beneficial contribution to the environment are shown on our website and we will continue to work with our customers to develop new products which will deliver renewable energy in the future.
We also take our own environmental impact seriously, endeavouring to employ nonpolluting technology wherever possible in our operations and taking steps to reduce our energy consumption.
Design processes take into account the operational lifetime of every product and end-of-life removal or disposal.
Consideration is also given to environment-friendly production, packaging and shipping.
Our environmental policy is published on our website at www.
We further recognise that our strategy of outsourcing non-core manufacturing does not absolve us from responsibility for the environmental impact of our suppliers and we work to help them reduce their impact on the environment and ensure that their products meet relevant legislation.
Supplier audits are regularly undertaken by operating company managements and the groups strategic sourcing team.
Carbon management Overall, Spectris has a low climate change impact, as our products do not require substantial manufacturing processes.
Nevertheless, we recognise the importance of carbon management and are conscious of the growing requirement for reporting greenhouse gas emissions.
Whilst we are below the threshold for participation in the UK CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, we do take seriously the need to manage our carbon emissions and we have therefore established a project to determine a medium-term socially responsible investment strategy and the performance indicators and data which will be required to support this in a way which complements our businesses focus on day-to-day operations.
We expect to be in a position to provide further details in the 2010 corporate social responsibility statement.
29 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc Corporate Social Responsibility continued As a result of the divergent manufacturing processes across our various businesses, there are currently no group-wide metrics in place.
However, local initiatives are in place at a number of sites to reduce energy and water consumption and minimise wastage.
For example at our principal site in the Netherlands, despite a doubling of production volumes over the past ten years, the companys overall energy usage has decreased by around 10%.
Within our Danish operation, as a result of an energy saving programme launched in 2008, total electricity consumption had reduced by 17% by the end of 2009.
At our main German facility, electricity usage has been reduced by over 5% over the past two years, and water consumption by over 35%.
Our largest site in the UK has put in place a number of initiatives which resulted in electricity consumption reducing by 15% in 2009 and gas by 5%.
The new technical centre for our Gas Analysis business in the UK, opened at the end of 2008, has been designed and built to the latest environmental standards, including the use of heat exchangers to maximise heating efficiency.
Most sites have facilities for recycling waste paper, cardboard, glass, aluminium cans, plastic and reusing packaging materials.
Spectris complies with the UK Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations which set targets for the recovery and recycling of packaging waste.
Environmental management systems Approximately half of Spectris manufacturing operations by turnover have now received accreditation to the environmental standard ISO14001.
During 2009 no significant environmental incidents were recorded.
Employees Spectris employees are key to the success of the company.
We employ a highly skilled technical workforce, averaging 5,764 people in 2009, in 160 offices throughout the 5, 764 world and are committed to providing our people with a creative working environment with scope for individual responsibility and achievement.
In 2009, on average 2,862 Employees employees were employed in production and engineering, with 2,307 in sales, marketing and service and 595 in administrative functions.
Compensation and benefits, which are in line with other leading companies in the sector, are designed to reward the achievement of objectives.
Employment Policy Spectris operates mainly in Europe and the US, but with a growing presence in Asia.
Although different social and employment conditions exist in different locations, Spectris places high priority on compliance with the legislative and ethical requirements of the countries in which we operate, particularly with respect to employment practices, labour rights and equal opportunities.
The company secretary has overall responsibility for employment policies, but responsibility for implementation is delegated to individual business units, with operational policies and procedures tailored to suit local needs.
The companys employment policy is available at www.
Overall HR policies are set at the centre and implemented by each operating business, taking account of local conditions.
Spectris retains a diverse workforce, valuing the different perspectives of its employees, and the company is committed to equal opportunities for all employees in terms of recruitment and employment, training and development, and promotion.
We strive to create a culture of honesty, respect and professional excellence whilst maintaining a healthy balance between working and personal lives, with initiatives such as part-time and job share opportunities providing family-friendly working conditions.
Employee surveys are carried out in a number of companies to measure the views of employees on company issues and action plans agreed to address the issues raised.
Data on employee turnover is not collated centrally, although it is monitored by individual businesses.
Graduate recruitment programmes and student work placements exist in a number of companies, providing opportunities for young people, particularly scientists, to be introduced to the business environment.
30 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Reporting It is the responsibility of the managing directors in each operating company to ensure that all employees are fully aware of Spectris HR policies.
The group monitors compliance through various processes, including confirmation in writing by each business unit annually, and consolidated Equal Employment Opportunities Commission returns which are produced in the US.
Training and development Spectris commitment to training and personal development emphasises the importance of retaining staff throughout the group and ensuring that all employees are encouraged to realise their full potential.
Annual reviews provide feedback on performance, set objectives and identify training and development opportunities to enable employees to meet their full potential.
Career opportunities within many of our companies are shared via their websites and secondments take place within companies to transfer skills and resources.
Malvern and Servomex, our two principal UK businesses, have received the Investors in People award for their programmes of training, appraisal, employee development and skills recognition.
Financial participation in the group is encouraged through the Savings Related Share Option Scheme, available to all UK employees, and through grants under the groups Performance Share Plan made to senior management across the group.
Award-winning advertising Employee communications Developed in conjunction with the The company has a policy of encouraging its operating companies to provide information HotDiggity Creative agency, Malvern to their employees on a regular basis.
This information includes matters relating to their Instruments movie heralding the launch companys performance, its prospects in the markets it serves and the future outlook for of the companys revolutionary Kinexus its business.
In addition to regular staff briefings, most companies have intranets where rheometer won BtoB magazines coveted news bulletins are posted.
award for Most creative online campaign in December 2009, with the judges claiming Health and safety it made us want to see it.
The online campaign A unique event in rheology Policy was a teaser for the new products web The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for environment, health and safety matters.
launch and included a quirky animated Senior executives in each of the business units are responsible for implementing the cartoon that led viewers to sign up for companys health and safety policy at local level and ensuring compliance with local the launch webinar.
One of the cartoons legislation and regulations.
The companys health and safety policy can be viewed on whimsically showed the advance from the our website at www.
wheel to the carriage to the convertible.
Spectris strives to provide a workplace at all of its sites where all employees feel safe and protected from harm.
Our policies regarding workplace health and safety are implemented throughout the group, with each operating company responsible for ensuring that the highest standards of health and safety are achieved by its employees and by sub-contractors and suppliers.
Reporting Any serious health and safety incidents are required to be reported by the managing director of the business in an accident report to the company secretary, who reports on such issues to the Board.
All accidents are thoroughly investigated and appropriate corrective and preventative actions put in place.
Minor incidents are monitored locally.
Audits of health and safety policies and procedures are undertaken at all major locations by external assessors acting on behalf of the groups insurers on an annual basis and recommendations are made for improving practices where appropriate.
No work-related serious injuries or deaths have been reported in the last ten years.
Human rights Spectris believes in the fundamental rights of people in all parts of the world and is committed to adopting internationally recognised human rights standards wherever it operates.
Policy The companys human rights policy, which can be viewed at www.
php, is consistent with the Principles of Human Rights, as set out in the International Labour Organizations Core Conventions, and includes policies on nondiscrimination, harassment, pay and forced labour.
The policy is reviewed periodically and any updates are communicated to the operating companies.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for human rights.
31 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc Corporate Social Responsibility continued Spectris takes its commitments to human rights seriously and our operating companies are required to ensure that all employees are aware of the policy and understand it.
In most of the operating companies, new employees are provided with an employee handbook which includes sections on employee responsibilities with regard to equal opportunities, non-discrimination, harassment, bullying, disciplinary practices, etc, and new employees must sign to say that they have read and understood this.
The new Code of Business Ethics also contains a section on human rights and employees are required to ensure that all company operations adhere to these important standards.
In Asia, the general manager is responsible for ensuring that the highest ethical standards are maintained in all of our Asia-based operations.
Spectris has a number of sales offices in China and also owns a factory which supplies high quality weighing components.
This comprises a modern facility located in a business park along with other western companies.
The factory employs skilled workers, adopts employment conditions consistent with best local practice, and pays wages that are higher than average for the area.
Spectris considers human rights as part of its due diligence process for acquisitions, ensuring that the core labour rights, including non-discrimination, equal opportunities and freedom of association, of the company to be acquired are taken into account.
Reporting The managing director and finance director of each operating company are required to certify, on an annual basis, compliance with all Spectris policies.
Any non-compliance Customer recognition is investigated by local human resources managers or by Spectris management or the For nine consecutive years the readers internal audit function if it is serious.
Pay practices are monitored to ensure they are of Control Design Magazine have voted non-discriminatory.
Red Lion the number one panel meter manufacturer in the industry.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns they may have over unethical business practices or conduct, dangers to health and safety, or breach of company policies.
Reports are made via a third-party, multi-lingual whistleblowing hotline.
This comprises a telephone hotline and on-line reporting system which employees are able to access in anonymity in local language.
Any disclosures are appropriately investigated.
Spectris is committed to protecting the career and reputation of employees who report wrongdoing in accordance with established procedures, so long as their disclosures are delivered in good faith and seek to safeguard the best interests of the group.
Training In the US, awareness training on harassment and discrimination is carried out, with companies providing regular refresher training on harassment and non-discrimination to all employees.
In some companies there are worldwide programmes on corporate values and desired behaviour, with employees being measured against these values in their annual performance appraisals.
Ethics All employees are expected to behave in accordance with the companys behavioural values, which are set out on page 28.
These values define who we are and how we do business, both as individuals and as a company.
Policy Our core values honesty, empowerment, ownership, delivery and speed underpin the way we do business.
These were recently reinforced when we strengthened our ethics policy with the introduction of a new Code of Business Ethics and all employees have received face-to-face training for this group-wide programme in local language.
The Code of Business Ethics includes policies on anti-bribery and corruption, dealings with customers, suppliers and colleagues, conflicts of interest, and human rights, and can be viewed on our website at http: www.
Each employee must acknowledge that he she has understood the standards set out in the Code and agrees to abide by them.
Each of the companies has a nominated Ethics Compliance Officer.
Compliance with the Code will be monitored by the internal audit function as part of the risk assessment process.
32 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements The ethics policy prohibits bribery, corruption and similar facilitation payments.
Donations to political parties or similar organisations are also prohibited.
All operating companies are required to comply with export control regulations governing shipment of products and the appropriate compliance procedures are in place our export control policy can be viewed on our website at http: www.
Reporting As with all Spectris policies, conformity is monitored by self-certification, on an annual basis, by the managing director and finance director of each operating company that they have complied with the policy.
In particular any known instances of fraud, including bribery and corruption, must be specifically disclosed.
The scope of the work performed during internal audit visits includes testing to confirm compliance with the groups overall position and policy regarding anti-bribery and corruption measures.
The company operates a whistleblowing policy, described above, through which instances of fraud, including bribery and corruption, may be reported confidentially.
This was strengthened in 2009 with the establishment of a telephone hotline and an on-line reporting system which employees can, if they wish, access in anonymity.
Training As outlined above, a group-wide ethics training programme was introduced during 2009.
Annual on-line refresher modules are planned for 2010 and beyond.
Compliance with the ethics policy and training within each company will be monitored by the internal Helping local communities audit function as part of the risk assessment process.
The non-profit organisation Sarakasi Trusts Sarakasi Theatre in Nairobi, Kenya, Contractual arrangements is not only used for shows and concerts The company has no contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the but also for training youths from the city business of the company, nor any key customers or major suppliers upon which it slums to become acrobats and musicians.
With the help of Brel & Kjrs sound analysis equipment and sound-absorbing materials gathered at the local market, Customers the theatres acoustics were greatly Spectris sells  instrumentation and services to a large number of improved.
The theatre re-opened in time customers around the world.
We have developed close working relationships with our for the Sawa Sawa festival in May 2009 customers and in many instances involve them in the development of new products to featuring dance, acrobatics and music.
ensure they meet their requirements, as detailed on pages 10 and 11.
Surveys of customer satisfaction are conducted on a regular basis, for example via web-based surveys where customers are asked, amongst other things, to rate product performance and the quality of documentation, and to specify overall satisfaction.
Suppliers Spectris has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent upon the companys business.
Suppliers are paid in line with contractual and legal obligations.
Spectris businesses work with their suppliers to help them to reduce their impact on the environment and to ensure that their products meet the relevant legislation.
Outsourcing of products, particularly in Asia, is to quality-approved organisations only which are regularly inspected and audited by the strategic purchasing teams and local managements.
Appropriate procedures are taken, where practicable, to ensure that the companys policies, in particular in relation to human rights and ethics, are applied to suppliers.
Local communities Spectris companies worldwide participate in a range of local activities and educational initiatives in support of their local communities.
Educational initiatives include providing apprenticeships and work placements for students, working with local schools and colleges on science projects, and sponsorship of scientists attending key scientific conferences.
Donations to charities and community causes in 2009 totalled 19,955 of which 6,042 were in the UK 2008: 44,000 of which 22,400 in UK.
This included donations to Cancer Research, the Red Cross, Unicef and Crisis and to local sports clubs, schools and colleges, and local arts and educational projects.
33 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 34 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009
