Corporate social responsibility The Group has developed further its awareness of CSR issues and has continued to make improvements, particularly in the areas of health, safety and environmental matters.
Southern Cross Hospital Group improves steam quality by 7% with the help of Spirax Sarco.
The customer Southern Cross Hospital Group is New Zealands largest private hospital network.
The challenge To improve steam quality and upgrade steriliser steam reticulation systems to ensure full compliance with Australasian steam dryness standards.
Our solution Spirax Sarco upgraded the Central Sterile Services Department CSSD system by designing and installing a new steam reticulation system including steam generation plant.
This feeds steam to the steriliser at a guaranteed dryness value of 97% or better.
Results Final steam quality tests confirmed full compliance with Australasian standards, with a dryness value of 98%.
Steriliser validation was completed without problem and the refurbished CSSD can now operate under full load without affecting steam quality.
The elimination of system failures and downtime has boosted steriliser productivity and improved staff morale.
22 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 The objective of the Groups Spirax production of effluent and emissions, based on a selected range of energy Sarco business is to provide steam all of which have a significant and saving products.
The overall impact, users with energy efficient, safe, positive impact on the environment.
taking into account all products and environmentally friendly and services supplied, will be higher.
The Group has always believed that cost-effective solutions for the use of this significant and positive impact An example of a newer product that has steam and other related industrial fluids.
outweighs the environmental issues a major impact on energy consumption Steam itself is an environmentally associated with the production of CO production is Flash Recovery 2 friendly medium, being non-toxic and the products and, in 2009, more Energy Management Equipment non flammable.
Although system leaks work was done to measure the FREME.
This is a packaged are avoidable, when they do occur, environmental benefits achieved by solution to recover valuable heat from they pollute the environment less than, our customers in using our products.
flash steam and use it to pre-heat boiler for example, oil, gas and refrigerants.
The focus was on the energy saving water.
In 2009, FREME was awarded Steam is still the prime medium used aspect of those products which, if not the Institute of Chemical Engineerings for power generation and for product installed, would result in a significant Innovation and Excellence Award in processing across a significant range increase in energy consumption and Energy prize as the best project or of industries.
process to demonstrate innovation in 2 renewable energy, alternative energy The Groups technical advice and The results indicated a potential saving sources, efficient energy use or the expertise on the application of its of 2,540,000 tonnes of CO, far in 2 development of energy production products, services and engineered excess of the quantity produced in methods that reduce energy and solutions in relation to steam systems manufacture.
The methodology used water intensity.
and services is the key to maximising to determine this external impact has the benefit of the products we supply.
been independently assessed with the The Groups Product Research and assistance of the AEA Group, a world Development programme has been These benefits include improved leading energy and climate change assisted through collaboration with the overall boiler efficiency, improved consultancy.
The methodology remains UKs Carbon Trust, which aims to bring energy efficiency of plant processes, unchanged but is reviewed annually new and innovative energy saving reduced consumption of water and by the Group, taking revised emission solutions to customers globally, water treatment chemicals and lower factors into account.
The calculation is enabling their CO emissions to be 2 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 23 Corporate social responsibility continued further reduced.
Design engineers are The Board achieves compliance Commitment to fair treatment of all constantly challenged to enhance the with the principles of CSR by the employees.
environmental performance of future management of the risks concerned Recognition and improvement of products both in manufacture and within the normal operations of the all health, safety and environmental lifetime use.
Group such that the necessary policies, matters.
systems and procedures are embedded Many applications for Watson-Marlow in Group practice.
The importance The standards required in the practical pumps are those where environmental of involvement of employees and management of the Group are set improvement is the main aim.
These suppliers in meeting the standards out in a separate Management Code pumps are particularly well suited required by the Board is inherent in issued by the Chief Executive with to applications such as wastewater the day-to-day business operations.
which general managers and the treatment, where difficult fluids must Meeting the standards required in the finance managers in each Group be handled safely and reliably.
operation of our business as it affects company provide written confirmation The Board has continued to embrace communities and customers is also of compliance for each year.
and apply the general Corporate a specific objective reflected in our The Group also recognises that the Social Responsibility CSR principles strategic plans and annual planning.
achievement of good quality products in conducting its business in a socially The Groups operations are carried and services, the maintenance of acceptable and sustainable way out under the Groups long standing health and safety, and the achievement having due regard to the relationship Business Code with which general of good environmental practices are an of the Company to its employees, managers are required to certify integral part of running the business customers, investors, suppliers and compliance.
A copy of this is and require consideration as part of the society generally.
In particular the posted on the Group website: day-to-day operations of the Group and Board focuses on social, ethical and www.
are reflected in the Groups performance.
environmental SEE matters and This Code formalises policies followed health and safety issues.
The responsibility held by Board over many years by the Group, the members for the entirety of the main areas being: This report follows the practice Groups operations, including the in recent years of illustrating the Compliance with all applicable laws implementation of its policies, enables Boards commitment to meeting and regulations.
the Groups Business Code and Group the requirements laid down by the policies to be applied on a consistent Association of British Insurers and the Operation of the internal controls basis.
The Groups decentralised reporting procedures and actions taken established by the Group.
structure provides for detailed local within the Group in this connection.
Having proper regard for all management of SEE matters by the The Group has developed further its stakeholders in the business.
general manager in each Group awareness of CSR issues and has company, who reports to, and is continued to make improvements, Prohibition of bribery or corrupt monitored by, the appropriate executive particularly in the areas of health and practices.
director and regional general manager.
These reporting procedures within the 24 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 The Group is externally and internally benchmarking its energy performance.
Group enable the executive directors, personnel policies designed to meet substantially disadvantage a disabled who have direct responsibility for the needs of its Group companies and employee or prospective employee.
implementing policy, to monitor, employees around the world.
Channels Every effort is made to find a suitable report and take any appropriate of communication appropriate to the alternative job and, as necessary, action.
SEE training is provided for local operation have been established training for those who are unable newly appointed directors appropriate to allow employees to be properly to continue in their existing role due to their experience, knowledge and informed and voice their views and to disability.
Recognition is given to The Groups newsletter is distributed individual employees needs and As part of the risk management process by electronic mail to all Group requirements throughout the Group explained on pages 37 and 38, the risks companies monthly and is made and, where possible, flexible working involved in not achieving appropriate available to employees.
Individual arrangements are considered where SEE standards are assessed and any Group companies have either a local the circumstances are justified.
significant risk is monitored by the newsletter, intranet site or a regular Employees are encouraged to apply Board following half yearly reports communication informing employees their skills, knowledge and energy.
on the progress of their company.
The Group recognises the importance The Group encourages the growth The Group considers and applies of its employees and their training as a of employee share ownership.
appropriate policies through the competitive advantage.
Groups Business Code in the ii Community involvement The Group is committed to equality following areas: The Group has a Charitable Trust of opportunity for all regardless of which makes donations both to gender, race, age, disability, religion or i Employment policies registered charities and in response sexual orientation.
This applies equally The Group supports and applies to appropriate requests for support to recruitment and to the promotion, the principles of human rights from bodies which are not registered development and training of people in its operations including equal charities both in the UK and overseas.
who are already part of the Group.
opportunities for employees regardless In the case of overseas donations the The Group takes seriously its of sex, race, religion, age or disability.
decision to donate is made by the obligations to the disabled and Board members and Human Resources local general manager.
In total in the gives full and fair consideration satisfy themselves that the terms of UK the Group donated approximately to applications for new positions employment in Group companies 86,250 in 2009 to registered charities or employment from current or worldwide are appropriate.
The Group and other good causes, including the prospective employees regardless of has a policy of non-discrimination National Star College, the County Air any disability and having due regard and does not tolerate bullying and Ambulance, the Alzheimers Society, to the individuals particular aptitudes or harassment in any form.
The Winstons Wish, the Parkinsons and abilities.
recruitment procedures throughout Disease Society and Sue Ryder Care.
the Group avoid employment of The Group is willing to make underage staff.
Care has been taken The operating companies in the Group reasonable adjustments to premises to provide for a culture of openness are encouraged to provide support to or employment arrangements if these and honesty.
The Group operates local communities through company Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 25 Corporate social responsibility continued Groups annual review of greenhouse gas emissions Breakdown of scope 1 and scope 2 emissions by source 32,894 tonnes CO e 2 Business travel scope 1 Electricity scope 2 Natural gas scope 1 Gas oil scope 1 Other scope 1 Spirax Sarco provides QuickHeat heat exchange system to biopharm company Gilead.
The customer Gilead Alberta based in Canada is a world leader in the provision of therapies for life-threatening diseases such as HIV AIDS and serious cardiovascular conditions.
The challenge The customer required a compact heat transfer solution for a glycol heating system servicing a critical air handling installation.
It was essential to have easy access for future maintenance purposes.
Our solution In detailed discussions with the customer we identified fundamental design parameters that changed the initial specification.
Making use of our cutting-edge 3-D design technology we configured a packaged, skid-mounted QuickHeat system to meet the precise system requirements, pre-assembled for easy installation and efficient use of space.
Results The customer required a competitive and reliable solution for this critical process and these needs were fully met.
Spirax Sarcos total steam system capability enabled it to engineer a unique design that fully accommodated the complex and challenging operating conditions.
26 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 donations, employee organised Spirax-Sarco Korea Ltd contributes Watson-Marlow Inc. USA, supports charitable activities, donation of to local social welfare institutions, local charities including The equipment no longer required and including those helping the aged, Wilmington Firefighters Association through provision of information.
and supports a small group within and the Dana Farber Cancer Institute.
the company whose purpose is By way of examples: In the Netherlands, Watson-Marlow to help a local community by, for Bredel supports the Annual As part of its spend on Broad Based example, delivering briquettes for International Wheelchair Games Black Economic Empowerment, heating to poor neighbourhoods.
Spirax-Sarco South Africa Pty Ltd In India the local company continues pays the school fees of children iii Supplier relations to support a hospital it established whose parents are employees of The Company policy is to use suppliers many years ago making provision for the company and who qualify for of goods and services which maintain both company employees and the such assistance.
In addition the appropriate quality standards in their local community.
Both benefit from South African company has operations.
Suppliers must consistently an established welfare programme sponsored the expansion of a small achieve the standards required by based in company provided premises contractors business who is used as ISO 9001. supporting community initiatives, a sub-contractor when the company particularly for women and pre-school iv Product stewardship requires installation work to be provision for children.
Information and support is given carried out.
through appropriate technical advice to Spirax-Sarco Ltd continues to Spirax-Sarco Private Ltd, Singapore, provide a solution to customers needs support the National Star College donated the sum of US $5,000 to with installation and after-sales service in Cheltenham.
the ABS-CBN Foundation Sagip being integral to the Groups business.
Kapamilya to assist in humanitarian Watson-Marlow Ltd is a sponsor of The proper application of products with efforts to alleviate the effects of Falmouth Maritime Museum and the due regard to environmental and safety flooding in the Philippines.
Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society, considerations are dealt with in detail a Wildlife Guardian of the Cornwall in the technical literature made freely Wildlife Trust and made charitable available by the Group.
donations totalling 10,000 during the year.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 27 Corporate social responsibility continued v Corruption managers meets every six months to adviser to support managers and The Companys policy prohibits verify the performance of the UK Spirax employees on health related matters.
bribery or corrupt or anti-competitive Sarco business on health and safety vii Environmental practices.
In addition to provisions and environmental issues.
Commensurate with its commitment within service contracts, general The Group ensures that the necessary to CSR and in line with its strategic managers, who head Group resources are available for health competence in energy management, companies, are required to certify and safety training and companies the Group is proactive worldwide in personally that all laws and regulations within the Group seek, as necessary, environmental energy best practice.
have been met in their territory.
professional advice regarding the An Energy Manager has been vi Health and safety implementation of safety programmes.
appointed to ensure Group operational The Company has a clear attitude For example, in the UK Spirax Sarco energy efficiency.
to health and safety, which is that has an established training programme The Group is externally and internally each operation will maintain a healthy which is provided to new shop floor benchmarking its energy performance.
The Group is employees and refresher courses are Since 2007, the Group has had a policy committed to managing its activities provided to all existing shop of reporting its carbon footprint to the around the world so as to safeguard floor employees.
Carbon Disclosure Project and has the health and safety of its employees, Regular reviews are conducted to been awarded a Carbon Disclosure customers and local community.
ensure that employees have up-to-date Leadership Index of 54.
This score In the first instance the general knowledge of health and safety matters represents a slightly above average manager of each company has the relevant to them.
performance for the disclosure and responsibility for ensuring that this is management of energy.
The carbon In the UK Spirax Sarco has carried out effectively managed at the local level.
disclosure reporting by industrial various reviews and in particular has Each major manufacturing site has companies is a relatively new metric extended the measures for the welfare its own Health and Safety Committee and in 2009, only 67% of companies in of employees by providing: advised by a safety officer.
the industrial sector Global 500, S&P Automatic external defibrillators for 500 and FTSE 350 published this data.
General managers report the health use in heart attack situations all first and safety record of each Group The Groups annual review of the aiders have been trained in their use.
company in a standard form to the greenhouse gas emissions are shown responsible executive director in an Training for all managers in the on page 26. exercise co-ordinated and monitored recognition and prevention of work Examples of actions to support national by Mr. M. E. Gibbin who is responsible related stress.
initiatives include: for overseeing all health and safety Yearly risk review of all processes and matters.
In addition to the site Health Actively participating in the UKs first support functions.
and Safety Committees referred to Low Carbon Partnership Scheme above, a separate UK Health and The appointment of an occupational run by the Cheltenham Borough Safety Audit Committee composed health service including the regular Council.
of UK based directors and senior attendance of an on-site health 28 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 The Company has a clear attitude to health and safety, which is that each operation will maintain a healthy and safe environment.
In the USA, participation by Spirax Watson-Marlows new tubing ISO 14001.
In the USA, Watson-Marlow Sarco Inc. in the US Department extrusion plant in Falmouth, Inc. complies with US OSHA regulations of Energys Save Energy New completed in 2009, is the first and strives to be environmentally Leadership pledge, committing to BREEAM Building Research conscious through a paper recycling reducing energy intensity by 25% Establishment Environmental programme and implementing energy over ten years.
Assessment Method Excellent efficient and green technologies.
industrial building in Cornwall having As a manufacturing company, been designed for sustainability and production resources generate 65% of to have the lowest possible energy the businesss carbon footprint and are costs throughout its life.
Examples of actions taken in 2009 include: Our focus on resource efficiency and waste reduction continues.
Waste to The consolidation of three UK landfill is being reduced through the manufacturing sites to reduce adoption of a single waste contractor unnecessary transportation of for Cheltenham operations.
Features of the refurbished building include: The Groups progressive adoption of ISO 14001 continues with the New roofs and wall cladding Spirax Sarco UK management team surpassing building regulations by preparing for approval in 2010.
25% excellent thermal properties and skylights reduce the need for All future investments now include space heating, forced ventilation an environmental consideration and artificial light, whilst providing as standard.
an improved working environment General managers of operating for employees.
companies remain responsible for Additional electricity sub metering, local compliance with the Groups which will ensure the measurement policy and with local legislation.
In and management of energy usage Germany, MasoSine has reduced its and the use of Spirax products environmental impact over the past will efficiently control steam usage year by reducing water consumption and waste heat recycling in by 17%, electricity by 20% and waste our processes.
A rainwater harvesting system, Watson-Marlow Ltd in the UK and which will save over 1 million litres Spirax-Sarco SAS in Chtellerault, of water per annum.
France are certified to the Environmental standard ISO 14001.
It is the intention for the whole Group to be accredited to Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 29
