Employees corpor ate social Spirent is its employees.
The Group aims to find, engage and responsibilit y keep the highest calibre of employees and encourages their contribution and development.
statement An environment that fosters innovation and collaboration is critical to the Companys success.
Appropriate career paths and Corporate responsibility is integral to the way Spirent conducts internal recognition programmes are developed for both technical its business and we are committed to advancing our policies and and non-technical staff.
Such a commitment was recognised in systems across the Group to ensure that we address all aspects 2009 by Fortune China magazine, where Spirent was found to be of corporate social responsibility CSR.
These include in one of the 20 best companies to work for in China.
particular our corporate practices in terms of ethical behaviour, Employees are provided with numerous learning and our employees, care for the environment and community development opportunities to fulfill their potential.
our US employees enjoy a tax free tuition reimbursement The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is benefit for classes taken towards college-level degrees such committed to developing and implementing appropriate policies as a master of business administration or master of science in while adhering to a fundamental commitment to create and electrical engineering.
A wide variety of courses and training sustain long term value for shareholders.
opportunities are also available to employees globally to enhance their skills.
As another example, Spirents North America sales Ethics team participated in quarterly manager development training as Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in well as negotiation skills training.
compliance with high ethical standards of business practice.
We These development opportunities are structured to align with apply these standards to all dealings with employees, customers, our organisational objectives and to help employees in suppliers and other stakeholders.
During 2009, Spirents furthering their career aspirations.
employees were again clearly reminded of the standards Spirent demonstrates that it values its employees through expected of them when it refreshed its Vision, Mission and several reward and recognition programmes.
One example is our Values statements.
Presidents Club, which recognises our most exceptional sales The Groups Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the employees on an annual basis in every geographic region.
Board, is available on our website at www.
Our Another way we reward and recognise excellence is through our Ethics Policy has been developed to ensure that the Groups Global Recognition Programme.
It is the intention of Spirent to business is conducted in adherence with high ethical and legal recognise and reward both the efforts and results of individual principles and sets standards of professionalism and integrity for accomplishments by employees or managers that provide all employees and operations worldwide.
positive results for the organisation.
The programme is broken down into three types of recognition: The following is a summary of the Ethics Policy: Spot Recognition Award to provide special recognition of all employees have the right and responsibility to ensure that extraordinary achievement: Spirents business is conducted with high ethical and legal Excellence Award to recognise performance or ideas which principles: are tied to the Spirent values and result in significant savings our policy is to operate within applicable laws: or benefit: discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: Executive Award to recognise remarkable individual effort as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: at the highest level which contributes to a significant positive no bribes shall be given or received: result.
conflicts of interest must be avoided: we aim to be a responsible partner within our local Similarly, the importance of two-way communication is communities: and recognised particularly as it relates to the business and its employees are encouraged and supported to report, in performance.
The leadership team is responsible for providing confidence, any suspected wrongdoings whistleblowing.
forums for employees to understand the business objectives and to ask questions.
A variety of tools are utilised to foster two-way Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the Groups communications, including management meetings, all-hands internal control process.
employee meetings, and the Companys intranet.
22 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW Leadership and management development programmes are Spirent is committed to continually improving its health and regularly reviewed and updated as the competition for talented safety performance and is also committed to employee wellbeing employees increases and the leadership needs of our business by encouraging the adoption of healthier lifestyles by its staff grow.
Formal performance reviews are conducted annually and members.
Regulatory requirements and the outline of care form are linked to the goals of the organisation.
the basis upon which Spirents commitment is achieved.
By The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity realistic planning, review and development, Spirent continues to to all existing and prospective employees without unlawful achieve a successful health and safety management programme discrimination on the basis of religion, disability, gender, age, and appropriate resources are made available for this purpose.
marital status, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity or any other protected status.
With regard to employees who become Environmental disabled, the policy is to take all reasonable steps, including Good environmental practice and the impact that our operations retraining, to ensure that they can remain in employment have on the environment are of great importance to Spirent.
We encourage diversity and opportunity, main aim of Spirents Environmental Policy is to comply with all which is reinforced through the Groups Ethics Policy.
applicable environmental legislation in all jurisdictions in which we operate and to adopt responsible environmental practices.
Health and safety The full text of our Environmental Policy is available on our The Chief Financial Officer is the director appointed by the website at www.
Board to have responsibility for the health and safety Business units are required to comply with the Group Policy performance of the Group.
No major health and safety issues and local statutory regulations and are encouraged to set their were reported by the Chief Financial Officer to the Audit own environmental targets.
An annual environmental Committee and Board during the year.
questionnaire is completed by each business unit which highlights The health and safety risk profile of the Group improved their environmental performance.
The Groups main again in 2009 as further Group manufacturing moved to an environmental impact now largely involves the effects produced outsourcing model.
The main risks of the Group continue to be from offices housing employees.
Where possible, business units based around final test and assembly of products and working monitor energy consumption, water consumption and waste environment issues such as ergonomics and Repetitive Strain production.
All business units continue to take positive steps to Injury.
The Group continued to have very low accident rates in reduce energy consumption, such as better space utilisation, 2009 and no incidents required any hospitalisation.
more efficient running of equipment and machinery, and sensor The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility for controlled equipment.
Environmental waste management in the management of health and safety on local management who the Group continues to improve with most business units are supported by local external advisers where necessary.
It is operating waste minimisation schemes mainly focusing on the Groups intention that each business unit should have a increased recycling.
senior individual designated as being responsible for ensuring the The vast majority of our products continue to be business unit conforms to local statutory health and safety manufactured by outside contract manufacturers and we check regulations as well as the Group Policy.
An annual questionnaire the environmental policies of these suppliers through audits and on health and safety performance is completed by all our surveys.
Wherever possible our products are designed and business units and any issues are addressed and resolved.
manufactured to take account of the recycling and disposal of Independent external reviews of the Companys health and the product at the end of its lifecycle.
Our business units comply safety performance are conducted annually at selected business with both The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment units.
Regular designated health and safety awareness training Regulations and The Batteries Directive.
New products are programmes are also carried out.
designed to meet the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Spirent recognises the importance that health and safety, as Directive RoHS, also known as Directive 2002 95 EC, even with other corporate responsibilities, is managed successfully though Spirent Communications hardware products are throughout all levels of the organisation.
Successful health and classified as Category Nine, Monitor and Control Equipment and safety management contributes to Spirents overall success by are therefore currently out of scope with the RoHS Directive.
All preserving and developing staff and physical resources, thereby Spirent Communications hardware products will be in reducing costs and liabilities and is an expression of its corporate compliance with the RoHS Directive at such time they are responsibility.
All Spirent staff are provided with a written health brought in to scope.
and safety policy and each staff member can make a valuable contribution by taking reasonable care of themselves and those affected by their actions or omissions.
Spirent Communications plc 23 Annual Report 2009 Spirent also periodically provides work experience corpor ate social opportunities for local students in our Paignton office, responsibilit y where 15 year olds spend a week with our team, visiting each department that is of interest to them.
In our Beijing office, we statement continued offered on-site internship opportunities to 13 students from top universities in China, including University of Science and Technology Beijing.
These internships help students develop The vacant site reported on last year where historical activity professional knowledge as well as enhance their competitiveness had led to minor land and groundwater contamination is in society.
continuing to be monitored to confirm that remedial work carried out has been successful.
We have also been contacted by Local community support of non-profit agencies authorities regarding another previously owned property which We recognise the significance of our communities through our appears to have historical land and groundwater contamination relationship with local non-profit agencies.
Our employees and discussions are ongoing.
help their communities by volunteering their time to various programmes and donating materials and equipment to Community local causes.
Spirent aims to build stronger and healthier global communities The Group has formed lasting partnerships with several local through education, charitable donations and support of nonnon-profit organisations to provide essential resources and profit agencies in the communities in which we operate.
Working services to those in need.
During the winter holiday season in with established non-profit organisations maximises the impact 2009, our employees in the US participated in a food drive for of our community building initiatives.
the Los Angeles Regional Food Bank www.
Education Charitable Donation Policy The Group has established links with certain public-private Our businesses are encouraged to support the particular needs non-profit educational organisations to help students develop the of their local community by contributing to local charities and skills needed to succeed in the global economy.
Throughout 2009 participating in community initiatives.
Support takes the form of we continued to support education by offering internships and employee time and skills, gifts in kind and cash donations.
As part of Junior Achievement Our Charitable Donation Policy matches employee www.
org, 30 Spirent employee volunteers from our contributions on a regular basis, including employee donations Germantown, Maryland office spent a day at Patterson to the American Cancer Societys Relay for Life programme.
Elementary School in the inner city of Washington D. C. teaching In 2009, Spirent made charitable donations of 91,000 students aged 6 to 12.
The programme enabled volunteers to 2008 52,000. teach students financial literacy, work readiness, and Spirent continues to support all of our employees and entrepreneurship.
Volunteers served as role models, providing businesses in finding new ways of becoming involved in and both education and inspiration.
giving back to their communities.
24 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2009
