Corporate and soCial responsiBility report The Board recognises the importance of balancing the interests of all its key Comprehensive induction training for managers and area managers takes place stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and the at Shirebrook covering health and safety, environmental awareness, customer communities in which it operates.
A formal Corporate and Social Responsibility service and the day to day running of a retail unit.
During the Year 200 managers policy was adopted last year and the Board is committed to applying and and assistant managers attended this training, compared to 171 last year.
developing this policy at every level of the business.
Each retail unit ensures that all its employees receive induction training.
The Last year we reported that the focus of our CSR activities were in five key areas, Groups training strategy is to train managers who are then tasked to ensure Employees Health and Safety, Customers, the Environment and the Community, that all their employees receive training that is tailored to the circumstances of and this remains the case.
The Group has developed Key Performance their own business unit.
We monitor how well training is being filtered down into Indicators KPIs in respect of these areas, which are further discussed in this the workplace by undertaking surveys of our store employees.
report and in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review on Page 8.
These KPIs are based solely on our UK operations.
Last year it was reported that a management training programme covering interview skills, effective communication, people skills and employment law This report examines each key area in turn, reviewing the current situation, the would be introduced during 2008, which it was.
During the Year 113 employees facts, figures and our successes to date, and the opportunities for the present attended the programme and it is expected that the number of attendees will year and for the future.
The Group, as reported last year, has introduced refresher training as part of a employees rolling programme, to ensure that all employees reinforce their existing skills The Group currently employ 15,900 people in the UK and 750 elsewhere in the and update their knowledge and practices.
As the business continues to grow it is the skill and enthusiasm of these employees that are key to its success.
During the Year a training programme providing specialist training for those employees responsible for the footwear departments within stores was In the UK 93% of our people work in our stores and in store management.
5% launched in order to raise the standards of service given to customers in this of the UK workforce work at our Shirebrook campus, of which 3.8% work in area.
Other specific training manuals on rackets, cricket and golf have been our National Distribution Centre, and 1.2% in the Group Head Office, Finance, rolled out on the company intranet to ensure that all employees improve their Buying, Brands, Retail and IT departments.
Of our UK Workforce 58% are male knowledge in these areas.
All National Distribution Centre employees are given appropriate training on Employee retention is one of our key KPIs.
This Year 29.0% of our UK employees joining on health and safety matters, communication, and relevant aspects of left the business: the vast majority of them were from our stores.
English is not the first language of many of these employees, and the Group acknowledges that as it recruits from a diverse talent pool the Retention of employees is extremely important both in terms of retaining needs of these employees must be addressed.
Accordingly, training often expertise, and as a measure of employee satisfaction, and the Board receives a involves the use of interpreters, and training materials, policy documents and monthly report on the turnover of employees.
building signage are usually in multiple languages.
The Group believes in rewarding employees with fair salaries together with The Group promotes and fosters a culture of personal development for all.
the opportunity to earn additional pay in the form of bonuses.
We monitor our The Groups policy is to always look for internal promotion before external rates of pay against national statistics on an annual basis.
performance based rewards are beneficial to the business and foster greater employee involvement in it, and this policy starts at the Board and flows down to all levels of the business.
The Bonus Share Scheme, described in the Directors health and safety Remuneration Report on page 24, is intended to motivate further the Groups UK The Group is committed to appropriate standards of health and safety permanent employees in UK Retail, Brands and Head Office, provide them with a performance.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for Group health and safety direct and substantial link between Group performance and their remuneration, performance, and receives a monthly report on reportable accidents.
The Chief and encourage employee participation in the shares of the Group.
Executive has specific responsibility for health and safety and is the Chairman of the Health and Safety Committee, which meets at least four times a year and Last year the Staff Forum was established in Shirebrook, comprising elected considers legislation, monitors accidents and seeks improvements in health and representatives from across departments and representatives of management.
safety matters throughout the businesses.
The Forum meets monthly and discussions cover issues ranging from pay, holidays and hours, to health and safety, working conditions, equipment There were no environmental prosecutions or work related fatalities in the needs and developments in and the performance of the business.
During the Year 1,397 2008:1,561 accidents across Forum encourages open discussion and a Board member will attend at least the Group were reported to Head Office, and of these 45 2008:38 were once a year.
Minutes of the Forums meetings are posted on notice boards reportable to the Health and Safety Executive.
Most accidents were slips, trips and representatives are encouraged to seek and reflect the views of their and minor lacerations that occurred within the stores.
As reported last year, constituents.
greater emphasis on health and safety training within the business has lead to increased awareness of reporting procedures and recording of incidents under The Group recognises the right of employees to membership of a trade union health and safety legislation.
and has entered into an agreement with the trade union Unite in respect of collective bargaining of pay, hours of work and holidays of certain groups of Training is undertaken in house by a team of qualified and experienced health employees in the National Distribution Centre.
Going forward the health and safety team will continue to train store employees and monitor health and safety standards.
The Group is committed to the equal treatment of its employees and has formal policies in place that are reviewed on a regular basis.
The Equal Opportunity and Diversity policies ensure that employees are treated as individuals, fairly and Customers with respect providing fair and equal opportunities to employees regardless of The Group aims to ensure that all its customers enjoy a quality customer service age, gender, ethnicity, social background, religion, disability or sexuality.
and that they are provided with products that are safe and fit for purpose.
The business recognises that customers have diverse needs and works constantly Every effort is made to provide disabled people with equal opportunities for towards meeting them.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration for all vacancies in accordance with their Monitoring customer satisfaction and responding to correspondence is a particular aptitudes.
Where an existing employee becomes disabled the continuous process.
Customer Service teams collate management information business makes every effort to provide continued employment in the same or on service levels and this is circulated to the Board on a monthly basis.
All similar job or by offering retraining in order that the employees employment written complaints are recorded, including an analysis of the nature of the within the Group may continue.
complaint so that trends can be assessed and appropriate action taken.
This Year 4,820 complaints were logged with our customer service team, a reduction We continually review and update all our policies and procedures.
The employee of 7.49% on last year.
The Group is constantly working on ways to improve handbook is being updated and will be distributed to all employees during 2010. customer service at all levels within the Company from the retail stores, head office and through our website.
The Group places great importance in the training and development of employees.
We want them to be able to perform their duties to the best of their abilities while wanting to retain these skills within the business.
28 Corporate and Social Responsibility Report During 2008 09 a customer service handbook and returns guide was issued to As reported last year all stores now use biodegradable carrier bags and provide all stores to strengthen and build upon the customer service training that all the option of a bag for life.
Our aim for the coming years are to improve year on year the amount of waste Our aim for the future is to also offer our customers an online customer that is recycled and reduce the amount of waste we send to landfill.
comment form that can be dealt with entirely electronically.
This will reduce the time it takes for our customers to contact us and receive a response thereby increasing our service levels, whilst reducing the print and postage costs for Community both the Group and customers.
We are also integrating the store and website We recognise that consumers and stakeholders are becoming increasingly customer service functions to reduce costs and increase expertise available to interested in where we source our products.
The Group continues to procure merchandise from manufacturers who can show that they uphold ethical employment and trading practices.
The Group environment has a Code of Ethics that it requires every supplier to adhere to.
Amongst As a Group we are aware that our operations impact the environment in a other matters the Code provides for fair treatment of workers and their wages, number of ways and it is our responsibility to manage effectively the areas non-use of child labour, safe and healthy systems of work and no use of illegal we have direct control over while attempting to influence the actions of other means or materials in the production of goods.
areas that are outside of our control.
We seek to reduce the negative impact the Group has on the environment while working towards compliance with the The Group has worked for many years with two leading supply chain companies Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment.
Building upon investigations in Singapore and in South Korea to procure much of its own brand goods.
The last year we have identified property, in particular energy usage in our stores, Group believes that using their local knowledge, expertise and experience, transport and waste management at both our Shirebrook and in stores as areas, benefits the business and the communities in which they operate more where we can make a difference.
effectively than would be the case if the Group carried on its own procurement activities in those countries.
Both companies have the highest social and The Group is committed to reducing its carbon footprint.
Our network of 359 business ethics codes which match our Code of Ethics, and one adheres to the stores is the largest user of energy in the Group and therefore the biggest Social Accountability 8000 SA8000 Code.
The Group relies on those supply chain companies to inspect all suppliers and As reported last year the Group in conjunction with an external consultancy manufacturers premises.
Between them they have over 100 employees that monitor the daily usage of energy in a number of stores in the UK Retail are based within each manufacturing unit for 2 to 3 days per week.
Frequent business and the Shirebrook campus.
During the Year the number of stores inspections are carried out randomly at short notice to ensure that the goods being constantly and remotely monitored has increased from 150 to 188.
Poorly meet the Groups quality standards as well as assessing continued compliance performing stores are identified and steps taken to reduce wastage, and lessons with SA8000 and the Groups Code of Ethics.
The Group complies with an learnt applied across the store portfolio.
During the Year the UK Retail business internationally recognised list of chemicals that are banned for use in fabrics.
and Shirebrook used 99GWh of electricity, a 8.54% decrease on the previous The supply chain companies conduct random tests on fabric which are then years consumption.
The target reduction was 10% which was not achieved taken to a recognised laboratory for quality testing and to check that these but the shop floor square footage in UK retail had increased by 134,403 square banned chemicals are not being used.
Night time consumption decreased by 14%, beating the target of 7%.
The year on year reduction has been achieved through a back to basics approach, The Group has forged long term relationships with suppliers who have improved energy awareness and good housekeeping.
A bonus scheme is in demonstrated that their work practices are consistent with the Groups place for all store managers, of which energy consumption reduction is a key standards.
Approximately 40% of the Groups current suppliers have been performance measure.
working with Group companies for 10 years or more and they comply with ISO 9001 standards.
2 The second biggest contributor to our C0 emission is the fleet of vehicles that service the stores.
We have 143 commercial vehicles travelling approximately In the UK, Sports Direct is the official sportswear partner of Cancer Research 5.5 million miles per year using 3 million litres of diesel.
The fleet has recently UKs Race For Life.
been updated so that all the vehicles are all Euro V emission compliant, and considerable effort is made to minimise mileage covered.
The Group endeavours to promote the participation in a wide range of sporting activities primarily for children that would not normally have access to the The business has made further progress with its recycling and reducing the expertise or equipment needed for the sport.
amount of waste that is put into landfill.
The Group supports grassroots development programmes for squash and Where possible we recycle electrical waste, ink toners, redundant IT equipment badminton in Manchester.
To date in squash, as a result of Dunlops provision and light bulbs.
This Year we recycled 1,148 2008:1,648 units of electrical of sporting equipment including rackets and balls, over 70 primary schools equipment, the reduction being largely due to the decrease in number of stores and approximately 1,300 children aged 6-10 have been able to participate in as a consequence of the disposal of Original Shoe Company, and the completion the sport.
In addition, over 100 children with disabilities have also had the of the integration of acquired stores.
chance to try the sport using the equipment supplied by Dunlop.
Approximately 20 qualified coaches are also supported by Dunlop to deliver the various The Group recycles waste paper, cardboard, metal, and plastic.
During the Year development programmes in place, with a total of 20,000 of product donated 40 tonnes of waste paper, 6,007 tonnes of cardboard, 33 tonnes of metal and throughout the Year.
469 tonnes of plastic were recycled.
90% of the recycled plastic had been back filled from stores.
Where possible we also recycle the wood that we collect at Carlton, the Groups specialist badminton brand has provided over 30 primary our distribution centre.
In the past all wood was sold for recycling, but it has schools with equipment, including rackets and shuttlecocks, helping over now been determined to be cost effective to repair pallets, and a programme of 500 children take part in the sport.
In addition, a further 250 children aged repair will begin in 2009 10. between 6-16 years have also participated in the sport as part of holiday camps supported by sporting equipment totalling 10,000 provided by Carlton.
We work hard to reduce the amount of waste going to landfill and during the Year this reduced to 1,333 tonnes from 1,400 tonnes in 2008.
Slazenger are the exclusive cricket equipment supplier to the countrys most recognised grassroots cricket development programme, Chance to Shine, Since 2006 we have reused clothes hangers within stores, only returning a which is run through the English Cricket Boards charitable arm, the Cricket hanger to our distribution centre for disposal when damaged.
Chance to Shine is a national campaign delivered through employees concerted efforts we have reduced the number of hangers purchased individual projects throughout England and Wales.
Each project provides a to under 2,700 hangers per store for 2008 09 2007 08: 4,200, reusing over structured coaching and competition programme for a group of schools that 600,000 hangers during the Year.
would not normally have the chance to participate in the sport.
The schools are supported by professional qualified coaches, who are specifically trained The Group has always kept its transit packaging to a minimum by the use of to work in a school environment, and the programme provides equipment and metal roll cages.
Each product is individually picked and packed into the roll training for teachers.
In 2008 09, Chance to Shine delivered 300 projects cage for onward movement to the stores.
Only in exceptional circumstances are involving 300 cricket clubs throughout 2,000 schools.
The programme expands plastic bags used to transport products.
each year through an additional 100 clubs and 600 schools and, subject to funding, will ultimately reach one third of all primary and secondary schools and An increasing number of our stores return their cardboard and plastic waste support two million young people, initially, over a ten-year period.
To date, over to Shirebrook where it is recycled.
We are conducting an in-depth review of 226,000 children have benefitted from the programme by receiving over 56,000 how our remaining store waste is disposed of and how it can be reduced and hours of coaching and discounted cricket equipment to the value of 130,000 recycled.
has been supplied by Slazenger to enable the programme to run successfully.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 29 Corporate and soCial responsiBility report Continued Dunlop, through its support of The Dunlop Table-Tennis Masters Event, is also contributing to the improvement in the lives of over 8,000 young people every week in secondary schools.
It is also with Dunlops support that the event organizers Greenhouse, are able to organize activities that benefit these young people, helping them develop positive life skills through sport and performing arts in areas of social deprivation.
In addition, Dunlops global D Squad talent support programme continues to increase participation and performance levels of the most talented juniors in tennis from around the world.
Over 600 children world-wide are continuing to benefit from the programme.
The Group also continues to supply the International Tennis Federation with tennis equipment to their Junior Development programme which promotes tournaments for young people aged between 14-18 years in Central America, the Caribbean, South America, Eastern Europe, Africa, Asia and the Pacific regions.
In the United States, Everlast one of the Groups specialist boxing brands support numerous initiatives.
Everlast assists in running the New York Golden Gloves, the most prestigious amateur boxing tournament in the country by providing products such as gloves and personal protective equipment.
This is a grassroots initiative that benefits men and women age 16-34 as they compete in amateur boxing and around 900 boxers compete each year.
Everlast supported this programme by supplying $20,000 worth of equipment each year.
USA Boxing is a non-profit, national governing body of amateur Olympic-style boxing, and is the United States member organization of the International Amateur Boxing Association AIBA.
Everlast assists USA Boxing with the provision of a mixture of boxing related product to a value of $60,000.
This helps the mens, womens, and junior Olympic boxing programs whose primary ages are 14-34 years, as well as coaches and officials.
The National Police Athletics Activities Leagues, Inc PAL aim is to help prevent juvenile crime and violence by providing civic, athletic, recreational and educational opportunities and resources to PAL Chapters.
Everlast is the Official boxing partner of the National PAL and provides equipment and apparel for their annual boxing tournament and National PAL boxing team.
Everlast has also assisted in the development of additional youth programs, and new Chapter openings.
The Breast Cancer Research Foundation BCRF is dedicated to finding a cure for breast cancer by funding clinical and genetic research.
The foundation benefits women of all ages who have been affected by the disease as well as women who may be at risk in their lifetime.
Everlast donates to the BCRF a proportion of the retail price of every pink hand wrap, pink training gloves and key chains sold.
The Edwards Family Foundation was formed in 2001 with the intention of providing holidays to less fortunate children.
Everlast routinely donates over $5,000 in product, and supplies athletes to attend their charity benefits.
The Dr. Theodore Atlas Foundation was formed by world renown boxing trainer Teddy Atlas, The Atlas foundation provides financial assistance for medical bills to benefit lower income families in need.
Everlast provides a $10,000 annual product donation, as well as an additional $1,000 educational scholarship.
30 Corporate and Social Responsibility Report
