Scottish and Southern Energy 87 Annual Report 2009 impairment charge may be recognised should the carrying value exceed market value.
Where allowances granted are used to settle a liability relating to a previous period, a creditor balance is recorded for the increased liability in the current period.
Under the Renewable Obligations Certificates ROCs scheme, certificates obtained from own generation are awarded by a third party, Ofgem.
Self-generated certificates are recorded at market value and purchased certificates are recognised at cost, both within intangible assets.
The liability under the renewables obligation is recognised based on electricity supplied to customers, the percentages set by Ofgem and the prevailing market price.
The intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the consumption of economic benefit.
As a result no amortisation is recorded during the period.
iv Development wind assets Costs capitalised as development wind intangibles represent the costs incurred in bringing individual wind farm projects to the consented stage.
Costs associated with reaching the consent stage include options over land rights, planning application costs and environmental impact studies.
These may be costs incurred directly or part of the fair-value exercise on acquisition of a controlling interest in a project.
Development wind assets are not amortised until the asset is substantially complete and ready for its intended use.
The asset is subject to impairment testing on an annual basis until this time.
At the point that the project reaches the consent stage and is approved by the Board, the carrying value of the project is transferred to property, plant and equipment as assets under construction.
Amortisation is over the expected useful life of the related operational asset.
The asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from their use.
v Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that have been acquired by the Group including brands are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Software licenses are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Expenditure on internally generated brands is expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of these other intangible assets.
The amortisation periods utilised are as follows: Years Brand values 10 Application software licences 5 Customer lists 5 Contracts Shorter of contract term or 5 Impairment testing The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories or deferred tax assets, are reviewed each financial year to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If there is evidence of impairment, the recoverable amount, being the higher of the fair-value less costs to sell and the value-in-use of the asset, is estimated to determine the extent of any such impairment.
For goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life or not ready for use, the test for impairment is carried out annually.
For financial assets, impairment is determined based on the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective rate initially used at inception.
Inventories and work in progress Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first-in, first-out basis and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of fuel stocks is based on the weighted average principle.
The valuation of work in progress is based on the cost of labour, the cost of contractors, the cost of materials plus other directly attributable costs.
Recognition of revenue and profit on c onstruction contracts Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured as the proportion of cost incurred on work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract cost, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
When it becomes probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately in the income statement.
Employee bene t obligations i fide ned bene t pension schemes The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes, one of which is operated by the Company.
Pension scheme assets are measured using bid market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit credit actuarial method and are discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
Any increase in the present value of liabilities within the Groups defined benefit pension schemes expected to arise from employee service in the year is charged as service costs to operating profit.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the increase during the year in the present value of the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in finance income and finance costs, respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Pension scheme surpluses, to the extent that they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
