Scottish and Southern Energy 23 Annual Report 2009 Corporate Responsibility Safety SSE aims to create value for shareholders by maintaining a strong emphasis on its Number of peopl e six core values, which include safety and sustainability.
During 2008 09, the number of lost-time and reportable injuries within the company was 0.07 per 100,000 hours worked, compared with 0.04 in the empl oyed by SSE previous year and 0.05 in 2006 07.
SSE is now also focusing on its Total Recordable Incident Rate TRIR, which up ar ound 1,900 includes medical treatment, as well as losttime and reportable injuries.
TRIR is a more comprehensive measure and is comparable with worldwide standards, allowing a more effective benchmarking of performance to o ver 18,500 to take place.
The number of serious, or potentially serious, blameworthy road traffic accidents involving employees driving company vehicles was 0.38 per 100 vehicles, Everyone who is employed by compared with 0.18 in the previous year.
SSE is expected to demonstrate In September 2008, an employee of Hochtief AG, the principal contractor, and deliver responsible business lost his life at the site of the new Glendoe hydro electric scheme.
The circumstances practice in whatever they do.
surrounding the incident have since been As a result, SSE does not have a the subject of detailed investigation.
This loss of life remains a source of great corporate responsibility division: sadness for everyone associated with the project.
it is not an add-on, and should not be treated as such.
Environment SSEs target for any given year is zero environmental incidents which result in it being served with a formal statutory notice by either the Environment Agency or the Scottish Environment Protection Agency SEPA.
In 2008 09, SSE was served with no such notices as a result of an environmental incident.
SEPA is continuing to investigate an incident in November 2008 where diesel escaped from a holding tank at SSEs Loch Carnan Power Station on Uist.
Safety Service Efficiency Sustainability Excellence Teamwork Teamwork On 31 March 2009, SSE employed 18,795 people, an increase of 1,903 on We keep things simple, do the work that adds value and the previous year.
December 2008 saw avoid wasting money, materials, energy or time.
This means the tenth anniversary of SSEs formation.
setting the right priorities and ensuring that all other activities Its successes since then reflect the take second place to supply and distribution customers ongoing professionalism and enthusiasm receiving the highest-possible quality of service.
of employees, guided by SSEs Teamwork value which states: We support and value Total Performance-based Income Earned our colleagues and enjoy working together Electricity Networks: All Criteria m in an open and honest way.
2009 19.4 19.4m The Good Companies Guide 2008 18.0 In November 2008, The Co-operative Asset Managements second annual 2007 13.3 Good Companies Guide was published.
BUSINESS REVIEW Scottish and Southern Energy 24 Annual Report 2009 Corporate Responsibility continued The Guide is a fund management ranking In November 2008, The Co-operative Asset of FTSE 350 companies performance on environmental, social and governance Managements second annual Good Companies Guide ESG issues.
SSE was the overall winner was published.
The Guide is a fund management because it has shown vision and initiative in being an early mover in renewable ranking of FTSE 350 companies performance on energy and domestic energy efficiency.
environmental, social and governance ESG issues.
Corporate Responsibility Index SSE was the overall winner because it has shown Business in the Communitys BitC Corporate Responsibility Index provides vision and initiative in being an early mover in an authoritative benchmark for companies to evaluate their management practice in renewable energy and domestic energy efficiency.
four key areas of corporate responsibility community, environment, marketplace and workplace and performance in a should be.
SSE believes the fundamental range of environmental and social impact responsibility on the part of companies areas material to their business.
In the is to ensure that their overall business results of the Index for 2008, SSE retained model and strategy, and their values its performance band of Platinum.
and culture, are designed with risk firmly in mind.
BitC has introduced an additional band, Platinum Plus, to test, with additional SSEs strategy is to deliver sustained scrutiny, the connectivity between real growth in the dividend payable companies business strategy and a to shareholders through the efficient responsible and sustainable business operation of, and investment in, a balanced approach.
SSE was advised in May 2009 that range of regulated and non-regulated it had secured this Platinum Plus status, energy-related businesses.
In practice, one of just seven companies to do so.
this means SSE derives income and profit from businesses which are subject to Corporate Responsibility Report 2009 economic regulation and businesses SSE has reported in detail on corporate which are not.
At the same time, those responsibility issues in 2008 09 in businesses have a common core: energy.
its Corporate Responsibility Report 2009 which is available online at The practical effect of this is to limit both www.
the extent of any single risk and the value associated with it, and the need to limit The report considers the four main areas the value at risk is at the heart of SSEs of impact identified by Business in the decision-making processes.
SSE is the only Community: Workplace, Environment, electricity and gas company listed on the Community and Marketplace.
In each London Stock Exchange with a business area, the report considers the key model which is capable of offering such question SSE must address, identified balance and such a framework for limiting by relating relevant concerns to the issues the value at risk.
over which SSE has greatest influence.
The strategy and business model, and Within the report, which is aimed at any therefore risk management, are supported individual or organisation with an interest by the SSE SET of core values Safety, in how SSE goes about its business, Service, Efficiency, Sustainability, there is a review of SSEs performance Excellence and Teamwork and by the in 2008 09 and summaries of key events maintenance of an organisational culture across the business.
in which the individual, status and seniority take second place to teamwork, knowledge Data presented in the report is and experience.
independently assured by Environmental Resources Management Ltd.
Within this framework, SSE has in place a comprehensive approach for managing Detail and analysis included in the risks and maintaining internal controls, Corporate Responsibility Report gives such that its strategy is not undermined further context to an extensive list of by failures or misjudgements.
These are Performance Indicators also presented set out in full on pages 53 and 54. in this Annual Report.
Risk Management There are many interpretations of what risk management should mean and
