understand the ethical, environmental and social Corporate responsibility considerations within the supply chain, we use subcontractors to give greater control across the whole supply chain cycle.
We have made good progress in is reducing transport requirements, through a process known as depalletisation.
By loading stock onto pallets at the We appreciate the importance of connecting our business destination, rather than at the factory, we can maximise decisions to environmental, ethical and social concerns.
the amount of product being transported by each Last year we developed a new framework to maximise and container in transit.
enhance our commitment to corporate responsibility.
This Counterfeiting, while not unique to SSL, is an framework has four key elements: issue we take very seriously, and we work hard to protect In the marketplace: covering the whole supply chain our consumers and retailers from counterfeit products.
from selection of raw materials, third-party supplier We maintain a vigilant watch on any suspect activity through assessments, in-house manufacture, packaging, our contacts with relevant authorities and Ministries of Health delivery to customers, and responsible and effective across our commercial markets particularly in countries communication with consumers.
identified as either a source or a target for the counterfeits and use external investigators where needed.
In the workplace: reflecting the core areas of our global human resources strategy resourcing, reward, In the workplace communication and development and health and It is essential that staff work in a positive, safe and safety for all employees.
supportive environment that allows them to flourish in their jobs and contribute to the success of the business.
At SSL, In the community: supporting work carried out by SSL we also believe in helping employees appreciate their roles in global, national and local communities.
It includes within the Companys wider strategic objectives, as well as the Durex Network, relationships with national health promoting effective communication across our various authorities, local social responsibility programmes, as functions and regions.
well as SSLs responsibilities to shareholders.
Employee Opinion Survey In the environment: committing SSL to continual Employee opinion surveys provide staff with a formal improvement in its practices in environmental care, opportunity to communicate their views about SSL and the environmental performance and sustainability.
It tells us how staff view the Groups In the marketplace leadership, whether people are aligned to our wider strategy We aim to look after our consumers with products that are and values, what their views on training and reward are, and safe and effective and sourced from a supply chain that their views on corporate social responsibility.
Our most is ethical and delivered through sound business practices.
recent employee opinion survey took place in October 2008.
During the past year we have enhanced our standard It was considered so successful that we have decided to supplier assessment process, auditing third-party facilities run employee surveys annually, rather than biennially, thus with a focus on health and safety, employee welfare enabling us to have access to ongoing feedback rather than and quality.
We have a dedicated Supply Chain Manager a snapshot of views.
focusing on new product development.
To help us better enhancing enhancing our commitment Investors and business finance appreciation In line with our policy of involving staff within the broader aims of the Group, we embarked this year on a training programme that helps employees understand how investors view SSL and how they impact on our day-to-day work.
The idea behind the initiative was to train ambassadors who can explain to colleagues how investors assess the business and what they look for in their investment opportunities.
The programme reinforces the reasons behind the importance of good working capital management, and how employees can impact on this within the Group.
A workshop on understanding corporate finance and working capital was followed by two days of training in presentation skills with Every year we an external training consultant.
Feedback was positive from donate one million specially the roll out in Europe and America and there are plans to roll out the programme across the Asia Pacific region this year.
designed condom packs Competency framework training to educational projects in We understand that to succeed in the workplace, staff countries participating in require a range of professional, personal and collaborative skills.
To help our employees develop these, work the Dance4Life initiative commenced this year on defining a worldwide, managerial competency framework.
These competencies are designed to complement the strategy of SSL as well as reflect the ABC operating principles and SSL values.
They will serve in part as the backbone for future HR initiatives.
The framework will be launched in October 2009.
Health and safety Providing a safe working environment for our employees is an absolute priority for SSL, and we have a five year strategy, endorsed and actively monitored by our Board of Directors, that is working to ensure a positive safety culture throughout all SSL sites.
The initial focus is on manufacturing and warehouses, with roll out in subsequent years to commercial offices.
reduction in water usage 12% 26 27 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 We are significantly ahead of our targets on Students Partnership Worldwide SPW accident reduction and severity as recorded by our accident Our collaboration with SPW, in which SSL employees Key Performance Indicators: Lost Time Injury Frequency spend time in developing countries using their skills to Rate and Accident Severity Rate, and we have recently develop SPWs marketing and IT capabilities, has had introduced a new indicator, Recordable Injury Frequency another successful year.
SPW is a charity that encourages Rate.
We rolled out certification to OHSAS 18001 to all of young people to volunteer to act as peer educators in our Indian sites in April 2009. rural communities in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia to lead health, environmental and education programmes.
In the community Secondees from SSL play a vital role in helping the charity The Durex Network implement accounting and reporting processes, develop SSL supports local, national and global communities communication strategies and set up IT systems.
Since through the Durex Network.
The network was founded the collaboration was formed two years ago, 26 SSL in 2005 to formalise the work Durex has been doing for employees have participated in the scheme.
This year we many years to promote the safer sex message and raise have interviewed and selected ten more.
They are due to awareness of HIV AIDS and condom use.
fly out to their destinations in June this year.
Over the past year, the Durex Network has consolidated its position as a key contributor to the sexual In the environment health debate, primarily through its Face of Global Sex We are pleased to report that over the past 12 months we FOGS research series.
Its third FOGS paper, published in have continued to make good progress against both our 2008 and called The Path to Sexual Confidence, received environmental performance and management objectives, widespread global coverage and continues to be referenced expanding the reach of our environmental programme in scientific literature.
A previous Durex Network paper, and integrating environmental sustainability into everyday First Sex: An Opportunity of a Lifetime, was presented at decision-making.
In particular we have exceeded our the European Society of Contraception Conference, while energy target a year earlier than planned, delivering a its paper Age At First Sex: When Does It Really Happen?
reduction of approximately 14 per cent production unit was presented at the Global Health Council Conference.
Such reports play an important role in raising For more detail related to this and other awareness in international media and scientific forums environmental activities please see this years edition about the importance of developing evidence-based of our Environment Report, which can be accessed at interventions to sexually transmitted infections, particularly www.
The Network also works in partnership with World Environment Day NGOs, charities, policy-makers and politicians to promote SSL sites across the world took part in World Environment safer sex and effective condom use.
For example, it is a key Day, the theme of which was working towards a low carbon partner in Dance4Life, a global charity that informs young economy.
Activities across a range of markets, including people about HIV AIDS through the power of dance, Thailand, China, India and the United Kingdom, featured music and movement.
Every year we donate one million clean-up campaigns, car-sharing, poster designs, tree specially designed condom packs to educational projects planting, and competitions for ideas to reduce waste in participating countries.
A process known as depalletisation SSL works with the international has helped us to reduce freight across charity Students Partnership Worldwide our supply chain.
By loading stock onto to organise staff work placements pallets at the destination, rather than in developing countries.
These at the factory, we can maximise the placements are tremendously popular amount of product being transported with our employees, enabling them to and thus reduce the number of use their everyday professional skills containers in transit.
to contribute to causes that will impact and improve lives.
we are optimistic about optimistic our future 28 29 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 MARK MORAN
