Corporate Social Responsibility Report Year ended 29 November 2009 Introduction Principles One of the key achievements of 2009 was to ratify our first volunteering We believe that proper understanding In 2007, we defined our corporate social and fundraising policy that underpins and management of our social and responsibility ambitions that underpin all the work we do for communities environmental impacts are important to everything we do as follows: and enabled us to clearly state to the continued success of our business.
employees how they can get involved As we focus on long term success, our Give those in the community that with our community work.
Activities CSR strategy, called Giving Something most need it opportunity and that took place in 2009 include: Back, concentrates on tackling issues aspiration: that will have a sustained effect on our Respect the environment we live in: Volunteering local and international communities, Give back to the people who work so our environment, our people and Following an award-winning hard to make this a great company.
Apprentice Day held in 2008, we were keen to build on this success in Governance We strive to be the best company 2009.
This involved working closely Our CSR strategy is set by a Committee to work for and we cannot achieve with Time & Talents Westminster, which meets regularly and is chaired this without being a socially and a not for profit partnership enabling by the Group HR Director, who briefs environmentally responsible business.
private, public and voluntary sector the Board on appropriate matters.
Our global success will be increasingly organisations to work together to Separate meetings are held with non reliant on the breadth and effectiveness deliver effective Employer Supported executive directors on relevant matters of our CSR programme and we now Volunteering ESV.
The Board receives regular have a solid base linking people, of this organisation gives us access progress updates on matters from the committees and policies to make this to charities that are interested in Committee.
programme an integral part of how we employers providing skilled volunteers run our business.
that would take a lot of effort and time Our CSR programme is reviewed on to achieve ourselves.
a regular basis to make sure that the Background Company adheres to national and Our main focus for any work we do During 2007 we commissioned a international legal and environmental in the community is young people, specialist CSR advisor to undertake a requirements.
especially those classified as NEET review of our CSR practices.
This led Not in Education, Employment or to the launch of our Giving Something What happened in 2009?
To that end, we worked hard Back programme detailed in this report.
Giving Something Back concentrates with Time & Talents and Connexions Putting together the programme on three areas: community, who we organised the Apprentice Day involved the development of a clear environment and workplace.
The with to find ways of providing support strategy and framework to ensure the following details progress made against to young people to help them find jobs.
strategy was implemented within the our CSR strategic objectives in 2009.
Unfortunately, due to Connexions desired timeframe.
In 2009 a crossbecoming a part of City of Westminster disciplinary team of managers started Council and a strengthening of child working together on a regular basis to protection laws, we werent able to further develop and implement our CSR Community progress this initiative.
programme and the progress made We want to give those that most need forms the basis of this report.
2010 will it opportunity and aspiration this Towards the end of 2009, we started see us build a fully-fledged programme applies to the communities in which we working with the Paddington Academy on the foundations laid over the last work and beyond.
We have a wealth of a non-selective school in West London two years.
talent and energy at SThree that can be for 11 to 18 year olds and look forward to harnessed to benefit communities local offering our employees the chance to to our offices and we will continue to volunteer at the academy in 2010.
We partner with charities and community have agreed a series of activities, the groups to facilitate this.
Fulfilling our first being a teacher mentoring scheme community commitments influences for our senior managers.
Other activities the way we do business and we hope will quickly be developed that will focus they will contribute to our continued on employability.
SThree plc 37 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Year ended 29 November 2009 In addition to the policy developed in 2009 that outlines how employees can get involved in volunteering supported by us or arranged by the individual, we have online application forms and an approval process that ensures everyone benefits from the experience.
Each permanent employee at SThree is entitled to two volunteer days per year that can be used to attend a volunteering activity.
As a corporate partner of Time & Talents Westminster, we meet regularly with other corporate, community and third sector partners to share our collective experiences and work together to build a strong network that will benefit each partner and their stakeholders.
We will host an employability working group in spring 2010 with the objective of setting the agenda for any volunteering done in this area within Westminster.
Nursery school pupils at an existing SOS Children Village in Lusaka, Zambia Fundraising Raising funds for charitable causes has pay for one of the 15 houses that will ensure that we maximise impact in always been important at SThree and form part of the village when it is built this area.
we continued to fundraise for some in 2010 11.
As well as homes for the great charities in 2009.
Our current children, there will be a nursery school charity partner, SOS Childrens Villages, and a medical centre.
Environment has benefited from three major With 1,500 employees spread fundraising events a Fun Day in June, As well as raising money for our across the globe, managing our a Dress Down Day in September and charity partner, we raise money environmental impact is a challenge a prize draw at our annual Battersea through other Dress Down Days and one that we are fully committed Christmas party.
SOS Children provide for charities that are nominated to.
We have started to measure homes for orphans and abandoned by employees and chosen by the and reduce our carbon footprint children worldwide and were chosen at charity committee, which is formed throughout our UK operations and will the end of 2008 because of their young from a cross-section of employees implement individual carbon reduction person focus and international scope.
This year we raised plans for each UK office in 2010.
By As a growing international company, over 45,000 on these days for the introducing technology to allow us we wanted to have a charity partner following charities: Comic Relief in to hold meetings and conferences that represented our network of offices March, Street Child Africa and Motor via video links and the web, we will around the world.
Neurone Disease Scotland in May and continue to reduce the amount we The Alzheimers Society in October.
travel and lessen our contribution to We are very pleased to have raised worldwide CO emissions.
2 nearly 37,000 for SOS Children In total, with matched funding, six this year with matched funding, it charities have received 100,000 To kick start the measure and takes the grand total to just short of from SThree and its employees and management of our carbon emissions 60,000 as non direct donations are we are very proud of this amount and in the UK, we commissioned an energy not matched.
In April of this year, we are looking forward to raising more consultancy called Adian Consulting asked our employees which village in 2010.
Our future focus will be to to measure our carbon footprint in should benefit from our support during enable employees in each region to early 2009.
This will change the way the partnership and they had two to choose a local charity to fundraise for we manage energy at SThree and will choose from.
Our employees chose and to have an international network lay the foundations for becoming an Chipata and we are excited to report of community champions throughout energy efficient company in the future.
that we have raised nearly enough to the Group to engage employees and Our carbon footprint is disclosed below.
SThree plc 38 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Year ended 29 November 2009 Currently, less than 20% of FTSE management programme with the aid The Companys UK carbon footprint companies publish this figure although of one of these suppliers in 2010. was estimated at 2,299 tonnes for this will undoubtedly increase with the year 2007 8: the introduction of the UK Carbon Offsetting 89% 2,048 tonnes was due to Reduction Commitment Energy As a result of the carbon footprint building related energy usage: Efficiency Scheme CRC.
Although project, we will start implementing 11% 249 tonnes was due to we fall outside the requirements of ways of managing our energy and business travel excluding cars CRC due to the amount of electricity reducing our carbon emissions in the journeys: we use, we are pleased that we will be future.
To add to our commitment to Energy efficiency could reduce the compliant with the scheme when it is respecting the environment, we will building related CO emissions by introduced in April 2010.
2 invest in carbon reduction projects approximately 11% 195 tonnes : and through ClimateCare to offset our Carbon footprint and energy For an organisation of our size and annual carbon footprint.
This means management activity profile, the suggested that we will invest around 15,000 in footprint was between 1,600 tonnes In late 2008, a strategic decision projects in 2010. and 3,500 tonnes.
was made to conduct a Companywide initiative to establish our We have taken a number of steps to Carbon Footprint carbon footprint and reduce energy reduce the amount of business travel Travel by consumption whilst taking steps to our employees make over the last Travel by Train Plane 2% increase recycling by 50%.
Adian two years although we are conscious 9% Water Supply Consulting were engaged to manage that this area still represents over Negligible and deliver the project using a phased 10% of our carbon footprint figure.
minimise the impact of this travel on Gas 10% the environment, we will be offsetting Office Phase One looked into data availability all incentive-related travel through Electricity 49% in relation to carbon emissions ClimateCare.
associated with office energy Communal Electricity efficiency, business travel and Workplace 30% our company car fleet.
In addition, We want our people to thrive in waste management and utilities the workplace and consider it our cost management were singled out responsibility to provide an engaging, for future consideration and action.
We are currently in a transition phase supportive and safe environment that This phase took place from March as we look at scoping Phase Three encourages them to make the best to May with the report being issued of the carbon footprint project that use of their talents and personalities.
The report found will see us implement some of the We welcome anyone with the skills information on energy consumption recommendations from Phase Two.
and abilities to succeed and are and cost was patchy across the whole Phase Three will also be focussed on committed to offering our employees a organisation, whilst there were few putting systems in place in order that balance of professional development, waste management systems in place we can measure our carbon footprint benefits and rewards.
By not putting to record the quantities generated and internally from 2010 onwards.
any restrictions on the type of people the rates at which waste may have we recruit and by treating everyone been recycled.
Waste Management equally, we have established a truly diverse workforce.
We regularly Although we chose not to pursue Phase Two commenced in May 2009 review our working practices to actions to reduce the waste we create to verify preliminary findings and to ensure that they meet the needs of in Phase Two, this does not mean that identify opportunities for change.
our employees and the cultures we the subject was completely ignored.
Adian Consulting visited and surveyed operate in.
During 2009, we pushed While some offices in the UK have nineteen SThree offices in the UK forward with new initiatives that fall recycling facilities, we do not have a and inspected landlords plant rooms, under the workplace banner, the most UK-wide solution to managing waste.
notable of these being a UK-wide We therefore approached several The end goal of both phases was a Health & Safety project and also being waste management companies carbon footprint figure for our business awarded diversity accreditation by the asking them to tender for a contract to in the UK.
The following are highlights recruitment industry.
A summary of manage all our waste in the UK and we of Phase Two that was delivered in our 2009 initiatives is as follows: expect to start implementing a waste September: SThree plc 39 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Year ended 29 November 2009 Diversity Something Back programme in 2010 will focus on increasing employee We completed The Recruitment & participation in the initiatives that will Employment Confederations Diversity be launched throughout the year.
We Assured Health Check in October 2009 Learning & Development will also be focussed on reducing our and are proud to have been awarded Many positive changes have been carbon footprint figure.
the Diversity Assured Recruitment made to the structure and content Kitemark.
Being a Diversity Assured of our training courses and our A brief summary of key initiatives for Recruiter confirms that we take a development programmes in 2009.
As 2010 is as follows: proactive approach to improving a sales-orientated business, we have diversity in the workplace and show traditionally only offered training to Community commitment to deliver diversity our employees working in sales teams.
Our fundraising goal is to pay for the However, this changed in 2009 when building of two houses in the SOS we introduced a key skills programme We also developed our first GroupChildrens village that will be built for employees working in support roles wide diversity statement that outlines in Chipata, Zambia, costing around along with learning plans for these our aims in this area and confirms 126,000 in total.
We aim to achieve employees.
that we are currently concentrating this through a variety of established on finding an accurate and efficient events as well as encouraging our One of the major developments in our way of measuring how diverse our employees to take part in individual Learning & Development capability workforce is.
Additionally, we are in the fundraising activities and already have was to launch an online learning tool early stages of developing a Women in several employees planning to take called MyLearning, which will allow the Workplace initiative that will help part in a 10K run in London in July.
all our international employees to attract, retain and promote existing take part in the full compliment of and prospective female employees.
Supported volunteering activities training courses available.
In tandem As part of the programme, we will will be launched this year in the with the launch of MyLearning, the look at introducing forums, mentoring UK with the first due to take place entire training programme for sales schemes and undertake a review of in the spring.
We are working with consultants was redesigned to reflect benefits that directly affect the Group.
a number of charities and not-forthe changing needs of our business.
profit organisations in London to kick Health & Safety start the process before establishing Wellbeing opportunities in other areas in the To review and ultimately improve our A number of new employee benefits second half of 2010. health & safety practices, a project were introduced in 2009 as we look to team was put together in the spring of standardise and increase the number Environment 2009 and many improvements have of benefits offered to our employees now been implemented.
Key amongst Phase 3 of our carbon emissions worldwide.
For our UK employees we these was the development and project will run throughout most of introduced new healthcare and dental subsequent ratification of a Health & 2010 and will see the implementation plans and launched a salary exchange Safety policy for the UK and ownership of several energy saving and energy scheme, which allows employees to was established in each office location management initiatives across UK contribute more to their Companyfor adherence to this policy.
The project will also see us sponsored pension fund.
We also environment self-assessment was sent implement systems and processes to introduced a new Save As You Earn to all UK employees and actions were enable the in-house measurement of SAYE scheme and Share Incentive taken at the end of the year to rectify our carbon footprint in future years.
Plan SIP to enable UK employees to any issues.
Office visits were also made As we make efforts to reduce our buy shares in SThree.
by the project manager to further carbon emissions as a Group, we are understand local issues in the UK.
committed to offsetting our footprint A pension scheme and healthcare plan every year by investing in carbon were made available to employees in A mirror project will be run in all reduction projects across the globe.
Singapore and a healthcare scheme international offices during 2010 was launched for colleagues in the US.
now that a blueprint for an effective We aim to introduce waste reduction initiative has been established.
and management in all UK offices What is going to happen in 2010?
This will involve finding a Following a successful year of suitable national provider, with the progression in 2009, SThrees Giving SThree plc 40 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Year ended 29 November 2009 process of selection already having begun.
As we open more and more offices globally, we will look to decrease the environmental impact of each new office and will provide guidance to employees on how they can take personal ownership of environmental issues while at work.
Workplace Being awarded diversity accreditation in 2009 was an important step for the Group and we want to build on that success in 2010.
We will be piloting a Woman in Management programme with the aim of increasing the number of female employees moving into management roles and the number of female managers being promoted to senior roles.
Focus will also be on the implementation of a consistent method Prizewinners at the SThree Christmas charity event of measuring and monitoring our diversity footprint.
We will continue the roll out of the health and safety project established in the UK in 2009 to all international offices as well as further developing our online learning portal to deliver worldwide training programmes.
Summary We are well on track with our CSR programme and fully expect to make further progress throughout 2010.
Russell Clements Chief Executive Officer 29 January 2010 The winning team from SThrees fundraising five-a-side football tournament, June 2009 SThree plc 41 5
