29 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Corporate and social responsibility Synergy fully recognises its responsibilities for the The attainment and maintenance of these standards, safety and wellbeing of all those who may be directly help to assure our customers, and the wider community, or indirectly affected by its operations, and this is that our processes and services are being independently promoted as a primary business objective across the audited to the highest levels.
Throughout 2008 09 Synergy continued to evaluate and invest in improving the responsible Synergy is committed to continually improve the delivery of its products and services.
The impact of quality and delivery of its products and services across our operations on customers, employees and the wider its entire operation.
This applies to all our existing community are all taken into account in developing international sites and is being adopted in new a responsible and sustainable business model.
operations such as the combined sterilisation and decontamination site being built at Suzhou in China.
The Board acknowledges it has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that Synergy operates in an ethical and Risk management socially responsible way to its customers, employees Synergy has implemented a comprehensive risk and the community in which it operates.
This commitment management programme across all its business units.
is expressed within its developing CSR Policy, that sets The objective of the programme is to avoid potential out the standards to which the Group is committed to safety, environmental, human and commercial risks implementing, alongside its wider goals and objectives.
but also realise new opportunities to exploit the changing trading environment.
Synergy is strongly focused on supporting the delivery of front line health and care related services and As part of this process a Group Risk Management continually strives to maintain the highest standards of Policy has been prepared, and used to standardise professionalism and quality.
Synergy operates in highly the evaluation of risk across different divisions.
The key driver for Each division has established a Risk Management many of our services is the enhancement of patient Working Group and risk registers have been produced, safety.
High standards of operational controls and risk together with outline mitigation strategies.
The principal management are key to the successful delivery of our risks identified under the procedures are set out in the services.
An essential requirement is the ability to achieve risk management section of this Annual Report.
and retain accreditation to international standards, across many different areas of our business, including: We are also working closely with our principal insurer to reduce unit level operational risks.
In 2008 09, ISO 9001 Quality management systems 11 UK sites were visited and over 100 improvements ISO 11137 Sterilisation of healthcare products made.
A further series of inspections will be carried out ISO11135 Sterilisation of healthcare products in 2009 10 so we can continue the work of frontline Ethylene oxide risk reduction.
Registration with the Japanese Pharmaceutical Affairs Law PAL Additionally a joint study to review and improve our Compliance with United States Food and Drugs current contingency plans is underway with the insurer.
Administration USFDA standards The first initiative has been to carry out a Business Accreditation by the CPA UK Ltd. Clinical Impact Analysis study.
The findings of this study will Pathology Accreditation by UKAS United Kingdom be used to further refine the existing emergency and Accreditation Service contingency plans.
ISO14001 Environmental Management Standard Business review 30 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Corporate and social responsibility Our continued success is dependent on attracting and retaining the right people who can drive the business forward.
Our customers Our employees We pride ourselves on being focused on the individual Our continued success is dependent on attracting and needs of all our customers and being responsive to retaining the right people who can drive the business changes in their demands and requirements.
Without such people the business will fail to committed to provide services and solutions of the meet its objectives.
Actively engaging with our staff and highest quality, whilst seeking to offer the best value enabling them to develop their careers in a stimulating available in the markets where we operate.
and progressive company is seen as key to this objective.
Our customers rightly expect us to act in a professional Our CEO has expressed a commitment to create the way.
They should also expect us to manage our opportunity for everyone to expand their knowledge and business in a professional and ethical manner with career within Synergy.
This commitment applies to all respect to our employees, the environment and the current and prospective employees and excludes any community.
We will work in partnership with our discrimination on the grounds of age, gender, sexual customers and wherever possible we will endeavour orientation, ethnicity or disability.
to exceed contracted performance standards.
Synergy has sought to achieve its goals in this area over Many of Synergys relationships with customers are the past year by a number of different initiatives that governed by long-term contracts ranging from three have included: to 40 years in duration.
Formal service standards are agreed with all customers.
We encourage customers The recruitment of a Group HR Director: to visit our sites with or without a prior appointment to Developing a new in-house training team and the discuss any issues relating to the quality of the goods development of a targeted training programme in and services we supply and provide feedback on how the Decontamination services division: we can improve our performance.
26 managers have started the Chartered Management Institutes Level 5 Management Diploma: Five of our most senior managers have enrolled on a 18-month Applied Management programme with Warwick University: Launching a formal graduate recruitment programme: o 360 management assessment and feedback programme completed: Synergy offers its employees the opportunity to participate and benefit in the success of the company by purchasing shares at a significant discount under its Save As You Earn scheme: JMJ Laboratories is accredited under the Investors in People scheme: A revised whistle blowing policy is currently being prepared.
The appointment of a Group HR Director will enable us to build greater employee engagement which is the key to employee retention, increased productivity and creating greater shareholder value.
There are forums for communication established across our business which are appropriate for the cultural and legal environment.
For example the Dutch operations have a well-developed system of works councils where delegates from each site are elected by the workforce.
As well as local councils there is a central Joint Works Council of LTS which formally discusses a wide range of work-related matters with the employer.
31 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 The environment Health and safety Synergy recognises and accepts that its operations do Synergy is committed to providing safe places of work have an effect on both the local and global environments for all its employees, our neighbours and any visitors and is increasingly seeking to minimise any negative who come onto our sites.
This commitment extends to impact by building a more sustainable business.
all its operations worldwide, where in the absence of local regulations the Company will impose its own In November 2008 our linen facility at Ascot Drive in minimum standards to protect the workforce.
We will Derby was awarded the ISO 14001 standard and joined work with our employees towards a safer working a number of other sites across the Group which also hold environment and address any concerns they may have this accreditation.
in relation to their working conditions.
During 2008 09 the Group has increased its efforts to Safe systems of work will be developed, based on risk reduce energy consumption and the production of waste.
assessments, that identify the intrinsic hazards of each The first four stages of this process have now been process and those persons who are exposed to risk.
started: Appropriate protective measures will be implemented that can include: To better understand where energy is used around the Group and within each site by improving metering Engineered safety devices: and undertaking energy audits: Safe systems of work: Improving the awareness of staff on ways that they Work instructions: can contribute to reducing energy consumption: Training: Recycling of waste packaging materials and linen Supervision: across many of our sites: Protective clothing and equipment.
To implement energy reduction measures including recycling heat and water within the linen management The Company will allocate adequate resource to business, reducing business travel through the health and safety and conduct audits to ensure increased use of video conferencing and limiting the compliance with our standards.
The CEO takes the purchase of new motor cars to those with emission ultimate responsibility for the provision of a safe below 160g CO2 km.
working environment at all the Groups locations.
Implementation of policies and procedures is delegated Over the next 12 months the objective will be to to divisional managing directors and then to regional consolidate this effort and further develop the Group and local managers who are responsible for the strategy to reduce energy and carbon consumption.
organisation of safety in the workplace.
Similar efforts will be put into waste reduction and recycling initiatives by implementing best practice from In 2008 there were several new initiatives to improve around the business.
A formal carbon management our safety performance including the appointment of programme has been commissioned with the supplier a third party consultancy to provide a comprehensive of a recognised energy consultancy company.
Additionally a new Company Safety Standard was issued that applies to all operations LTS has undertaken several important initiatives as across the Group.
These two actions will allow us to part of a four year energy efficiency plan to reduce better monitor and benchmark our performance in consumption.
Over the past five years this has resulted 2009 10 and then target resource into those areas that in an average annual reduction in energy use of 1.75% most require improvement by using the accident and and it is now targeted to save 2% per annum for the near misses reporting required by the new standard.
This reduction has been achieved in a number of ways including: Recycling hot water and increasing the use of heat exchangers: Investment in new energy efficient plant: New techniques to reduce washing temperatures.
Healthcare solutions recycle end of life textiles and have reduced the volume of packaging materials to further improve their environmental performance.
