0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 15 6 09 16:25 Page 26 What we do People Running a diverse business like Tate & Lyle, which develops, manufactures and sells a wide variety of products and services to customers in different markets across the world, relies on a team of highly skilled, motivated people from a wide range of disciplines.
Our workforce encompasses a Developing careers development gaps to ensure broad range of skills and experience Our employees are vital to the we have the right skills to grow in areas such as food science, sales success of our business.
It is a key the Group at all levels.
and marketing, engineering and objective for the Group to attract Leadership Curriculum support services.
and retain top-quality recruits, and this provides opportunities for to ensure that our employees develop managers across the Group At 31 March 2009, Tate & Lyle and grow in their roles and meet to improve their skills and employed 5,718 people across the new challenges as their careers expand their knowledge through Group.
The chart below shows the progress.
To help achieve these a number of tailored programmes, split of employees between our objectives, we have developed and seminars and courses.
are implementing The Tate & Lyle Graduate Development People Strategy which consists a Group-wide graduate recruitment of four main components: and development programme Divisional employees to attract and develop top talent At 31 March 2009 Behaviours for Success and prepare them for key roles these encourage our people to across the Group.
Food & Industrial Sucralose Ingredients, Americas display strong leadership at all 5% Sugars 46% levels of seniority by exhibiting Remuneration 25% identified key characteristics and We review our remuneration policies behaviours we need for success, regularly in light of market trends, such as a focus on excellent the needs of the business and the customer service.
Talent Management Our policies are designed to attract, a system which addresses retain and reward employees with Food & Industrial key business issues such as the ability and experience to Ingredients, Europe 24% succession planning and filling execute the Groups strategy.
Developing careers Serah Adegbenro, Process Engineer, Michelle Kozora, Food Scientist, Weston Adcock, Accountant, Thames Refinery, UK Technical Services.
Decatur, USA Year started: 2005 Year started: 2003 Year started: 2007 26 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009
