0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:26 Page 16 What we do Sustainable sourcing Ensuring we have a long-term, reliable supply of corn and cane sugar for our plants is essential.
This involves developing long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with growers, farmers and other commercial partners to secure supply: understanding commodity markets: and hedging costs where feasible.
History Waxy corn is contracted direct During the year we added corn Tate & Lyle was founded in the UK from the farmer and has special storage and unloading capacity at in 1921 but its roots can be traced functionality that makes it ideal for our processing plants and country back to a number of companies creating stabilisers, thickeners and elevator network to service our established in the middle of the emulsifiers for the food industry.
19th century focused on sugars It is also used in adhesives and in Europe, and corn milling in the gums for the paper industry.
Tate & Lyle has Our European division, Food & been purchasing corn from US USA Industrial Ingredients, Europe, farmers and cane sugar from a Running our large corn wet has two wholly owned plants, with variety of countries for over a milling plants in the USA efficiently another five in Central and Eastern century.
Making sure we have 24 hours a day relies on good Europe as part of our joint venture, high-quality raw materials at the management of the corn supply Eaststarch.
Due to the sweetener right price is the starting point chain.
Our Food & Industrial quota system in Europe and for how we do business.
Ingredients, Americas division other factors such as transport owns a network of elevators silos infrastructure, our plants primarily Corn to purchase corn directly from serve local markets and are Our Food & Industrial Ingredients farmer producers.
Farmer-owned therefore significantly smaller businesses in the Americas and co-operatives and family-owned than our US plants, processing Europe are both large-scale grain companies supply millions in total just over two million tonnes processors of corn.
Tate & Lyle of bushels of corn each year for of corn per year.
We purchase purchases two types of corn: dent our plants to grind.
Corn purchase dent corn locally where possible, and waxy.
Dent corn is the most contracts may be negotiated with and commission waxy corn common crop and is used to make corn suppliers for delivery the same direct from European farmers high fructose corn syrup, food day, or in some cases price and for speciality food starch starch, alcohol ethanol and terms may be for delivery up to production at our plant in animal feed.
Providing an efficient, high-quality service at our elevators helps us build strong, long-term relationships with our corn suppliers.
In the USA, at harvest time, due to the high volumes, corn is delivered initially to the elevators then sent on to our plants by rail car, truck or river barge: during the rest of the year corn may also be delivered direct to the plants.
16 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 15 6 09 18:22 Page 17 Cane sugar To meet our future raw sugar Ensuring a fair price Our Sugars division uses cane supply needs, we have entered into through Fairtrade sugar as the raw material for its long-term agreements with both In February 2008, we announced business.
Cane sugar is a tropical traditional and new suppliers.
For our decision to convert all UK retail crop grown in areas of high example, in May 2008 we signed a cane sugar to Fairtrade by the end sunshine and rainfall.
It accounts long-term agreement with Fiji for the of 2009.
At that time this was the for around 80% of world sugar supply of up to 300,000 tonnes of largest ever switch to the ethical production.
In addition, in labelling scheme by any major the summer of 2009, our European UK food or drink brand.
The first Tate & Lyles Sugars division refineries will start to receive the product licensed to carry the produces about 1.3 million tonnes first shipments of sugar from one Fairtrade mark was Tate & Lyle of cane sugar each year from its of our new suppliers in the Lao Granulated White Cane Sugar.
two refineries in Europe, and Peoples Democratic Republic.
As at 31 March 2009, Tate & Lyle processes up to a million tonnes Caster Sugar, Tate & Lyle Preserving of sugar cane at its factory in Good relationships are based on Sugar, Tate & Lyle Icing Sugar and Vietnam.
While our Vietnamese open dialogue and ensuring that Tate & Lyle Royal Traditional Icing operation sources from local our refineries remain attractive Sugar also now carry the Fairtrade growers, our European business destinations for suppliers.
This mark, with the rest of the secures supply from African, means investing in our plants range to follow.
Caribbean and Pacific countries both to expand our business and least-developed countries and to increase efficiency.
Over Tate & Lyles first accredited Fairtrade under the EU Sugar Regime.
These the last two years we have made growerpartner is Belize, from whom suppliers have preferential access significant investments in our two we have purchased sugar for over to the European sugar market under European sugar refineries, including 35 years.
In the first year since various agreements with the EU.
a new biomass boiler and two new Tate & Lyle moved to Fairtrade, cranes for unloading sugar at our sugar cane farmers in Belize have Reform of the EU Sugar Regime and London refinery, and new facilities received nearly US$4 million in resulting price cuts are affecting the at our Lisbon refinery to enable Fairtrade premiums from Tate & Lyle whole of the supply chain, including increased throughput.
which has been used to improve raw sugar suppliers.
This means their livelihoods and develop more that maintaining strong working sustainable communities.
So every relationships with our suppliers is time a customer buys a pack of increasingly important to improve Tate & Lyle Fairtrade cane sugar, the profitability of the industry for all these farmers benefit from our stakeholders and to ensure we can commitment.
continue to source the cane sugar we need for our refineries.
04. sustainable communities Over the past year, farmers in Belize have used the Fairtrade premium paid to them by Tate & Lyle in many different ways.
They have invested in fertiliser and pesticides to improve crops damaged after Hurricane Dean, and have started to improve roads, which are essential for the harvesting and delivery of the sugar cane.
Money has also been spent on providing education grants for children and on school meals for primary school children.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 17 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
