0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 12 6 09 16:43 Page 70 How we run the business Corporate social responsibility For Tate & Lyle, corporate social responsibility equates to applying our four core values safety, integrity, knowledge and innovation to the way we run our business.
This means continuous progress in achieving the highest standards of safety: considering the environmental impact of every aspect of what we do: and treating our employees, suppliers and the communities in which we work as long-term partners.
Putting these concerns at the centre of our business requires proactive management at every level within the Group.
The Board reviews Tate & Lyles policies Safety Tate & Lyle has no priority and performance annually, and the Chief Executive higher than safety, which we believe is the Board member accountable for all aspects is fundamental to running a successful of corporate social responsibility.
This means ensuring safe and healthy conditions for everyone at our Business Code of Conduct Our Business Code of Conduct the Code of Conduct sites: employees, contractors and visitors.
governs our approach to corporate social responsibility.
By reporting, recognising and rewarding The Code of Conduct applies unconditionally to all parts safety performance, we aim to ensure of the wholly-owned Group, and we also aim to apply that all our operations focus on the Code of Conduct in those operations in which we continuous improvement.
Where we have a minority stake, we encourage our partners to adopt the Code of Conduct.
A copy of the Code of Conduct can be found on our website, www.
The Code of Overview Conduct sets out how we do business, explains what Overall, our employee safety performance stakeholders can expect from us and what we require showed good progress in 2008, particularly in from our employees and look for in our business reducing the severity rate.
During another year of heavy partners.
Doing business in a responsible manner is construction activity, we were pleased that our overall not only in our long-term interests, but is in the interests contractor safety index also improved significantly, of all our stakeholders and of the environment.
although our lost-time and recordable injury rates This means operating to high social, ethical and for contractors both worsened.
environmental standards in all circumstances.
Employee safety results for calendar year 2008 Most locations equalled or improved on their 2007 performance, including 20 that reported no lost-time accidents and 10 that reported no recordable injuries for the year.
Overall, we were pleased that our results improved considerably compared with calendar year 2007 with all our measures showing an improved performance other than the lost-time accident rate which worsened slightly.
70 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 16 6 09 11:28 Page 71 Group safety index Benchmark safety Benchmarking safety 1 2 recordable injury rate lost-time accident rate US industry 4.20 US industry 2.10 04 05 06 07 08AH BC D E F GAH BC D E F G The smaller the index, the better the performance.
A US food manufacturing A US food manufacturing B US grain milling B US grain milling Our target is zero for every Tate & Lyle operation.
C US corn refiners C US corn refiners D US sugar industry D US sugar industry Tate & Lyle Tate & Lyle E Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas E Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas F Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe F Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe G Sugars G Sugars H Sucralose H Sucralose 1 Number of injuries per 200,000 employee hours 2 Rate of accidents sufficiently serious to result requiring more than first aid in lost workdays or restricted work activities US industry statistics as reported by the US industry statistics as reported by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics US Bureau of Labor Statistics Contractor safety results for calendar year 2008 Group safety index weighted average of injuries sustained in the workplace across Tate & Lyle, with During another year of heavy construction activity, we made significant efforts to improve our contractor safety more severe incidents having greater impact improved by 44.2%: performance.
Overall our contractor safety index rates improved significantly, with all divisions reporting Recordable injury rate injury requiring treatment beyond first aid improved by 6.6%: improvements on the previous year.
In particular, the severity rate improved considerably, although both our Lost-time accident rate recordable injury sufficiently severe to result in lost work days or to restrict the lost-time accident and recordable injury rates worsened this year.
We are pleased, however, that our contractor employees ability to perform his her job worsened by 4.6%: and safety statistics continue to compare favourably with those reported by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Severity rate number of work days lost due to injuries per 200,000 employee hours improved by 63.4%.
Compared with the 2007 calendar year results: Benchmarking results Contractor safety index improved by 28.6%: Recordable injury rate worsened by 14.9%: The USA and Europe compile safety statistics differently and therefore comparisons are difficult.
However, we Lost-time accident rate worsened by 37.6%: and Severity rate improved by 44.2%.
can compare the performance of each of our divisions with results from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Benchmarking results The most recent results available from the Bureau are from 2007 with the exception of the US corn refiners Contractor safety continues to compare well with the US Bureau of Labor Statistics 2007 the most whose results are from 2008.
Again this year, our divisions are outperforming the average reported recent data available.
The Bureau reports the overall recordable injury rate per 200,000 employee hours for standard for their peers in their respective sectors and in the US private sector as a whole.
US contractors to be 5.40 against 1.92 at Tate & Lyle, and the overall lost-time accident rate to be 2.80 against our 0.76.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 71 2.84 1.72 2.41 2.08 1.16 6.80 5.50 2.14 6.10 1.36 0.72 1.35 0.0 4.40 3.10 0.33 3.30 0.47 0.20 0.90 0.0 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 16 6 09 13:48 Page 72 How we run the business Corporate social responsibility continued Contractor safety index Benchmarking contractor safety Benchmarking contractor safety 1 2 recordable injury rate lost-time accident rate 06 07 08 06 07 08 06 07 08 06 07 08 US industry US industry A B CD Tate & Lyle Tate & Lyle 1 Number of injuries per 200,000 employee 2 Rate of accidents sufficiently serious to result A Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas hours requiring more than first aid in lost workdays or restricted work activities B Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe C Sucralose US industry statistics as reported by the US industry statistics as reported by the D Sugars US Bureau of Labor Statistics US Bureau of Labor Statistics Managing safety Awards Maintaining a consistently safe and healthy workplace To qualify for entry to our World Class Safety for our people requires effective, proactive management.
Excellence awards programme, plants must: We operate network safety committees in the Americas operate the entire year without lost time: and Europe that share knowledge and experience have active employee participation in their between plants with the aim of ensuring consistently safety programme: high standards of safety across Tate & Lyle.
The core have an active auditing programme: and elements of our approach to safety are: demonstrate adherence to Tate & Lyles standards emphasis on the importance of behaviour during executive, management and network audits.
by encouraging a culture of safety at all locations: improving communications and sharing best 2008 winners were: practice throughout the Group: Large plant over 250,000 employee hours the auditing of safety and loss control per year : Amylum Nisasta Turkey programmes: and Small plant fewer than 250,000 employee the active involvement of senior executives hours per year : Dayton, Ohio US in auditing and promoting safety.
Most improved safety performance Europe: Amylum Nisasta Turkey Projects and activities Americas: Jurong Island Singapore, The driving force behind our performance continues to part of Sucralose division.
be our emphasis on behaviour, networking and sharing best practice, auditing and the active involvement of Outlook senior management to promote and audit safety We will concentrate on developing global safety programmes.
Our network safety committees focused policies and procedures that can be easily shared on a number of activities this year, including: and referenced by all Tate & Lyle sites, and also audited Group-wide training and behavioural auditing: consistently.
We will also review our benchmarking continuing to develop policies and procedures: and and accident reporting procedures to ensure that recognising and rewarding outstanding safety accurate data and comparisons can continue to be performance through award schemes and by made across our business units and to related outside marking significant milestones, both for industries.
Contractor safety training and physical and employees and contractors.
behavioural auditing will continue to be key activities at our sites.
A copy of the policy can be found on our Environment website, www.
The principles of the policy are summarised in an environmental mission Tate & Lyle believes that companies statement which covers the following points: must take steps to manage their impact as a minimum, we comply with all applicable laws on the natural environment.
As a and regulations, and we exceed local requirements consequence, we are committed to or legislation where commercially feasible: conducting our business in a manner we make continuous efforts to prevent pollution that is sensitive to the environmental and improve environmental performance needs of the communities within which throughout all our activities: we operate.
We aim to achieve this we seek to minimise our use of energy, by upholding defined environmental materials and natural resources: standards in all of our operations, and we strive to develop renewable sources for we actively encourage our business energy and materials used in our processes: partners to demonstrate similar we assess environmental risks associated with levels of commitment.
existing and new activities or when decommissioning facilities, and establish controls to ensure that any risks remain at an acceptable level: we develop renewable products for our customers to help them reduce their impact on the natural environment: we encourage all employees to respect and Overview have concern for the environment through All our locations fully integrate environmental procedures and training: and management into their operational systems and we have clearly defined and communicated procedures.
The Board reviews environmental procedures as part of our management systems performance and the policy annually.
Managing our for achieving these commitments.
impacts to produce a more positive result is good for the environment and also brings economic benefits to Calendar year 2008 results Tate & Lyle.
When reviewing our environmental footprint, We focus our measurement and our improvement it has always been Tate & Lyles policy to focus efforts on the areas that have most environmental particularly on those impacts which have most effect on and financial impact.
Compared with 2007 results: the environment and over which we have direct control.
Energy consumption remained the same Our three most significant environmental impacts are, Water consumption increased by 3.7% in order of magnitude, energy use, water use and Non-hazardous solid waste production non-hazardous solid waste production.
increased by 62% Energy use is by far our most significant impact, and we Our energy consumption in 2008 remained the therefore give it the highest priority.
Our particular focus same and, therefore, we did not meet our target in 2008 was to minimise unit energy consumption during of a per unit 3% reduction.
Increased energy usage start-up and expansion activities across the Group, in our Americas and European ingredients businesses and the successful implementation of a wide range of due to construction and expansion activities was environment-related capital expenditure projects in offset by better performances in our Sugars and many of our plants.
Group energy index Group water index Group non-hazardous solid waste index 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 The smaller the index, the better the performance The smaller the index, the better the performance The smaller the index, the better the performance Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 73 0.84 0.81 0.80 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.80 0.78 0.81 0.84 1.16 1.32 0.93 1.02 1.65 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 16 6 09 14:00 Page 74 How we run the business Corporate social responsibility continued Both the Group water and non-hazardous solid Primary carbon footprint waste production indices increased during the year.
Tate & Lyles primary carbon footprint in the 2008 Improvements to both these indices are important calendar year across all its large sites was 0.33 tonnes targets for 2009, not only because of the environmental of CO per tonne of production.
This represents a 15% 2 impacts, but also because improvements offer cost reduction from 0.39 tonnes in the 2007 calendar year.
Every 1% improvement in our energy index would save an estimated 2.3 million.
An equivalent Because this is a relatively new area of analysis, it is improvement in the water index would save 120,000 difficult at this stage to benchmark our performance and, in the non-hazardous solid waste index, 14,000. against others.
However, we expect that, by calculating These savings are per annum at 2008 input prices.
our carbon footprint, we will be much better able to manage our overall impact on the environment as well Carbon footprint as using it to benchmark our own performance In 2007, with the help of environmental consultancy year on year.
URS, we developed a carbon footprint model to measure the impact of our operations on the Secondary footprint cane sugar environment.
We began by measuring the carbon Raw cane sugar milling is almost carbon neutral.
footprint of our UK cane sugar refining business from Cane grows in the field, waste fibre from the cane sugar cane field to supermarket shelf.
This is known as powers the factory and the cane regrows each year, secondary carbon footprint data, as it measures indirect usually up to five times without the need for replanting.
as well as direct emissions from the entire lifecycle It is then transported to our European refineries by ship.
Our current secondary carbon footprint is around 0.43 tonnes of CO per one tonne of sugar produced, 2 We then rolled out a model to measure the primary which means that the carbon footprint of a bag of sugar carbon footprint of our large sites across all our business made from cane sugar is currently about half that divisions.
A primary carbon footprint measures the of beet sugar.
The carbon footprint of cane sugar carbon associated with production at a specific site, produced at our London refinery will be reduced covering emissions generated through the combustion by more than 20% when our new biomass boiler of fossil fuels and transport.
The primary footprint is the comes on stream in 2009. most applicable measure for a business-to-business company, since the ingredients produced are then Investing in renewable energy sources used in a wide range of other goods.
Reducing energy consumption gets more difficult each year as we produce more value added products, which typically use more energy than producing our traditional products.
Energy is a particular concern for us, because not only is it a big contributor to our overall carbon footprint, but it is one of the most significant costs in our business.
To help reduce energy costs and to improve our 1 environmental performance, we have developed Carbon footprint Tonnes of CO per tonne of production 2 proprietary technology to use renewable energy sources biomass in our plants.
In 2009, our new 20 million biomass boiler at our London refinery will come on stream.
This boiler will supply 70% of the refinerys energy requirements.
Similar technology will be used at our new corn wet mill at Fort Dodge, Iowa, when it is completed and opened.
07 08 74 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0.39 0.33 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 16 6 09 11:29 Page 75 FDFs Five-fold Environmental Ambition Management systems In 2008, as part of the UK Food and Drink Federations Every operating unit has an environmental FDF Five-fold Environmental Ambition, Tate & Lyle management system.
Each unit is required to signed up to two major environmental initiatives.
In assess its environmental impact and develop an January 2008, Tate & Lyle was one of 20 leading food improvement plan based on identified areas of priority, and drink companies to agree to a UK industry-wide focus and opportunity, in line with the Groups overall commitment to improve water efficiency and reduce environmental management strategy.
This agreement was jointly developed by the are assessed for their environmental impact, and we FDF and resource efficiency experts Envirowise.
Then, in investigate whether there are more environmentally July 2008, Tate & Lyle was one of 40 companies to sign sound ways of achieving our aims.
up to the FDFs environmental Checklist and Clause for Greener Food Transport which encourages companies Each operating unit has incident, emergency and to achieve fewer and friendlier food miles.
These are regularly updated to meet new conditions and requirements.
We have Violation, abatement and compliance orders crisis management procedures to provide an effective The vast majority of our operations completed 2008 response in case of incident or emergency, including without incident.
Where Tate & Lyle inadvertently escalation to the Group Crisis Management Team contravened regulations, largely to do with emission when appropriate.
levels, we reacted immediately to correct the problems.
Training Managing environmental impacts Employees receive regular training on managing Managing environmental impacts is very important at environmental impacts and changes in legislation, Tate & Lyle.
Environmental risks are included in the so that they are always aware of relevant issues.
Group-wide risk management process, and are reviewed Many operating units have environmental management and assessed regularly.
For more information, see committees that meet regularly to discuss progress.
External environment and risk management on page 27 and Corporate Governance on page 68.
Customers and suppliers We work closely with our customers to ensure Measuring data our systems meet their requirements.
We brief all We collect detailed data and report results from contractors on key environmental issues to make sure each operating unit quarterly, using a comprehensive that we and they are managing our environmental system that has been validated by our internal audit impact effectively.
We then normalise the data to reflect the amount of product manufactured.
This protects the Outlook commercial sensitivities of the data while allowing us to Reducing per unit energy consumption and carbon report publicly on our progress, and make comparisons emissions will continue to be our major environmental between years.
The results are then aggregated to challenges in the year ahead.
By continuing to invest create a single set of indices for the Group, adjusted in reducing consumption per unit, exploring alternative to take account of acquisitions and disposals.
energy sources and technology, and encouraging a culture of concern for environmental issues at all our plants, we aim both to control costs and improve our impact on the environment.
Reducing road miles Our target is to reduce road miles in the UK by 2.1 million miles by the end of 2009, as part of the UK Food and Drink Federations aim to reduce the impact of food transport by 20% by 2012.
A significant user of road transport, we have already moved bulk sugar distribution between our London refinery and Glasgow from road to rail freight, saving over 1.6 million road miles per year.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 75 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 16 6 09 11:28 Page 76 How we run the business Corporate social responsibility continued Europe Many of our mainland Europe plants offer similar health programmes to the UK.
These include: Employee health and wellbeing Company-sponsored fitness programmes: health At Tate & Lyle, we aim to lead the way in and wellbeing awareness campaigns: healthy menu employee health.
Programmes will differ options in employee restaurants and annual health across the Group according to local and fitness check-ups.
needs, but all are based on the principle that the Company has a role to play in US Tate & Lyle continues to provide programmes and tools helping employees improve their health by to help employees become better informed consumers providing information, advice and other of their own healthcare services, as well as encouraging support on health and wellbeing.
them to adopt healthy lifestyles.
Some examples of our programmes include: Blue Points system: we offer this web-based system to all employees via our healthcare provider.
It provides a platform for employees to initiate and track healthy behaviours.
Employees earn points for meeting certain health targets, which can be Calendar year 2008 highlights redeemed online for health-related items such as UK yoga mats and gym bags.
Tate & Lyles nurse-led occupational health programme Health risk self-assessment: we encourage emphasises education and prevention and has often employees to complete this online self-assessment, been referred to as a model for other businesses and which is then reviewed by medical experts from our public sector organisations in the UK.
These experts then give feedback include educating employees in health and wellbeing, and recommendations to employees.
and providing vocational rehabilitation as an alternative Health and fitness: many plants offer exercise to sickness absence certificates, as well as health facilities or Company-sponsored fitness programmes.
promotion activities, an occupational health clinic, Stopping smoking weight management: employees advice on healthy eating, and counselling services.
enrolled in the Blue Cross Blue Shield health plan have access to various programmes either to help stop We also share elements of our programme with smoking or to manage their weight.
For example, we have helped two community partners with absence management training and advice, Outlook and we host regular visits from groups of trainee GPs Our long-term goal continues to be to raise the and doctors from Occupational Health Diploma courses standards of employee health and wellbeing throughout to help their understanding of occupational health in a Tate & Lyle, through sharing best practice and ideas factory environment.
We also offer work experience for across the Company and with healthcare partners.
trainee occupational health nurses from South Bank A particular focus for 2009 will be to make further and Brunel Universities.
improvements to our successful UK active back care management programme.
We were proud to receive external recognition of the quality and benefits of our programme, winning Gold in the UK Food and Drink Federations Community Partnerships Awards for our Rehabilitation & Absence Management Programme.
76 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 12 6 09 16:44 Page 77 To ensure transparency, our audit programme is run by Cert ID, an internationally recognised European auditing body, which assesses our suppliers against a range Commercial partners suppliers of social, ethical and sustainable criteria.
During 2009 Good, long-term relationships with our we will continue to use the process to address any partners and suppliers are very important outstanding issues that arise from the audits, and at Tate & Lyle.
We have a consistent, ensure that the process continues to help our suppliers Group-wide approach, based on our Code improve.
Our aim is to have audited all suppliers at least of Conduct, which covers purchasing once by the end of 2010. strategies at global, regional and local Fairtrade levels.
Supply chain ethics are important Tate & Lyles ongoing commitment to Fairtrade saw to us, and we are committed to sharing small-scale farmers in Belize receive nearly US$4 million best practice and improving standards in Fairtrade premiums in 2008.
The investment of this amongst suppliers.
premium has been divided between production, education and social programmes that have had a direct benefit to the 6,000 producers and their families.
Looking forward, there are plans to invest in longer-term projects to develop the quality of the sugar cane as well as the Raw material suppliers quantity of cane produced per acre.
Growers and producers of corn and sugar cane, the raw materials we use to make our products, are our Better Sugarcane Initiative biggest suppliers, and we have developed long-standing Tate & Lyle continues to work with Non Governmental and mutually beneficial relationships with them over Organisations NGOs, growers, unions, biofuels many years.
We apply rigorous standards to our raw companies, food manufacturers and other end users materials suppliers, and survey many of them on their to improve the social impact of sugar cane worldwide ethical commitment.
We work closely with them to through the Better Sugarcane Initiative BSI.
ensure compliance with our needs, implementing traceability and ensuring that our customers Tate & Lyle chaired the BSI in 2008, which is developing requirements are fully met.
a practical standard that will make a real global contribution towards reducing the environmental impact Sugar cane of sugar cane production, the social aspects associated Cane sugar suppliers are key to the supply chains for with it and the products mainly ethanol and sugar our EU sugar refineries.
These are typically countries derived from it.
that have preferential access to the EU sugar market, implemented through the EU Sugar Regime.
These Corn suppliers include those that we have long-standing We purchase around 2% of the US corn crop each relationships with, such as the African, Caribbean year.
The long-term relationships we have built up over and Pacific ACP countries, as well as new suppliers the years with the family-owned grain businesses, local resulting from recent changes to EU legislation, farmers and other commercial partners who provide such as in the Lao Peoples Democratic Republic.
us with corn ensure we have the supplies we need for our corn wet mills.
See page 16 in the Sustainable In Vietnam, our suppliers are the sugar cane growers Sourcing section for more details.
Meanwhile, in our molasses business our suppliers can be the same businesses that supply Sustainable procurement our sugar refineries, or suppliers from other Aside from our raw material suppliers, we continue to parts of the world.
review procurement to look at how we can encompass sustainability more fully in our strategies.
Auditing the supply chain Our auditing programme, introduced in 2007, Outlook is designed to evaluate the social, ethical and We aim to continue to improve standards in environmental performance of our suppliers and to our supply chain through developing our work on identify any shortcomings.
Where these are found, we supply chain ethics, risk management and sustainable work with that supplier to encourage the necessary procurement, and by working increasingly closely improvement.
We do not purchase our raw sugar from with suppliers to share best practice on a range of farmers or sugar mills, but from contracting parties which issues.
We will continue to develop our supplier are government organisations, co-operatives etc.
audit programme to ensure consistently high Auditing the contract party alone will not necessarily standards across the Group.
determine or improve conditions in the mills supplying sugar for our refining operations, or of the farmers themselves.
We therefore audit our second tier suppliers including with some random sampling of farmers.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 77 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 12 6 09 16:44 Page 78 How we run the business Corporate social responsibility continued Actual community spend by allocation Year ended 31 March 2009 Arts Communities 10% Education Tate & Lyle aims to play a positive role in Health 58% all the communities in which we operate.
14% Over the years we have developed a Group-wide community involvement policy that forms one of the core components underpinning our ethical behaviour.
Our programme involves building long-term Environment 18% relationships with local partners to deliver a shared objective: establishing strong, In the financial year ended 31 March 2009, Tate & Lyles safe and healthy communities by investing total worldwide charitable donations were 674,000, time and resources into projects that up from 642,000 in the previous year, while our total directly address local needs.
global pro bono contribution in goods and services is estimated to have been 221,000, down from 254,000 in the previous year.
We support many initiatives and local organisations involved in community regeneration all around the world.
Listed here is a Overview selection from each region in 2008.
Our community partnerships are well supported by employees, many of whom take part in our UK programmes.
Tate & Lyles community involvement Community Links: a local charity working to benefits our employees by enhancing their own local regenerate the area of Newham in East London.
community, offering significant personal development Community Food Enterprise: a social food outlet opportunities and making Tate & Lyle a company improving community access to fresh fruit and for which they are proud to work.
vegetables in the East London area.
Richard House Childrens Hospice: Londons first Each year we support around 300 organisations, hospice for terminally ill children, which we have ranging from long-established charities to fledgling supported since it was founded in 1996. community organisations.
Community support East London Business Alliance: takes many forms, depending on the needs of a regeneration agency for East London which the organisation, and includes funding, employee connects business to local people, alongside volunteering, consultancy, donation of products public and community partners, to enable social, and equipment and, for selected partners, free economic and infrastructure change.
use of the Companys warehousing, office accommodation and meeting room facilities.
Americas United Way: employees from across the USA Charitable donations donate through the payroll to this organisation Our Corporate Donations Committee oversees which gives money to local causes.
community policy throughout the world.
Our aims are Education: Tate & Lyle gives regular support to to select projects that target local needs and deliver a number of educational institutions including the most positive impact, and to ensure that ultimately Brush College, Associated Colleges of Illinois, our community involvement work reflects our broader and Millikin and Purdue Universities.
Our guidelines for Boys & Girls Club: sponsorship of a Decatur funding and support are: programme designed to inspire and enable young Education 50%: people to realise their full potential.
78 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 16 6 09 11:30 Page 79 Vietnam US Our sugar business in Vietnam, Nghe An Tate & Lyle Supporting universities: Tate & Lyle supports a NAT&L, supports the following programmes: number of research initiatives at local universities.
Roads: provincial and communal road Agricultural Day at Lafayette: employees from our maintenance in the NAT&L cane catchment area.
plants in Lafayette South and Sagamore volunteer Schools: supplying text books and school stationery to help run the local agricultural day each year.
for under-privileged children and funding for Local fundraising and donations: many employees outstanding students in primary, from across our plants support local causes with middle and high school.
activities such as sponsored walks, food drives, and University scholarships: funding for outstanding donating clothing, gifts and supplies for schools.
Housing: contributing funds towards Managing our impact housing units for farmers and their families.
Our aim is to ensure that all our sites around the world develop programmes in line with our community Employee volunteering involvement policy, which is ratified by the Board.
Tate & Lyle employees around the world make We continue to make progress in this, but there huge efforts to support their local communities.
are different levels of activity reflecting the history Their involvement is vital to maintain the long-term of Tate & Lyles involvement in the area and the good relationships we have developed with these size of our presence.
communities: volunteering also brings skills and experience from the workplace into the community In locations where we have operated for a long time, that corporate funding alone cannot achieve.
Several such as the East End of London, and the Decatur, Illinois of the organisations we support have been partners area, we have long-running partnerships with local for over a decade.
organisations and make a considerable contribution.
In other areas where we have recently acquired sites or Volunteering also brings benefits to Tate & Lyle.
built new plants, our involvement is at an earlier stage.
Employees tell us that they benefit hugely from Our aim continues to be to share best practice and community work, which helps them develop their skills improve internal standards and reporting around the and become more rounded as individuals.
A strong world so that all parts of the Group develop mutually volunteer network is vital to the success of our beneficial long-term community partnerships.
community involvement programme, and developing that network across Tate & Lyle is an important ongoing Awards aim.
Here we highlight some of our employees While we do not actively seek or measure success in volunteering activities from around the world.
terms of awards won, we value the external recognition such awards convey.
In 2008 we received a Silver Payroll UK Giving Award in the UK which is given to businesses who Educational visits: 1,000 students and 100 teachers actively promote payroll giving in the workplace.
We also visited Thames Refinery, Plaistow and Sugar Quay received a bronze award for our support for Caravan, a during 50 curriculum-based visits.
UK charity set up to help support former employees of Gifted & Talented: Tate & Lyle continues to support the food manufacturing and retail sales industries.
the UK Governments programme for gifted and talented children including, for secondary school Outlook students, a Science Challenge and for primary We continue to progress with integrating our community school children a maths workshop.
efforts around the world, and to focus particularly on sharing the benefits of our programmes with those operations newer to the Group.
Actively supporting local charities and communities From helping disabled children ride horses in Singapore, to sponsored walks in the US and climbing mountains in the UK pictured, employees doing the UKs Three Peaks Challenge, our employees everywhere can be found supporting local charities and communities.
As well as Grouporganised events, many employees take part in activities on their own initiative, helping to ensure that we play a full and positive part in the local communities in which we operate.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 79 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
