qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:10 Page 25 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 25 Business Review Governance Statements Directors Report: Business Review Our Corporate Responsibility Approach We believe corporate responsibility is an essential part of good governance and makes sound business sense as well as being crucial for risk and opportunity management.
Katherine Innes Ker Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman We have continued to take our corporate responsibilities extremely seriously throughout the economic downturn.
Operationally, health and safety continues to be the non-negotiable top priority in all regions in which we operate.
Taylor Wimpey plc maintained its listing in the FTSE4Good index during 2009.
We were also named as one of the 2010 Corporate Knights Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations.
Each year, Corporate Knights produces a list of the most sustainable large corporations in the world.
Taylor Wimpey plc was ranked as number 32 in the list.
Stakeholder engagement Corporate responsibility management We acknowledge the global threat of Taylor Wimpey aims to be a responsive climate change and the necessity of company that listens to and learns sustainable development.
We have a duty from a wide range of internal and to address environmental, social, ethical external stakeholders.
Our primary and economic issues when conducting stakeholders are: our business.
We also have a responsibility Investors to do so in a way that makes sound Further information long term business sense for our Customers Company, investors, business Employees Visit our Web site for further information partners and customers.
com  CRreports Residents and other groups in the Our Board-level Corporate Responsibility communities in which we operate We value feedback and welcome Committee normally meets at least three comments on our Corporate times per year and recommends the Suppliers, sub-contractors and other Responsibility Report or any Companys corporate responsibility business partners aspect of our approach to strategy, policies, reporting and Local, regional and national government corporate responsibility.
performance monitoring to the plc Board.
The Committee is made up Please e-mail us at: Landowners and land agents of Independent Non Executive and CRreport@taylorwimpey.
com Planners and regulators Executive Directors.
James Jordan, the or write to: Group Company Secretary and General Housing associations The Group Company Secretary Counsel, attends all meetings.
In addition Trade associations and industry bodies Taylor Wimpey plc key operational management are invited 80 New Bond Street to attend most meetings.
Charities, NGOs and other groups London interested in sustainable homes W1S 1SB and communities www.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:10 Page 26 26 Directors Report: Business Review Our Corporate Responsibility Approach continued Highlights from the 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report Identifying risks and opportunities Building highly energy-efficient homes Our UK business developed an extensive Sustainability and Climate Change Risk A Taylor Wimpey UK home built to current and Opportunity Register.
building regulations requires around one fifth of the energy needed to heat the same type of home built to 1930s building standards.
New house type range launched Best customer care in the US We introduced our new house type range of high Taylor Morrison West Florida won the 2009 quality, energy efficient, sustainable homes.
AVID Award for Best Customer Experience by a large homebuilder in the United States.
Green builder of the year Scottish award-winner Monarch was named low-rise Green Builder Our Raploch, Stirling development won of the Year in the Building Industry and Land Social Regeneration Project of the Year at Development Awards for the Greater Toronto Area.
the Regeneration and Renewal Awards 2009 and was recognised by the Scottish Government as a low-carbon exemplar community.
Commended for contributions Recognition for our graduate to American design programme Taylor Morrison was inducted into the Best of Taylor Wimpey has been included in the Cambridge American Living Award Hall of Fame for making a 25 a select group of 25 employers recommended significant contribution to American design.
to University of Cambridge graduates and included in the Universitys recruitment initiatives.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p25-27 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:10 Page 27 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 27 Business Review Governance Statements Sustainability housing and local employment.
We also Sustainability has been a key area of provide substantial financial and focus for Taylor Wimpey during 2009. in kind contributions through UK In September we ran a one day planning obligations.
sustainability workshop attended by 16 senior personnel and specialist advisors.
Customer care This sub-section highlights how we The conclusions of the workshop were approach customer care, including details used to develop our Sustainability and of customer surveys and communication.
Climate Change Risk and Opportunity It also highlights a series of sales, Register.
This detailed and extensive register marketing and quality awards.
will be reviewed and updated regularly The report also includes four case studies by our Sustainability Steering Group, a of developments that provide a range collection of senior personnel from relevant of social and environmental benets.
The disciplines across our UK business.
case studies are Academy Central in East The register will inform our strategy and London: Rowner in Gosport, Hampshire: our short, medium and long term priorities Leybourne Grange near Maidstone, Kent: in terms of tackling sustainability and and Steiner Ranch in Austin, Texas.
It will help us to identify and manage the threats to and The second section of the report addresses opportunities for our business in the years The way we work.
This focuses on our management systems and our approach ahead.
It is vital that our approach to to the key areas of employees, HSE and sustainability is aligned and integrated supply chain management.
with our business needs and aims.
Our first priority is to measure and report Employees on carbon dioxide and greenhouse gas This sub-section identies key employee emissions from our UK operations.
issues including ethics and employee engagement as well as training and 2009 reporting approach development.
It also includes details Our 2009 report is divided into two main of Taylor Morrisons Peak Performance sections and takes the same approach as programme, which helps us develop and our 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report.
maintain a healthy and motivated workforce.
The first section focuses on Our homes and communities and looks at five Health, safety and different aspects of creating sustainable environmental management communities, as follows: Here we describe our comprehensive HSE management systems and our Supporting local communities approach to key issues such as health This sub-section looks at our approach and safety training, climate change, to community consultation and waste management, land remediation engagement as well as charitable and biodiversity.
Supply chain management Design This sub-section describes our approach In 2009 we launched our new UK house to green procurement and provides type range that meets current and future examples of how we engage with regulatory and sustainability requirements.
suppliers and work with them to develop We also won a series of design awards.
The report also includes a data table Environmental sustainability providing key performance indicators Here we describe our approach to the and other performance measures.
Details wide range of environmental issues that of performance against the 2009 targets we take into account when designing published in our 2008 Corporate homes and communities.
We also Responsibility Report are available continue to undertake research and on our Web site.
engage with Government and industry with regard to the feasibility of upcoming sustainability driven regulation in the UK.
Enhancing economic growth We make an important contribution to the Katherine Innes Ker local economies of the areas in which we Corporate Responsibility build through the provision of affordable Committee Chairman www.
