Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 20 corporate governance Environment Corporate Social Responsibility continued As a leading data centre This year the Group developed Key achievements in 2009 operator, TelecityGroup plays a comprehensive Energy a central role in sustaining Management Programme to I Comprehensive Energy Management a thriving digital economy.
identify and share technology, Now more than ever before, best practice and innovation Programme in place businesses are dependent to improve energy efficiency on locating their IT and across the whole Company.
I Achieved Corporate Status as web infrastructure in highly The programme builds on connected and secure existing management systems part of the EU Code of Conduct environments in order to and is underpinned by the for Data Centres.
Only network achieve their own business principles of ISO 14001 goals.
At the same time, the Environmental Management.
independent data centre operator Company recognises that it It was informed by a series to have audited all of its data must take steps to mitigate of independent energy audits increasing energy consumption across the Companys largest centres to the codes guidelines required to host customers data centres and the findings equipment and cool operating were used to ensure the I R eceived external recognition sites.
The Group remains programme was robust and for environmental achievements.
committed to achieving best fit for purpose.
Measuring the environmental practice and Groups performance is crucial Awards include: ensuring that its data centres if the Company is to deliver are as energy efficient as ongoing improvements.
Data Centre Europe Awards 2009 possible, as this contributes Group-wide KPIs have been Winner of Best Leadership and Innovation to business success.
Not only developed to comply with the in Environmental Policy does this help to manage carbon reporting requirements of the emissions, but it drives operating EU Code of Conduct for Data The Stevie Awards 2009 Shortlisted for efficiencies and reduces costs, Centres and these are reviewed Environmental Responsibility Programme benefiting both the Company monthly and reported at Board of the Year and customers.
During 2010 the Company plans to audit East London Chamber of Commerce Awards 2009 Our approach environmental management Highly commended for Green Business of Our environmental strategy systems to attain ISO 14001 the Year is built around three strands: certification across all the data centres within the Group.
National eWell-Being Awards 2009 Highly optimising existing facilities: I commended for Greening Data Centre Looking ahead, April 2010 sees Green Business Awards 2009 Nominated designing best possible the planned introductory phase I for Green Service Award approaches for today: and of the UK Governments CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme Datacentre Dynamics Leaders' Awards 2009 innovating for future 'CRC'.
The mandatory I Wildcard Award for the design and improvements.
emissions trading scheme will innovation of the new Condorcet data affect thousands of businesses centre in Paris Robust management systems and public sector organisations There is a Group-level whose electricity consumption 1st in sector and 16th overall for environment policy which clearly exceeds a specific threshold.
Community and Environmental sets out the Companys approach As a significant user of power, Responsibility in Management Today to managing key environment TelecityGroup is assessing magazines annual Most Admired UK issues such as the efficient use the implications of the draft of energy and materials, waste legislation and is providing Companies Awards management and recycling.
input through relevant As a minimum, the Company industry groups.
complies with environmental 2009 management Today magazine Britains most Admired companies Awards 2009 in association with Accenture.
ranking based on a survey of 236 companies by Birmingham laws, regulations and codes city Business School in which the largest 10 public companies in each sector evaluate their rivals against 9 criteria.
of practice in each country in which it operates.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 corporate governance 21 awaRdS and Recognition For more details on our achievements visit www.
htm A diesel rotary UPS in the Amstel Business Park data centre, Amsterdam.
The Company has already best practices amongst data started communicating with centre owners, operators, customers on the potential customers and suppliers.
impact of the CRC and believes In 2009, the Company was that the pre-emptive energy awarded Corporate Status management measures which accreditation by the European have been adopted are able to Commission Joint Research drive continuous improvements Centre in recognition that over and places the Company in 40% of the entire data centre a strong position to address floor space is already compliant the CRC.
with the Code of Conducts energy efficient best practices.
Industry leadership The Group was the only network TelecityGroup believes it is independent data centre operator important to demonstrate to have audited all of our data leadership on industry-wide centres to the codes guidelines environment issues and is by the end of 2009. proud to be the first network independent data centre to The Company is also a sign up to the new EU Code member of The Green Grid, of Conduct for Data Centres.
a global consortium seeking The voluntary code, launched to improve energy efficiency in December 2008, promotes in data centres and business the adoption of energy efficient computing ecosystems.
Policy in practice energy efficiency In aMSTErdaMS aMSTEl BuSInESS park daTa cEnTrE.
TelecityGroups Amstel Business Park data centre in Amsterdam is at the forefront of data centre innovation.
Energy efficient design principles have been used throughout the new data centre, utilising technologies such as free air cooling and sophisticated intelligent climate control systems to reduce energy waste.
The site has also set a new standard with its innovative emergency power supply which offers greater efficiencies and reliability for customers.
Amstel Business Park is already the most energy efficient data centre in The Netherlands, and was the first data centre designed to adhere to the strict regulations relating to data centre energy efficiency set out by Amsterdam City Council in April 2008.
indd 21 22 02 2010 09:38:51 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 22 corporate governance Environment Corporate Social Responsibility continued The 'Climate Change Arboretum' in Condorcet, Paris.
Policy in practice aWard-Winning dESIgn InnovaTIon In condorcET, parIS.
Condorcet, TelecityGroups third data centre in Paris, has been designed and built to be one of the most advanced data centres in Europe, both technically and environmentally.
The facility was constructed using a variety of design and technology innovations to reduce its environmental impact while maximising its operational performance.
For example, free cooling to reduce energy consumption: a white roof to mitigate solar gain within the data centre: and an industry-first with the use of hydrogen fuel cells as a source for backup power.
Energy efficiency To ensure the most energy efficient design, a team of technical specialists spent 12 months optimising all the facilitys production processes, improving power outputs and reducing the electricity consumption of each component of the facility.
Arboretum To take full advantage of waste heat from the data centre, a Climate Change Arboretum has been constructed on one side of the facility.
TelecityGroup has an agreement with the French National Institute for Agricultural Research INRA LInstitut national fide la recherche agronomique and Socit Forestire who will use the Climate Change Arboretum in the data centre to carry out scientific research on the acclimatisation of new tree species to the climatic conditions forecast to prevail in France in 2050.
Overall, thanks to its unique energy efficient design, TelecityGroup expects Condorcet to save the equivalent of 2,500 tonnes of carbon dioxide a year compared to legacy data centres which offer the same levels of customer capacity.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 corporate governance 23 A 'closed corridor' system ensuring efficient air flow management.
Going forward Looking to 2010, TelecityGroup plans to focus on the following areas: I Ongoing action plans to address implications of Carbon Reduction Commitment starting in April 2010 I ISO 14001 c ertification for all data centres I Car bon Trust Standard certification I Co ntinued engagement with the European Union and key stakeholders on the EU Code of Conduct for Data Centres Industry leadership continued In addition to these initiatives, Influencing others During 2010 the Group will a number of our data centres TelecityGroup is keen to continue to engage with the use energy from renewable engage with customers and EU Joint Research Centre 'JRC' sources including those in suppliers on environmental and key stakeholders in further Paris, Stockholm, Amsterdam best practices.
One of the ways shaping a code that is beneficial and the new Powergate facility this is achieved is through for all, and promoting its wider in London.
advising customers on how acceptance within the industry.
to configure their equipment A key challenge for the industry to enhance environmental Investment and innovation is identifying ways to improve efficiency.
This, in turn, helps Investment and innovation energy efficiency in older data them to meet their own are at the heart of creating centres.
One of the ways the environmental commitments.
Group has addressed this is This year, the Company has In addition to environmental through a significant investment engaged more deeply with benefits, they add value for programme to install energy suppliers on environmental customers by improving the efficient capital equipment issues through discussion operating environment hosting throughout the data centres.
and the introduction of a new their equipment.
This programme included fitting Supplier Code of Conduct.
blanking panel equipment to TelecityGroups new data centres improve air flow management, Throughout the year, the are designed to maximise energy which results in less energy Company ran a series of efficiency.
All benefit from free required for cooling.
awareness raising campaigns cooling systems which utilise to encourage our employees low outside air temperatures During 2009 TelecityGroup also to save energy and recycle.
to cool sites thereby reducing made considerable investment power required.
They use hot in replacing and upgrading aisle cold aisle designs, and chiller equipment in its existing innovative containment solutions data centres in order to take to achieve environmentally advantage of the improved efficient cooling.
efficiencies available from new technologies.
