Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
"com 18 corporate governance Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility "" TElEcITygroup rEcognISES ThaT BEIng a Major InTErnaTIonal BuSInESS prESEnTS opporTunITIES for IT To havE a Positive imPact on wIdEr SocIETy. """
Introduction Dynamics Leaders Award best practice in protecting Chief Executive Officer for the design innovation of information assets and I am pleased to report that the new data centre in Paris quality management: and 2009 has been an extremely and Best Leadership and positive year for TelecityGroup.
Innovation in Environmental we continue to develop I Trading remains strong and Policy in the 2009 Data our approach to sustainable we have seen continued Centre Europe Awards: business.
We are working revenue growth, in line with with sector experts on our managements expectations, TelecityGroup took a energy management and I across the whole Group.
Demand leadership role in being the CSR strategy to implement for premium data centre first data centre operator programmes which will capacity is robust and we are to adopt the EU Code of enhance our ability to opening new facilities to meet Conduct for Data Centres.
grow the business in an customer demand in existing The code is designed to environmentally and markets as current provision provide best practice socially responsible way.
guidelines to reduce energy usage and improve energy I am confident that the Alongside this solid economic efficiency in data centres.
work we have undertaken performance, the Group has We completed a programme puts the Group in a strong made significant progress to implement this initiative position to continue to in executing its social and across our entire portfolio enhance our reputation as environmental responsibilities.
of data centres in Europe.
being an environmentally Some of the highlights of the We have also implemented responsible leader in our past year include: other initiatives and extended industry.
This report highlights the use of renewable and what we have accomplished the Group received external clean energy: this year and sets out what I recognition for its Corporate we expect to achieve in 2010.
Social Responsibility 'CSR' the Group obtained I performance.
In particular ISO 9001:2008 Quality we were included in the Management certification FTSE4Good, the leading and ISO 27001:2005 index of companies that Information Security meet globally recognised Management certification Michael Tobin corporate responsibility across all of its sites in Chief Executive Officer 1 standards.
The certifications also received a number demonstrate our commitment of industry awards for its to attaining the highest environmental performance standards and ensuring including the Datacentre 1 except Stockholm 2 for iSO 27001 where certification is targeted for 2010 following completion of the current build phase.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 corporate governance 19 Target achievements for 2010 environment ongoing action plans to address implications of carbon reduction commitment ISo 14001 certification for all data centres carbon Trust Standard certification continued engagement with the European union and key stakeholders on the Eu code of conduct for data centres Workplace roll-out of new group induction programme Embed new on-line appraisal system across the group roll-out new management training programme marketplace ohSaS 18001 certification across all data centres Systematically monitor relationships with customers through satisfaction surveys and feedback procedures at sites across Europe Engage suppliers and encourage them to adopt the new code of conduct community further promote employee community involvement activities continued financial and in-kind support to charitable and community organisations ongoing engagement with internet communities through membership of industry groups CSR priorities This audit and review asked In line with TelecityGroups TelecityGroup recognises that Directors and Non-Executive being a major international Directors to reflect on the corporate values of Efficiency, business presents opportunities firms ability to manage risk for it to have a positive impact and develop opportunities Entrepreneurship, Integrity, on the wider society.
The Group in environmental, social is committed to doing business and governance issues.
Innovation and Stakeholder responsibly and to managing its relationships with stakeholders In order to ensure that value, CSR priorities have with integrity and transparency.
management of the issues The Groups aim is to maximise is delegated throughout been identified as: the positive impact it can have the Company, an Energy while taking steps to minimise Management Forum has been any adverse impacts its business created whose focus is to environment driving energy may cause.
explore and share technology, best practice and innovation efficiency and championing Our CSR priorities are listed on to improve energy efficiency innovation to manage and reduce the left hand side and discussed Company-wide.
The Forum in detail on pages 20 to 29. oversees the Groups the environmental impact of European-wide Energy Management and governance Management Programme the digital economy of CSR which is designed to During 2009 the Group instigated benchmark TelecityGroups a process of formal Board level own energy consumption and WorkPlace wellbeing and review of CSR issues and develop processes to identify, development of employees activities.
Management prioritise and implement data responsibility for CSR resides centre energy saving projects with the Groups Director across the Group.
The Group is keen to engage with customers, suppliers and Through this management actively with stakeholders to structure, the Groups Board better understand their views stakeholders in the digital receives reporting on key and opinions of all aspects economy with respect and fairness CSR performance indicators of the Companys business at every Board meeting.
During the past addition, the Board undertakes 12 months the Company has community focus on children, an annual review of its wider hosted a series of investor environmental, social and roadshows and undertaken education and opportunity governance responsibilities as regular customer surveys.
part of the Groups reporting Senior representatives from process.
During the year the the Group actively participate Company also undertook a in a number of industry forums Board appraisal of corporate and engage with government competence in key CSR issues.
and policy makers, for example through the EU Code of Conduct and the consultation process on the Digital Britain White Paper.
