38 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY manager and above.
This change was proposed by the Corporate governance CSR Committee of the Board in order to ensure that this Extended compliance programme critical element of our management procedures receives the prominence it deserves.
Above-average governance ratings Our workplace: health and safety Our workplace The health and safety of our employees and those people 27.7% reduction in injury rate and communities who are affected by our operations is of utmost importance to us.
Tomkins companies conduct Launched Tomkins fitness challenge business in many countries around the world.
HSE requirements vary greatly in these countries and many do Our global footprint not provide the level of protection for employees that 110 sites with environmental management systems Tomkins has established for its operations.
In order to achieve the same high safety standards throughout the $490,643 charitable assistance Group, regardless of the type of operation or its location, we implement our Global Minimum HSE Standards which Our marketplace must be complied with, in addition to any local regulatory Full roll-out of supplier charter requirements.
New HSEco-design programme In 2009, our accident rate number of reportable incidents per 100 workers was 1.97 2008: 2.72 and our severity rate average number of lost workdays per 100 employees was 8.62 2008: 15.91, representing a Introduction 27.7% and a 45.8% reduction respectively versus 2008.
The past year has witnessed significant economic, These achievements place us well above average when financial and business turmoil.
Tomkins response to the compared to the performance of the US manufacturing downturn in its markets has been to implement widesector and demonstrate our commitment to safety reaching restructuring projects, involving the closure of excellence.
We are pleased to have achieved these 25 facilities and a reduction in headcount of 4,300. reductions against a background of considerable change.
Despite this, we have remained focused on CSR as an During the second year of our health and wellness integral part of our everyday business practices and one programme we launched the Tomkins Global Fitness of the drivers of our success.
We believe that excellence Challenge.
The aim of the initiative was to improve the in CSR is consistent with, and enhances, our financial and wellness level of employees, increase productivity and corporate performance.
promote loyalty and collaboration worldwide.
The goal A summary of our progress and performance in 2009 is for the challenge was to travel the total distance around set out below, describing our continued progress in the the world, with participants tracking their fitness activities four key CSR areas, namely, corporate governance, our on a customised multi-language website.
The site also workplace, our global footprint and our marketplace.
contained information on healthy living and a bulletin We have again published a separate, in-depth Corporate board to share success stories.
With over 2,000 participants, Social Responsibility report which is available for we quickly achieved our initial goal and so set and download from the Companys website.
reached a new target of travelling the distance to the moon and back.
Corporate governance Our workplace: employees Corporate governance at Tomkins is recognised to be amongst the best in class.
At Board level, we continue In the workplace, our aim is to be an employer of choice.
to address the demands of the changing regulatory We believe there is a strong correlation between effective environment and place a strong emphasis on corporate people practices and business success.
governance and risk management in all our activities.
At a Group level, we use formalised succession planning, Unless otherwise stated, we comply fully with the management internships and competitive compensation requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate schemes that align the interests of our managers with Governance and also with the provisions of Sarbanesthose of our shareholders.
Specific management training Oxley in so far as they apply to Tomkins.
is provided through Tomkins College, the Groups Each year, we require our company Presidents to confirm executive development programme.
compliance with our corporate policies: Tomkins Code Individual facilities pursue their own customised employee of Conduct and Ethics, Human Rights and HSE policies training programme, covering a variety of issues from including Tomkins Global Minimum HSE Standards.
I am safety, security awareness, lean manufacturing, waste pleased to report there were no material cases of nonhandling, through to disease prevention and communication compliance.
In 2010, we are in the process of extending and language training.
confirmation to all employees holding positions of plant Performance 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Key performance indicators Number of Number of facilities facilities 2009 reporting 2008 reporting Total waste million metric tonnes 0.084 154 0.118 139 Landfill waste million metric tonnes 0.028 154 0.040 132 Total energy consumed billion KWh 1.426 154 1.682 148 3 Water consumption million m 2.178 154 2.524 138 Total greenhouse gas emissions million tonnes 0.163 154 0.177 127 2008 figures adjusted for increase in number of reporting locations and data revisions Each business in the Group is encouraged to implement corporate citizenship projects.
Each of our facilities comprehensive employment policies designed to motivate operates its own community engagement programme.
employees and to determine ways in which knowledge Total charitable donations in the year were $490,643 2008: and skills can best contribute towards the success of the $1,075,580, of which the UK accounted for $90,168 business.
Schemes are operated to encourage loyalty and 2008: $297,020 : in the US they totalled $254,271 performance.
For instance, the Sharesave Scheme provides 2008: $593,671, of which $161,378 2008: $297,054 an opportunity to purchase shares in Tomkins plc.
came from a Tomkins-funded charitable trust: and in the remaining overseas companies, they totalled $146,204 We are firmly committed to the equitable treatment of all 2008: $184,889.
It is Tomkins practice not to use our employees and qualified applicants for employment.
shareholders funds to make political donations either in the Equal opportunity is one of our most enduring and basic form of monetary donations or other in-kind benefits.
No beliefs and we aim to ensure that no discrimination in any political donations were made during the year 2008: $nil.
form is practised within our business.
Furthermore, it is the responsibility of each employee to help Tomkins Our marketplace provide a work atmosphere free of harassment or abuse.
The new Supplier Charter launched at the end of 2008 Employee involvement and communication programmes has now been fully rolled out across the Group.
continue to be developed, designed to provide equal Compliance with the terms of the Charter is incorporated opportunity to all, irrespective of sex, race, religion or into the terms of all our companies purchase orders.
Each company in the Group endeavours to We recently completed an HSEco-Design training manual provide equality of opportunity in recruiting, training, and programme which is being rolled out across the promoting and developing the careers of disabled persons.
HSEco-Design is a systematic application of environmental and health and safety considerations at Our global footprint: environment and climate the product and manufacturing process design stage.
change The way we produce, use and dispose of products Environmental liability represents a significant CSR risk impacts the sustainability of the environment, as well to be managed in all Tomkins operations.
Through the application of HSEcoproblems can consume valuable management time, place a Design, we aim to enhance business sustainability by financial burden on profitability and impair our image in the creating a more competitive product which meets the community.
In order to mitigate these risks, our operations needs of all our stakeholders.
are all subject to rigorous minimum environmental standards.
Tomkins incurred no environmental fines in 2009.
Conclusion Our efforts are not limited to minimising the impact of The CSR Committee is extremely pleased with the strong our operations on the environment but also extend to progress achieved with our CSR programme this year, manufacturing  products.
especially against the backdrop of global financial More details of these products can be found in our fullturmoil.
The Board also continues to emphasise its length CSR report for 2009. commitment to CSR, in particular when conducting site visits.
We fully believe that the persistence of all our Our facilities began reporting energy and water usage, air employees in pursuing CSR activities contributes positively emissions, waste and recycling efforts in 2007.
Data quality to corporate performance.
has improved each year and we have found this data allows our companies to better manage their businesses.
Looking forward, we will continue to implement our CSR strategy, focusing in 2010 on our key priorities of: In the table above, we have set out absolute figures for waste production, energy and water consumption Further improving our safety performance and greenhouse gas emissions for 2009 and 2008.
Wellness of employees We estimate that this data covers over 95% of our Understanding and managing our environmental and operations and, as such, provides a meaningful guide climate change impacts as to our environmental impacts.
Recruiting and retaining talented people Continuing to support our local communities Our global footprint: community We recognise our responsibilities to the wider communities in which our businesses operate.
These responsibilities Struan Robertson range from consulting with local bodies, to providing Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee charitable assistance and supporting community and 26 February 2010
