Corporate Responsibility Autonomy is committed to supporting the principles of economic success, environmental stewardship and social responsibility.
We believe that by acting as a responsible corporate citizen we will not only minimize business risk, but also enhance our reputation as a business partner and employer.
Further, by advocating and resourcing staff development and community engagement, we believe that we can differentiate Autonomy from other employers and create a business where people want to work.
Stakeholder Dialogue Our Approach The company endeavours to be honest and fair in our relationships with Our business strategy and our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR customers and suppliers, and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the strategy are closely linked.
Meeting the needs of our society creates the laws of the countries in which we operate.
The company is accountable to best opportunities to grow our business in the long term.
There is one our shareholders but also endeavours to consider the interests of all of our vision at the heart of everything we do: We aim to revolutionize the way stakeholders, including employees, customers and suppliers, as well as the computers process human-friendly information, automating otherwise local communities and environments in which we operate.
We proactively manually intensive processes, resulting in a positive impact for our encourage and respond to feedback from all our stakeholders, through customers and their stakeholders.
Our CSR strategy is designed to help us quarterly consultations and through our corporate communications strategy.
The Autonomy website includes a written record of our ongoing dialogue with the investment community, which we make available for all our In addition to generating economic value for all our stakeholders, our stakeholders to view.
primary business activities contribute a range of benefits to the wider society in which we operate.
Our technology portfolio allows companies to Monitoring make greater use of digital information and improve operational efficiency, The Board is committed to monitoring the companys corporate social thereby reducing climate change that results from the mass production of responsibility policies in key areas.
Management monitors the companys corporate literature, and inefficient manufacturing and distribution networks.
day-to-day activities in order to assess risks in these areas and identify In addition, our information governance software helps to regulate actions that may be taken to address those risks.
Given the company's enterprise information, which in turn helps to promote ethical business relatively small size and minimal social and environmental impact, we practices.
In this context we take regular account of the significance of believe that there are few risks to our short and long term value proposition social, environmental and ethical matters to our operations as part of our arising from these matters, although we consider the potential to deliver regular risk assessment procedures, with such matters regularly considered greater value by responding to these issues appropriately.
As a result at by the executive directors.
present the Board has not linked the management of these risks to remuneration incentives, given the difficulties in measuring the changes to Oversight those risks objectively.
The Board believes the company has adequate Sushovan Hussain, Chief Financial Officer and Board Director, has been information to assess these matters, and effective systems for managing appointed by the Board as the director responsible for all matters relating to any risks.
The companys website includes a section dedicated to corporate corporate social, ethical, employment and environmental policies.
This ethical, employment and environmental issues.
year management renewed the companys ethical policy, which sets forth the principles that guide our strategy, and implemented a number of Policies specific programmes.
Whilst the Board considers that material risks to the company arising from social, ethical, employment and environmental issues are limited, given the Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15
