Corporate Responsibility nature of the companys business, policies have been adopted in key areas companies.
In addition during the year Autonomy increased quarterly and to ensure that such risks are limited.
Examples of policies and practices in annual bonus targets for individual exceptional performance below director these areas are given below.
Share plans are offered to incentivize and retain employees, and in 2009 People more than 190 individual employees were recognized for their contributions As of the beginning of 2010, Autonomy employs approximately 1,800 by being awarded employee share options which vest over three years.
people worldwide and, in order to continue to grow as a business, the company needs to continue to recruit and retain only the best talent.
Employment Policies Therefore it is our policy to pursue practices that are sensitive to the needs Autonomys employment policies are developed to reflect local legal, of our people.
The company strives for equal opportunities for all of our cultural and employment requirements.
Autonomy seeks to maintain high employees, including disabled employees, and we do not tolerate standards wherever the group operates, as Autonomy aims to ensure that it harassment of, or discrimination against, our staff.
is recognized as an employer of choice.
Autonomy considers its employee relations to be good.
Priorities The companys priorities are: Human Capital Management We consider human capital management of paramount importance, Providing a safe workplace with equality of opportunity and diversity including issues of staff satisfaction, the quality of and investment in our through our employment policies.
We encourage all our stakeholders to engage in continual Encouraging our people to reach their full potential through career dialogue on this topic, in line with our efforts to promote transparency and development and promotion from within where possible.
accountability in all areas of our corporate governance.
We believe that Communicating openly and transparently within the bounds of these measures will help to ensure our long-term success in a competitive commercial confidentiality, whilst listening to our people and taking into industry where attracting and retaining a highly skilled workforce will account their feedback.
ultimately result in higher cash flow per employee.
Recognizing and rewarding our people for their contribution and encouraging share ownership at all levels.
In general, we believe the quality and breadth of that dialogue serve as the best indication of the success of our human capital management practices, The company respects the rule of law within all jurisdictions in which we above all interaction with our employees themselves through the operate and supports appropriate internationally accepted standards management chain, rather than looking to abstract numerical indicators.
including those on human rights.
Our equal opportunities policies prohibit However, we are able to provide the following statistics which offer discrimination on grounds such as race, gender, religion, sexual orientation quantitative reassurance that this dialogue is becoming more and more or disability.
This policy includes, where practicable, the continued effective in promoting industry leading working practices.
employment of those who may become disabled during their employment.
The companys policies strive to ensure that all decisions about the Industry appointment, treatment and promotion of employees are based entirely on Autonomy Average merit, and continued development of the company is made with the maximum practicable involvement and input from employees.
Productivity Absence days per year 1................. 3.5 7.4 Gender Training and Development 2 Autonomy is committed to helping people reach their full potential through Percentage Female......................... 23% 25% ongoing training and development.
In 2009 Autonomy provided in excess Retention 3 of 2,500 days of training, and funded a tuition reimbursement budget of Length of Service years................ 4.6 2.6 nearly $40,000.
We cultivate a working environment in which continual Seniority 4 feedback is encouraged.
Together with performance reviews, this enables Average Age years........................ 36.6 33.4 all employees to take responsibility for their professional development, with Development 5 frequent opportunities to enrol in scheduled internal training courses, Training hours per Employee........ 152 148 weekly presentations from subject experts and our annual training conference attended by employees from around the world at the start of 1 Data from Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development CIPD, 2009 each new financial year.
2 Goldman Sachs Sustain 2009 Report data from 2007 3 Data from CIPD, 2009 4 Data from www.
com Employees with Disabilities 5 Goldman Sachs Sustain 2009 Report data from 2007 The companys policy is to give full and fair consideration to suitable applications for employment from people with disabilities.
If existing The Environment employees become disabled they will continue to be employed in the same It is the companys policy to ensure, by encouraging environmental best job or, if this is not practicable, efforts will be made to find suitable practice in the business, that our operations have as little environmental alternative employment and to provide appropriate training.
impact as is consistent with our business needs.
The effect on the environment of our activities is monitored, where appropriate, with regard to Reward and Recognition the low overall environmental impact of our primary activities as a software To support the goal of attracting and retaining the best people, Autonomy publisher.
As a developer of software the company has no manufacturing provides competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits in each local market facilities and our premises are composed exclusively of offices.
Staff make where it operates.
use of computers to generate intellectual property.
This involves neither hazardous substances nor complex waste emissions.
The vast majority of In 2009 Autonomy extended its industry-leading sales compensation plan the companys sales comprise software that is normally delivered across all sales persons worldwide, including those from recently acquired 16 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
