Trinity Mirror plc 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business review the global economy and its impact on our business and investment Employees returns, has material implications for future pension scheme funding The commitment, innovation and drive of our staff are central to and could adversely impact the Group and its ability to fund past the ongoing development and success of our business.
To reduce the volatility of pension scheme liabilities During the year, with the economy in the grip of recession, the and achieve more certainty in the cost of future pension provision, voluntary rate of employee turnover was significantly reduced year the Group announced the closure of the defined benefit pension on year at 6.8% 2008: 12.2%.
During the same period the retention schemes to future accrual from 31 March 2010. rate, defined as employees in the Groups employment for the full 12 months, rose to 89% from 73% in the previous year.
Business continuity We are dependent on our technology, networks and manufacturing During the year the Groups absenteeism rate, which follows the capability and we have invested in our network resilience and common definition used by the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration manufacturing infrastructure and flexibility.
Business continuity plans Service ACAS, was an average of 2.1% 2008: 2.2%.
This compares are regularly reviewed and they are updated to reflect changes in favourably with the national average level of employee absence operations and systems.
We have insurance to cover property of 3.5% and that for the media and publishing sector of 3.6% damage and business interruption.
Source: CIPD Absence Management Survey July 2008.
The Group is committed to equality of opportunity in all its employment Environmental practices to ensure we attract and retain the best people.
In 2009, Key risks are described in the Corporate responsibility report on women made up 38% of staff 2008: 41% and the number of women pages 31 to 37. occupying senior managerial roles was 22% 2008: 25%.
Treasury In response to trading conditions, the Group took the decision to The key risks arising from our activities and our financing facilities are freeze salaries for 2009.
In addition to base salary, however, our liquidity, financing and interest rates, foreign currency and covenants.
employees have the opportunity to participate in performance related Further details are provided in note 36 to the consolidated financial incentive schemes.
For many staff this is through inclusion in the statements.
The treasury policies for managing these risks were Groups Employee Bonus scheme which is linked to performance approved by the Board in March 2001 and are summarised below: against the Groups profit target, which also formed the basis of senior executives incentive schemes in 2009.
Liquidity risk We also provide a competitive range of benefits to employees, Our policy is to ensure continuity of funding and flexibility.
including the opportunity to join a Group-wide defined contribution Debt maturities are spread over a wide range of dates, thereby pension scheme.
In 2009, we also introduced a holiday purchase ensuring that we are not exposed to excessive refinancing risk in scheme to allow staff greater flexibility in their work-life choices.
The maturity profile of debt outstanding at the year end is summarised on page 28.
Our liquidity risk arises from timing differences between cash inflows and outflows.
These risks are Environmental and social managed through unutilised committed and uncommitted credit Our environmental and social policy and statement, together with a facilities.
It is our policy to maintain sufficient cash balances and review of our performance during 2009, is set out in the Corporate committed facilities to meet anticipated funding requirements.
responsibility report on pages 31 to 37.
These resources, together with the expected future cash flows to be generated by the business, are regarded as sufficient to meet Key operating trends and outlook the anticipated funding requirements of the Group for at least the The key operating trends and outlook can be found on page 19 of the next 12 months.
Chairman and Chief Executive statement.
Financing and interest rate risk Our exposure to interest rate risk is managed through the use of interest rate swaps, options, caps and forward rate agreements.
Hedging transactions are undertaken after a review of the effect on profit after tax of a range of interest rate assumptions and probabilities, determined by reference to the general economic climate and market forecasts for interest rates.
Foreign currency risk Less than 2% of the Groups turnover and operating costs are generated in currencies other than sterling.
Given the minimal impact on profit after tax of fluctuations in foreign currencies, we trade foreign currencies at spot rates.
The payment of interest and capital on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies is fully hedged through cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Whilst a substantial proportion of our newsprint supplies are sourced from outside the UK, the prices are agreed in sterling, although the sterling prices are impacted to some extent by foreign currency movements.
Covenants risk We seek to maintain standard terms for all our financial covenants where possible.
Our covenants are monitored on an ongoing basis with formal testing of financial covenants at each reporting date.
The Company continues to comply with all borrowing obligations and financial covenant obligations.
