26 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Strategic overview Sustainable development Throughout the year, sustainable development has Sustainable development strategy continued to be an important part of the business During 2008 2009, we developed a Group agenda for TUI Travel.
We aspire to lead in sustainable sustainable development policy in conjunction with development within the leisure travel industry.
In key colleagues, articulating our vision and approach the long term, we believe this goal will help build to sustainable development.
The Group Code of shareholder value for TUI Travel and contribute to Conduct covers a wide range of sustainability operating a strong business now and in the future.
issues, including human rights, business ethics and transparency and commits TUI Travel to upholding TUI Travel is listed on the FTSE4Good Index the principles of the UN Global Compact.
in recognition of its transparency and for meeting strict social, environmental and TUI Travels sustainable development strategy is Saving fuel with winglets governance standards.
based on consideration of the key issues affecting TUIfly Nordic was one of the first the Company, now and in the future.
It has been It is the highest placed travel company, at 16, airlines in the world to fit winglets to developed in consultation with internal and in the 2008 Good Companies Guide The the Boeing 767s in its fleet.
Observers annual ethical ranking of with winglets wing-ends that curve FTSE350 companies.
upwards can reduce fuel burn by up We encourage all TUI Travel businesses to develop to 5%, depending on flight distance.
TUI Travels first full Sustainable Development their own sustainable development strategy, All seven TUI Travel airlines have Report was published in July 2009, with aligning with Group priorities.
At the end of fuel-saving winglets fitted to some independent verification of our targets by 2008 2009, 73% of TUI Travel businesses had or all of the aircraft in their fleets.
their own sustainable development strategy.
For the second consecutive year, we have been included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Policy and mitigation for Groupwide risks relating Index, which highlights the top 10% of to sustainability are facilitated by the Group Risk FTSE350 companies that have displayed Management and Sustainable Development the most professional approach to climate Departments, with responsibility for managing such change disclosure.
risks also shared by the businesses themselves.
For further details, see the Risk section on page 20.
TUI Travel businesses received several sustainable development-related awards during 2008 2009.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 27 Managing sustainable development Our four strategic priorities This year, the Group has maintained and enhanced for sustainable development are: its governance structure for sustainable development.
There are now over 40 full time-equivalent colleagues working on sustainable development Carbon management within TUI Travel.
Johan Lundgren, Managing Director of the Groups of key colleagues for example, fuel Mainstream Sector, Northern Region, is responsible managers meet to identify possible reducfor reporting on sustainable development to the tions in our carbon emissions from aviation, TUI Travel PLC Board.
Dermot Blastland, Managing Fair trade excursion water transport, major premises, ground Director of TUI UK & Ireland, has responsibility for transport and flagship hotel properties.
TUI Nederland launched a fair trade reporting on sustainable development to the Group chocolate excursion in the Dominican Management Board.
Republic, developed in partnership A Group Steering Committee, chaired by Dermot with the Dutch development Destinations organisations Cordaid and PASEO, Blastland, sets the strategic direction and long term to generate additional income for the Colleagues meet regularly to tackle key objectives for sustainable development.
Ten local farmers Committee is composed of Sector Managing sustainability issues in destinations for and more than 30 local women have Directors and meets at least once a year.
example, sustainability auditing of hotels been trained as guides on the tour.
and optimise the environmental, social During 2008 2009, TUI Travel increased the capacity and economic impact of our holidays.
of its dedicated Group Sustainable Development Department from three to four people.
The departments role is to drive sustainability Our colleagues performance across the Group towards FTSE100 best practice and to forge industry leadership in key We share best practice in order to promote sustainability issues.
It also has a particular remit to knowledge of sustainable development guide TUI UK & Irelands sustainable development and positive behaviour change within strategy and activities.
Each Sector has a Sustainable Development Coordinator with a remit to develop and implement sustainable development strategy within their Sector.
This year, the Sector Coordinators have Our customers appointed a network of champions to support them in the delivery of Group and Sector sustainable We share best practice among marketing development strategy.
colleagues to engage customers in sustainability issues and encourage them to choose more sustainable holiday options.
Each strategic priority has a Board-level sponsor and is underpinned by our commitment to integrate sustainable development into the way TUI Travel operates.
com 28 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Strategic overview Sustainable development continued Carbon management Destinations Climate change affects our destinations and When managed well, tourism supports conservation therefore our product and we acknowledge that and preserves natural heritage.
The tourism value the Groups greenhouse gas emissions contribute to chain accommodation, catering, retail, excursions, global warming.
TUI Travel has a carbon management transfer and airport services provides employment strategy in development to reduce this contribution, and training opportunities and stimulates local covering aviation, water transport, major premises, enterprise to the extent that, in 2008, tourism ground transport and flagship hotel properties.
accounted for 30% of the worlds exports of services UNWTO World Tourism Barometer.
In 2007 2008, TUI Travels direct carbon footprint from diesel, gas, kerosene and petrol was Our sustainability impact in destinations is largely The Climate Project 6,564,026 tonnes, a reduction of 8% since indirect, particularly through our accommodation Simon OKelly, General Manager 2006 2007.
This reduction is attributable to aircraft suppliers, and we assume a level of responsibility of Peregrine and Gecko Adventures, fleet consolidation following the September 2007 for encouraging them to improve in this area.
77% has been selected as a presenter merger, as well as fuel conservation measure across of TUI Travel businesses are actively engaging with for The Climate Project, the TUI Travel airlines.
Simon TUI Travel is involved in hundreds of projects was trained by Al Gore and other We have committed to reducing TUI Travels direct designed to improve the livelihoods of local people facilitators to give the climate carbon emissions by 6% by 2013 2014 against a in destinations.
For further information on how change presentation from the film baseline of 2007 2008 in terms of total carbon An Inconvenient Truth and has we have embedded sustainability into our emissions as well as relative carbon emissions, based committed to sharing it with as accommodation practices.
See Suppliers on on 2008 2009 operational structure and plans.
TUI Travel is monitoring and preparing for Weighted by employee numbers.
regulatory proposals on climate change that could This year, we have also developed Groupwide have a fiscal impact.
By addressing our carbon policies on animal welfare in excursion locations and impacts and putting measures in place to reduce the protection of children in tourist areas.
We also current and future carbon emissions, we are in a initiated a project to gain a better understanding good position to respond to carbon legislation.
of the socio-economic impacts of our operations in developing destinations, particularly in relation to Carbon emissions from aviation the growing all-inclusive holiday market.
We aim to reduce the environmental impact of our fleet of aircraft by replacing older aircraft with new, Our colleagues more fuel-efficient models and by pursuing a fuel We seek to make sustainable development central conservation programme to ensure that our airlines to the way we run and manage TUI Travel.
This is are as fuel efficient as possible.
In 2008 2009, TUI articulated through one of our TUI Spirit values, Travel airlines fleet average emissions were 78.1g Responsible leadership: We are committed to of carbon dioxide per revenue passenger kilometre sustainable development and to making a positive CO RPK.
TUI Travel airlines carbon efficiency 2 impact on society.
In order to achieve this, we work compares very favourably with both global closely with Human Resources and Marketing teams scheduled airlines and low-cost airlines.
Gold Standard carbon to embed sustainability principles into their work.
TUI Travel airlines saved over 34,000 tonnes of offsetting TUI Travels senior management are regular public carbon dioxide in 2008 2009 through the Groupwide advocates for more sustainable tourism in the media, TUI Travel has invested in five fuel conservation programme.
The savings were exclusive renewable energy and at industry and governmental events, and with other made by implementing fuel efficiency measures energy efficiency projects that are audiences.
See Our Colleagues on page 22 for in engineering, flight planning and management, scheduled to deliver 500,000 tonnes further details on how senior management view their maintenance and ground operations.
of carbon offsets by the end of 2012. businesses sustainable development performance.
The projects are all designed to the Gold Standard, an independent organisation that verifies the delivery of robust carbon reduction and additional community benefits.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 29 Our customers Our suppliers We believe that customer demand for more Our principal suppliers are hotel owners and sustainable holidays will grow.
Our customers operators and transport and excursion providers.
are becoming increasingly aware of sustainable Our UK and destination teams undertake regular development issues and expect businesses inspections of accommodation, transport and including their holiday company to be tackling excursion suppliers to assess not just health the issues that matter to them.
and safety, but also quality and sustainability.
We work with our suppliers on a cycle of We know from experience that effective continuous improvement and if suppliers fall management of environmental and social impacts below our expectations, we remove them from not only saves money, but provides a better Quality-centred consultation our programmes.
customer experience the correlation between our High-quality hotels are preferred by customers holiday satisfaction scores and the bestThe Travelife Sustainability System www.
co. uk customers and generate loyalty to performing hotels in the sustainability audit has been adopted by a number of businesses in the the tour operator brand.
Since spring programme is evidence of this.
Mainstream Sector Northern Region and Western 2009, TUI Deutschland has offered Europe and in the Specialist & Emerging Markets professional quality consultation to In response to this demand, 86% of TUI Travel Sector.
Central Europe is continuing with its wellhotel operators, identifying their businesses confirm that they are communicating recognised TUI Umwelt Champion Environment potential for improvement.
Demand with customers on sustainable development issues.
Champion award for its 100 most environmentally for TUI Quality Support is strong, and 75% of TUI Travel businesses currently offer a friendly hotels.
these services offer genuine added carbon offset to customers and, in 2008 2009, we value.
The team has enabled many developed Groupwide communications guidance TUI UK & Ireland has introduced a sustainable hotels to achieve substantial quality on this issue.
development addendum as part of all accommodation improvements within a short contracts.
This means that each hotelier must initiate timeframe, increasing the customer Weighted by employee numbers.
or continue to develop a sustainability programme, appeal of these hotels considerably.
managing their impacts on the environment, their Charitable giving employees and the local community.
This is an We have developed a Groupwide charity policy and industry first for UK mainstream tour operations.
guidelines to ensure transparency in our charitable Over the course of the next financial year, the activities and to enable us to report annually on addendum will be embedded into the contracting TUI Travels charitable giving.
During the year, the processes of the Mainstream Sector Northern Group made charitable donations of 290,799 Region and Western Europe and in the Specialist 2008: 236,200.
The Group made no political & Emerging Markets Sector.
contributions during the year 2008: nil.
