Directors Report: Business review Corporate responsibility continued Environment, Health and Safety key stakeholders that were then carried forward into Over 6.6 million hours were worked, representing the EIA process.
In December 2009, the Ghana EPA an 18% increase on 2008.
As a result, EHS teams issued the first part of a two-stage approval to cover the installation and commissioning phase of the throughout Tullow undertook a number of very significant work programmes.
The key to successful project.
The EIA met both Ghanaian legislative EHS performance is to ensure that line management requirements and international good practice.
are fully supportive of and engaged with EHS.
Similarly in French Guiana, before Tullow could Tullows EHS Leadership Team, which was set up begin its seismic activities offshore it was important in late-2008, and comprises 21 senior personnel with to develop a baseline understanding of marine specific responsibility for higher risk activities across biodiversity to ensure we mitigated any negative Tullow.
This group is led by Paul McDade, Chief impacts from our operations.
In 2009, we began Operating Officer.
We partnered with the South Paris University to assist us and are working closely Environment with the Government and national environmental During the course of 2009 Tullow, with the support regulators to ensure we acquire a sound of its partners and the Ghana Environmental understanding, particularly of the marine mammals Protection Agency EPA, carried out the stipulated and turtles that are known to occupy the area.
Environmental Impact Assessment EIA for the Jubilee Field, an offshore development situated In 2009 in the Lake Albert Rift Basin in Uganda, we 60 km off the coast of Ghana.
The projects scale drilled the Ngassa-2 well, which had to be sensitively set high expectations and created keen interest.
located due to subsurface constraints and distance To address this, extensive public consultations under the lake of the target location.
All personnel across the Western and Central regions of Ghana involved in the Ngassa-2 project, including our rig was undertaken as part of the EIA programme.
This contractors, subcontractors, and local employees allowed Tullow to communicate information on the worked closely with us to ensure that the project proposed development, and listen to concerns from was completed with no safety issues and no negative EHS Leadership Development In my role as Business Unit ManagerEurope, Iparticipated in the EHS Leadership Development trainingduring2009.
Iattended two three-day sessions covering two modules with others whose responsibilities include high risk EHS activities such as operations and drilling.
Both modules provided a balance of theory, practice, policy, procedure and case studies.
They are designed to include Tullow material, which makes the content relevant and real to all participants.
This training provided a great opportunity to spend time with my Tullow peers and to listen to and understand their EHS challenges and lessons learnt.
Perhaps most important though, was that we all took on the challenge of ensuring that our new learning is applied, and linked directly to continuous improvement in EHS performance at Tullow.
Claire Hawkings Business Unit Manager, Europe 72 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts There are high expectations of Tullow and we are investing in building a world-class external stakeholder relations programme in support of working in partnership to create shared prosperity.
Rosalind Kainyah Vice President, External Affairs environmental legacy.
While the remediation work Health and safety is ongoing, it is clear that full reinstatement of the A key health initiative introduced in 2009 was Ngassa-2 site is achievable.
developing and implementing a Group malaria programme.
Malaria is a very serious illness and First ever fatality is prevalent in many of the countries where Tullow The safety of our staff, contractors and members of operates.
We are strongly aware that malaria the public involved in our operations is a core value presents a serious health risk to individuals in for Tullow and we focus our energy on maintaining our workforce who are travelling to, or working safe places of work and establishing high safety in malaria-endemic areas, and to the communities standards in all that we do.
In May 2009, however, around our operations.
Malaria is both preventable we failed to manage this adequately and Tullow and curable, but can be fatal if not treated promptly.
suffered its first ever fatality when one of our During the year Tullow developed and rolled out a subcontractors was electrocuted at a construction malaria management policy in close consultation site in the Bangora gas field in Bangladesh.
with the World Health Organisation and in line with Following this incident, we made the site safe and International Association of Oil and Gas Producers initiated a full investigation.
Three senior managers OGP Malaria Guidelines for travellers.
Tullows EHS were mobilised to Bangladesh and together with the Leadership Team has also developed a personal local team delivered a comprehensive investigation malaria programme and in-country programmes.
The investigation Supply chain management team reported progress directly to the Tullow Board, who remained actively involved in this incident We ensure that our suppliers align and comply with our Code of Business Conduct and adhere to best and the ongoing actions.
We also sought to provide support to this mans family and continue to do so.
We operate a competitive bidding process that is centred around the quality, value and While clearly any death is one too many, Tullow has integrity of the products and services being supplied.
worked hard to identify improvements from this incident Evaluation and selection of suppliers is based on and implement them across the Group.
We embarked criteria such as availability, reliability and price, on a communication exercise to ensure everyone providing Tullow with efficient access to the best in Tullow understood what happened and reached commercial arrangements available, mitigating approximately 85% of all parties in Tullow over a financial risk, and delivering measurable value.
In other areas, a revised electrical inspection programme identified a series of installation A key element of our supply chain management improvements.
Our Bangladesh team implemented strategy, and one that helps develop local enterprise, several operational improvements at the Bangora is our drive to promote local content, using local and site including an improved third party electrical regional suppliers.
Procurement and supply chain inspection programme, contractor management management is not a centralised function.
Instead, and clarity on roles and responsibilities.
we have in-country teams with local knowledge and this gives greater opportunity to prioritise We also undertook an independent health and safety local procurement and support enterprise and audit and identified some key learnings, which focus employment creation for local communities.
on our management system including understanding As a result of this our suppliers range from of risk, the management of change and the lack small and medium-sized local companies of formal audit programme.
All of which will be actioned in 2010. to multinational corporations.
com 73 Directors Report: Business review
