Directors Report: Business review Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is part of how we organise and run our business.
At Tullow, we believe it is fundamental to implementing our strategy and accomplishing our strategic objective.
Our vision is to be the leading global independent 2009 Highlights exploration and production company.
To achieve this we take a long-term approach in protecting our reputation, managing risk, investing in people Zero and creating the environment that we need to significant environmental incidents successfully execute our growth strategy and deliver our business plans.
By doing this well we create competitive advantage which in turn enables Tullow SuccessfulEIA to create long-term value for all our stakeholders.
in Ghana which achieved the first part of a two stage Our vision and growth strategy are supported by Government approval process six strategic priorities and three of these relate to corporate responsibility: ISO14001 Ensuring safe people, procedures and operations, and minimising environmental impacts: re-certification of the Environmental Management System at the Group level Building long-term relationships with local governments, communities and key stakeholders: and 14GNPC secondees Continuing to develop a strong team with excellent and four technicians welcomed to Tullow for training commercial, technical and financial skills.
and development A transparent and accountable approach The Group has a strong governance and 2.0% staff turnover organisational framework that promotes during the year with the total workforce increasing accountability, transparency and achieving by 24% to 880 people the highest ethical and business standards.
Corporate responsibility spans key areas 83% response rate that are embedded in how we run our business and each area is the designated responsibility to our first global employee and contractor survey of an Executive Director.
EHS is the responsibility of Paul McDade, 0.76LTIFR Chief Operating Officer: which achieved our baseline target but did not deliver Governance including the Groups Code of Business top quartile industry performance Conduct is the responsibility of Graham Martin, General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Graham US$2.0million also has responsibility for Human Resources: on voluntary social enterprise investment in over Risk management and supply chain management 100 projects in 11 countries are the responsibility of Ian Springett, Chief Financial Officer, as is Investor Relations which Group KPI KPIs pages 18 and 19 is an important function in how we engage with our shareholders and Capital Markets: and Glossary Social enterprise investment is the responsibility EHS Environment, Health and Safety ISO International Organization EIA Environmental Impact for Standardization of Aidan Heavey.
Assessment KPI Key Performance Indicator How we organise and structure our business GNPC Ghana National LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Petroleum Corporation Rate measured in LTIs per million is on page 8 and 9 of this report.
hours worked 68 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts For a company yet to produce first oil, Tullow Ghana has done so well in consulting with diverse stakeholders, and this gives a foretaste of the relationship that will exist with local communities.
Nana Nketia Paramount Chief, Western Region Ghana A new External Affairs function Tullow has grown very rapidly in the last five years and part of that journey is that we continually strive to be a better run company.
Big projects bring big responsibility and we need to match our significant social responsibilities in Africa, in particular, and the wider reputation management issues that come with having world-class oil projects.
In 2009, Tullow established an External Affairs function that reports directly to Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer.
This new function will: Reshape our Corporate Responsibility Committee and its Terms of Reference: Create internal relationships and systems that ensure that corporate responsibility activities and initiatives are joined-up across the Group: Develop a wider programme for stakeholder engagement and dialogue with communities, governments, non-governmental organisations and national and international media: and Deliver a major step-change in how we approach and support social enterprise and community investment.
Another part of the responsibility of the External Affairs team will be to improve our disclosure in the area of corporate responsibility and move Tullow towards best practice reporting in this area.
We know that being transparent helps us to create trust and confidence and effective communication is an essential part of that.
Creating shared prosperity A key output of a four-day External Affairs workshop in Uganda in January 2010 was to define a new long-term approach to inform all corporate responsibility activities.
Moving forward, we will work more closely with external stakeholders to ensure that oil and gas resources create shared prosperity.
Growing stakeholder engagement While we recognise that our new External Affairs function will enhance wider external stakeholder Education in Uganda engagement processes, the Groups engagement In Uganda, we are providing education support in teaching standards, learning materials and physical infrastructure.
We have partnered with Link Community processes with shareholders, communities and Development to provide teacher training in eight schools surrounding our operations.
employees see Tullow Talkback on page 75, In the Hoima and Buliisa districts we are renovating and constructing schools, developed further in 2009. building housing for teachers and supporting school library projects.
This programme has been universally welcomed by teachers, the Education Standards Authority and District Education Officers.
com 69 Directors Report: Business review
