Directors Report: Business review Corporate responsibility continued Social enterprise investment Our overall social enterprise objective is to create a lasting positive legacy from Tullows operations.
Enterprise development is now our priority focus area and underpins our aim to help communities to support themselves over the long-term.
In 2009, we invested over US$2 million on voluntary social enterprise projects, of this US$1.7 million was invested in projects in Africa.
Our budget has significantly increased in 2010, to enhance our contribution and support our role in social enterprise and local community development particularly around our major projects in Ghana and Uganda.
Our people We introduced the new human resources strategy in 2008 and with a 46% increase in staff numbers in 2008 and 24% in 2009, a lot of work has been undertaken in this area.
Reward & recognition 2009 saw the formation of a Pensions Governance Committee comprising company and staff representatives with new plans being offered in Bangladesh, Ghana and Uganda in 2010.
In the UK, presentations on the Spring Budget and Finance Act implications were provided to all staff.
A major review of the way we hire contractors during 2009 resulted in a more streamlined, cost-effective contractor engagement process.
Talent development Our T for Talent programme went from strength to strength in 2009.
231 employees attended an in-house soft skills course, totalling 470 days training in London alone.
Some core programmes have been delivered globally, such as effective management, fulfiling our commitment to development opportunities for all.
We have also taken the initial step in launching career development frameworks, with the first one being undertaken in the Tullow geosciences community.
In April this year we will launch the first leadership development programme, aimed at our top 50 managers.
GNPC secondee programme Performance Management  in Geology from the University of Ghana, Ispent Our commitment in 2009 was to provide an electronic three years with GNPC before joining Tullows Ghana sub-surface team in process through Tullows intranet for performance Londonin2008.
Duringmytime there Iwas able to gain insight intowelllog management and this was delivered.
We had some interpretation, reservoir characterisation, software training and well .
Ialso had coaching and mentoring, team building, good learning on how the systems functioned and report writing and presentation skills training.
The programme is excellent the process will be further streamlined for mid-year and has given me sufficient knowledge to fit into a working technical office.
Along with this improvement, a  experienced Tullow people was fantasticand bespoke performance management e-learning  a company in the future.
package was designed and made available to all staff ensuring that, in even the remotest locations, a consistent approach can be applied to this Mark Prempeh important line management function.
GNPC Secondee Mark is now undertaking a Tullow sponsored MSc in Petroleum Sciences at Imperial College, London.
74 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Culture and Engagement The HR team led the introduction of Living our Values, which articulates the four key aspects of Tullows culture we feel are essential for us to encourage and develop in new recruits.
Our Tullow engagement survey organisation continues to grow rapidly and spread geographically and we know we must not lose sight top line results of the unique characteristics that have supported In October 2009, we launched our first global employee our success to date.
Read more about Living our and contractor survey called Tullow Talkback.
The survey Values on page 70 of this report.
was conducted by a third party to ensure confidentiality Developing in-country skills and it was distributed electronically to all Tullow We were delighted to welcome 14 secondees from locations.
Talkback addressed job, career, reward the Ghana National Petroleum Company GNPC, and recognition, leadership and management, team, one of our partners in the Jubilee development, to company and Tullow values through a series of 80 Tullow in 2009.
We have a strong commitment to questions.
It also included a range of open questions developing an Exploration and Production E&P seeking views on how to improve internal communications, skills base in both Ghana and Uganda, and our what Tullows reputation is about or any subject in experience with secondees from GNPC has particular the respondent wanted to convey their been positive and rewarding.
views on to the Groups leadership team.
This young team included talented graduates from The results achieved were very positive showing high well engineering, EHS, petroleum engineering and levels of engagement and enthusiasm across the Group.
They participated in a diverse range We set ourselves two benchmarks for a successful of industry training, exams and environmental survey a 70% response rate and that 90% of employees awareness, as well as a broad set of soft skills would recommend Tullow as an employer to a friend.
training to equip them to play a major role in the We achieved an 83% response rate, and 91% of development of an oil industry in Ghana.
All have employees would recommend Tullow to a friend.
added value to our business by contributing to real We will report in full on the results of Tullow Talkback projects with meaningful work experience in various and the progress we have made with our follow-up action functions.
We were delighted with their contribution plans in the 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report.
and the majority of secondees are now completing Tullow sponsored Masters of Science degrees in various disciplines at leading UK educational institutions including Heriot Watt, Imperial Go online at www.
com College and Universities in Aberdeen and Leeds.
We also trained four production technicians on a Tullow engagement survey top line results 26 week training programme at TTE in Middlesbrough A.
My job UK, who are specialists in the training of production B.
My career and operations technicians.
Having completed their C.  offshore survival training, the technicians returned D. My boss to Ghana to join the Tullow team in Accra.
com 75 Directors Report: Business review DC Emmanuel Kwadjo-Dei, Production Operations Technician Trainee TTE Training Centre Middlesborough, UK 8 Maintaining the highest standards of governance Tullow is committed to all aspects of good corporate and ethical behaviour.
Policies and processes are in place to ensure we comply fully with all legislative and regulatory requirements and where those are inadequate or non-existent in areas of operation we apply responsible standards.
Chairmans introduction 78 The Board provides strategic leadership, guidance and plays a leading role in risk management.
This ensures the Group is well managed with a balanced approach to risk and reward and stays on target with its strategic priorities.
Board of Directors 80 There are 11 members on the Tullow Board, five Executive Directors and six non-executive Directors including the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Corporate governance 82 A governance highlight for 2009 is that this is the first year of full compliance with the Combined Code.
Directors remuneration report 91 We provide a full explanation of the Groups remuneration policy for Executive and non-executive Directors, together with details of their remuneration for 2009.
