32 Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility We are committed to delivering sustainable growth based on honesty, integrity and our core values, fostering partnerships and local involvement in the communities in which we operate.
Overview The issues of sustainability, climate change and corporate responsibility affect us all and, as a global group, we are committed to ensuring that we make a positive contribution through our engagement with society and to minimising any negative environmental or social impacts from our operations.
Acting with respect for the various communities in which we operate is central to the way in which we do business, and we believe that acting in a responsible manner is key to delivering sustainable value for our shareholders.
Core principles Improve awareness and disclosure of Corporate Responsibility CR activity both internally and externally.
Ensure continued transparency and accountability in reporting the Groups performance.
Objectives Use the UBM Wiki to share knowledge, drive good business practice and increase employee awareness of our CR activities.
David Levin Chief Executive Officer Measure, monitor and report on progress towards our CR goals.
Reorient our charitable giving to make a direct contribution, in cash and in kind, to those areas where we can actually deliver value to charitable groups through the exercise of our core capabilities.
We believe that to be truly effective corporate responsibility should be embedded in the business culture at all levels.
In order to reflect the diverse CR priorities of our businesses which have been reshaped into smaller, more specialised business units during the past two years we reconstituted our steering group during 2009, drawing together employees from across all businesses, to establish the core principles which guide our CR activities.
Each division is responsible for the development and implementation of CR initiatives in line with our core principles, their own business needs and in relation to the specific communities within which they operate, subject to the underlying principle that their approach to corporate responsibility should focus on support for the business strategy and the mitigation of risk.
Knowledge and experience is shared through the steering group, and our core principles, CR objectives, activity and successes are reported on the UBM Wiki ensuring visibility right across UBM.
Remuneration policy for senior management is aligned with stakeholders interests and is described in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 47.
Bonus targets for senior management include measures aimed at developing and progressing corporate responsibility activity.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 33 Our suite of flexible working policies are constantly reviewed and UBM and people updated and are specifically designed to meet individual personal A key element in creating long term growth is our ability to attract, circumstances and to satisfy business needs.
These include working develop and retain the most talented people at all levels.
We are investing from home, flexible hours, sabbatical leave and enhanced parental in a culture supporting a more entrepreneurial and innovative company, leave.
Since their introduction, we believe these policies have made a as described on page 15.
Our ability to attract and retain key talent is contribution to the recruitment, engagement and the retention of a an important risk factor for UBM, as described on page 29, and our more diverse workforce.
We recognise the specific needs of individuals employment policies are designed to address and mitigate that risk.
and, in particular, ensure that appropriate adjustments are made to During 2009 we employed an average of 6,094 people around enable the employment of disabled persons.
Should employees become the world.
disabled during employment, every effort is made, through appropriate training or other adjustments, to accommodate their disability and Core principles enable them to continue to pursue their career.
As an illustration of the success of our policies, in 2009, for the sixth Attract and retain talent.
consecutive year, UBM Technology received the Best Place To Work Ensure all employees operate ethically and with integrity.
GLBT Equality seal from the Human Rights Campaign Foundation, Act as a responsible employer.
as one of Americas best companies for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender workers, and UBM Technology was ranked joint-first Objectives amongst medium-sized US businesses, and first in the entertainment, media and publishing industry, by the Dave Thomas Foundation for Continue to roll out training and talent management Adoption on the list of Top 100 adoption-friendly workplaces.
programmes across all UBM geographies.
Undertake consistent employee satisfaction surveys.
Talent management Enable employees to achieve a healthy and productive work life We place a particular emphasis on the personal development of all staff by providing the resources to do their jobs and by supporting to achieve their full potential, and in 2009 we invested in developing a their development.
UBM Leadership Capability Profile, which articulates the leadership capabilities and skills that will be critical to delivering business strategies Employment policies across UBM, and which is now a key part of our selection process for leadership roles.
Detailed employment policies are in place across our businesses, In 2009, we continued to embed strong succession planning covering areas such as recruitment, training, flexible working, paid processes into the fabric of business management practices.
Using a leave e. g. maternity, paternity, adoption, parental, carer and sabbatical consistent framework and approach across the Group, our Divisional leave, diversity, data protection, anti-malpractice Whistleblowing leadership teams engaged for the second year in a robust process to and other policies tailored to meet our core principles.
In all cases we identify strategic capability shifts, the potential impact of these on the seek as a minimum to meet, and where possible exceed, the requirements configuration of leadership roles required in each Division, and the of local jurisdictions.
implications for succession planning and talent development.
Our individual businesses also run their own development Diversity programmes to help identify, develop and accelerate the careers of our talented people at all levels.
During 2009, we significantly increased our We are a global business with employees, customers, partners and suppliers from a wide range of cultures and backgrounds, and we e-learning activity, in order to ensure that as many of our employees as celebrate diversity in all its forms, where the unique talents that every possible can access on demand and virtual learning to enhance their individual can bring to the business are fully recognised and where skills and capabilities.
Highlights of 2009 encompassed a formal learning from each other programme across multiple geographies at these differences enable us to respond to the rapidly changing business environment, to meet the diverse needs of our customer base, and to UBM International Media, an on-demand university in several of our enhance creativity and personal development.
Divisions and a mentoring programme which we will be expanding We have equal opportunities policies and programmes in place to further in 2010. ensure employees are selected and promoted solely on the basis of their skills and ability to do the job, regardless of age, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
Employees receive training on diversity, equality and anti-harassment issues.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 34 Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility continued Reward strategies However it has been the development of the UBM Wiki which has significantly enhanced how we communicate, enabling all UBM We have developed policies on compensation, rewards and benefits employees to connect and collaborate for business benefit across that ensure that the best talent is recruited, retained and engaged.
Since launching in September The objective is to ensure that all staff in all locations are treated fairly 2008, the UBM Wiki community has grown to 5,000 users, working in and we aim to follow best employment practices within the local 39 countries.
By the end of December 2009 users had created around markets in which we operate.
We promote and reward based on merit 37,000 pages of content and generated around 3.4 million page views.
and the individuals contribution to the business.
Reward arrangements Across UBM, job vacancies are posted on the Wiki, enabling individuals include bonus and long term incentive schemes payable on the to identify career development opportunities and progress their careers achievement of financial and personal objectives.
In October 2009, the UBM Wiki was awarded the other benefits are also available, with local variations between markets.
Business Impact Award in the Social Business Software Awards at Benefits include Company pension schemes, life assurance and medical JiveWorld09, which recognises outstanding achievements in deploying facilities.
In the event of redundancies we ensure that proper procedures social media software technologies effectively.
are followed with affected staff in accordance with Company policies and local laws, and that redundant staff are treated fairly in accordance UBM and the environment with local best practices.
As a leading organiser of events all around the world we recognise Benefits the impacts that our business can have on the environment.
We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint, and are proud to take We encourage employee saving and share ownership through Sharesave, the lead on raising environmental awareness at our events, by running in which 36% of UK employees, 44% of Hong Kong employees and events to share best practice in environmental matters, by reducing 25% of US employees currently participate.
Initiatives which promote event waste and driving improvements in sustainability across all our the health of our employees include discounted gym membership, event activities.
health and wellness programmes, and healthcare insurance.
In line with our environmental ethos we have, for the past four years, offered Core principle a Cycle2Work scheme, which enables our UK employees to take Monitor and seek to reduce our impact on the environment.
advantage of the Governments tax exemption on bicycles for employees to cycle to work.
We also offer secure parking for bikes and now offer Objectives upgraded shower and changing facilities, and this has encouraged record numbers of employees to participate.
By the end of 2009 13.7% of the Identify and pursue targets for reduction of energy UK workforce 2008: 8.5% and 2007: 6.4% were participating in the consumption.
Continue to progress waste recycling initiatives.
Communication Incorporate environmentally friendly features into new or refurbished offices.
We believe that clear and open communication with employees is fundamental to fostering a positive culture and achieving our business Reduce paper usage and set minimum criteria for use of paper from sustainable sources.
An ongoing dialogue with employees is achieved through staff surveys with follow up action plans, appraisals, e-newsletters, town Reduce emissions attributable to business travel.
hall meetings, web chats, blogging, innovative use of webinars and Our principal environmental issues are energy usage, waste recycling, wikis.
Regular UBM-wide updates from the CEO keep employees transport and paper sourcing and usage.
We are focused on reducing informed of business strategy and developments.
In addition, employee energy usage and energy waste in the workplace and at events, and consultative forums in place in UBM businesses offer a valuable vehicle on improving recycling.
Our employees are integral to achieving for the exchange of information with management and also give these aims and we are fostering a culture of environmental awareness employees the opportunity to meet and share views.
and responsibility, with regular electronic communications and environmental awareness campaigns, the sharing of ideas and good practice on the UBM Wiki, and changes to the office environment, all of which have enhanced employee engagement to help us move towards a low carbon future.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 35 Our monitoring process has begun at our largest UK office, Ludgate During 2009 UBM was runner-up in Best Campaign at the Low House where over 75% of our UK workforce is based.
We are looking Carbon Performance Awards, having previously won in 2007 and been to roll out the best practice from Ludgate House to the rest of the UBM shortlisted in 2008: UBM Live became the first major event organiser network worldwide.
Our people at Ludgate House helped us to achieve, to be self-accredited on the BS8901 register for sustainable event for the third consecutive year, a record annual rate of recycling of total management: and our purpose built Cheshire Oaks office, which we waste, up to 89% from 86% in 2008. made as environmentally friendly as possible, was awarded a very good Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM rating BREEAM is the code for sustainable buildings Ludgate House Recycling and is the most widely recognised environmental assessment method 89% 86% for sustainable building design.
During 2010 both UBM Live and UBM International Media will be seeking to attain the BS8901 68.5% external accreditation.
Some of our businesses are particularly close to many of the key environmental issues facing us today, and in December 2009 our Build Environment division ran Sustainability Now, a free virtual event bringing together professionals working across architecture, engineering, quantity surveying, project management and construction to discuss, tackle and collaborate on sustainability issues in the built 2007 2008 2009 environment, focussing on techniques for designing new-build low carbon buildings as well as how best to tackle the huge challenge of Electricity consumption at Ludgate House fell by 15.9% during the year, refurbishing the UKs existing stock of buildings.
exceeding our target of 10% reduction, and has fallen by 49.1% since We are consistently seeking to improve the environmental footprint 2004.
Gas consumption rose by 10.3% during the year, due mainly to a of each event that we run through a variety of measures.
Recent changes spike caused by the cold winter weather at the start and end of the year, for example have seen teams either not using any floor coverings or, while total carbon emissions at Ludgate House fell by 13.4% to 3,380 where they are used, using only recyclable carpets: using recyclable tCO2e 2008: 3,903 tCO2e.
PVC banners: having online-only bookings and operations manuals and electronic Press Offices: working with venues to reduce energy and water usage: encouraging an awareness of, and a commitment to, Ludgate House Electricity and gas usage improved environmental performance amongst suppliers, exhibitors Electricity usage and event sponsors, including Green awards for event exhibitors.
8,000,000 kWh There are also a number of experiments engaged in reducing the number Gas usage 7,000,000 of printed and posted materials to ascertain if electronic-only versions kWh 6,000,000 will suffice.
5,000,000 4,000,000 3,000,000 2,000,000 1,000,000 0 2007 2008 2009 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 36 Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility continued Our news distribution division, PR Newswire, supports corporations UBM in the community and non-profits by extending special pricing during major catastrophes, We recognise the importance of our relationship with the communities most recently offering free services for NGOs, and corporations offering in which we operate.
As a media and information group our range of relief services, during the Haiti earthquake, as well as by sponsoring charitable and community initiatives focus on projects which promote various sustainability and CR conferences.
For example, PR Newswire education, literacy and communications, particularly amongst provided complimentary news releases to all NGOs declaring disadvantaged communities, as well as, more broadly, assisting in commitments at the annual Clinton Global Initiative Conference in relieving poverty and homelessness, and promoting healthcare.
In addition PR Newswire, via its partnership with As we grow our business geographically we are particularly keen to CSRwire, provides its members with expanded distribution to media, support the local communities into which we are expanding.
analysts and stakeholders that specifically have elected to track and follow the sustainability and CR market.
Core principle UBM Asia were nominated for Caring Company Award organised by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service for its work offering Encourage employee engagement in the community.
training and work experience to mentally and physically handicapped Use our business skills and activities to support the trainees.
Everything Channel in the US coordinates with venues and communities in which we operate.
local non-for-profit agencies to organise food donations from events to local soup kitchens and support centres.
Objectives Employees are encouraged to undertake volunteering activities Promote Give As You Earn in the UK and develop similar model and are given time off each year, with pay, to volunteer.
matched giving scheme through which fundraising efforts by UBMs employees are matched by the Company, together with a payroll giving Promote implement volunteering programme and develop scheme in the UK, whereby regular donations by employees are mechanism for measuring and costing volunteering time.
The allocation of cash donations is based either on proposals Review charitable donations policy to ensure best use of funds.
generated by employees, or by reference to the level of volunteer work undertaken by employees.
Seek to develop relationships with charities which complement our business activities.
During 2009 we donated 564,200 2008: 503,023 to over 100 charities, which represents cash donations only and does not include At UBM we are harnessing our business expertise and resources to donations-in-kind such as employees time or services offered on a make a real difference.
In December 2009 we ran the first ever NGO pro bono basis, nor does it include the donation of equipment such as Conference-Expo, in So Paulo, Brazil, which offered free stands and computers.
The number of UK employees donating via GAYE, and conference sessions to 270 NGO exhibitors and 2,500 visitors to having their donations matched by UBM, rose to 9.3% from 8.4% in promote the interests of NGOs operating in Brazil.
The conference was 2008 and these were directed towards 70 charitable organisations.
a huge success with very positive feedback from the NGOs who were able to be the centre of an event and network with other NGOs and CR people on a large scale for the first time.
We will be seeking out similar opportunities to utilise our expertise for the benefit of the community during 2010, and aim to roll-out this format in two new countries.
We also offer complimentary or discounted services to not-for-profit entities.
At our Food Ingredients Europe show in Frankfurt we donated a stand to Oxfam, enabling them to get closer to the food chains that lead to people living in poverty and offer a platform for their messaging.
At the Fashion Access Show in Hong Kong, UBM Asia introduced Sustainable World, dedicated to sustainable fashion, and hosted the first Sustainable Fashion Forum.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 37 Health and safety Suppliers Core principle Core principle Act as a responsible employer.
Encourage suppliers to adopt CR policies and standards in line with our own.
Objectives Objectives Enable employees to achieve a safe, healthy and productive work life.
Work with major suppliers to implement continuous improvement plans and measures.
Roll-out health and safety training and reporting around the group.
Develop procurement policies which reflect and support our CR goals.
We recognise that providing a safe working environment for our We aim to do business in a consistent, responsible and appropriate employees, and for the exhibitors and visitors to our many conferences manner, encouraging sustainability and environmentally sound and exhibitions, is an essential responsibility of management and employees at all levels.
Health and safety policy lies with the Board sourcing.
We require that suppliers meet the same high standards that we set for ourselves, including adherence to local laws and best practice.
and each divisional CEO is are responsible for making sure that their We conduct surveys with suppliers, listen to their feedback and business operates in compliance with relevant health and safety share our knowledge with them.
Suppliers and contractors are audited legislation and procedures.
Divisional CEOs also undertake health and safety awareness training.
on their green initiatives, and wherever practicable we use locally sourced supplies.
Our principal health and safety issues relate to our events and, while local legal requirements may vary, our aim is to set benchmark Customers standards for managing health and safety at our events around the world.
Contractors and exhibitors are made aware of our demanding requirements with detailed health and safety guidance, and the majority Core principle of contractors have either undertaken formal health and safety training Seek to enlarge our customer communities and improve or plan to do so because we demand it.
We have continued to seek to levels of customer service by understanding and responding apply the highest standards in each of our events taking account to their needs.
of local regulations and norms but also applying our own approach.
Risk assessments are conducted at our events and a health and safety Objectives manager is on site for the duration of the event.
We also undertake regular independent health and safety audits and continually seek to Measure customer satisfaction and target improvements.
improve and share best practice.
Workplace assessments for officeSupport customers CR objectives.
based employees are carried out on a regular basis.
Our Internal Audit department formally vet the health and safety process of each operation We conduct regular surveys, and endeavour to have a continuous in the business.
feedback loop, enabling customers to contact us on their terms, the In the UK a new health and safety policy has been rolled out, as a results of which are reviewed by senior management to identify any result of which 43 senior managers attended health and safety training.
areas for improvement as we constantly seek to improve and exceed The average number of reported accidents per month remained constant our customers expectations.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009
