Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executives strategic review Strategies to develop Ultras people 98% retention of key staff in 2009 The performance of Ultra is fundamentally driven by the individual and team contributions made by employees.
Ultras success in innovating to meet customer needs is based on the broad range of skills and capabilities of employees.
All managers in Ultra, supported by HR professionals, work towards the aim of delivering an efficient organisation with competent and committed people to meet the Groups business commitments.
It is vital to the continuing growth and success of Ultra that its All businesses in Ultra utilise an internally developed organisation investments are made wisely, that the quality of the management and succession planning process.
In this, individuals are assessed team is constantly improved, that the right behaviours are against their performance in their current role and their potential encouraged and that appropriate processes are pursued around the to perform a larger role.
This assessment positions the individual on Group.
Many businesses state that their people are the companys the performance versus potential grid shown below.
Included in most important asset.
Ultra varies this slightly: the Groups right this assessment is consideration of the challenge posed by the people are its most important asset.
organic growth of the business driven by successful execution of the competitive strategy.
Any role in the business will become more The structure of Ultra is characterised by a lean head ofce function challenging as the business grows.
only thirteen staff in total work at the head ofce in London and a high degree of authority and responsibility delegated to the twenty four businesses.
Supported by their divisional managing directors, the management team of each business is required to focus on three key outcomes: developing and delivering the strategy meeting or beating the budget developing the people in the business If any business does not maintain a constant focus on growing the capabilities of the team, and the individuals in the team, it will become a constraint on the continuing growth and development of the business itself.
The management structure and processes at the Executive Team level have been reviewed to ensure that they were capable of supporting the further growth of the Group over the Low Potential High five year period of the strategic plan.
The intended succession plan has been announced in which Douglas Caster becomes Chairman in 2011 and Rakesh Sharma succeeds him as Chief Executive.
Equal attention is given to enhancing the performance of and Across Ultra the role of the human resources function is to work retaining the individuals in the green zone of the grid and to with the rest of the management team to ensure the supply of the addressing the challenges of the people in the amber and red necessary high calibre, well trained and committed people.
This does not always mean that these individuals must leave challenge can be summarised as attracting, retaining, motivating Ultra.
Often they need to be placed in a role more suited to their and developing the right people.
A further facet of the challenge is talents and in which they can perform as required by the business.
managing the poor performance of, and potentially removing, the In 2009 Ultra achieved a retention rate of 98% of those individuals wrong people from the team.
The human resources function is, in on the business senior management teams that were in the green addition, expected to manage succession, act as a catalyst for zone.
By developing and retaining the high potential individuals in change, ensure legal compliance and actively support the this zone, the Group is creating its next generation of business acquisition process.
leaders who will be able to take up the challenge, when required, Ultras management strives constantly to improve recruitment and of continuing the growth and expansion of Ultra.
personal development processes, to deliver high quality training and to share best practice across the Group.
12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Low Performance High Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executives strategic review Strategies to develop Ultras people The succession planning part of the process aims to ensure that Interaction of new employees with existing staff is encouraged there are suitable successors for all the management team roles where possible to spread the Ultra culture as effectively as possible.
across each business and other senior level roles.
Ultra has, as a Ultra recognises the importance of committed employees and, result, been able to appoint a high proportion of its leaders at using its YOURviews employee survey, has developed a measure of board, divisional and business levels through internal promotion.
The survey is conducted at least every two In 2009 seven of the eight appointments at this level were filled years in each Ultra business and the businesses across the Group internally.
This proportion has been broadly consistent over the have successfully improved engagement by 1 to 2% per year over last three years.
The YOURviews survey has also demonstrated The distinctive culture of Ultra and the behaviours of its people are the benets of the Groups consistent commitment to training and described elsewhere in this report.
It is a constant challenge to development over the past three years with an improvement in the ensure that these features of Ultra are not diluted as the Group employee rating of 1% per year.
In a typical year Ultra recruits over 400 new employees.
In addition, acquisitions bring new people into the Ultra team.
Ultras LEAP behaviours The four cultural behaviours of its people that are highly valued and encouraged by Ultra are: Leadership Entrepreneurship Audacity Paranoia determine the future direction encouraging the whole being daring or bold considering risks and leaving and vision for the business no stone unturned to secure business to be entrepreneurial thinking of the bigger picture market opportunities communicate inspirationally or opportunity seeking competitive that future recognising threats and making advantage through the being prepared to take a it difficult for competitors to inspiring and energising the leap forward differentiation of offerings steal Ultras established position business team, customers, embrace innovation to inject ensuring competitions skewed suppliers and colleagues constantly worrying about rapid growth into the business in Ultras favour, while satisfying customers real needs stimulating an innovative behaving ethically culture to release creativity considering every possible seeking to enhance the angle when strategising bids enabling change to provide a offering by teaming either to enhance Ultras competitive greater and faster return to internally or externally position the business strategies for growth driving resilience Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13 Chief Executives strategic review
