Report of the Directors Performance 2009 Making a difference in society Our brands touch the lives of many millions every day.
Through our products and the power of our marketing, we can help make a difference to health and well-being around the world.
Nutrition helping make the healthy choice To increase consumer choice, we provide variants of many brands, Increasingly it is recognised that healthy diets along with regular with full and low fat, sweetened and unsweetened options, and physical activity play a major role in maintaining good health.
More and more, consumers are concerned about what they eat Nutritional labelling provides consumers with essential information and how it affects their health and well-being.
By developing such as levels of key nutrients.
brands that help them to enjoy a healthy diet, we can meet their expectations and grow our business.
The health claims we make are based on rigorous scientific evidence and are externally checked.
During 2009 the European Our approach is based around four elements: Union formally approved Unilevers claim that the active ingredient improving the nutritional quality of all our products: in our Flora Becel pro.
activ products is proven to lower cholesterol.
focusing research and development on healthy offerings: Lowering blood cholesterol may reduce the risk of coronary expanding consumer choice: heart disease.
providing clear information for consumers.
Extending our impact Making progress The Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that more The starting point is to improve the nutritional quality of our than 1 billion people are undernourished worldwide.
Some of existing brand portfolio without compromising on taste.
Since our brands can play a role in tackling under-nutrition, particularly 2005 our Nutrition Enhancement Programme has reviewed our micronutrient deficiencies, through food fortification.
For example, entire portfolio of products.
By the end of 2009, this showed our Rama Blue Band spreads contain vitamins A and D. Annapurna that 44% are in line with internationally accepted guidelines for iodised salt helps to prevent diseases related to iodine deficiency.
saturated and trans fat, sugar and salt.
We play an active role in public debate and work in partnership It is estimated that reducing salt by as little 1 g per day can with international organisations to extend the impact of our reduce strokes by 5% and heart attacks by 3%.
One example is the World Food Programme WFP, Organization recommends a daily intake of 5 g. In 2009 we set where we support efforts to improve the health and nutrition product benchmarks to achieve a dietary intake of 6 g of salt per of school children in developing countries.
In 2009, nearly day by the end of 2010, with the ambition to reduce further to 17 million meals for 80,000 children were provided by WFP, thanks 5 g per day by the end of 2015. to Unilever employee and brand initiatives.
In addition, 50,000 school children in Indonesia, Kenya and Colombia were enrolled Innovation is bringing products that offer specific health and in nutrition and hygiene behavioural change campaigns, jointly nutritional benefits.
For example, our Hellmanns Light and Extra developed and implemented by WFP and Unilever.
Light mayonnaise use patented citrus fibre technology to give a smooth and creamy taste, but with 60-90% less oil than the full fat variant.
Case study: Toothpaste Signal and Pepsodent encourage day and night brushing Our oral care brands, Signal, Pepsodent The day and night message focuses on the and Close Up, launched a Brush day single biggest change in behaviour that will improve oral health.
The campaign is built around and night campaign in 2009 together the insight that parents can find it difficult to with the FDI World Dental Federation.
get children to brush their teeth twice a day.
This continues our partnership work By sharing brushing moments together, this with the FDI which has supported 40 key oral hygiene habit can be passed on more projects in 37 countries to date.
easily, benefiting the whole family.
com signal 18 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Case study: Lifebuoy Lifebuoy demonstrates its effectiveness Lifebuoy is one of Unilevers fastest growing brands in the personal care category.
During 2009 the brand was relaunched, starting in India, with a campaign that promotes good hygiene practices, especially to mothers and To demonstrate its genuine health benefits, Lifebuoy conducted the biggest clinical trial children.
The products were reformulated in Unilevers home and personal care history, involving 2,000 families in Mumbai.
Half with new active ingredients, improved the families were supplied with soap along with regular education about the importance fragrances and a distinctive new shape.
of washing hands with soap on key occasions during the day.
The other half continued with their normal hygiene practice, acting as a control group.
At the end of the trial, the five-year-old children in the intervention group had 25% fewer episodes of diarrhoea and significantly fewer days off school than children in the control group.
The study confirms the potential to change consumer behaviour, improve basic health through hygiene and grow our brands market share.
com Within our own workforce too, we can make a difference We work with a wide range of partners to help promote to health and well-being.
Our Lamplighter programme enables the importance of handwashing.
Launched in 2008, Global Unilever employees to assess, track and improve important Handwashing Day is an annual event backed by the Public-Private aspects of their health such as blood pressure, fitness, mental Partnership for Handwashing with Soap, of which Unilever is resilience and diet.
This in turn improves the health of Unilever a founding partner.
In 2009 more than 80 countries took part in as a business, with fitter, more engaged employees.
Global Handwashing Day, touching 120 million people worldwide.
Lifebuoy teams in 23 countries coordinated efforts with over Hygiene changing habits, helping save lives 50 organisations, including governments and NGOs.
Activities Poor sanitation and a lack of personal hygiene remain the root included encouraging school children to take handwashing causes of many life-threatening diseases around the world.
pledges and the Lifebuoy Germ Fighter Drawing Contest.
Helping people to incorporate simple hygiene habits into their everyday routines can achieve dramatic improvements.
Around the world, over 1 billion people do not brush their teeth Our competitive strength and long heritage of involvement, with a fluoride toothpaste.
We estimate that more than 3 billion particularly in developing and emerging markets, offer particular people do not brush twice a day.
Research results from a two-year opportunities to grow our brands and make a difference to study show that brushing twice a day with a fluoride toothpaste diseases caused by poor hygiene.
reduces tooth decay in children by up to 50% compared with only brushing once.
Recognising this opportunity to improve Our Lifebuoy brand helps to promote health and hygiene, and oral health and expand our sales, our toothpaste brands have in particular encourages people to wash their hands with soap.
launched their Brush day and night campaign.
In India, its Swasthya Chetna programme Health Awakening has run since 2002, raising awareness of the importance Making good quality products such as soap and toothpaste of handwashing with soap to prevent disease.
Similar hygiene affordable and widely available is a crucial starting point.
But this promotion activities run in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, is not enough if people do not change their everyday habits too.
Indonesia, Vietnam and South Africa.
The brands hygiene education has reached more than 133 million people in That is why Unilevers health and hygiene programmes harness these countries since 2002.
In 2009 Lifebuoy was voted one the power of our marketing to change behaviour.
The social of Indias most trusted brands in a national consumer poll.
mission of brands means such action is integrated into brand strategies, not simply a philanthropic add-on.
Do you know your heart age?
In 2009 Unilever and the World Heart Federation launched Heart Age, a powerful new online tool that uses diet and lifestyle facts such as weight, cholesterol, blood pressure and smoking to estimate cardiovascular risk factors, with the offer of a free diet and lifestyle plan.
co. uk Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19
