Report of the Directors Our strategy How we will win Winning with people Doubling in size is a challenging prospect.
From a In 2009 we launched our talent and organisation readiness programme, which will do just what it says: make sure our talent and organisational perspective, it cannot be organisation and our talent are ready for growth.
We will have to have in place assessing those areas of the business most crucial to our strategy the people and structures necessary to manage to define their specific goals, and whether we have the structure on a larger scale.
and the talent to deliver them.
Where we identify gaps, we focus on developing targeted solutions.
This may involve Our operating framework seeks to combine global scale, power one or more of the following: and strength with local consumer intimacy.
Taking advantage of changing organisational structures: this in all our chosen markets and categories as we are already revising our recruitment strategy and approach: doing in many areas will be critical in ensuring our success.
reviewing our retention schemes: improving core processes such as decision making: To do this we need to have a team capable of delivering, and to focusing on culture and employee engagement: offer the career potential and working environment that make using development and training programmes to build Unilever the best place to be.
Developing a team fit for growth So far we have carried out four pilot programmes in China, Some of our major markets are doubling in size every five to Indonesia and Germany, and in our skin category.
These have six years, while our own growth ambitions mean that having given us important new insights.
enough people with the right skills is a challenge in itself.
Getting the right number and quality of people in the pipeline for the future does not happen by accident.
It requires an understanding of what is already in the business that can be built upon, and what will be needed in the future as markets develop.
Case study: China Getting results fast Our business in China is Filling the skills gap by getting our people up to speed as quickly as possible became essential.
growing and relationships Within three months we developed a training with customers and large programme with our HR providers, Accenture, third-party distributors are and trained over 450 sales staff in seven cities becoming increasingly across China.
The average pass rate was over important.
Our sales team 95%, and we are already seeing results with an overall increase of 2.29% in net invoice value is key to driving growth delivered by those who did the training.
We identified now picked some people to become trainers areas where improved themselves so the programme can become individual performance would self-sustaining.
We are also looking at rolling it lead to significant returns for out to other emerging markets where our sales people need to develop new skills quickly.
and more on people development @ www.
com careers 14 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 A diverse team for the widest range of consumers Case study: World Food Programme An important part of developing the Unilever workforce of the future is diversity.
We need Judged by a diverse team across gender, nationality, race, creed, culture to be able to connect with the our actions widest range of consumers and to take our performance to a higher level.
Competing for the best graduates is a tough job in todays market.
Often We are already making progress.
Our Board of they demand to know more about Directors comprises six nationalities and the nine a companys social and environmental members of the Unilever Executive team come impact on the world.
On campus, companies bombard graduates with from six different countries.
This combination messages about how ethical they are.
delivers a wealth of experience in emerging But how many really do more than markets which is critical to our future write a cheque each year?
In terms of gender, the number of women in senior positions has increased.
For example, the proportion of women now at vice president level has gone up by around one third since 2007.
For more on diversity, see page 28.
As part of Unilevers partnership with the World Food Programme WFP, 12 student interns are recruited each year to help run WFPs school feeding programme in developing countries.
It isnt just the local children A place to succeed who benefit, or the students, who learn valuable life skills.
While there As important as development programmes and organisational is no requirement for interns to talk about Unilever, it is inevitable that structures is having a performance culture that rewards people they will when telling their friends about their experiences and most of the time it is positive.
In todays world of blogging and texting, there and teams who deliver.
Only by inspiring our people and is no better way to spread the word.
motivating them to succeed will we deliver our growth ambition.
com WFP People, integrity and values have always been central to Unilever, and will continue to be so.
But within that context we are determined to become faster, more focused and more competitive.
In 2009 we updated some of our performance management tools, for example introducing a global performance and talent management system.
Measuring cultural change is an inexact science, but we put great effort into engaging with employees to find out whether they understand the companys vision and their role within it, what their views are about Unilever, and what they believe needs to change for us to achieve our ambitions.
In 2009 we began an employee engagement programme that will ensure employees are involved in Unilevers vision and plans for the future.
Shes got the love Marmite brand manager Cheryl Calverley scooped the Marketing Societys Young Marketer of the Year award in the UK for her success in re-engaging the love it or hate it brand with young consumers.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15
