Corporate soCial responsibility report As a Group we seek to operate responsibly and The Group is committed to its customers, and ethically in all areas of our business.
We have a has dedicated support staff within its Group strong ethical belief in the way business should Solutions Centre to handle all support calls be conducted, how employees should be treated and capture customer feedback.
and have integrated social, environmental and ethical policies into the way we do business and AVEVA has relatively few preferred suppliers, and the interaction we have with our stakeholders evaluates potential suppliers based on several including our shareholders, employees, factors including vendor policies, reputation customers, suppliers and local communities.
and contractual terms and conditions.
The Chief Executive has Board responsibilities for employees matters relating to the Groups culture and ethical The Group now has 843 employees of whom policies, environmental matters and customer over 500 are based overseas.
As a result of our and employee issues.
These matters are reviewed high rate of growth, we have seen an increase by the Board as part of its management of risk, in the numbers we employ.
on the basis that as the Group grows, maintenance of its core values is vital.
We are dependent on the drive and goodwill of our employees, they are our most important customers and suppliers asset and key to our continuing success and as We seek to be honest and fair in our relationships a result, the extent to which we have sufficient with both customers and suppliers.
We offer the staff of the right calibre available to fill our critical highest level of support and continue to enhance roles is reviewed periodically by the Board as part our product offering to ensure our customers of the risk management process.
We recognise effective use of software thus minimising waste that we must excel in the management of people, and improving efficiency.
We have a policy not helping them develop their careers within the to offer, pay or accept bribes or to accept Group whilst maintaining a high level of morale.
We encourage our During the year we have strengthened our suppliers and customers to adopt the same Human Resources team with the addition of a principles to which we ourselves aspire.
career development and training professional to oversee the Groups training and development In addition to sponsoring a variety of industry activities.
Although staff turnover has remained trade shows, AVEVA hosted a number of customer low in the last twelve months, this is a continual focused events during the year, including the changing process and as such: Marine User Meeting in Kobe, Japan, and the we aim to recruit, train and develop the International Symposium for Engineering best people and help them take on board Information Technology ISEIT, held this year our values while continuing to grow the in Paris and Austin, Texas.
As in previous years, business in the key areas: the purpose of these events was to build relationships with the customer base, obtain we provide clean, healthy and safe feedback on the product offering, and to promote working conditions: best practice in the use of our software.
buildiNg oN our 18 AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2009 overview business review corporate governance financial statements we are an equal opportunity employer and As part of the development and retention of management development training programme do not tolerate any illegal discriminatory staff, the Group offers flexible benefits for all Managing employees in a growing organisation actions or harassment of our employees: UK employees, which provide a competitive with such diverse cultures brings with it a number and varied approach to benefits to suit of challenges.
AVEVA has developed a training the Group recognises the requirement to individual lifestyle needs.
In addition an programme to provide support and a learning provide facilities for disabled employees Employee Assistance Programme is in place framework for the management team.
The and continues to be aware of any special as the Group recognises that employees need management development course has been needs an employee might have: support from time to time to handle work and extended to include different levels of we encourage fuel efficient commuting non-work related issues.
management and is led by our internal through the provision of cycle sheds, showers training and development manager.
and changing facilities in the UK offices: and AVEVA will continue to review its benefits programme throughout the Group to ensure Graduate training programme the recent implementation of flexible valued and cost effective benefits are offered As part of the overall strategy to attract and benefits, allows the purchase of bicycles to all employees remain competitive and grow talent, AVEVA now offers a comprehensive through the cycle to work scheme and the reward existing employees.
and attractive graduate programme in the UK.
purchase of child care vouchers.
This offers accelerated learning in both technical central induction programme and personal development and is now being We also have a Joint Consultative Committee, With so many new employees joining the considered to be extended in other areas of a forum made up of employee representatives Group during the year the Directors felt it the Group to ensure an ongoing pipeline of in the UK who meet frequently to discuss any important to ensure the induction process talent and skill.
It comprises employee was comprehensive and professional to members from all departments, coordinated ensure new employees feel welcome and Group wide appraisal scheme by the Human Resources department.
can become effective as soon as possible.
Developing skills is important to individuals and to AVEVA developing people helps move The Groups employment policies are During the year the Group has successfully the Group forward and helps maintain the respect continuously under review and are aimed run six central induction courses bringing and reputation of our staff with our customers.
at meeting or exceeding the legislative new employees together from throughout the requirements in the countries in which business to welcome them to the Group and The appraisal process therefore: the Group operates and wherever possible provide informative and useful training.
ensures staff receive regular, constructive promote a considerate and flexible approach feedback on their performance: to work life balance.
As part of this the Group continues to review and improve communication links job descriptions and individual with employees and has conducted surveys objectives with AVEVA business plans: and and held forums with employees to gain sets and reviews personal development goals.
their views on key issues.
reputation As a Group we seek to operate responsibly and ethically in all areas of the business.
We have a strong ethical belief in the way business should be buildiNg oN our conducted and how employees should be treated.
Annual report 2009 Directors report AVEVA Group plc 19 Corporate soCial responsibility report coNtiNued health and safety travel We have a legal responsibility to ensure the safety AVEVA recognises the environmental impact and well-being of all our employees whilst carrying of travel and employees are encouraged to out their duties on behalf of the Group and cycle to work, share car journeys or use public maintain a safe environment for customers and transport.
During the year the cycle facilities other visitors whilst on our premises.
Health at the Cambridge site were extended to and Safety, Fire Safety and Electrical Safety accommodate more cycles and improved audits are carried out on a regular basis.
shower and changing facilities were installed.
In the last twelve months there were no RIDDOR International travel is important to support reportable accidents.
and promote our business worldwide.
The level of international travel is monitored on a regular As a global business, our employees undertake basis with ways to reduce travel investigated.
travel to many areas of the world to visit customers Video and web conferencing is utilised sites or to assist customers in the deployment whenever practicable.
Improvements to our and testing of our products.
The Group regularly core IT infrastructure including deployment takes advice from the UK Foreign Office, the of a global private network and corporate World Health Organisation and similar telephone system to our 15 largest offices organisations concerning health and safety across the Group has enabled more effective in the various regions where we operate.
communication collaboration and is expected to improve operational efficiencies in the future.
environment As a developer of software the Company has educational partnerships no manufacturing facilities and therefore the AVEVA shares the concerns of industry regarding Group is classed as low impact in environmental the short fall in skilled designers and engineers terms.
The majority of sales is for software in the Plant and Marine markets, due primarily which is delivered electronically to customers.
to the aging demographic of the existing workforce: and consequently, AVEVA is Our software products are created by committed to preparing a new generation very knowledgeable, talented individuals of engineers and designers to address this using computers and a variety of software challenge.
Recognising the importance of development tools.
There are no harmful partnering with leading universities and chemicals or anything that could give rise technical institutes in order to achieve this to noxious waste employed in the process.
goal, the Group has donated AVEVA Plant and We purchase energy saving screens which are AVEVA Marine software and training to numerous MPR-II and TCO 03 compliant.
We use third institutes, including: SAIT Polytechnic in party recycling vendors to assist us with Calgary, Alberta: Texas Southern University: the disposal of computer hardware in an and South Korean education institutions.
The Group In addition, AVEVA has provided support to actively undertakes recycling of waste products the Marine Design Centre MDC in Newcastle with printer toner, paper, cardboard and plastic upon Tyne.
These initiatives will help to meet recycled in many locations.
We encourage the skills challenges that owner operators, employees to undertake recycling as shipyards and engineering firms face, much as possible.
particularly with regards to ensuring buildiNg oN our 20 AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2009 overview business review corporate governance financial statements that designers have the necessary skills and Headway Marie Curie Cancer Care qualifications for the local market.
The MDC is To promote understanding of all aspects Marie Curie Cancer Care provides free nursing the first of its kind in the UK and has been set of brain injury and to provide information, care to cancer patients and those with other up as a subsidiary business of Northern Defence support and services to people with a brain terminal illnesses in their own homes.
Industries NDI, to which around 200 regional injury, their families and carers: companies are affiliated.
The MDC is an The Group also gift matched the efforts of employees who took part in the Chariots international centre of excellence, helping Macmillan Cancer Support of Fire Charity Marathon, the Oxford to members to find new markets, grow market Macmillan Cancer Support is a source of Cambridge Bike Ride and Red Nose Day.
share and gain competitive advantage.
support, helping with all the things people affected by cancer want and need: community involvement The Group is involved in a number of International Committee of the Red Cross charitable and good causes.
The Groups The International Committee of the Red Cross, policy has been to continue to support local or ICRC, is a humanitarian organisation which charities in the areas that we operate as well aims to help those caught up in armed conflicts as a number of national and international around the globe: charities.
During the past year we have donated 49,000 to a wide range of The Princes Trust organisations as summarised below: The Princes Trust, founded in 1976 by The Prince of Wales, has become the UKs East Anglian Air Ambulance leading youth charity, offering a range of East Anglian Air Ambulance was founded opportunities including training, personal in 2000.
The charity provides 365 day a year development, business start-up support, mentoring and advice: and air ambulance service for Cambridgeshire, Norfolk and Suffolk which is 11% of the total area of England: The Outward Bound Trust The Outward Bound Trusts mission is to unlock East Anglian Childrens Hospice EACH the potential in young people through discovery EACH supports families throughout their and adventure in the wild.
experience of caring for children with life-threatening or life-limiting illnesses: Help for Heroes Help for Heroes is a registered charity providing MidAnglia General Practitioner support to service men and women wounded Accident Service MAGPAS in current conflicts.
MAGPAS has provided emergency care in Cambridgeshire and Peterborough since 1971 and works in partnership with the East Anglian Air Ambulance and the East of England Ambulance Service Trust: Commitment AVEVA is committed to preparing a new generation of engineers and designers for the Plant and Marine markets by donating AVEVA Plant buildiNg oN our and AVEVA Marine software to numerous educational institutes.
Annual report 2009 Directors report AVEVA Group plc 21
