Corporate social responsibility statement The Directors recognise the increasing importance of corporate social responsibility and endeavour to take into account the interests of the Groups stakeholders, including its investors, employees, customers, suppliers and business partners when operating the business.
The Group believes that having empowered and responsible employees who display sound judgement and awareness of the consequences of their decisions and actions, and who act in an ethical and responsible way, is key to the success of the business.
Environment Health and safety Vectura is committed to complying with Vectura has established a Health and environmental legislation and minimising Safety Committee to review health and the impact of its activities on the safety standards within the Group on an environment.
Vectura considers that its ongoing basis.
The Group considers health activities have a low environmental impact.
and safety to be a priority in its workplaces.
The Group is committed to minimising any The Group has an excellent safety record adverse environmental impact of its and there have been no major incidents or manufacturing and laboratory facilities and accidents to report to the Health and complies with UK environmental legislation.
The Group has provided specialist training to individuals who are responsible for health and safety, Waste management and general health and safety training to Various waste management initiatives all staff.
were implemented through the Group in The Group continues to keep 2007, including recycling of all paper environment and health and safety waste, aluminium cans, printer practices under review.
toners cartridges and redundant mobile telephone handsets.
The Groups employees are actively encouraged to Ethical and social policies reduce power usage in the office The Groups principal activities are environment, and telephone conferencing undertaken within the pharmaceutical facilities are used wherever possible in industry, which is subject to a highly order to reduce unnecessary travel.
regulated ethical framework with which the Group complies.
In addition, the Group seeks to conduct its activities generally in accordance with good business ethics.
The Group does not consider it appropriate at its current stage of development to make significant financial donations to charitable, community or social activities, but does encourage its employees to take part in charity fundraising events.
Vectura considers that its most important contribution to the communities within which it operates is to provide high-quality employment opportunities and to develop therapies for diseases.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 28 Employee involvement Employees During the year, Vectura continued its The Group recognises that in an industry policy of providing employees with based on innovation, research and information about the Group through development, its employees are some of regular presentations by Directors, its biggest assets and it seeks to management and the Groups intranet.
communicate and, where appropriate, In addition, regular meetings are held consult with them on matters affecting between management and employees to them as employees, in the correct manner.
allow for a free flow of information and ideas.
Staff forums have been formed to The Group is committed to achieving comply with the requirements of equality of opportunity in all its Information and Consultation of Employees employment practices, policies and Regulations 2004.
Employees are highly valued implementation of the EC Directive.
and their rights and dignity are respected.
The Group does not tolerate any Disabled employees harassment or discrimination.
The Group Applications for employment by disabled practises equal treatment of all employees persons are always fully considered, or potential employees irrespective of their bearing in mind the aptitudes of the race, creed, colour, sexual orientation, applicant concerned.
With regard to nationality, ethnic origin, religion, disability, existing employees and those who may age, gender or marital status.
The equal become disabled, Vecturas policy is to opportunities policy covers all permanent examine ways and means to provide and temporary employees including Noncontinuing employment under its existing Executive Directors, all job applicants, terms and conditions and to provide agency staff, associates, consultants and training and career development, including contractors.
The Group also endeavours to promotion, wherever appropriate.
be honest and fair in its relationships with Family-friendly employment policies and customers and suppliers and to be a good employee welfare corporate citizen, respecting the laws of The maternity leave and maternity pay countries in which it operates.
policy conforms with statutory The Group provides training and requirements.
Flexible approaches to development appropriate to individual return to work after maternity leave and needs and offers remuneration packages part-time or non-standard hours and work including pensions, private medical, patterns are considered where viable.
The permanent health and life insurance and a Group has adopted a paternity leave policy working environment that are designed to in line with UK legislation.
be both fair and competitive with larger companies within the industry.
Participation in the Groups share option schemes is extended to all of the Groups employees.
More details are provided in the Report on remuneration.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 29
