Sustainability 32 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainable Cjgijg c EZdeaZ development ZVai] VcY HV[Zin :bedlZg c 8dbbjc i Zh Sustainable development a key part :ck gdcbZciVa HiZlVgYh] e of our strategy and over all ethos.
It re ects in the way we operate and represents a core commitment of our management and employees.
We believe that Sustainability is a enhancing focus and gives direction Governance for Sustainability dynamic process and is not about to drive our sustainability agenda.
We have a well fide ned sustainability nding the ideal status.
Consequently, framework that comprises of we are continuously innovating on our During 2008, we continued our efforts governance structures and policies.
to ingrain and deliver on Vedantas sustainability strategy, managing and Our Health, Safety and Environment We started our sustainability journey addressing non financial considerations, HSE processes are overseen by a with a focus on ensuring compliance material and integral to our business Board appointed committee, chaired and improving our social, safety & and important to our key stakeholders.
by Mr Naresh Chandra, an Independent health and environmental performance, Director that meets quarterly.
The other with emphasis on establishing Our sustainable development strategy members of the HSE Committee are: robust management systems.
the Vedanta Way is all encompassing.
Mr MS Mehta CEO, The process deployed helps us in It comprises of the following elements: Vedanta Resources Mr Akhilesh Joshi COO, HZL Mr Gunjan Gupta CEO, BALCO Nurturing People are our key assets.
We are committed to build a exible, at Mr Jeya Kumar Janakraj People and learning organization with an engaged and high performing Director Operations, KCM work force.
We believe in nurturing and mentoring leaders Mr Pankaj Khanna Executive from within and providing opportunities for growth based on Director, VAL, Jharsuguda meritocracy, performance and integrity Dr. Mukesh Kumar COO, VAL, Lanjigarh Empowering Communities are integral to our business.
We are committed Mr Ramesh Nair COO, Communities to enhancing the quality of life of the communities near our Sterlite Copper operations and creating self sustaining communities.
We work Mr Mahesh Patil General to gain and nurture our social license to operate in the host Manger HSE, Sesa Goa communities Mr CSR Mehta HSE Coordinator Ms Ruby Thapar CSR Coordinator Health and We are committed to providing a safe, secure and healthy The committee has its own well Safety workplace for all employees by using the best technology fide ned terms of reference and reports and practices directly to the board.
The committee guides our sustainable development Environmental Respect for nature, enhanced resource conservation and use of endeavour, sets annual targets and Stewardship environmental friendly technology are embodied in our working monitors progress in line with our OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 33 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 HSE and social policies with a clear Case study focus on integrating HSE aspects in the decision making process.
All our locations are certi ed for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, except CMT.
HSE committees agenda is taken forward by senior management at each site.
They are supported by HSE professionals who implement this agenda.
Regular internal audits are performed to assess HSE performance.
Audit findings are discussed in HSE meetings every month at all the sites.
With a focus on behavioural safety we have established training systems at each location.
Safety training is compulsory for all employees and contract workers.
These programs are conducted in-house with inputs from external institutes and consultants of repute.
We are committed to robust governance and ethical conduct.
We have a detailed Code of Conduct for Board Members, Senior Management and other employees.
The whistleVedanta Bal Chetna blower policy empowers our employees to report any wrong doing without fear of retribution.
We are committed Anganwadi Project to managing and minimizing the environmental and social risks of our activities, by encouraging use of energy and water ef cient technologies, We believe that education plays a of Infant and Maternal Mortality conducting environmental impact vital role in moulding the future of Rate from 115 to 85 & from 60 to 40 assessments to understand our children.
The first five years of a respectively.
At VAL, Lanjigarh there impact and plan for managing the childs life are the most crucial and is now 95% attendance at the centers.
environmental, social and economic lay the foundation for a healthy mind Dr. Mona Sharma, Principal Secretary aspects in our major expansions and and body.
Our Vedanta Bal Chetna cum Commissioner, Ministry of new projects, along with ongoing Anganwadi Project VBCA, child care Women & Child Development, internal reviews and external audits center addresses this critical aspect Government of Orissa, on her recent of development.
The objective of visit to Bhatguda commented, Stakeholder Engagement the project is two fold: a to improve The children are full of energy, Stakeholder engagement is a key the nutritional status of children in very con dent & want us to listen peg of our Sustainability strategy, the age group of 0-6 years and b to all their rhymes.
It is a refreshing as they help identify sustainability to impart value based education change in Lanjigarh Block.
I am priorities and direct our efforts through the play way method.
sure all young children will blossom going forward on issues most like this in this Block.
An overall important to our internal and external The project being conducted assessment revealed that 100% of stakeholders.
Key stakeholders to us in partnership with the State these centers are operational now in are employees: local communities: Governments Integrated Child comparison to 20% and attendance customers: regulatory authorities: Development Services program is up by 83% in comparison to media: shareholders, investors and and the Vedanta Foundation, in 21% at the start of the year non governmental organizations.
937 centers, currently reaches out to 30,347 children at BALCO, On conducting an internal This year we used The World Business Korba, HZL and VAL, Lanjigarh.
assessment we felt there was scope Council for Sustainable Development to enhance the program further with matrix to prioritize stakeholders, In operation for a year now, the 3 additional elements: pre-school based on their in uence on us and results have been heartening.
education to create a base for formal the impact of our activities on them.
At HZL, 20% of the children schooling: capacity building of the A structured process of engagement have been mainstreamed into centers functionaries for effective was adopted using a three pronged primary education and 10% of the delivery of services: lastly formation approach keeping the stakeholders malnourished children brought to of a mothers committee to ensure informed, engaging with them and normal grade within 12 months involvement of each mother and forging partnerships to address their time.
At BALCO, we have been child in the program.
We have needs and concerns.
This exercise was successful at breaking social taboos plans to expand the reach of the conducted by an external agency and its like compulsory fasting of the mother project to more than 0.5 million nding helped us prioritize stakeholder post delivery and non administration children over a period of 2 years.
needs and size up materiality.
of breast milk to infant immediately after birth, along with reduction Sustainability 34 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Sustainability Report continued reduction of speci c water consumption at the zinc operations by 18%.
Waste management We focus on a 4R waste strategy Reduce, Recycle, Reuse and Reclaim.
We believe that actions to reduce waste, either by encouraging material ef ciency, reducing the generation of waste, or enabling the recovery and reuse of discarded material is a critical element of sustainable development.
Biodiversity We conduct an environmental impact assessment study for all our projects as well as our expansion activities.
We strive to take the utmost care to protect the biodiversity which may be affected by or is adjacent to any of our operating locations.
Social Nurturing People Recruitments Vedantas operations have grown several Through a formal and structured On the Green energy front we have folds over the last few years and so has process, materiality was determined by increased our installed capacity of the its demand for high quality human considering signi cant legal, regulatory, wind farms from 107 MW to 123.2MW.
resources for its operations and up social and financial impacts, business The same are operating at design levels.
Every individual who policies, the performance of peers and joins the organisation has the right to competitors, and intensive discussion Climate change grow is the fundamental principle that with our stakeholders across the board, We utilize carbon intensive fuels, drives the Talent Engagement Process at inclusive of both internal assessments of generate captive power for all our major Vedanta.
We believe in inducting large risks and opportunities to the business.
operations and also import electricity number of freshers from campus and which contribute to direct and indirect provide them with accelerated global Key material issues identi ed were: carbon dioxide emissions.
People development strengthened our focus and are getting graduates, engineers, quali ed finance 2.
Environment and energy independent carbon footprinting done.
professionals and other functionally management This year HZLs Wind Power Plants, at quali ed professionals directly from 3.
Impact of company operations on Gujarat and Karnataka were registered reputed campuses.
We have also adjoining communities, including as CDM projects by the UNFCCC, with initiated special recruitment drive of Resettlement and Rehabilitation CER potential of 2, 23,164 per annum.
Ex-Servicemen from Defence Forces for 4.
Occupational health and safety About 58,000 CERs realised from the various roles in security, administration of our work resources earlier registered waste heat recovery and core and strategic support roles.
Access to natural resources projects were also sold during the year.
Growth and Development Sustainability Performance Raw material consumption The Group has a unique and well Environmental Stewardship We continue to manufacture metals demonstrated track record of providing Energy by extraction of ore from our mines career opportunities from within.
Energy is one of our principal resources and then processing the same in our Hiring predominantly freshers and and our focus is on its conservation smelting operations.
This year the grooming them to take leadership and ef cient use.
We use energy focus was on productivity and process roles.
Employees with a performance in its different forms like coal, coke improvement, bene ts of which will be track record and high potential are breeze, pet coke, fuel oil, LPG, diesel, re ected in the forthcoming quarters.
identi ed through a well structured and electricity, besides energy from and transparent development process renewable sources like biomass, Water management and are given accelerated growth and through recovery of waste Similar to energy, water is another with specialized technical and general heat.
Speci c energy consumption crucial resource in our operations.
We management training, periodic job continued to show an improving have put in structured efforts to reduce rotations and leadership guidance.
Against target fresh water consumption and increasing reduction of 5%, the actual reductions the recycle and reuse of treated ef uent.
Labour rights for the year at Sesa, HZL and Balco Across our operations, we have taken At Vedanta, we ensure that all our were 28%, 9% and 4% respectively.
forward host of initiatives, notably being businesses are in compliance with OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 35 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Kitchens at 10 different locations in rural all labour regulations of the land and Our vision is to enhance the socio we strive to uphold all labour rights.
economic lives of communities where India catering to 1 million children.
We proactively and frequently meet we operate.
We rmly believe with an with representatives of labour unions understanding of each others needs This year we have partnered with 82 civil society organizations which at all sites to deliberate on employee and opportunities, we the company, concerns and evolve pragmatic government, communities and brought an expanded dimension towards achieving the project goals.
The solutions that are progressive in civil society, are striving collectively nature for long term well being to bring long-term qualitative competency sharing lead to successful capacity building of communities and of both employees and all stake developments in the communities.
holders associated with the group.
We were also recipients of several The outreach of our programmes Safety encompasses more than 2.5 million Sustainable Development awards and accreditations that our Group Safety continues to be a focus and people in India and Zambia.
We are a subject matter of continuous presently engaged in more than companies have received over the past year.
During the year we 427 villages.
This commitment is deployed external consultant like E. I demonstrated on the ground by 2nd Best employer in India and amongst top 25 employers in DuPont fide Nemours and British Safety the team of 454 grass root level Council, to help upgrade our safety functionaries and 96 professional Asia by Hewitt, Associates HZL Asian, 2008, HZL by Asian performance.
The Loss Time injury and subject matter specialists frequency Rate LTIFR during the year who drive the initiative.
Institute of Management International Safety Award 2008 continued to show an improving trend.
We run 937 Anganwadi Centers Child from British Safety Council, Debari Smelter, HZL, BALCO and Copper The LTIFR for 2008-09 at 1.67 Care Centers in partnership with translates to reduction of 13% over the governments Integrated Child Smelter at SIIL, Tuticorin.
RoSPA Gold Award 2009 from Royal the previous year and over 56% Development Scheme centers at HZL, during the last three years.
Lanjigarh, and BALCO reaching out to Society for Prevention of Accidents, UK, Debari Zinc Smelter, HZL 30,347 children.
The program consists of We regret to inform that the total health care and nutrition supplements, Golden Peacock Award for Excellence in Corporate Social number of fatalities this year was 22, including addressing maternal and which is unacceptable.
These accidents child mortality, and education through Responsibility Award, BALCO, 2008 Golden Peacock Award for Corporate have been thoroughly investigated and the play way method to control corrective measures put in place.
As dropouts and ensure continuity in Social Responsibility Award Reporting, Vedanta Resources, 2008 a first step DuPont and British Safety education, Plans are underway to scale Council were engaged to conduct a the project to reach out 0.5 million We continue to use the Global safety assessment across all locations children over 2-3 years time frame and their recommendations are in Reporting Initiatives G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines to develop this the process of being implemented.
Currently we run 6 centralized kitchens under the Midday Meal Scheme MDM report.
This year we also reported on additional indicators of the G3 Empowering Communities operational at Rajasthan reaching out Our community engagement has to 180,000 children in partnership guidelines and the GRI Draft Metal and Mining supplement.
The information grown as the mainstay of our business.
with the Government of Rajasthan This year was a period of retrospection and Naandi Foundation.
Work is in within this section is an outline of our policies, systems and performance and introspection for the Company, progress at for setting up a kitchen each in understanding the evolution of our at Lanjigarh and Korba reaching out and will be detailed further in the stand alone Sustainable Development relationship with our Communities to about lakh children in partnership over the last four years and the with the respective State Governments Report.
The key information is being and Naandi Foundation.
Under a 5 independently veri ed by KPMG, India.
direction the Company now needs to take, to strengthen and deepen it.
year plan we will set up of 31 MDM
