co. uk CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTEXT integrity in all business and other dealings both with customers and suppliers.
The Code defines how we must compete vigorously and Cookson employs some 15,000 people with manufacturing facilities honestly.
in over 35 countries serving customers in more than 100 countries worldwide.
We supply our customers with consumable products The Group believes it can only achieve its goals through the efforts which they use in their manufacturing processes, for example in of its employees.
Job satisfaction requires working environments the production of steel, metal castings, electronics and jewellery that motivate employees, together with opportunities for training products.
We operate in just in time supply chains with short lead and development to maximise personal potential.
Wherever they times from order to delivery.
We therefore have a relatively large work, employees have the right to be treated in good faith and with number of small and medium sized facilities located close to our respect for the dignity of the individual.
All Group companies must customers throughout the worlds major economic regions, rather ensure that recruitment, training, promotion, career development, than large centralised factories supplying customers worldwide.
termination and similar employment-related issues are based on Our manufacturing processes are not energy intensive total energy individual ability, achievement, experience and conduct without costs are approximately 2% of revenue and do not produce large regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, sex, quantities of hazardous or other wastes and emissions.
sexual orientation, age, disability or any other reason not related to job performance or prohibited by applicable law.
POLICY Cookson recognises that its operations impact a wide community of The Group is committed to the highest standards of Corporate stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, business Governance and transparent Investor communication, as discussed associates and local communities, and that appropriate attention to in more detail in the Our Governance section of this report.
the fulfilment of its corporate responsibilities can enhance overall Cookson seeks to be a good corporate citizen wherever it conducts performance.
In structuring its approach to the various aspects business, to observe all national and local laws and take into account of corporate social responsibility, the Company takes account of regional and local concerns, customs and traditions.
Bribery is guidelines and statements issued by stakeholder representatives and strictly prohibited.
other regulatory bodies from around the world.
Social, environmental The Code requires all employees, officers and Directors to have a and ethical matters are reviewed by the Board, including the impact duty of loyalty to the Group and personal interests that do, may or such matters may have on the Groups management of risk.
might appear to conflict with Group interests must be avoided at all Particular emphasis is focused on the following areas: times.
Code of Conduct: requiring all Cooksons businesses and Employee Helpline employees to comply with the highest standards of legal and Cookson has a 24-hour Employee Business Concern Helpline ethical behaviour.
This is an independent and confidential Health, Safety and Environment : protecting the health and service through which employees worldwide may register any safety of our employees, contractors, customers and the general concerns about any incorrect or irregular practices they perceive in public and reducing energy consumption and waste in our Cooksons workplaces.
Cazenove Capital SRI Brochure Products and Services : developing innovative products The following excerpt is taken from a Cazenove Capital brochure and services which promote sustainability in our customers describing their Socially Responsible Investment process: production processes and products.
CODE OF CONDUCT Cazenove Capital started an engagement at a mainstream The Company has a Code of Conduct the Code, which has been meeting in August 2005.
With little external evidence of distributed throughout the Group in 25 languages and by which all Social, Environmental and Ethical governance Cazenove our businesses are required to operate.
The Code emphasises the Capital requested that Cookson demonstrate a central CSR Companys commitment to compliance with the highest standards structure which had Board commitment.
of legal and ethical behaviour.
The Code is reproduced in full on the Companys website www.
After only three meetings, Cookson demonstrated a central CSR structure with Board commitment.
The Code sets out clear and simple principles covering: Customers Cazenove Capital continued to engage on energy efficiency, and Suppliers : Employees : Investors : Society and Local Communities : safety, Chinese operations and trade union relations.
Health, Safety and Environment : Conflicts of Interest: and Competitors.
Cazenove Capital stopped engaging in 2009 when Cookson achieved an A rating.
Long-term customer satisfaction is recognised as being essential Innovest rating: 2005 B, 2007 BB, 2008 BB, 2009 A to the attainment of Group goals, as is maintaining a reputation for 12 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT HS&E Facilities certified to Cookson regards HS&E matters as mainstream management ISO 14001 responsibilities.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Cookson HS&E Policy and for monitoring its implementation.
Executives 70 and line managers at all levels are directly responsible through the 60 normal management structure for HS&E matters in the operations 50 under their control.
40 Particular emphasis is focu sed on the following areas: 30 20 Safety Performance : work related injuries and illnesses 10 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 Regulatory Compliance : compliance with permitted air, water, waste and noise emissions criteria Energy Usage : reducing electricity and gas consumed in our Facilities certified to operations and hence carbon dioxide CO emissions.
2 OHSAS 18001 The Groups HS&E policy and related information can be found on the 35 Groups web site www.
30 A reporting system is in place to collect details of all HS&E-related 25 20 incidents throughout the Group and to produce quarterly reports 15 including the KPIs covering work-related injury and illness rates.
10 These quarterly reports and related performance improvement 5 plans are regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive with divisional management as part of the normal business review cycle.
02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 The Board reviews HS&E performance as a formal agenda item at least once per year including the KPI s covering work-related injury and Safety Performance illness rates and total energy consumption.
Any significant incidents are reported to the Chief Executive and the Board as they occur.
Cooksons goal is zero work-related injuries and illnesses.
The principal indicators of occupational safety and health performance Cooksons larger manufacturing locations are progressively being that are used are based on the US Occupational Safety and Health qualified for certification under ISO 14001, the international standard Administration recording requirements.
Cookson operations for environmental management systems.
Those facilities handling world wide report the days away incident rate the number of potentially more hazardous materials are progressively being work-related illnesses or injuries, per 100 employees, that resulted qualified for certification under the international occupational health in an employee being absent from work for at least one day.
We also and safety management system, OHSAS 18001.
Certification to these track the recordable incident rate the number of work-related international standards is not appropriate for all facilities, particularly injuries and illnesses, per 100 employees, that resulted in medical smaller ones and those with very limited environmental impact.
The Group now has 61 locations certified to ISO 14001 and 34 locations certified to OHSAS 18001.
Cookson Work-related injury and illness incident rates 7 days away rate recordable rate 6 5 4 3 2 1 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 cooksongroup.
co. uk Cooksons days away injury and illness rate has improved steadily.
From 2004 to 2007 energy use was reduced markedly as a result of The Group-wide days away incident rate has fallen from 3.25 in these initiatives, not withstanding growing revenue over the period.
The Groups recordable incident rate has In 2008 energy use increased relative to 2007, due to the addition of shown a similar trend, improving to 1.5 in 2009 from greater than the Foseco operations, acquired in April 2008.
Energy use in 2008, 6 in 2002. excluding Foseco, is shown on the graph above illustrating further reductions in the rest of the Group.
In 2009 gas use fell by 3% Regulatory Compliance including Foseco due to the drop in the Groups revenue.
Electricity use remained the same as in 2008, notwithstanding the full year Regulatory actions against Cookson companies have been at a effect of the additional Foseco facilities.
low level for several years.
This is indicative of the emphasis on continuous HS&E performance improvement across Cookson in PRODUCTS AND SERVICES relation to statutory obligations.
A small number of enforcement Cooksons products and services can significantly reduce the notices were issued to Cookson companies in 2009, including several environmental impact of our customers operations.
We believe that assessed minor penalties.
that by continuing to develop innovative products and services we Cookson companies began implementing the European regulation can create leading market positions in profitable businesses which for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction promote sustainability.
We therefore maintain R&D spending at a of Chemicals REACH in 2008.
Each chemical manufacturing high level and monitor this as a Group level KPI.
business filed appropriate pre-registrations by the statutory deadline.
For example, our Ceramics divisions steel flow control, linings and Like many manufacturers, some Group companies have potential foundry products reduce the levels of energy usage and material environmental liabilities because of past operations at their current wastage in the production of steel and metal castings, markets or former sites.
Where remediation is required, we work with where we are the worlds leading supplier of consumable ceramics external specialists and with government authorities to ensure that used to handle molten metal.
Similarly, our Electronics division is a remediation is conducted effectively and efficiently.
market leader in the supply of leadfree and halogenfree materials used in the production of electronics.
Reducing Energy Use and CO Emissions 2 In the renewable energy field, the Ceramics division is the leading Since 2004, Cookson has operated a programme aimed at supplier of crucibles used in the production of multi crystalline reducing energy use and hence the associated emissions of CO. 2 photovoltaic wafers used to make solar cells.
The Electronics division The programme trains employees to understand energy use and is also introducing new products for improved solar cell connectivity.
conservation principles and introduces energy audits to assist highIn recent years we have developed significant metal recycling use sites in identifying and implementing conservation measures.
operations in both our Precious Metals and Electronics divisions.
The following chart shows Cooksons electricity and gas consumption Here we recover and refine our own and customers scrap solder over the last six years.
and precious metals jewellery products to produce high purity silver, gold, tin and lead products which can be reintroduced into the supply chain.
This has involved building new recycling facilities Cookson electricity and gas consumption in the US and China and projects to increase recycling capacity in Europe are currently in progress.
In both Precious Metals and 38 450 Electronics markets there is an increasing focus on the traceability 400 36 of these metals to ensure they are obtained from environmentally 350 34 300 and ethically sound sources.
For example the Green Gold and 32 250 Conflict Metals programmes.
We work closely with our customers 200 30 and suppliers in support of these initiatives.
150 28 100 26 50 04 05 06 07 08 09 Gas Therms, millions Electricity GWh, millions Gas excluding Foseco Electricity excluding Foseco
