Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:59 Page 16 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13 Corporate Responsibility As noted on page 19, the Board considers are in place to implement the SHE policy as We are constantly striving to improve that the management of safety, health, outlined above and that these measures are efficiency in all areas of our operations, environmental, social and ethical matters effective.
A dedicated SHE department including energy use and therefore CO 2 forms a key element of effective corporate support him in this.
emissions, water consumption and governance which in turn supports the longquantities of hazardous waste produced.
Senior executives are responsible for term performance and sustainability of the This is achieved by implementing many ensuring that the SHE policy is implemented business.
These areas are managed in procedures and projects, large and small, in their departments and that all employees conjunction with all other business risks and across the business.
have been trained in defined safe working are covered by the internal control systems methods as required.
Increases in 2009 in energy and water and procedures outlined on page 21. usage and CO generation per tonne of 2 All employees have a responsibility to A review of the Groups policies relating to product sold were expected and were prevent injury and damage to health and safety, health, environment, human resources principally due to reduced production plant the environment and to contribute to and business ethics is set out below.
operation at our main UK sites.
To a lesser improvements in SHE performance through extent, our film manufacturing facility and regular communication and consultation.
Safety, Health and Environment SHE increased technical facilities have continued The Board believes that all employees The Groups excellent health and safety to increase energy usage.
should be able to work safely in a healthy performance has continued with only three workplace and that the Groups activities REACH over-3-day reportable injuries during the should not harm the public or the The REACH Registration, Evaluation, year, when an operator suffered a thumb environment.
Everyone in the Group is Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals injury, an operator suffered back strain and expected to place the highest priority on Regulations came into force on 1 June 2007. a team leader suffered a muscle injury.
Good SHE Although polymers are outside the scope of Group received the Royal Society for the performance go hand in hand with good the regulations, the Company is working to Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Presidents business performance.
ensure full REACH compliance for all Award in 2009 in recognition of sustained materials which do require registration.
Preoccupational health and safety achievement These policy objectives are achieved by: registration was successfully completed on after winning 10 consecutive RoSPA Gold identifying SHE hazards: target in 2008.
assessment of the risks associated with Plans are in place to complete full Again, there have been no prosecutions, the identified hazards: fines or enforcement action as a result of registration in phases from 2010 to 2018 implementation of appropriate control and we have a project team in place to non-compliance with safety, health or measures, with external guidance and environmental legislation.
We do not anticipate advice being sought and used where any disruption to the supply of products We seek to stay well ahead of relevant appropriate: arising from the regulations.
Our ensuring that all employees are cannot precisely quantify the cost of manufacturing plants are regulated by appropriately and properly trained and implementing the regulations, we do not Environmental Permitting legislation and, as understand what they are required to expect it to be material for Victrex.
such, are subject to close monitoring of do: environmental emissions.
During the year reviewing and learning from our own there were no notifiable events.
and other peoples experiences and The principal environmental impacts of the taking on board new legislation and Groups UK operations are set out in the other requirements and, table below.
The environmental impact of ensuring that all employees contribute our overseas operations is not considered to improving safety, SHE performance material.
through regular and effective communication and consultation.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for Environmental impacts per tonne of VICTREX PEEK sold SHE policy and performance and receives a 2006 2007 2008 2009 report on safety, health and environmental Victrex PEEK sales volume tonnes 2,339 2,508 2,626 1,547 issues on a monthly basis.
Energy use GJ 181 168 196 255 The Production and Technical Director is 3 210 189 148 183 Water use m directly accountable to the Board for SHE CO emissions tonnes equivalent 9.4 8.6 9.8 12.8 2 performance.
He is responsible for ensuring Hazardous waste post treatment tonnes 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 that adequate arrangements and resources Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:59 Page 17 14 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Business Review continued Corporate Responsibility continued Employees comprise defined benefit or defined conduct to Victrexs own: We recognise our talented and diverse contribution arrangements, savings schemes where appropriate, collaborate with our workforce as a key business asset.
Our and provident funds designed to provide suppliers to increase the performance, business success is a reflection of the quality appropriate retirement benefits based on quality and efficiency of the supply chain: and skill of our people.
Victrex is committed local laws, custom and market practice.
adhere to the contract terms agreed to seeking out, retaining and developing the Details of the Groups principal pension with suppliers and, highest calibre employees to maximise schemes are set out in note 16 to the encourage our suppliers to meet business growth and performance.
Victrexs own safety, health and Assessment of ongoing training needs Largely as a result of the above approach, environment standards.
comprises a key element of the annual Victrex has low voluntary employee Our employees appraisal process.
We recognise that, whilst being an asset We operate an equal opportunities policy Business ethics based business, Victrex relies heavily on the and regard this as a commitment to make We have a formal global ethics policy which skills, experience and competence of our full use of the talents and resources of all incorporates the Groups key principles and employees to produce our products safely our employees, and to provide a healthy standards governing business conduct and efficiently, develop innovative new environment which will encourage good and towards our key stakeholder groups.
We products and support business development productive working relationships within the believe that we should treat all of these in our existing and new markets.
groups with honesty and integrity.
Our We will seek to: In Victrex, diversity encompasses differences policy is set out below: provide a clean, safe working in ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual environment which meets all legislative Our customers orientation, religion, socio-economic status, requirements and to provide all the We recognise that satisfied customers physical and mental ability, thinking style, necessary training support for underpin our future commercial prosperity, experience and education.
We believe that employees to operate safely within it: and that understanding and meeting their the wide array of perspectives that result provide appropriate remuneration for needs is key to our success.
from such diversity promotes innovation and work carried out and equal We will seek to: business success.
As part of this policy, opportunities for development and have our products available to meet our Victrex gives due consideration to career advancement: promised delivery schedules and deliver employment applications from disabled be intolerant of any unacceptable them when they are needed: people consistent with their capabilities and working practices such as any form of continuously improve the quality and provides every opportunity to employees discrimination, bullying or harassment: who become disabled to continue performance of our products and prohibit the illegal use of drugs on our services in line with customer needs: employment with appropriate training and sites and encourage anyone with any career development.
provide prompt technical support for the form of addiction to seek help and, products that customers have The Group places considerable emphasis on be intolerant of any corrupt practices by purchased: the involvement of its employees and has any level of employee and encourage continued its practice of keeping them provide timely, reliable technical advice whistleblowing through our formal to customers on new product informed on matters relating to the procedure if such practices are applications: performance of the Group or relating encountered.
In particular, improper directly to them as employees, either collaborate with customers to provide payments are prohibited and no gift, formally through the Staff Committee, or innovative solutions to their material whose value is material and could be informally via newsletters and the Group requirements and, interpreted as a form of inducement, intranet to which all employees worldwide operate to the highest ethical and should be offered or accepted by any have access.
The Company supports employee share Our suppliers Our shareholders ownership and, where practical, offers the Our commitment to our customers is Our shareholders are the ultimate owners of opportunity to participate in share schemes.
underpinned by a strong supply chain.
the business and we recognise that we have As at 30 September 2009, approximately We will seek to: responsibilities towards them as stewards of 95% 2008: 85% of employees worldwide maintain appropriate standards of their investments.
were participants in employee share business conduct in our dealings with schemes, principally as option holders under We will seek to: our suppliers: grow our business over time to the Companys employee share option encourage suppliers to adopt similar schemes.
We also sponsor pension plans for maximise shareholder value: principles and standards of business employees throughout the world.
These communicate in an open and timely Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:59 Page 18 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15 manner regarding the performance, position and prospects of the business RoSPA Presidents Award and, In recognition of continued excellence in health and safety management, maintain sound systems of corporate Victrex plc has been awarded the governance to ensure that the Company Royal Society for the Prevention of is well directed and managed.
Accidents RoSPA Presidents Award The environment in 2007, 2008 and 2009.
The We recognise that our operations have an prestigious RoSPA Presidents Award is achieved when an organisation impact on the environment, and that we receives 10 consecutive RoSPA Gold have a responsibility to minimise this.
Awards for sustained occupational We will seek to: health and safety achievement.
work within the regulatory frameworks of the countries in which we operate and apply appropriate standards and, minimise the environmental impacts of our operations as far as reasonably practicable.
Social and community The Group participates in a range of activities within the local communities where we operate, from charitable giving, offering apprenticeships and supporting science education and awareness in schools, to sponsorship of undergraduates and the advancement of research work at universities.
In the UK, a proportion of the charitable donations budget is distributed by the Staff Committee mainly to local charities chosen from nominations made by employees.
National or overseas charities are supported Our People where there is strong employee involvement.
We recognise our talented and diverse workforce as a key business asset.
Our business The Group made charitable donations of success is a reflection of the quality and skill of our people.
Victrex is committed to seeking out, retaining and developing the highest calibre employees to maximise 4,094 2008: 15,454 during the year of business growth and performance.
which 2,110 2008: 3,667 were in the We have a culture of clear communication, accountability and pro-active employment UK.
In addition, old computer equipment is practices throughout the organisation.
given to either local schools or charities The Company supports employee share ownership and, where practical, offers the chosen by the Staff Committee.
opportunity to participate in share schemes.
