40 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility Our achievements last year Responsible business Review code of ethics and A project is underway to update the Group Code of 3 export control procedures Ethics and we will report further on this next year Workplace Improve data collection HR metrics agreed and system improvements in 33 including our US operations place to deliver consistent reporting Paul Lester Unified employee engagement Group-wide employee survey completed in Chief Executive 33 across VT Group December 2008 Embed coaching across the Training completed and work underway to embed We know that how 3 organisation coaching further as part of our culture we manage the Supply chain environmental, We have assessed our requirements, and have selected social and ethical Implement a vendor a system.
Planning for implementation of phase 1 next 3 management system aspects of our year is underway business are Health and safety serious issues for The annual reportable accident rate shows an An improving reportable our stakeholders.
We continue to aim for a 10% 33 accident rate improvement in the next 12 months As the general understanding of 169 senior managers, including 89% of our 75% of VTs leadership team to leadership team, attended one-day Institute of 33 sustainability grows, have safety training Occupational Safety and Health training last year so too does its No clusters of work-related One individual case importance with our 33 occupational disease 2008: six individual cases public and private Enhanced supplier selection process and sector customers, Enhanced management of contractor auditing undertaken.
Work continues 3 contractor operations investors, suppliers with supply chain to drive a standard approach and our employees.
Initiate the monitoring of Work-related driving incidents are monitored monthly 33 occupational road risk by all operational units Environment Good progress has been made with environmental Formalise VTs environmental performance and the development of our strategy.
3 strategy We will continue to drive improvements next year Community investment 281,000 donated this year 212,000 last year Increase financial donations 33 Widen membership of the We have engendered greater involvement from our Community Investment business units and will investigate further ways of 3 Committee improving this area Employee volunteering improved and further work Investigate ways of increasing is planned to develop Group-wide volunteering 3 employee volunteering opportunities 3 In progress 33 Complete VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 41 Chief Executives overview The diversity of our operations has always added complexity to the management of corporate responsibility and, as our business transitions into a new era, we will have additional challenges as the range of stakeholders and relevant issues change too.
Understanding these risks and We are active opportunities going forward is vital so we can make the informed responses necessary to stay members of competitive and ensure our business is fit for the future.
This year we undertook to link formally Business in the corporate responsibility with our risk management process, mapping them and their relative Community importance across our operations materiality mapping.
We will continue to refine this analysis and use the information to challenge and stimulate our thinking internally and engage with key including the Solent stakeholders to quantify their views and add depth to our understanding.
We are pleased with our achievements, most notably in the areas of energy efficiency and carbon emissions.
In 2010 we will work to consolidate our sustainability strategy and to refine and embed its principles through our operational processes.
Health and safety, operating with the highest ethical standards, and managing our environmental impacts remain key priorities.
We continue to be active members of Business in the Community and to support them in their objectives.
We are active members of the Solent Leadership Team which brings together over eighteen public and private sector organisations from across the South East.
This year the team We monitor our championed partnerships with schools assisting management teams to improve their skills, to performance using embed business practices and to enhance curricula.
This has involved many employees from the Global Reporting VT volunteering their time and skills.
This summary report is supported by comprehensive reporting of performance, related policies and case studies on our website, www.
com, which is updated throughout the year.
We invite feedback from all our stakeholders.
How we manage corporate responsibility We were pleased Corporate responsibility performance is an integral part of our overall company reporting.
to be recognised We measure our performance with regards to responsible business practices, customers and as a sector suppliers, our people, health and safety, environment and our communities.
We used the results leader by Carbon of our materiality mapping, feedback from our stakeholders and the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines to summarise the issues that are of most substance to the Group.
Except where Disclosure Project indicated we included all UK, overseas and US operations as well as VT Nuclear Services in 2008 and aim to acquired in 2008 and our joint venture companies in our reporting.
disclose publicly Listening to stakeholders our submission next year.
We have a broad range of stakeholders who are showing increasing interest in how VT manages its corporate responsibility issues.
For example many of our private and public sector customers seek evidence of responsible business practice, as do the bodies that grant us our licences to operate.
Listening to our investors, central and local government and private sector customers as well as our suppliers, employees and local communities is a priority.
This year we played an active part in consulting on the Carbon Reduction Commitment, and on emerging health, safety and environmental legislation, both directly with the regulators and via our trade body memberships.
We talk directly with our investors and are in our third year of reporting through the Carbon Disclosure Project, scoring well in its 2008 CDP6 leadership index.
We will formalise our stakeholder engagement processes and consider options for formally benchmarking our performance.
Governance We seek to incorporate corporate responsibility into our key business processes.
Performance is monitored regularly and this year we integrated corporate responsibility into our approach to risk management to ensure that issues are regularly analysed and reviewed at both operational and senior executive level.
Each year confirmation of the operation of controls is sought from each operating company.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year 42 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility continued The Board sets Group policy on corporate responsibility, and the Chief Executive is the Board Business ethics member responsible for overseeing its implementation.
The VT Group Health, Safety and Honesty and Environment HSE Forum oversees HSE performance and advises the Board on strategy.
Each division is required to have appropriate management systems in place which are subject integrity are to external audit.
fundamental to VT Our business principles and values are supported by related policies including health and Groups business safety, environment, business ethics, anti-corruption, export control and whistleblowing.
principles and we Our businesses utilise the ISO 9001 quality standard to certify that the services and products have strict policies we deliver to our customers are of a consistent and high quality.
and procedures Our policies and frameworks are reviewed regularly and updated in the light of changing in place to regulation, emerging good practice and business needs.
They can be found on our intranet and company website, www.
ensure the Group operates ethically.
Responsible business practices Business ethics Anti-corruption We place paramount importance on high standards of service delivery and relationships with employees, customers, the local community, shareholders, suppliers and the public.
Our anti-corruption Honesty and integrity are fundamental to VT Groups business principles and we have strict policy applies to policies and procedures in place to ensure companies throughout the Group operate ethically.
all VT businesses, Code of Ethics joint ventures and employees Our Group Code of Ethics provides a framework for all employees to assist them in maintaining the Groups high standards.
It provides guidance on issues such as conflicts of and states in interest: out-of-hours activities: conduct with other organisations, customers and the public: simple terms that conduct of employees at work: conduct with colleagues: and fraud.
Each business unit has its corruption will not own code, tailored specifically to its operations, which reflects the Group Code of Ethics.
Anti-corruption policy VT Group does not tolerate corruption in any form no matter where we operate.
Our anti-corruption Whistleblowers line policy applies to all VT businesses, joint ventures and employees and states in simple terms that corruption will not be tolerated.
Appointment of overseas agents is subject to a rigorous We provide an documented procedure overseen by a compliance committee.
independentlyWe are currently reviewing our policy in light of the recommendations contained in the Woolf managed, free Committee Report into business ethics, global companies and the defence industry, published in May 2008.
We are a founder member of the UK Defence Industry Anti-Corruption Forum and and confidential have made a statement of adherence to the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of whistleblowers Europes Common Industry Standard for prohibiting corruption.
Political donations Political donations are strictly prohibited and it is our policy to maintain a position of impartiality with respect to party politics.
We do not make cash donations to any political party, politician or candidate for public office.
Export control and competition law compliance We operate a comprehensive procedure that aims to ensure full understanding of and compliance with export licensing requirements by our operations.
We are in the process of updating these procedures to ensure they remain relevant and up to date.
This year also saw the introduction of a new competition law compliance policy to ensure compliance by our businesses with all applicable competition laws.
Whistleblowers line VT employees are requested and encouraged to report breaches of any of the Groups policies without fear of recrimination.
We provide an , free and confidential whistleblowers phone line.
Two cases were recorded during 2009 none in 2008 which were subject to internal investigation.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 43 Special award Customers and suppliers We received Partnering is one of VTs core values which delivers benefits in both performance and cost efficiencies.
The gain-share element of our partnering agreements aims to share risks and a special award rewards with our customers and suppliers wherever we can.
We are proud of our performance for partnering and expertise in this area.
In 2008, a joint VT MoD team received a special MoD partnering with our customers award for the successful delivery of a radio communications enhancement programme and VT was also rated as one of the MoDs leading Partners of Choice.
and suppliers from the MoD.
We know that the partnering approach enhances the viability and profitability of both our partners and ourselves.
A supplier conference and partnering workshops held last year allowed us to gain structured feedback direct from our suppliers, share our strategy and align our objectives in order to deliver a one-team approach.
Partner of Choice We have worked over the past year to ensure our supply chain is robust and as financially Rated as one of secure as possible during the economic downturn.
In partnership with our suppliers we have the Ministry of identified areas where VT can assist with cash flow and liquidity improvement.
Defences leading We continue to improve the control of our procurement expenditure, rationalising the supplier Partners of Choice.
base to 10,500 12,500 in 2008, reducing the suppliers that we use regularly by 36 per cent to a monthly average of 2,200 3,400 in 2008 and decreasing spend not through procurement by 51 per cent over the past three years.
Next year we will continue to implement our vendor management system, which we started in 2008.
Sustainable Procurement Building on the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply CIPS Corporate Award professional training begun in 2008, we continue to invest in our procurement capabilities, Charter running two further courses at both CIPS Full and Associate Membership levels.
We are proud Sustainable procurement to be an early We share the UK Governments aims and objectives in the area of sustainable procurement signatory to the as outlined in its national action plan, Procuring the Future.
We are committed to its principles MoDs Sustainable of aiming to meet our needs for goods and services in a way that not only achieves value for Procurement money, but also provides long-term benefits to society and the economy, and minimises damage Charter.
We are proud to be an early signatory of the Sustainable Procurement Charter with the Ministry of Defence, committing us to operate and manage our supply chain in accordance with these principles.
Next year we will continue to embed VTs sustainable procurement policy throughout our operations and supply chain.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year 44 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility continued More than Our people Passionate about people 12,000 With a workforce of more than 12,000 and with over 2,000 new employees last year, people employees and over 2,000 are at the heart of our organisation.
69 per cent of employees who responded to our employee new employees last year.
survey said that they would recommend VT as a good place to work, giving us an excellent measure of progress towards our target of being the employer of choice in our sector.
This year we will focus on supporting our employees through a period of intense change as we restructure our organisation to meet the new challenges ahead.
71% Development and training score for employee We continue to provide our employees with opportunities for continuous learning and the engagement in our first development of lifelong skills.
In the past year, we invested in 32,995 training days.
graduates we invested in 292 training days, an average of 12.1 days per graduate.
Our 2008 09 summer schools enabled over 240 junior managers to focus on basic management skills through a series of workshops ranging from communication, delegation and interviewing skills to presentation and time management.
We also remain committed to providing apprenticeships across the business.
We continue to develop and embed coaching skills throughout the Group.
Since 2006, 59 senior managers have attended accredited programmes and 136 middle managers have attended Coaching for Performance training.
In 2008 09 our coaches delivered over 900 hours of coaching both within VT and to external personnel.
Engaging and retaining our workforce Headcount by business unit Our first employee engagement survey in December 2008 recorded an excellent response VT Communications rate 65 per cent for a first-time Group-wide survey.
We were particularly pleased with the VT Education & Skills engagement score of 71 per cent which is significantly above the benchmark group of over 400 VT Head Office companies.
Over 76 per cent of our employees also responded that they were proud to work for VT and 73 per cent said that their managers kept them up to date with developments in the VT Services Inc business.
We will use the employee survey as an annual measure of our performance in this area.
VT Support Services All UK employees are free to associate with and join trade unions and our aim is to maintain positive and constructive relationships with the unions that represent our employees.
VTs flexible benefits and total reward schemes have helped our employees make savings and share in the Groups success since 2004.
Encouraging diversity We recognise the need to operate as an inclusive organisation in an increasingly diverse world.
Our recruitment policies aim to encourage equality and diversity and last year we enhanced our employee metrics to ensure that we can monitor the demographics of our businesses.
In 2008 22 per cent of senior management and 45 per cent of graduate positions were held by women and 11 per cent of staff worked part-time.
Headcount by gender Male VT Group operates mainly in countries where human rights are protected by law.
However, in Female locations where these rights are not so clear and where local legislation is weak or non-existent, we seek to provide similar benefits to those enjoyed by UK staff.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 45 Health and safety 80% Health and safety continues to be a priority for our businesses and we were pleased that in our 2008 09 survey 80 per cent of our employees worldwide indicated that they considered of our employees worldwide health and safety was taken seriously.
We continue to aim for industry-leading performance and indicated in the employee undertook a comprehensive benchmarking exercise both within our sector and other industries.
survey that they considered Our 2009 reportable accident rate, 623 100,000, shows an improving trend and compares health and safety was favourably with the benchmarks and industry performance data published by The HSE Labour taken seriously.
Next year, we will instigate a consistent approach to analysing the causes of accidents in order to focus future improvement programmes.
Occupational Each of our operations and projects is required to implement management systems aligned with occupational health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 and to have the controls in place driving as demanded by their operational risks.
Legal compliance remains our minimum standard and the setting and reporting of our key performance indicators and targets means we stay focused In 2008 we on delivering continued improvement.
The review of performance is embedded into our Board introduced reporting and business review process and is overseen by the HSE Forum.
Internal and external occupational specialist audit continues to play an important role and is an area we are continuing to develop.
driving as a KPI and We are pleased that our achievements in safety management, including facilities run on behalf began the roll-out of our customers and the MoD, have been acknowledged by international safety schemes.
of an on-line driver VT Critical Services won British Safety Council awards at seven of its major sites.
VT Nuclear Services was recognised by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA, assessment tool.
achieving a Gold Medal Award for its performance over the past five years and a Presidents award in its Radiometric Division for having achieved Gold Awards over ten consecutive years.
89% of our executive team undertook one-day health and safety training.
There were no fatalities, enforcement notices or prosecutions last year.
Workplace driving is recognised as a Group-wide risk, and last year we introduced the reporting of driving accidents as a key performance indicator and initiated the roll-out of an online driver assessment tool.
We have consolidated our approach to managing work-related ill-health and are working with our HR teams and our occupational health providers to minimise sickness absences including instances of work place stress.
Focusing on health and safety competencies and capabilities across the Group, the VT Guide to HSE Competencies now forms a framework which we will use to develop our people in both technical and softer skills to ensure they are equipped to reinforce safe behaviours and practices in the workplace.
Recognising the important part our managers play in leading and setting safety culture, last year 169 of our senior managers, including 89 per cent of our executive team, attended a one-day health and safety training course.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year 46 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility continued Environment 87% As scientific evidence of and political emphasis on environmental issues and climate change increase, so too does the focus of our stakeholders.
Investors, public and private sector of global, including 98% of customers and suppliers are all interested in what we are doing to protect the environment UK, business by turnover and move to a low-carbon future.
The results of our Group-wide survey this year confirmed including JVs included in that it also rated high in importance for our employees.
We remain focused on the emerging requirements of the UK Governments Climate Change Bill, such as the forthcoming Carbon Reduction Commitment, and helping our business partners ensure compliance and reduce their environmental impacts.
We are working with our customers on environmental projects to improve energy efficiency and reduce carbon emissions, and were an early signatory to the Ministry of Defences Sustainable Procurement Charter.
This year the scope and completeness of our disclosures have continued to improve with the inclusion of US reporting, taking our environmental disclosures to 87 per cent of global 76 per cent last year and 98 per cent of UK operations.
We continue to report publicly on our performance and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
We were pleased to be recognised as a sector leader by CDP in 2008 and aim to disclose publicly our submission in 2009.
VTs UK direct and indirect carbon emissions data is certified under the Carbon Trust Standard and covers all UK operations, both wholly owned, joint ventures and partnerships based on our 09 equity share.
Member of We continue to implement ISO 14001 at our sites and those we run on behalf of our customers, The Prince of Wales and to use internal and external specialist auditors to assess our processes and performance.
Reducing our operational footprint We are committed to reducing our carbon emissions and are active members of The Prince of Wales May Day Network, the UKs largest group of businesses committed to taking action on climate change and sharing best practice.
Broadcasting, our most energy-intensive operation 4% is actively developing a renewable energy strategy alongside its intensive capital investment improvement in absolute programme to improve the efficiencies of transmitters.
It was successful in realising 16,864 MWh CO emissions.
There have been numerous local campaigns to focus on energy 2 efficiencies including No Travel Weeks and office efficiency programmes.
We were pleased that VT Training was named Grey Fleet Champion in the Energy Saving Trusts annual Fleet Hero Awards for its achievements in reducing emissions from car travel.
Our emissions reduction programme is progressing well.
Last year, accounting for the inclusion 15% of VT Nuclear Services and VT Services Inc data, we realised a 4 per cent absolute reduction in target by which to reduce tonnes of CO and a 35 per cent normalised reduction in tonnes of CO per NSV m. We continue 2 2 1 emissions next year.
to drive performance improvement and have set a target to deliver a 15 per cent reduction in 1 CO per m of turnover NSV 2 emissions next year CO per NSV m. 2 2008 2008 2007 2008 2007 CO emissions 2008 2 ktonnes MWh per MWh per reported by calendar year Energy use eq.
CO e-kilotonnes per NSV m 2 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 47 Waste and water Last year, all our operations We continue to manage actively our waste and water and invest in efficiency measures such as the water recycling capabilities at our fire-fighting facilities.
Last year, all our operations increased the increased the amount of waste they recycle, a result of both improved reporting and increased amount of waste recycling activities.
tonnes tonnes per m NSV Waste 2008 2007 2008 2007 74 0.11 Hazardous 49 0.09 100% General 305 271 0.44 0.50 of our UK timber is sourced from suppliers approved by the Recycling 297 163 0.43 0.30 Forest Stewardship Council.
3 m per m NSV Water 2008 2007 2008 2007 3 There were Total usage, thousand m 135 111 0.19 0.20 no reportable 3 Licensed abstraction m 1,000 1,050 environmental Operational and site usage 85% 94% incidents in 2008.
Office use 15% 6% Note: The above data is reported by calendar year and is exclusive of VT Services Inc and BVT.
Other aspects We are pleased to report that 100 per cent of our UK timber is sourced from suppliers approved by the Forest Stewardship Council.
There were no reportable environmental incidents in 2008.
Communities 281k Our community programmes are overseen by the VT Community Investment Committee and employees at all levels within the organisation participate.
We donated 281,000 donated to a variety of causes 2008: 212,000 to a variety of causes.
Our focus, however, is not purely monetary giving, 2008: 212k.
and we also provided support through employee volunteering, fundraising, mentoring and pro-bono work as well as give-as-you-earn and matched giving.
We continue to drive further improvements to capture data and report in this area.
A broader focus We have enjoyed working with our three partnering charities tackling long-term unemployment VT provides support with Local Employment Access Projects LEAP : assisting and supporting members of the armed forces, past and present, and their families with SSAFA Forces Help: and improving the through employee lives of people with ME with Action for ME.
We have supported them both financially and with volunteering, the appointment of trustees to their Boards, employee volunteering, personal mentoring and fundraising, pro-bono work.
mentoring and Our operating companies and projects have also undertaken many varied and exciting pro-bono work community projects.
Details of these and other case studies are available on our website.
as well as giveFind out more and feedback as-you-earn and matched giving.
Understanding the views and requirements of our stakeholders is fundamental to our corporate responsibility programme.
We actively encourage our stakeholders to engage in dialogue with us and are always interested in feedback.
Further information can be found on our website www.
com or you can contact Barbara Harrison, Head of Corporate Responsibility, on 44 0 1489 775 267 or at barbara.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year
