47 Corporate responsibility report The Weir Groups sustainability approach involves applying our core values integrity, valuing people, innovation and collaboration to the way we run our business.
This means continuous progress in achieving the highest standards of safety: treating our employees, suppliers and the communities in which we work as long-term partners and considering the environmental impact of every aspect of what we do.
The areas highlighted in this report namely policy, the community in which we operate, our people, the environment and our supply chain reflect the priorities of the Group in 2009.
In 2010, the Group is undertaking a review of our corporate responsibility and sustainability activities, the results of which will be reported through our website and in the 2010 annual report.
Corporate ethics policy Anti discriminative attitudes and Group policies The aim of this policy is to communicate to our respect for ethical values customers, suppliers, investors, employees and the All Weir employees should conduct themselves The Group maintains communities in which we operate, the ethical and in accordance with the highest ethical standards.
a number of corporate social values we respect and our commitment to Our aim is to ensure that no discrimination is responsibility policies uphold human rights.
By promoting sound ethical practiced within the Weir Group.
We have adopted which are reviewed values and human rights principles, we aim to be an equality for all policy to prevent discrimination regularly by the Board an aspiring business for people to join.
in hiring, compensation, promotion, training, and are published on the termination or retirement based on race, caste, Companys website.
Human rights principles colour, national origin, sex, age, religion, disability, The Group is dedicated to the adoption of veterans status United States, marital status, internationally recognised human rights standards actual or perceived sexual orientation, employment in its global operations.
The international sources status or political affiliation.
In some countries of law upon which our human rights standards this policy may be modified by national legal are based aim to ensure a consistent worldrequirements on affirmative action.
Our aim is to wide adoption of the principles throughout the ensure that Weir employees are able to work in an Group.
Each operating entity may retain its own environment free of physical, psychological or verbal human rights policy or statement, provided such abuse, the threat of abuse and sexual or other a document incorporates the principles of the harassment and, accordingly, these are prohibited.
Groups policy and has received the prior approval of the chief executive.
Weir Oil & Gas UK helped raise money for charity through various activities including sponsoring a climb of Mount Kilimanjaro.
48 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Corporate responsibility report continued Community initiatives Charitable contributions Community During the year, Group companies were involved The total charitable contributions of Group in numerous community and social initiatives, companies made during the year was 252,000 many of which were nominated and driven by 2008: 234,000, as shown below: our employees.
We also participate in a range of educational and training initiatives.
Examples of these are shown in this report.
Community 34% Health In 2009, Weir Minerals 29% Floway sponsored six Education 19% students on a week long Heritage engineering camp run by the 18% Lyles College of Engineering at California State University, Fresno, USA.
The programme aims to educate girls aged 15 to 18 on the benefits and varied aspects of a profession in engineering.
A presentation The Groups code of conduct prohibits political was also given to students at contributions and therefore no political donations the Floway facility.
were made during the period.
Weir Minerals Peru, through its corporate responsibility programme, helped build a dining hall for local children aged between three and five years at Manchay.
The company also donated office furniture and helped organise a Christmas party in Granja Villa where the children received donated toys.
In response to the devastating floods that hit North Karnataka in October 2009, Weir Minerals India, under its community support project, contributed towards the construction of pre-fabricated houses in Bagalkote, one of the worst hit districts.
This was facilitated through the Governments partnership programme with local companies and helped in the rehabilitation of around 975 families.
49 Managing safety The Groups policy on health and safety requires People Maintaining a consistently safe and healthy workplace that all our companies take a proactive responsible for our people requires effective, proactive attitude to the protection of their employees management.
We operate a global network of health and safety.
All companies carefully evaluate Environmental, Health and Safety Forums that share risks to personnel wherever they are working knowledge and experience between plants with and take appropriate steps to minimise such the aim of ensuring consistently high standards of risks.
These include ensuring that project design safety across the Group and eliminating work-related engineers consider design factors that minimise injuries, preventing pollution, conserving resources, or eliminate the risk of accidents to personnel complying with regulatory requirements and during site installation and commissioning.
Group companies are required to comply with local legislation governing health and safety at work and to conduct regular formal health and safety reviews The core elements of our approach to safety are: at plant and site level.
These reviews are undertaken emphasis on the importance of behaviour by encouraging by nominated managers and employees to ensure that risks are properly evaluated, events leading to a culture of safety at all locations accidents are examined and appropriate remedial improving communications and sharing best practice or avoidance action initiated and subsequently monitored.
Formal reporting procedures have been throughout the Group implemented so that the safety performance of the active involvement of senior executives in individual companies is monitored and peer-to-peer audits are conducted in order to provide a critical promoting safety assessment of each companys performance.
the auditing of safety and loss control programmes The increased focus on this important issue includes full investigations of all accidents being All our operations have over the past year carried out and reported at the Group Executive been working toward achieving OHSAS 18001 Committee meetings on a monthly basis.
Occupational Health Safety Assessment Series Projects and activities accreditation.
To date, all our major sites have The driving force behind our performance continues achieved this with the exception that our most recent to be our emphasis on behaviour, networking and acquisitions and some smaller businesses will not sharing best practice and the active involvement complete the process until 2010.
OHSAS 18001 of senior management to promote and audit was developed by the British Standards Institute as a health and safety management framework allowing safety programmes.
organisations to ensure that they are consistently and accurately identifying hazards and risks within their Our network safety committees organisation.
Providing a platform for eliminating and focused on a number of activities this managing these identified risks, the system supports year, including: the organisation to continually improve its products, people and processes.
OHSAS 18001 offers a Group-wide training and behavioural proactive approach to reducing accidents, near auditing misses and other incidents year on year.
continued development of policies The Group is committed to an accident free health and safety environment based on the belief that all and procedures accidents are preventable.
The Group Executive recognising and rewarding Committee drives this commitment through operations globally.
The businesses record all near outstanding safety performance misses and injuries within their operations and these through award schemes are analysed on a continuous basis to reduce the number of lost time accidents through improvement of the working environment.
50 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Corporate responsibility report continued Employee development The principal aims of these courses are People We recognise that people are vital to the success to provide: of our business.
Training and development play a continued major part in improving businesses and retaining personal development employees by developing the skills required exposure to different disciplines for career advancement and business process improvements.
Training and development is cultural integration managed either on a Group or company basis.
Group programmes include induction, high potential networking across all disciplines leadership and managing director development.
and operations The induction training provides awareness training The courses are aimed at developing existing and on the Group standard procedures and processes future managing directors and senior managers and senior managers attend one of these courses from across the Group to help them achieve their within a short period of joining the Group.
leadership courses are run for the Groups current and future leaders.
To ensure the development and advancement of our employees, the Weir Personal Development Profile analyses employee performance and enables employees to receive the most relevant and tailored training to match their specific skills and needs.
Weir Minerals India, partnered with healthcare and micro-health insurance providers, conducted health camps for children rescued from child labour and their families.
In October and November 2009, around 500 families benefited from such camps.
Weir Minerals Brasil is involved with a project which supports 190 children and teenagers who live in the local community.
The focus of the projects activities in 2009 was recycling and reuse.
Throughout the year, talks were given to the children with the focus being on the importance of protecting the environment and recycling products.
51 Overview In addition, the Forums are a useful arena to allow Environment All our locations fully integrate environmental local and international environmental legislative management into their operational systems and developments to be monitored before they become procedures.
The Groups proactive approach law.
This proactive approach allows us to conform ensures that these processes reduce our with future environmental legislation before laws environmental impact year on year.
Our three most are passed by voluntarily taking action on significant environmental impacts are, in order of specific issues.
magnitude, energy use, water use and hazardous As part of our integrated commitment to ISO 14001 and non-hazardous solid waste production.
accreditation, we have a rolling programme as part Each company in the Group is required to of our 100 day integration plan which we put in continuously improve its environmental performance place in relation to any new business unit.
During 2009, the 2009, Weir SPM, Weir Warman Africa and Weir Group has been making improvements to its Multiflo achieved ISO 14001 accreditation.
It is data collection and has been working towards expected that Weir SOS and Weir Mesa will achieve establishing targets for improvements in all areas full compliance in 2010. of our environmental impact with a view to having Environmental improvements these published in 2011.
As part of the Groups commitment to continual improvement, during 2009 the Minerals Division established an Environmental Improvement The Group is committed to the protection of the environment Team whose objective is to share best practice in all the countries in which its companies operate.
The global team aims to implement and maintain three active Each Weir company will comply with the relevant regulatory environmental improvement projects at each requirements applicable to its business.
participating site, adding new projects as each is completed.
The regions represented by the Each Weir company will ensure that it acts as a good citizen team are Europe, North America, South America, in the community in which it operates and adopt practices Australia, Africa and China.
aimed at minimising the environmental impact Initiatives to improve the environmental performance of its operations.
of our operations include energy and water efficiency, raw material efficiency, waste Environmental policy minimisation and resource recovery projects.
Maintenance of the Groups environmental In addition, many Weir companies collaborate with policy is the responsibility of the Group Executive suppliers to address environmental considerations Committee, while its implementation is the throughout the supply chain to our mutual benefit, responsibility of the divisional managing directors.
particularly in areas such as raw materials, The Group policy is that all its operations will be ISO packaging and recycling.
ISO 14001 is an internationally recognised specification for an effective structured We focus our improvement efforts on the areas that environmental management system which helps have the most environmental and financial impact.
organisations achieve environmental and economic goals as well as assisting in the implementation of environmental policy.
An ISO 14001 accredited environmental management system provides our customers, employees and shareholders with the assurance that our environmental performance meets and will continue to meet legal and environmental policy requirements.
Through the Group Environmental, Health and Safety Forums, all new businesses are brought into line with best practice in the implementation of ISO 14001.
52 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Corporate responsibility report continued In the area of recycling, examples of improvements that our operations have been working on in 2009 include: Environment Peru Weir Minerals extended its existing wood recycling programme to include used plastics, which are continued donated to a charity Fundades, who in turn sell it to pay for scholarships for local children.
Chile The foundry at Weir Minerals uses only scrap metal recovered from local manufacturers and metal shops and metal from scrap components bought back from local mines after their usage is complete.
US Weir Lewis introduced a Single Stream Recycling programme throughout the facility.
Weir Minerals North America installed a 10,000 gallon reserve tank in the test lab to recycle water instead of having to use fresh water.
UK Improvements at Power & Industrial UK have focused on: The installation of a mechanical reclamation unit introduced to recycle blast grit.
The general improvement on segregation of waste for recycling across the division.
The recycling of aluminium drinks cans, paper and plastic at several sites.
Encouraging all centres to use second hand pallets.
At Oil & Gas UK, packaging within their facility is monitored on a monthly basis and recorded as part of their environmental improvement plan.
The business is targeting a 5% reduction in waste going to landfill by the end of 2010.
They have also introduced initiatives including use of a third party recycling company and installing metal scrap collecting hoppers and waste bins to maximise metal scrap coming out of the machine shop for onward recycling.
In addition, a waste oil recycling system was built within the facility, equipment wash-down and hydro test water is recycled and colour coded bins and skips are used for recycling.
Australia In 2009, Weir Minerals has more than doubled the percentage of waste recycled on site.
Improvements include recycling of timber waste for landscape mulch, capture of swarf from the machine shop and recovery of metal waste for re-use in the foundry.
A major project is underway to improve the recycling of used foundry sand in construction products.
Weir Minerals Australia worked together with the local Community Environment Network in 2009 to gain a grant from the National Parks and Wildlife Service for the regeneration of the creek area surrounding its facility in Somersby.
The grant was to preserve the creek's wildlife corridor which contains both endangered flora and fauna.
In addition, educational programmes were provided for employees and the local community.
53 The sulphur pumps produced by Weir Minerals Lewis Research and development has a vital role to Environment Pumps in Missouri, USA, are used in various industrial play in meeting our corporate responsibilities.
and manufacturing processes to reduce pollution.
For The development of new products that are more continued instance, Lewis molten sulphur and sulphuric acid pumps environmentally benign in both manufacture and are part of two types of acid production.
Both of these operation and the substitution of harmful materials reduce pollution: sulphur burning specifically to make acid, offer competitive advantage to ourselves and to which does not involve burning carbon and therefore no our customers.
carbon dioxide is produced and acid made from sulphur dioxide produced as a byproduct of smelting sulfide ores.
We recognise that many of our products are Sulphur pumps are also used in removing sulphur from themselves contributors to environmental protection petroleum in refineries, which helps reduce atmospheric in critical areas such as power generation, nuclear sulphur dioxide.
handling and subsea oil and gas exploration.
We continue to invest in research and development to improve their performance.
2010 will see ongoing investment in design, research and development in which our corporate responsibility and business objectives are closely aligned.
The Weir Group sources components, materials and Weir Minerals Hazleton in Pennsylvania, USA, Supply chain participates in the Voluntary Protection Program VPP services on a world-wide basis.
Our suppliers are an run by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration integral part of the Groups business.
Relationships OSHA of the United States Department of Labor.
VPP with all suppliers are built on total quality practices sites are audited on a regular basis on specific safety and and principles to achieve best performance, health criteria above and beyond standard regulation.
product, delivery, service and total cost.
Employees from Weir Minerals Hazleton are certified to this standard.
We recognise that our supply chain activities have a broad impact and that our responsibilities extend The OSHA also runs a mentoring programme in which beyond our own operations and into those of our current VPP sites can mentor potential VPP sites to suppliers.
The Group has, therefore, adopted a improve their safety and health management systems.
Weir Minerals Hazleton is involved in this process and is Supply Chain Policy to ensure that suppliers to the currently mentoring a local supplier to prepare them for Group comply with or exceed certain standards in their first audit.
This has involved site visits and sharing connection with their workforce, legal compliance, best practice.
health and safety, business ethics and environmental standards.
Our key supplier partners are expected to either have accreditation to OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 or be able to demonstrate a plan to achieve it within a reasonable amount of time.
We recognise that our corporate responsibility also reflects the way we behave towards our suppliers.
The Group does not operate a standard policy in respect of payments to suppliers and each operating company is responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions are conducted, including the terms of payment.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 1 January 2010, the Group had an average of 71 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
