24 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Taking good care Corporate Social Responsibility in our business Our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR programme is aligned CSR Key Performance with our vision to be the food specialist for everyone.
We are Indicators committed to acting sustainably, protecting and nurturing the We have a number of valuable resources on which we all depend.
We believe that by commitments, which are taking good care of what we do today, we can make a real supported by over 70 targets.
Further details can be found in difference for tomorrow.
our 2008 09 Corporate Social Go to www.
co. uk today to view our full 2008 09 CSR report.
Responsibility Report, which is available on our website at Managing CSR www.
co. uk today Championed by our Chief Executive, Marc Bolland, the CSR programme is governed by a Project Team of senior Directors reporting into the Board.
It is structured around three principal areas: Key Performance Indicators Environment Group energy use Taking good care of our planet.
% cumulative reduction Society 8 Taking good care of our shoppers, our colleagues and their communities.
Work, communities and healthy, balanced lifestyles.
6 Business 5 Taking good care as we go about our business.
Sourcing, supply and engagement with stakeholders.
Each area has a cross functional Steering Group, chaired by a member of the CSR Project Team, which is supported by a number of working groups.
Identifying issues and managing CSR risks Processes are in place to capture and address issues important to our key 2008 2009 2010 stakeholders.
Each issue is considered for material risk or opportunity to our target business, and how best to meet our responsibilities.
The key issues for our business We aim to reduce our Group energy have been rated in terms of strategic and business impact.
The issues with the use by 8% per square metre by 2010 highest impact rating are therefore most important to our business and are the based on 2005 usage.
To date, we have reduced energy use by 6%.
prime focus of our programme.
Policies Carrier bags We have a range of policies, available to all stakeholders, relating to aspects of responsible business practice.
They are regularly reviewed through our CSR governance structure to ensure they remain accurate, relevant and up to date.
Our CSR policies are available on our website at www.
co. uk today We set a target to reduce the Stakeholder satisfaction environmental impact of our standard Stakeholder engagement is vital in ensuring our CSR programme remains relevant carrier bags by 25% by the end of 2008. and effective.
It enables us to identify issues and be responsive to changing needs We reduced our usage by 32%, the by incorporating views and feedback into the development of our programme.
equivalent of 505 million bags saved.
Lets Grow In September 2008, we launched our Lets Grow campaign.
Aiming to help schoolchildren learn more about fresh produce, the scheme ties into the national curriculum and supports the governments Growing Schools initiative.
Lets Grow inspires children to follow a healthier lifestyle through learning about growing fresh fruit and vegetables at their own school.
Vouchers were given to shoppers for every 10 they spent with us, which could then be redeemed by schools for new gardening equipment.
The campaign was an outstanding success with over 18,000 schools enrolling nationwide.
Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 25 Local and seasonal sourcing Key Performance Indicators We are dedicated to providing the very best fresh produce, at great value.
Following research indicating that 74% of our customers wanted opportunities to buy more Waste to landfill regional produce in store, in 2008 we introduced the new From My Farm range.
% cumulative reduction 50 The products available change with the seasons.
All produce is grown and packed within the East of England and the range is labelled with the name and location of every grower.
Packaging is minimised, by using small tags, or is recyclable and compostable.
A penny from each pack purchased is donated to the Growing Trust, with the money raised going towards selected good causes within the East of England.
17 100% British In 2007, we were the first of the top four supermarket chains to commit to selling 9 100% British fresh meat throughout the year.
In 2008, we extended our commitment to British farmers by ensuring all our own-brand fresh milk is sourced regionally.
2008 2009 2010 We already sell Scottish and Welsh own-label standard fresh milk.
We also began to target establish producer groups for dairy, beef and poultry farmers, to develop closer links During the year, we reduced the volume with those farmers.
Through the producer groups, we aim to share and increase of our waste to landfill by 2,886 tonnes.
knowledge and understanding across our supply chain, driving quality and efficiency, and helping secure the long term viability of British farming.
Amount raised for our Charity of the Year partnership Reducing waste Help the Aged and Childline We work hard to prevent waste.
This year, we have reduced the volume of our waste to landf ill by a further 2,886 tonnes, achieving a cumulative reduction of 17% since 2006.
In 2008, we trialled a new waste segregation project at two stores, which, if successfully rolled out to all stores, could result in further significant reductions in 1m waste sent to landfill.
We are also investigating the best means of generating renewable energy from our waste.
Each year, our customers and employees choose a charity for national fundraising Carrier bags and for 2008 09 our Charity of the Year In May 2008, and again in December, we urged our customers to help reduce carrier was a joint partnership with Help the Aged and Childline.
bag use by giving a free reusable carrier bag to every shopper.
On each occasion we gave away 10 million reusable bags one for each of our customers, made from We aim to raise over 1m for our 100% recycled material and larger than standard bags.
We encouraged our Charity of the Year through collections and fund-raising events.
customers to use the reusable bags on every shop.
We have achieved a 32% reduction since 2006 4,502 tonnes, the equivalent of 505 million bag units.
Amount raised from April 2008 to March 2009 Cutting our Carbon Footprint We have cut our Carbon Footprint by 36% since 2005, being ahead of our 2010 target.
Our reduction strategy is based on: In June 2008, we were among the first energy efficient and low transport efficiency: of only 12 companies to receive the emission technologies: prestigious new Carbon Trust colleague awareness and Standard, for reducing carbon carbon and energy good housekeeping emissions.
The accreditation scheme is the worlds first carbon award requiring monitoring, management policies: and an organisation to measure, manage and control: numerous energy and and reduce its Carbon Footprint and make real reductions year-on-year.
sourcing and generating carbon saving projects.
