Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate responsibility This year has been a period of development for Wolseleys Corporate Responsibility CR Strategy.
Approved by the Board in July 2008, the strategy is intended to provide a framework for our operating companies to build on our strengths, apply best practice, learn from each others experiences and, above all, improve operational effectiveness.
Individually, our operating companies More information regarding the impact have developed good practices over of the global economic conditions on many years, some of which have been our businesses can be found on page 5. recognised by external awards and Last year, we introduced a five-year industry praise, for example in health framework for our CR programme.
and safety and eet management.
It recognised the ability of our Our aim is to harness these good businesses to make progress at practices and deliver a coordinated different speeds and to set priorities, approach to CR across the Group.
based on our five key themes, that Economically, this year has been were most suited to their business very challenging for our business and, objectives.
The progress we have made while not detering our commitment, over the year is explained in this has affected the speed and scale more detail overleaf.
of the implementation of some of the objectives under our CR strategy.
Nevertheless, good progress has been made by our operating companies and some examples are given later in this report.
Further information is also available on our website.
aspx Wolseley plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility continued Measuring our environmental The strategy identi es minimum Strategy performance will enable us to set targets standards with which each of our The five key themes of Wolseleys to improve our impact on climate operating companies should comply CR strategy are: change as well as reduce costs in our and Group goals which we aim to business.
Offering competitive rewards achieve over time.
In pursuit of the Health and safety: and development opportunities will help Group goals, each operating company Environment: to improve morale in our workforce, has the freedom to implement its own attract and retain high quality employees initiatives and targets in respect of each People: and ensure that our people can of the key themes.
This approach Responsible business: and maximise their potential.
Conducting recognises that the drivers for business responsibly and with integrity progression may vary from business to Community engagement.
minimises risk and strengthens our business, that different objectives may These themes were selected to support reputation.
Building closer relationships require different resources and time to Wolseleys business strategy and with the communities in which we achieve, and that they will therefore represent the areas that have the operate helps us to promote our require different solutions.
This approach greatest impact for our operations.
business and its objectives and gain a also recognises that some of our Ensuring the health and safety of our greater understanding of our customers, businesses might achieve their goals people and maintaining our physical neighbours and employees.
Further within an earlier time frame than the assets helps us to preserve the integrity information on each of our five key overall five-year plan.
of our operations and strengthens themes can be found later in this report.
Key themes Group minimum standard Group goal Compliance with legal requirements, Proactive safety culture, recognised Health monitoring Group and operating industry leader.
and safety company Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
Compliance with legal requirements, Carbon neutral operations, informing Environment establish KPIs, develop improvement industry best practice.
All employees are competitively Industry-leading staff retention and People rewarded and provided with productivity rates.
Endorsement of the Group Code of Group Code of Ethics and compliance Responsible Ethics, identify forest source of timber.
programmes evidence best practice, business eliminate risk-timber.
Participating in, or donating to, a Public recognition of Wolseleys Community number of community projects.
engagement 40 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information To help achieve our objectives we have identi ed a number of priority actions, which are summarised in the tables that follow, together with the progress made to date.
Year 1: 2008 2009 Target and priorities Progress Governance Group CR strategy communicated to businesses.
Engagement with Focus on building on existing CR 3 key managers.
Development of internal governance and consolidating CR network to deliver local CR plans.
Health and safety Group health and safety policy introduced in December 2008 with 3 supporting Group-wide common management processes and KPIs.
Environment and Timber: development and coverage of Responsible business the Groups risk assessment process 3 has continued and improved.
Other products: a pilot project is underway in Wolseley UK to begin 3 the process of verifying our suppliers practices against our ethical sourcing standards.
Responsible business Group anti-fraud and anti-corruption policies and training are currently in Prevention of fraud and corruption.
development, for introduction later in the financial year.
We are pleased to report that our objectives for the first year of the CR strategy have broadly been met.
The focus of resources on other Group priorities has resulted in a delay to some activities but not to a signi cant extent.
Year 2: 2009 2010 Year 3: 2010 2011 Year 5: 2012 2013 Target and priorities Target and priorities Target and priorities 3 Delivery of anti-fraud and anti- 3 CR governance and 3 Higher standards achieved by all corruption policies and training.
consistent and aligned across the 3 Continued development of local 3 Continuous improvement principles Group.
3 Further focus on Group-wide 3 Refresh and re-launch Group Code approach to improvements to of Ethics and supporting policies.
3 Develop Group environment and 3 More detailed and consistent data sustainability objectives.
Wolseley plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility continued Risks associated with climate change, CR governance for example ooding, present a threat Health and safety The Group Company Secretary and to some of the Groups physical assets General Counsel see biography on but, overall, the impact is expected to We will provide a safe and page 51 is responsible for the overall be manageable or limited.
These risks delivery of the Groups CR programme.
are reviewed annually as part of the healthy working environment Within our operating companies, local renewal of the Groups insurance and we will not compromise management have responsibility for programme.
the health and safety of any developing and implementing CR plans In the UK, the Carbon Reduction that are integral to their operations and individual.
Commitment CRC, to be introduced that support the Group CR strategy.
in 2011, will require Wolseleys UK With 51,000 employees, over 4,000 Maintaining responsibility for operating operations to participate in a branches and a eet of over 16,000 company plans in this way helps to government auction process for carbon vehicles, the safety of our people and promote accountability for our CR goals emissions allowances.
Wolseley UK property is essential to our operations.
at the local level and helps to ensure has established a working group to Our employees activities include the that individual plans are aligned with assess the impact of the CRC on its manual handling of heavy objects, local objectives, markets and resources.
operations and to identify ways to mechanical lifting, operating machinery Progress against the CR programme is reduce its carbon emissions.
and driving between our own sites, as monitored at a Group level by regular These initiatives may include changes well as to those of our suppliers and updates from operating companies to to physical infrastructure, for example customers: these include construction the Group Company Secretary and the types of insulation and heating sites that are inherently more hazardous General Counsel, who then updates the used in buildings, as well as cultural than our branch locations.
Board annually ensuring objectives and and behavioural changes to everyday Effective management of our health priorities are discussed and agreed.
Carbon and safety programme helps to minimise reduction initiatives identi ed by the the risk of injury to our employees, Risk management CRC working group will be shared customers and suppliers and damage across the Group to ensure that the An explanation of the Groups risk to property: reduces costs associated maximum bene ts can be gained.
management programme is set out on with employee illness, injury and loss pages 29 to 33.
Those risks which It is possible that European legislation of physical assets: reduces the risk of might have an impact on the key will be introduced within the next five legislative breaches: and protects our elements of our CR programme, and years which will stipulate that all timber reputation.
We always aim to identify consequently on our business, are imported into the European Union must areas for improvement and, where good discussed in more detail in this section.
We are engaging practices exist, share them across with national governments and the the Group.
Prompted by the threat posed by the European parliament, as well as national H1N1 virus swine u, the Group During the year, we introduced a Group timber trade federations, to provide our reviewed its business continuity plans health and safety policy.
High quality input to the development of legislation and tested its preparedness to respond health and safety programmes were and government procurement policies.
to the potential impact of the virus on already well established in our operating We are actively working with our our employees, their families and our companies.
The signi cant improvement suppliers to ensure the legal status customers.
All employees have been was to fide ne, for the first time, of the timber we supply and thereby provided with extensive information commitments, standards and metrics reduce the risk of purchasing products and advice to help prevent infection, that could apply consistently to all of from illegal or unsustainable forest recognise symptoms and plan our operations.
The policy is supported sources.
See pages 47 to 48 for responses where infection occurs.
by a Letter of Commitment signed by more detail.
the Group Chief Executive and by the Continental Division Chief Executives.
Implementation of the policy has been supported with a number of standard tools to help operating companies assess their current health and safety practices, identify areas that require improvement and develop plans and targets.
The European and North American divisions worked together closely to align their practices, to ensure that data was collected in a consistent format and to identify ef ciency improvements.
42 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Environment The Company also established an While it is currently too early to report We will run ef cient internet-based data site, which trends in safety performance at the operations that minimise facilitated cost-effective communication Group level, a number of our operations waste and reduce our in different time zones.
have reported signi cant improvements contribution to climate in their safety performance compared In support of our objective to further with last year.
In the US, Ferguson change.
We will promote improve health and safety performance achieved a 40 per cent reduction in eet sustainable development.
in all of our operations, in 2008 we collisions and a 17 per cent reduction in stated our intention to introduce health The Group has a responsibility to employee medical injuries.
Wolseley UK and safety performance reporting based manage the impact of its operations on reported an 18 per cent year-on-year on KPIs common to the Group.
the environment so that any harm is reduction in its employee medical minimised and positive contribution Three key measures were introduced injuries and a 30 per cent reduction in its is maximised.
Opportunities to reduce during the year to provide consistency lost workday rate.
A number of initiatives our carbon impact, our use of natural in reporting in all of our businesses: have helped to achieve these resources and to reduce waste and medical injury rate, lost workday rate improvements.
recycle more materials exist in all our and eet collision rate.
These indicators Our employees receive health and operations and at every stage of our were selected as the most appropriate safety training appropriate for their role.
products life cycle, from the sourcing measures for our business, based on This includes training on safe driving of materials through their transportation their direct and indirect moral, legal and techniques, the operation of plant and to their ultimate use and disposal.
financial impact on our operational and equipment and general health The increasing cost of energy, water performance.
These measures will help and safety awareness.
For example, consumption and the disposal of waste us to better identify areas where strong in the UK monthly safety bulletins add a clear commercial imperative performance and best practices can for measuring and understanding and awareness campaigns focus be shared across the Group and our performance in these areas.
In the identify activities that may bene t from More information on each of these US, over 5,400 delivery drivers, sales additional resources and training.
issues can be found on pages 44 to 45. and management employees have We are now able to benchmark completed a web-based driver training A priority for the second year of our CR performance within all businesses in course during the year.
Both the US programme will be to identify the best the Group and have a rm basis for and UK businesses also operate internal improvement opportunities for each of assessing progress and trends over time.
awards programmes for outstanding our businesses.
In Wolseley UK, this The results of this analysis can be health and safety performance and will be part of our coordinated response found below.
safe driving and have been recognised to the requirements of the CRC.
by external national awards for their This process will contribute to the FY 2009 achievements in these areas.
development of a set of Group-wide Medical injury rate sustainability objectives to improve our We will report further on our health environmental performance and Number of at-work injuries and safety performance and initiatives operational ef ciency.
requiring medical treatment in next years report.
4.4 In certain markets, there is increasing Through the maintenance and demand for sustainable products.
Lost workday rate continuous improvement of our health To remain competitive, it is important and safety management practices, we Number of workdays lost per that we understand our customers have been successful in reducing the 1 100 employees.
44.6 needs and are responsive to change frequency of personal injuries and as the industry, markets and legislation Fleet collision rate vehicle accidents.
This in turn has led develop.
Wolseley UKs Sustainable to ef ciency improvements in our Number of third-party vehicle Building Center, located next to its 2 operations.
headquarters in Leamington Spa, was collisions per 100 vehicles.
In its first year, it has 1 Excludes DT Group 4,655 employees which was attracted interest from existing and unable to report data this year.
new customers such as architects, homebuilders, property developers and 2 Excludes DT Group 1,172 vehicles which was facilities managers and has provided unable to report data this year.
an innovative means of showcasing the variety and quality of Wolseleys sustainable product offering see www.
co. uk for more information.
A similar facility operates at Wasco in the Netherlands.
Brossette in France has also introduced Cap Energie, this year, a project which includes, among other things, an initiative to further develop our renewables product capabilities.
More information can be found in the case study on page 44.
Wolseley plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility continued Environment continued With the geographically dispersed and to that business is not included in Environmental performance decentralised nature of our operations, this report.
These events have had a This is the third year in which the Group although the integrity of data gathered commensurate effect on the Groups has reported on its environmental has improved signi cantly, complete and environmental impact.
The Group has developed reliable data in all categories has been For these reasons, including the overall an improved data collection tool this dif cult to obtain from all locations.
improvement in the quality of data year to evaluate the data reported on The scale of the Groups operations has produced since last year, it is not useful page 45.
These enhancements have changed signi cantly over the past year to provide a direct comparison with the helped us to understand the accuracy as a result of the global economic Groups environmental performance and completeness of the data collected environment and the consequential in previous years, nor does it provide by our businesses and will be used to effect on our businesses markets.
a useful indication of future trends.
improve our data analysis and reporting In addition, the Company sold Stock However, our historical reported in next years report.
This years data Building Supply in May 2009, retaining a environmental performance can be has been reviewed for completeness minority shareholding in a joint venture found online at www.
com and quality and analysed by an with The Gores Group see page 28 for .
more detail : environmental data relating We expect to improve the scope and integrity of the data that we collect to present a basis for year-on-year comparisons in future reports.
There are ten projects in all, five Cap Energie focusing on sales and five on support The Cap Energie project is Greenhouse gas emissions activities, all to be phased in over a transforming Brossette, ensuring that three-year period.
Four members of The vast majority of the Groups the business is able to seize the huge the Brossette management committee greenhouse gas emissions derive from opportunities presented by the shift are part of a team of ten managers electricity use at our facilities 46 per towards new energy sources for responsible for leading the project.
cent and the transportation of our heating.
To date, over 300 employees have goods 29 per cent.
In addition to been trained to provide the specialised The French marketplace for heating the increasing costs associated with knowledge and service needed to products is changing, driven by energy consumption, our markets ensure that our customers are able shifting consumer demands and are likely to experience increasing to bene t fully from this new offering.
financial incentives from the French legislative measures in the future aimed Construction of a new training facility government.
Analysts are now at reducing the climate change impact in Lyon has been completed and will forecasting that more than 80 per cent from commercial operations.
To help us open in the near future.
Four newof heating systems sold in five years to reduce our emissions, our businesses format point of sale facilities are time will be powered by new energy have developed various measures, already open and a new showroom sources.
including environmental management concept has been developed to systems, resource ef ciency plans, Following a review of this new showcase Cap Energie products.
eet management systems and eet business environment, Brossette has backhauling programmes.
More Back of ce operations have also been implemented a wide-ranging project information on these activities can be improved to support these changes.
known as Cap Energie, which found online at www.
com A new distribution centre opened in translates roughly as moving .
the east of France at the end of forward with energy.
January 2009 and IT systems The main purpose of Cap Energie is improvements are currently being to reinforce Brossettes position as one evaluated.
of the key suppliers in the wholesale heating sector while also increasing its pro tability.
Brossette has traditionally been focused on oil and gas heating.
The Cap Energie project aims to move the business rapidly to satisfy new demands: primarily for ground source heat pumps, which make use of renewable energy stored in the ground to provide one of the most energyef cient ways of heating buildings.
Brossette is also concentrating more on solar energy products and other alternatives that are not based on fossil fuels.
44 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Emissions of greenhouse gases have During the coming year, we will further Water use been reported in accordance with the evaluate the activities that contribute to We have continued to measure Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG our greenhouse gas emissions, with water consumption throughout the Protocol, which was developed jointly a view to reducing those emissions.
Group during the year to enable the by the World Business Council for In next years report, we will publish appropriate goals to be set for greater Sustainable Development and the World targets for the reduction of our water ef ciency.
The majority of our Resources Institute.
The standard emissions in future years.
water consumption derives from normal differentiates between emissions operational and sanitary water use.
for which businesses are directly Waste management The Groups water is almost exclusively responsible Scope 1 emissions and The Groups businesses generate supplied by local utility providers.
indirect emissions from the generation non-hazardous waste and, to a lesser of supplied electricity and supplied heat FY 2009 extent, hazardous waste.
Although eg district heating Scope 2 emissions.
cubic metres fide nitions vary from country-to-country, Certain other indirect emissions Scope hazardous waste may include items Total water 3 emissions do not form part of the 1 such as batteries and electronic consumption 984,102 core carbon footprint as fide ned by the equipment: non-hazardous waste GHG Protocol.
However, given the Average water typically includes materials such as nature of our operations and the degree consumption per paper, plastic and metal.
of control we exercise over certain employee 19.4 activities, we do believe that it is Wolseley aims to measure and minimise 1 Based on a combination of actual and estimated appropriate to report on the emissions the waste generated by its business data.
from third-party provided transportation activities.
As well as reducing our as well as from our employees business environmental impact, reducing the travel.
These Scope 3 emissions, waste we produce in our operations together with our Scope 1 and Scope 2 also has the bene cial effect of lowering emissions, are included in the data waste removal costs.
Our Group waste reported below.
performance can be seen in the table below.
FY 2009 Emissions FY 2009 1 Source tCO2e FY 2009 NonHazardous hazardous Electricity use 393,930 Final waste waste waste 2 destination tonnes tonnes Fuel use: operations 118,270 Incinerated 1,283 6,599 Fuel use: transportation of goods 246,518 Land lled 250 85,003 Business travel: vehicles 87,647 Recycled 77 22,617 Business travel: air and rail 8,189 1 Total 1,610 114,219 Refrigerant leakage 1,594 Waste per m 3 of revenue 0.1 7.9 Total 856,148 1 Based on a combination of actual and estimated Emissions per m data.
of revenue 59.3 An example of how one Wolseley 1 Greenhouse gas emissions are reported as tonnes of CO2 equivalent abbreviated as tCO2e, business is addressing waste based on the Global Warming Potential GWP management is described in the of each of the basket of six greenhouse gases, case study on page 46. as fide ned by the Kyoto Protocol.
The GWP of CO2 is 1 1 tonne CO2 1 tonne CO2e.
For other greenhouse gases in the basket of six, including refrigerants, the GWP is relative to CO2 over a 100-year time horizon eg one tonne of the refrigerant R407C is equivalent to 1,526 tonnes of CO2 in terms of the potential climate change impact.
2 Includes supplied heat district heating.
3 Based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
Wolseley plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility continued Environment continued People It is important that we value Plastic and cardboard waste, although War on waste lightweight, is bulky and takes up our employees and their Wolseley UK is making huge progress space in branch waste bins.
We will develop in its efforts to minimise its impact Reducing waste in this way allows for our people, reward them on the environment and its waste more ef cient use of the waste bins, management programme makes a competitively and engage increases recycling rates and reduces valuable contribution.
The Company the frequency of collections required them in our CR activities.
has increased its recycling levels by by waste contractors.
Where branches 10 per cent in the past year and now Over the past 18 months, the Group are not serviced by a distribution recycles 50 per cent of its waste.
has made signi cant changes as it centre, they can backhaul recyclable Recycling levels at Wolseley UK has responded to worsening market material via a neighbouring branch, or three years ago were approximately conditions.
Regrettably, cost reductions, on-site recycling services are installed.
including those relating to our At Wolseley UKs head of ce, waste employees, are an inevitable necessity The Company carries out a waste bills have been reduced as a result in contracting markets.
In that time, analysis periodically, to gain a of a new recycling scheme, raising approximately 17,000 employees have better understanding of the waste awareness of the types of material that left the Group through redundancy.
management practices on Wolseley can be recycled and improving access In all cases, we comply with local sites.
Initial analysis showed that many to recycling bins.
Waste costs have employment law as a minimum when of the Companys waste bins were dropped from 30,000 per annum in making an employee redundant.
being collected when not completely 2007 to 6,000 in 2009.
Recycling Where appropriate, we also enhance full.
Waste disposal by contractors is levels at the head of ce have risen redundancy terms beyond the local charged on a per collection basis, from approximately 10 per cent in statutory minimum.
Other restructuring rather than by weight of waste 2006 to around 80 per cent this year.
work has taken place to improve human collected: by rationalising its waste The target is to achieve zero waste to resources HR processes and offer services, Wolseley UK reduced land ll from the site.
Four worm farms ef ciencies to routine, back of ce scheduled collections by waste have been constructed at the head HR activities.
contractors by approximately of ce to reduce the volume of waste 50 per cent, thereby reducing its We have taken the dif cult decision food at the site.
The worms transform waste collection charges.
A more this year to reduce the intake to our waste food into fertiliser and rich soil recent analysis has demonstrated graduate recruitment programmes and that will be used to improve green opportunities to further reduce waste suspend programmes in some markets.
This decision will be reviewed when market conditions improve.
The waste analysis also revealed that Wolseley UK recycling % much of Wolseley UKs waste was Training continues to be a priority for made up of recyclable material.
Our European and North The Company has introduced a American divisions both continued backhauling programme whereby its to operate leadership development 50% branches return their clear plastic, programmes during the year.
40% cardboard and wood pallets back A new training programme for branch to Wolseley UK distribution centres, managers has been implemented utilising free space on its commercial in the UK, focusing on managerial eet once branch deliveries have been competencies and technical skills.
Online training modules are available 5% to all employees in the UK and US.
2005 6 2006 7 2007 8 2008 9 46 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Responsible business We are committed to Timber sourcing working within the laws Sourcing timber from sustainable and well-managed forests is important to and regulations of all Wolseley.
Many of our customers, jurisdictions in which we including governments, demand legal operate and to comply with and sustainable timber and our sourcing our Code of Ethics.
We will practices in this area help to ensure our reputation for supplying high quality encourage our suppliers to products.
We are committed to the meet similar standards.
elimination of illegally logged timber from our supply chain.
The Groups Code of Ethics sets out a number of fundamental principles which In support of our global timber policy, Operating in 27 countries, the Group all Group companies and employees which sets out Wolseleys commitment employs people from a diverse are required to follow.
The Code sets to the responsible purchasing of forest spectrum of nationalities, race, gender expectations for fair competition, products, our timber procurement and cultural backgrounds.
Detailed compliance with laws including process includes a global risk analysis on employee diversity is not anti-trust laws, avoiding bribery and assessment system that identi es currently collected on a Group basis and conducting business with integrity the legal and sustainable status of is not believed to be an operationally with customers, suppliers and other the timber products we purchase.
The system provides a risk assessment in the US, a diversity and inclusion of product information from our programme has operated since In the competitive markets in which we suppliers, including details of species 2006 aimed at improving employee operate, it is vital to ensure that we and country of origin, and captures engagement, loyalty and productivity, conduct our business responsibly and supporting documentary evidence.
and developing closer alignment continually reinforce with our employees, This information is veri ed for Wolseley between our employees and the customers and suppliers the principles by an independent third party.
Ferguson is by which we operate.
With this in mind, beginning to measure the results and a review of the Group Code of Ethics The system is particularly valuable trends from this programme, which is currently being conducted, intended where timber is sourced from forest are helping to inform human resource to refresh its content and reinforce the areas where credible certi cation planning and succession programmes.
standards to which the Group adheres.
schemes do not currently operate, In 2007, a supplier diversity programme Our intention is to introduce the updated which may pose a greater risk of was developed to support the interests Code by the end of 2009, together with non-compliance with our policy.
Where of suppliers operated by minority individual new policies and training on high-risk products have been identi ed, groups.
These initiatives have been the prevention of fraud and corruption.
we have worked with our suppliers to especially important recently for The Group has an established improve control processes or identify Ferguson as it has developed its competition law compliance programme alternative products.
Where there has markets in the retail sector.
As required and improved training materials have been no demonstrable improvement, by US Federal Law, certain of Fergusons been developed which will be used with we have ceased purchases and diversity data is submitted to US employees in the coming year.
removed the product from sale.
government agencies on an annual basis.
As the markets in which we operate begin to recover from very dif cult FY 2009 FY 2008 FY 2007 cubic metres cubic metres cubic metres conditions, our People strategy will increasingly focus on re-designed 1 Total timber purchases 2,051,000 2,351,000 2,997,000 reward and bene t schemes, leadership 2 Total certi ed 77% 76% 65% development programmes and the provision of future career opportunities.
1 This years timber data does not include data relating to Stock Building Supply see page 44 for more information.
Data above relating to FY 2008 and FY 2007 has been restated to allow consistent comparison.
These initiatives will be aimed to motivate and retain our employees.
2 Timber sourced from forests certi ed by recognised sustainable forestry schemes such as FSC, PEFC, SFI, CSA and MTCS.
FSC Forest Stewardship Council PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certi cation schemes SFI North American Sustainable Forestry Initiative CSA Canadian Standards Association Sustainable Forest Management Standard MTCS Malaysian Timber Certi cation Scheme Wolseley plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility continued Responsible business continued The reduction in the Groups timber Wolseley is an active member of the efforts to improve their own practices purchases this year, compared to UK Timber Trade Federation TTF, and work towards credible certi cation.
previous years, is almost entirely due to with which it has worked in close This helps us to ensure that, as well as the contraction of the markets in which collaboration since 2004, helping being compliant with all applicable laws, we operate.
to introduce the TTFs Responsible our timber is sourced from sustainable Purchasing Policy in 2006.
Wolseley operates chain of custody October 2009, all TTF members schemes in its European businesses Other product sourcing must demonstrate as a condition that provide independently certi ed of membership a commitment to a A pilot project is underway in Wolseley veri cation of the ownership of products process of due diligence in the supply UK to begin the process of verifying our throughout the supply chain.
Wolseleys timber risk suppliers practices against our ethical Documentation to support the chain assessment system meets this sourcing standards.
To achieve this, we of custody is captured by our risk requirement.
will seek assurances from our suppliers assessment system.
Certi cation regarding a number of social measures, schemes have made the identi cation Our aim is to be certain that all including in relation to labour standards.
of sustainable timber much clearer for our timber is obtained from legal It is intended that in time, the lessons our customers.
sources and from suppliers operating learned from this UK project can be responsible forest management used to implement similar initiatives practices.
Where we cannot be certain, in other parts of the Group.
we encourage our suppliers to make 48 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Community engagement They include organisations engaged We will be a responsible in health, welfare, sports, education, member of the communities civic and community projects as well in which we work.
A number of established relationships have We aim to engage with the local generated successful projects.
communities where our operations For example, in the US we have worked are based, as well as nationally and for a number of years with Habitat for internationally.
We continue to build Humanity and in the UK the Company strong relationships with our neighbours, is a member of Business in the suppliers and customers in order to Community.
maximise our contribution to the communities that they, and we, support.
We have reviewed our approach to As well as recognising the philanthropic charitable giving during the year with bene ts we can offer, our work in this the aim of achieving more effective area helps to improve the awareness relationships with selected partners.
and reputation of our businesses in A Group policy on charitable donations their local communities and provides will be introduced in the next financial development opportunities for our year that will more closely align our employees.
charitable giving and our community engagement activity with our employee It is important to our businesses to development programmes as well as build strong relationships with their with aspects of our operations and local communities and to encourage product offering.
We will focus our charitable initiatives.
Our reputation efforts on the built environment, and the trust we earn from local homelessness, sustainability and climate communities helps us to achieve our change, environmental conservation and business objectives.
For example, remediation, waste management and demonstrating our commitment to being recycling, water quality and sanitation a responsible trading partner helps us to as well as literacy, numeracy and attract and maintain good relationships work-based skills.
with our customers and suppliers.
It also ensures we remain an attractive, Further details of the amount of competitive employer.
charitable donations the Group made during the year can be found Our employees and their businesses on page 60. support many charities and community initiatives relevant to the countries and More information about our CR locations in which they operate.
These programme, including further case are wide-ranging and include initiatives studies, statistics and examples of closely aligned with our business and our practices, awards and community its objectives, as well as charities for engagement can be found on the which our employees have a particular Wolseley plc website at www.
Wolseley plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
