How we behave Corporate responsibility CR and our business strategy Our companies CR activity supports our business strategy in a number of areas.
These include: WPP businesses are at the interface between business and the Generating new business opportunities consumer.
Increasingly, the trust consumers place in a brand Increasingly, leading companies require a partner to help is being determined by the responsibility demonstrated by the them communicate their social and environmental agenda.
Never before has corporate responsibility CR Our CR program enhances our understanding of these been so close to the heart of business.
issues and supports our businesses in competitive pitches.
In a year when the global economy continued to suffer Attracting and retaining the best people the consequences of practices in the financial sector and There is strong competition for talent in our industry and world leaders struggled to agree a plan for avoiding the questions relating to CR are frequently raised by our people forthcoming climate crisis, issues of responsibility weigh and new candidates during job interviews.
The future heavily on business.
We anticipate increased scrutiny by generations that will eventually become our talent pool consumers of the climate impact of their purchase decisions view CR issues as central to business.
Creating a diverse and a desire to see companies show leadership in tackling company culture, adopting leading talent practices and climate change.
demonstrating our commitment to social and environmental Our leading multinational and national clients are issues is key to our operating companies ability to attract responding to this agenda in their operations, products, and retain the best people.
A diverse workforce also supply chains and marketing.
Serving the CR enhances our understanding of consumers in all markets.
communications needs of our clients is a growing business Enhancing our reputation opportunity for WPP companies.
In addition there are We reduce the risk of adverse publicity by ensuring that a number of CR issues both risks and opportunities our work complies fully with regulations and marketing that we manage across our own businesses.
We also carefully evaluate the risk associated with new commissions.
Our pro bono work and support for charities and community organisations reinforces our reputation for making a positive contribution to society.
How we manage CR risk and opportunity Issue How it is managed Aims the social and environmental impact opportunities to advise clients on marketing to be a centre of excellence for environmental of our work for clients.
with a social or environmental dimension are identified and social communication.
risk to WPPs reputation from undertaking upward referral within operating companies Protect WPPs reputation by taking decisions at the controversial client work.
and to WPP ethical review meetings.
Marketing ethics, compliance with Managed by our operating companies with referral Comply with all laws and industry codes governing marketing standards, and increasing to Group directors as necessary.
Improve standards and transparency about our marketing practices.
Privacy and data protection are Assisting our operating companies in developing Meet best practice standards, to contribute to the priority issues for all our companies and a principles on privacy.
our key digital marketing and debate on privacy and to increase transparency for particular focus for our research and digital research agencies have nominated senior executives consumers on how their data is obtained and used.
operating companies hold data on to provide leadership on privacy and to work with employees, clients and consumers.
other agencies in the Group.
employment, including diversity and equal Human resources policies are set and implemented Support our companies talent recruitment and opportunities, business ethics, employee at operating company level.
WPPs chief talent officer retention through our reputation for corporate development, remuneration, assists the operating companies in attracting, responsibility.
Improve standards and measurement communication and health and safety.
Social investment, including pro bono Pro bono projects are agreed between WPP companies to make a significant contribution to good causes work, donations to charity and and the charities concerned.
Many of our companies through pro bono application of our marketing skills employee volunteering.
have long-standing relationships with their pro bono and direct donations to charity.
WPP the parent company helps to co-ordinate pro bono projects involving multiple WPP companies or cross-Group collaborations.
Climate change, including the emissions Cross-functional Group-wide energy Action teams and reduce absolute Co emissions by 40% by 2020 2 from energy used in our offices and during a network of agency Climate Champions help from 2006 level.
reduce per head carbon intensity business travel.
implement our climate change strategy.
122 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How we behave Corporate responsibility Meeting investor expectations a wide range of ethical, social and environmental subjects.
WPP share owners continue to show interest in our CR Both documents are publicly available on our website, practices and we aim to respond constructively to their www.
The Code was strengthened during 2009 requests for information.
In 2009 this included requests to incorporate key principles from the CR Policy and for information from, or meetings with, the following include guidance on avoidance of risks relating to client organisations: work.
CEOs of each of our businesses complete an annual Bloomberg statement of compliance with the Code of Business Conduct.
Carbon Disclosure Project We have established a set of key performance indicators Dow Jones Sustainability Index KPIs relating to employment, social investment, Ethical Investment Research Service EIRIS environment and climate change.
We report performance FTSE4Good against these in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report.
Goldman Sachs CR data is collected quarterly through our Group Innovest financial reporting system.
WPPs internal audit function Jupiter Asset Management assesses CR risks relating to employment, marketing ethics KLD and business ethics during reviews of Group companies.
LCF Rothschild Norges Bank Investment Management Reporting Truscost UN Principles for Responsible Investment We will publish our eighth Corporate Responsibility Report Vigeo in June 2010.
These reports provide a detailed account of our Investors focused on human rights, ethics, CR risks CR performance and are the benchmark for our sector.
They associated with client work and water use.
WPP is included are an attribute to our businesses during pitches.
of our progress is provided below.
Improving efficiency Our climate change strategy is reducing costs associated with business travel and energy use.
Investment in videoconference The impact of our work facilities enables an increasing number of meetings to be held without the cost and carbon footprint of flights.
The social and environmental impact of the work we CR issues in our supply chain and our environmental undertake for clients is one of our most important CR impacts beyond climate change are also important for WPP issues.
Our goal is for WPP to be a centre of excellence and its companies.
for environmental and social communication.
CR management Sustainability in marketing Paul Richardson, WPPs Group finance director, is the Board Consumer concerns about the environment and labour director responsible for corporate responsibility.
He chairs standards are creating markets for green and fair trade WPPs Corporate Responsibility Committee, established in products.
In many regions, businesses are subject to a 2003.
The committee is made up of senior representatives growing volume of regulation and increased scrutiny from from our companies.
Its role is to advise on policy.
The pressure groups, the media and the public on a wide range committee met once formally in 2009 when the main topics of social and environmental issues.
discussed were: Leading companies are responding positively, by Privacy embedding ethical values in their brands and developing Client work-related risk products with better social or environmental standards.
The impact of sustainability on marketing They need effective marketing to communicate the benefits Employment to consumers.
For example, our businesses have formed Climate strategy a multi-disciplinary sustainability team to meet Procter & Paul Richardson provides an annual assessment of Gambles specialist needs.
corporate responsibility risks and performance to the Audit In 2009 Ogilvy & Mather established Ogilvy Earth, Committee.
This is in addition to the business and financial creating a global network of sustainability marketing reporting risks process described in Internal control on specialists.
In our Corporate Responsibility Report, which page 115. is available online at www.
com from June 2010, WPPs Code of Business Conduct and CR Policy set out we profile some of our work in this emerging area.
the standards we expect our companies and our people to meet in their work.
They provide guidance in dealing with WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 123 How we behave Corporate responsibility Social marketing our Code of Business Conduct during 2009 and strengthened clauses on CR.
Key excerpts include: These are campaigns with social or environmental objectives, We will not knowingly create work which contains usually undertaken for government or NGO clients, tackling statements, suggestions or images offensive to general public issues related to public health, safety or the environment.
decency and will give appropriate consideration to the They are designed to raise awareness or encourage people impact of our work on minority segments of the population, to change their behaviour.
Several WPP companies specialise whether that minority be by race, religion, national origin, in social marketing, including Ogilvy Outreach, Ogilvy colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, PRs social marketing practice, and Thompson Social.
Examples of social marketing campaigns by WPP We will not undertake work which is intended or designed companies in 2009 will be included in our Corporate to mislead, including in relation to social, environmental and Responsibility Report, available online at www.
We will consider the potential for clients or work to damage the Groups reputation prior to taking them on.
Climate change awareness This includes reputational damage due to participating in The issue of climate change presents many communications business activities that abuse human rights.
WPP companies challenges to governments, companies and NGOs.
WPP aims will not undertake work designed to mislead in any respect, to support these organisations in their efforts to educate and including social, environmental and human rights issues.
encourage consumers to adopt low-carbon lifestyles.
WPP companies will comply with applicable regulations WPP companies Ogilvy & Mather, through Ogilvy and self-regulatory codes of practice in the countries in Earth, and Hill & Knowlton provided pro bono marketing which they operate.
and communications support to the UN Climate Change conference in Copenhagen, in December 2009.
Ogilvy Earth Ethical issues in client work created the Hopenhagen campaign designed to capture global public attention.
Where we operate, who we work for and the type of work WPPs CEO Sir Martin Sorrell addressed the World we undertake can give rise to ethical issues.
Examples Business Summit on Climate Change in Copenhagen in May include: work undertaken for government clients: operating 2009, on the role of marketing in tackling climate change.
in countries with a poor human rights record: and marketing for sensitive or controversial products.
Cause-related marketing In cases where work may be a potential risk to WPPs reputation, employees are required to elevate the decision Cause-related marketing links brands to charities, usually to the most senior person in the relevant office and then to through a donation for every product purchased.
Executed the most senior executive of the operating company in the sensitively, these campaigns benefit both the brand and country concerned, who will decide if further referral to the charity.
Many WPP companies work on cause-related a WPP director is required.
Examples from 2009 are included in our Corporate Responsibility Report, available online at Strengthening our decision-making process www.
We have strengthened our internal processes for assessing risks associated with client work and prepared a training module on this subject.
Broad cross-company training on Marketing ethics the revised Code of Business Conduct will be rolled out during 2010.
As a minimum our companies are expected to comply with When required we hold review meetings for senior all laws, regulations and codes of marketing practice.
All managers at Group level to discuss cases of concern and advertising produced by WPP companies should present identify new risk areas.
The internal audit program of work products fairly and accurately, comply with the relevant now incorporates a review of the considerations given by law and marketing codes, and reflect changing public management to possible impacts on the Groups reputation attitudes to questions of taste and decency or marketing prior to accepting new clients.
Our Code of Business Conduct and CR Policy set out our approach and provide guidance to our companies and our people on the standards we expect.
We benchmarked 124 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How we behave Corporate responsibility Involvement in industry groups WPP as an employer Many professionals from within WPP companies play an WPP employs over 138,000 people including employees in our important part in developing and revising industry codes associate companies in almost 2,400 offices in 107 countries.
in sensitive areas such as advertising to children and the Attracting and retaining talent is a central business issue marketing of food and pharmaceutical products.
Our approach includes competitive remuneration, investment in training and development and Complaints a commitment to an inclusive workplace culture.
In 2009, like all businesses in the current economy, we Few campaigns that we produce for clients provoke monitored staff costs closely and reduced our workforce complaint, but occasionally complaints do occur relating to where necessary.
The total number of people in the Group, matters of taste or fact.
In most countries these are arbitrated excluding associates, at 31 December 2009 was 98,759 by government or industry organisations.
More information compared with 112,262 at the end of 2008, a decrease is available in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Privacy Diversity and inclusion Privacy and data protection are priority issues for all our Competition for top contributors is strong and will continue companies and we aim to meet best practice standards.
to be intense in the communications services industry.
Our research and digital companies contribute to the debate WPP companies invest a significant proportion of revenues on privacy and aim to increase transparency for consumers in developing and rewarding employees.
The quality of our on how their data is obtained and used.
companies employee training, development and reward programs differentiates us from our competitors.
We aim to Our approach create an inclusive work environment that attracts the most We are assisting our companies in developing a set of talented people from all backgrounds.
principles on privacy to guide their approach and provide WPPs chief talent officer, Mark Linaugh, and our talent a consistent definition of personal information.
Many team assist our operating companies and their talent teams companies have additional privacy policies and procedures, efforts to attract, develop and retain our talent.
Human and some have developed their own technology and tools resources policies are agreed and implemented at operating to improve transparency.
Some of our companies collect company level.
A cross section of HR leaders from US and use consumer data to study attitudes and purchasing businesses met in October 2009 to discuss the significance habits and to create targeted digital and direct marketing of CR in attracting new talent to their respective companies campaigns.
We endeavour to comply with data protection and to share best practices.
laws and marketing codes of practice as applicable.
A diverse workforce adds value to our businesses.
It helps Our internal audit function is including privacy in its us understand consumers from all walks of life and create reviews of group companies.
These assessments cover data compelling marketing for our clients.
An inclusive workplace security, privacy policies, procedures and compliance with culture helps us attract the most talented people from regulations and best practice standards.
Our key digital all backgrounds.
marketing and research agencies have nominated senior We introduced a non-discrimination policy in 1992.
This executives to provide leadership on privacy and to work commits all WPP companies to select, develop and promote with other agencies in the group.
people based on merit and regardless of race, religion, national We communicate regularly with clients on privacy issues origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or to explain our approach and help them to keep abreast of expression, age or disability.
Our Code of Conduct contains current thinking and best practice.
We also collaborate policies on harassment and non-discrimination.
Where with others in our industry to improve privacy standards existing employees become disabled, our policy is to provide and ensure that information is accessible to consumers.
continuing employment and training wherever practicable.
We are members of the online Behavioural Advertising Self Our people can report any concerns or suspected cases of Regulation Coalition BASRC and many of our people are discrimination or misconduct confidentially and anonymously active participants in organizations such as the Interactive if desired through our Right to Speak helpline.
Advertising Bureau IAB, Network Advertising Initiative In 2009, women accounted for 32% of board members NAI and Association of National Advertisers ANA.
executive leaders, 46% of senior managers and 54% of total In 2009 we collaborated with the Future Privacy Forum employees.
There are currently three women on WPPs Board and others to enhance consumer information on privacy.
and a female Company Secretary, Group communications director and Group chief counsel.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 125 How we behave Corporate responsibility Gender diversity 2005-2009 % Development and training Total employees WPP is a people business and we aspire to high standards of 100 Female employment progression and investment in the development 75 Male of our teams.
Our companies offer development opportunities to enable our people to gain new skills and advance their 50 careers.
These include performance assessment, succession 25 planning and training.
Our goal is for our people at all levels 0 to receive regular performance appraisals.
05 06 07 08 09 Senior managers Staff training and welfare m 100 Female 75 Male 32.7 38.2 38.6 42.6 39.9 50 50 40 25 30 0 20 05 06 07 08 09 10 0 Board members 39.9m 100 05 06 07 08 09 executive leaders 75 Female Male Training and professional development opportunities are 50 provided at both the parent and operating company levels, 25 which together reach several thousand people in the Group.
0 These cover all aspects of company business and creative 05 06 07 08 09 skills.
In 2009, WPP companies invested 39.9 million in training and wellbeing.
All of our major companies in the US have internal programs Executive education helps our senior talent develop creative, to promote diversity and inclusion in their workforce.
These client and personal leadership skills.
Our flagship program include: is Maestro: Orchestrating Client Value a five-day course Partnerships: our operating companies work with diversity aimed at strengthening the ability of our most senior client organisations and participate in initiatives to encourage leaders to be valued and trusted advisers to their clients, diversity.
These include Diversity Best Practices: The colleagues and teams: and how to orchestrate the many talents Leadership, Education and Development Program in our organisation possesses, so that our clients are best served.
Business: The National Black Public Relations Society: Since the programs inception in 2003, it has been held in City College of New York and the American Association 16 countries, has reached more than 1,600 participants and of Advertising Agencies AAAA Operation Success.
involved 77 different WPP operating companies.
Internships: several operating companies participate in WPP has its own Mini MBA program, designed to build the AAAAs Multicultural Advertising Internship Program functional knowledge and abilities.
It combines online tutorials MAIP NY City Capital Internship Program and other and simulations with instructor-led classroom training.
initiatives that allow minority students to gain experience Business disciplines covered are creating client value, strategy, in the marketing industry.
marketing, people and organisational development, commercial Targeted recruitment: many of our companies use acumen and working across cultures.
specialist recruitment agencies and publications and attend minority recruitment fairs.
Raising employee awareness: our companies provide training and information to ensure that employees understand the importance of diversity and inclusion.
126 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How we behave Corporate responsibility Remuneration and share ownership Health and wellbeing Competitive remuneration packages help our companies Promoting a healthy workforce benefits our business by attract and retain the best people.
We regularly benchmark increasing productivity and reducing the costs of people our compensation against other companies in our sector.
taking time off work due to illness.
We have identified two We motivate our people by providing performance-related main risks to health and wellbeing associated with office remuneration in addition to basic salaries.
More senior workplaces, where most of our people are based.
These are employees are eligible for incentives based on their work-related stress and injuries connected to workstation performance against annual or multi-year goals for the ergonomics.
Our companies seek to create an environment operations they lead.
where people feel able to discuss any issues, including stress, Share ownership gives our people a financial stake in with their manager or human resources department.
Our the company and a share in its success.
WPPs Worldwide companies also assess the risk of work-related stress through Ownership Plan, introduced in 1997, has granted share regular staff surveys and by monitoring issues raised via our options to approximately 84,500 of our people.
Right to Speak helpline, Employee Assistance Programs and during exit interviews.
Communication Initiatives to combat workplace stress vary by company but include: With over 138,000 people in 107 countries, strong internal Employee Assistance Programs a source of confidential communication is essential.
Some examples of our advice, support and counselling.
communications channels are: Flexible benefit programs, including subsidised childcare.
com, Group intranet site Flexible work arrangements enabling people to work and professional knowledge communities.
WPPs annual journal of original thinking, the Atticus Medical checks and health screening.
Journal: WPPs multi-award winning global newspaper and Training on stress and time management.
eBook, The WIRE: regular FactFiles profiling specialist Ensuring our workstations follow good practice services and resources within the Group.
design reduces problems such as repetitive strain injury WPPs public monthly online news bulletin e. wire.
The WPP Reading Room, an extensive online library of thinkpieces both public and original from WPP Employee external appointments professionals worldwide.
Regular communication on Group initiatives such We recognise that our companies executives may be invited as the Worldwide Partnership Program, BrandZ, to become non-executive directors of other companies, and the Atticus Awards, The WPPED Cream awards, the that such experience may be beneficial to the Group.
WPP Marketing Fellowship Program and professional Consequently, executives are allowed to accept non-executive development workshops.
appointments with non-competing companies, subject to Periodic reports from Sir Martin Sorrell on topics obtaining the approval of the Group chief executive in the of importance.
case of senior executives, the Group chief executive and Formal and informal meetings at operating company level.
chairman in the case of Board members and the approval Our multi-award winning Annual Report & Accounts, of the Nomination Committee in the case of the chairman financial statements and Corporate Responsibility Report or Group chief executive.
Any fees receivable out of such are widely distributed across WPP and are available on appointments may be retained by the individuals concerned.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 127 How we behave Corporate responsibility Environment Carbon footprint targets Our current target is to cut absolute carbon emissions by Reducing our impact on the environment is a priority.
We 20% by the end of 2010 from a 2006 baseline.
We adjust are focusing on reducing our carbon footprint mainly from the baseline to account for acquisitions and disposals.
We office energy consumption and business flights and are do not adjust the baseline for organic growth.
The carbon starting to co-ordinate plans for waste reduction and water footprint we use for our target includes renewable energy management in regions of water scarcity.
At the end of 2009, we had achieved an 10% reduction Carbon footprint over our 2006 baseline, adjusted for acquisitions 281,471 tonnes CO. 2 WPPs carbon footprint in 2009 was 252,111 tonnes of CO, From 2010 we will extend our carbon footprint target 2 rating renewable energy as zero emissions, an increase of to a 40% reduction by 2020.
This is informed by the advice 4% over 2008. of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that For the first time in 2009 we included data for TNS, a developed countries must cut their CO emissions by 40% 2 major acquisition at the end of 2008, in our carbon footprint.
When adjusted for acquisitions and disposals, the change We are also introducing a secondary measure of carbon from 2008 represents a 3% reduction.
In 2009 the carbon footprint per head When calculated with renewable energy rated as normal was 2.6 tonnes.
We aim to cut this to 1.2 tonnes by 2020. grid electricity, as required in the UK, our total carbon We have set interim targets for 2012 and 2015 for our footprint in 2009 was 279,184 tonnes of CO. carbon footprint and carbon intensity, to help us track 2 The main contributors to our carbon footprint are office progress.
energy use 57% and business air travel 30%.
We report our greenhouse gas emissions to the Carbon Carbon footprint targets Disclosure Project CDP, a collaboration of institutional CO emissions tonnes 2 2010 2012 2015 2020 investors and participate in the CDPs Supply Chain Absolute Co reduction Leadership Collaboration.
2 from a 2006 baseline 20% 25% 30% 40% Carbon intensity per WPPs carbon footprint rating renewable energy as zero emissions head Co emissions 2 tonnes 1.8 tonnes 1.6 tonnes 1.2 tonnes 2 CO emissions tonnes 2 2006 2007 2008 2009 Buying renewable energy office energy use 144,354 124,335 121,572 143,154 We purchase renewable energy where we can, and regularly Air travel 81,733 92,269 89,500 76,073 review energy sourcing across all markets to identify new other includes unmeasured impacts, opportunities.
e. g. couriers and taxis 33,913 32,491 31,661 32,884 We estimate that around 15% of the total energy we total 260,000 249,095 242,733 252,111 purchase is from renewable sources.
The table below shows the main countries in which we source green electricity and the percentage purchased.
When rated at zero emissions, our WPPs carbon footprint renewable energy rated as normal grid electricity renewable electricity purchases reduce out total carbon CO emissions tonnes 2 footprint by 27,073 tonnes of CO. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2 Green electricity contracts are usually for a fixed period Total 260,000 254,888 265,760 279,184 and may not be available at competitive prices in future.
WPPs office energy use megawatt hours Green electricity sources 2006 2007 2008 2009 Country % renewable energy use 297,406 272,545 284,930 340,647 Brazil 21% Data from 2007 and 2008 has been revised upwards as a result of improvements to our data collection system and analysis.
Israel 55% Italy 33% norway 27% Peru 21% Portugal 25% thailand 39% uK 57% 128 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How we behave Corporate responsibility Carbon offset Sustainable IT In 2009, we offset 130,000 tonnes of CO through support 2 for renewable energy projects.
All carbon offset projects WPPs personal and network IT equipment accounts for a supported by WPP are renewable energy projects arranged large proportion of our energy use.
We aim to cut the energy by the CarbonNeutral Company.
We currently fund seven used by our computers by up to 30%, and have introduced projects, including wind farm and hydroelectric projects in requirements to improve the energy efficiency of our IT China and wind and solar generation in India.
Through our server virtualisation program and support forestry offset.
the use of new energy-efficient blade-based server technology From 2010, we will offset only the equivalent of our we aim to achieve up to 40% reduction in power consumption emissions from flights, concentrating our investment in for key IT applications.
We successfully piloted this approach making energy efficiency savings in buildings and IT.
Our in 2009 with the Group financial reporting IT systems and operating companies will continue to meet the cost of offset.
are adopting the approach as standard for future server installations and upgrades.
Office energy efficiency Following pilot projects at three London companies we agreed a program of printer rationalisation for major We have established Energy Action Teams in North America, locations in key markets that we expect to reduce paper, Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America.
These include toner and energy consumption by 20% to 30%.
members of our IT, real estate and procurement functions.
Their job is to identify energy-saving measures and provide Videoconferencing technical guidance to our agencies on energy reduction.
We encourage our people to meet via videoconferencing, They are supported by a network of on-the-ground Climate avoiding the environmental impacts of travelling to meetings.
Champions, who help to implement energy-saving measures We have successfully trialled high-definition videoconferencing in our companies.
in London and New York, and we are investing to set up In 2009, we continued to implement our global metering facilities in key cities around the world.
project to bring energy savings by cutting waste.
We are By the end of 2009, we had installed 65 high-definition investing 600,000 to install meters in our top 100 strategic videoconferencing units around the world, including 40 locations that are both large and have long leases.
These shared units which can be used by any WPP company.
In represent about 40% of our total floorspace.
By the end 2010 we will install another 35 shared units, bringing the of 2009 we had installed meters at 55 sites.
We have identified preferred suppliers in all regions, Videoconferencing rooms can be booked by any WPP which our operating companies can use to buy and install company via the WPP intranet.
We are also experimenting low-energy light fittings.
We began an installation program with one-to-one videoconferencing technology for senior for low-energy fittings in 2009.
We have set up procurement executives and operating companies.
contracts with furniture and carpet suppliers to ensure the products we purchase come from sustainable sources and Waste and recycling can be disposed of in a responsible manner.
Where possible, we aim to ensure that any properties In 2009 we developed a strategy to reduce waste and we purchase meet advanced environmental standards such increase reuse and recycling at our top 100 strategic locations as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED representing 40% of our property portfolio by floor space.
and BRE Environment Assessment Method BREEAM.
For The strategy will be launched in 2010 and we will track reuse example, major new locations for Grey and Ogilvy & Mather and recycling rates at participating sites quarterly.
Key Worldwide in New York are LEED certified.
A new purposecommitments include: built facility for nine of our companies in Singapore has been Paper designed to the Green Mark Scheme Gold Standard, Use post-consumer recycled office paper.
Set printers to double-sided as default.
Electronic waste e. g. IT and mobile phones Establish electronic equipment recycling contracts.
Encourage local arrangements for computer re-use.
Office consumables e. g. paper, card, cans, plastic bottles, toner cartridges Establish recycling contracts at all locations for standard office consumable items.
Kitchen waste Phase out disposable crockery and drinking cups.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 129 How we behave Corporate responsibility Water use Social investment As an office-based company, WPP is not a major water user.
In 2009, the total value of our social investment was However, we recognise the importance of water conservation, 14.9 million compared with 14.6 million in 2008.
This is particularly in water-stressed areas.
We have endorsed the equivalent to 2.2% of reported profit before tax and includes UN CEO Water Mandate, an initiative designed to assist direct cash donations to charities of 4.1 million and 10.8 companies in the development, implementation and million worth of pro bono work.
These figures are based on disclosure of water sustainability policies and practices.
fees the organisations would have paid for our work.
In In 2009 we launched a water conservation strategy addition, WPP media agencies negotiated free media space that targets our largest locations in water-stressed regions.
worth 27.3 million on behalf of pro bono clients.
This will ensure that our investment in water management produces the most environmental benefit.
At these locations Social investment 2005-2009 m we will: Measure and report water consumption in 2009 10.
Charitable donations 25 Establish programs for water conservation in 2010 11.
Pro bono work 20 15 10 Supply chain 5 WPP spends around 1.9 billion $3 billion with suppliers 14.9m 0 05 06 07 08 09 each year.
We want to do business with suppliers that meet high standards on environment and employment practices.
We are committed to managing CR risks in our supply chain, Pro bono work both for ourselves and for our clients.
We focus our CR efforts on preferred suppliers that provide Our companies have a long tradition of pro bono work centrally-purchased goods and services such as IT, travel, providing communications services to charities at little or telecommunications, professional services e. g. consultancy no cost.
This work can be invaluable helping raise money and recruitment and facilities management.
and awareness for hundreds of good causes every year.
WPPs Global Procurement Policy contains ethical and It also benefits WPP by showcasing our creative skills environmental criteria, which our Group procurement teams and ability to create compelling communications on a wide use in supplier selection and management.
We thoroughly range of social and environmental issues.
Our people gain evaluate companies against a set of business requirements a breadth of experience and the chance to contribute to before they can become a preferred supplier.
assurance of supply, quality, service, cost, innovation and Examples of recent pro bono work by our companies are CR.
We do not have a standard weighting for each criteria included in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
and they may vary from project to project.
As part of this process we ask potential suppliers to complete a simple Pro bono work 2009 % five-point CR questionnaire to raise awareness and make our requirements clear.
Local community 19.3 Education 22.4 Health 14.4 Environment 0.8 Arts 4.0 Alcohol abuse 0.4 Other 38.7 130 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
