What we think After the threat of apocalypse, new centres of gravity drive our best creative resources to clients and categories People will not consume luxury in the way they did until where their services are rewarded appropriately.
Many recently, particularly in Western markets, at least for some marketing clients still appreciate that great advertising ideas considerable time in the future.
Responsible consumption and copy deliver outstanding results.
Reducing marketing will become more important, rather than conspicuous costs indiscriminately, particularly in industries with heavy consumption.
Consuming less in a more socially responsible fixed production costs, will only result in having to spread way will be crucial in relation to society, the environment those costs over fewer unit sales.
Thus social responsibility will be more The procurement process seems to be based on the idea significant to the consumer, our clients, governments, NGOs that what we provide is low value-added and that, because and all constituencies.
we are dependent on significant revenues from large clients, we can be squeezed.
This thinking may be flawed.
First, what we do is critical.
There is a limit to how far costs can Conclusion be reduced: but there is almost no limit apart from 100% market share to how far you can grow revenues.
Second, 2009 was an uncompromising year.
As forecast last year, it in an increasingly undifferentiated world, what we do was a game of two halves.
We did not play particularly well differentiate products and services, tangibly and intangibly in the first half, but picked up our rhythm in the second.
is becoming more and more important, particularly in the We moved from staring into the abyss, to a less-worse slower-growth markets of the US and Western Europe, where performance.
So far in 2010 we have seen a return of overcapacity, commoditisation and retail concentration are stability, but not growth as yet.
The second quarter should more pressing issues.
see significant top-line growth for the first time for six quarters, but mainly because of easier comparatives.
Overall, 2010 should be flat or up slightly.
2011 should see similar, Corporate responsibility: more important than ever but not spectacular improvement, as clients get further over the terrifying post-Lehman experience, which restricted 2009 Many companies have made an increasingly important virtue budgets, and realise that long-term growth depends on and value of positioning their brand, goods or services as top-line expansion, not cost cutting in their budgets for 2010, corporately responsible.
If you are in the business of building 2011 and beyond.
brands, products, services or corporate brands in the long Governments are now faced with a dilemma, a choice term, this is surely a given.
If you want to build long-term between the pain of higher taxes combined with government profitability, you cannot dismiss the environment, society, cuts to reduce the deficit or inflating our way out of trouble.
government, NGOs or the press.
Indeed, you would only We can make it easier in the long term by wearing the hair ignore these constituencies if you were in business for a shirt now, slashing state spending and raising taxes, with the quick buck or short-term profit.
We already know from our resulting loss of jobs.
Or we can make it easier in the short market research agencies that consumers and people inside term by stoking inflation, with long-term interest rates rising.
companies value socially-responsible companies more highly.
It is worth pausing to consider this paradox: we are being BP in the oil and energy industry, HSBC in banking, and asked to spend and lend our way out of this recession.
Walmart and M&S in retail are good examples of corporate That, surely, is what got us into crisis in the first place.
However, three relatively recent events have Whatever the conclusion, WPPs strategy remains heightened the importance and significance of CR or Global appropriate.
New geographical markets, new media and Corporate Citizenship and made them very fashionable.
consumer insights will become more important.
Furthermore, First, the deal between Warren Buffett and Bill Gates, globalisation, overcapacity and the shortage of human capital, involving an exchange of Microsoft and Berkshire Hathaway the web, internal communications, concentrating distribution, stocks, to enable the Gates Foundation to do even greater corporate responsibility, the government as a client, and a charitable work.
Second, the decision by Sir Richard balance between global and local organisational structures, Branson, at the second Clinton Global Initiative in New will continue to drive branding and differentiation, and York, to donate up to $3 billion in profits from his Virgin advertising and marketing services.
And finally, the decision by James Murdoch at BSkyB and his father Rupert Murdoch at NewsCorp to espouse carbon neutrality along with Al Gores influential film, An Inconvenient Truth.
All of these events have made it fashionable for chairmen and CEOs to embrace corporate responsibility and embarrassing for them if they do not.
