How were doing Consumer Insight Innovation not more data collection.
The Futures Company and Kantar Worldpanel combined their future segmentation approach If we are to inspire our clients, we must help them see the and panel data to enable Morrisons and their packagedworld through new lenses.
Hence the emphasis which goods suppliers to understand the way in which UK Millward Brown has put on the use of neuroscience to tap consumers were reacting to the recession and to predict how into the unconscious and enrich our understanding of how their behaviour would change going forward.
Strategic work communication works: the work that IMRB is doing with for Pepsi and Unilever involved no new data collection and instead centred on analysis and testing of creative hypotheses to improve performance in various markets.
Our clients want to be able to join up There is much more to do but we all recognise that how we deliver our insights is as important a determinant the dots, to integrate sources of insight, for clients to make better decisions as is the nature of the to follow consumers round the web insights themselves.
while ensuring their privacy, to make more of what they already have Inspiring people JWT in understanding the rural consumer in India: that While there are some high spots and some parts of the TNS is doing with Ogilvy in understanding the Islamic world where our management teams have done wonderful consumer: that Added Value is doing in using semiotic things in difficult circumstances, we have to acknowledge techniques to understand the way in which consumers are that too many of our people did not find 2009 inspiring.
reacting to visual and other sensory cues: the wide range It was a tough year in which our headcount fell by 8% of ethnographic projects which we now undertake which during the year, in which some people voluntarily took bring our clients closer to the reality of the world which salary cuts, in which the client agenda of more for less their consumers inhabit.
meant that people were stretched as never before and in And its not just short-term or high-tech innovation that we which many finance, operations, IT and HR people had are focused on.
We are heavily involved in most of the research to deal with one of the most complex integrations that projects sponsored by WPP and Google, involving clients and our industry has seen.
And while the integration academics.
And TNS Indonesia won the prestigious best activities described below are improving our business paper award at ESOMARs global conference for developing immeasurably and to the benefit of our people and clients, an innovative diary method for better understanding how 2009 saw much of the pain involved in this process with illiterate rural consumers used toothpaste.
little of the gain a situation which will thankfully reverse itself in 2010.
Creativity At the same time our employee-wide survey shows that our people continue to have huge pride in our business, faith Our focus is on making our deliverables more accessible, in our direction and trust in our management.
They know more engaging, more impactful, more forward-looking.
that we successfully carried out much of the cost and And in those respects we had tangible signs of progress infrastructure work which was necessary, training and which benefited clients.
development budgets have been restored to higher levels BrandZ insights were delivered through an iPhone and that there is a unanimous determination amongst senior application: WorldpanelOnline is transforming the way management across the business to put back the emphasis clients access panel data: Added Values Charac erLab on people issues.
is a unique approach to brand character development which clients can create and deliver to themselves online: and RedDot has become the virtual reality platform of choice for Reshaping the business most of the worlds top retailers and packaged good companies, enabling improvements in supply chain management, pricing Some units notably Kantar Worldpanel, Kantar Media and product testing which will become more commonplace Audiences, Center Partners, TNS Social and Polling, Kantar in years to come.
But remember, you saw it here first!
Operations, Millward Brown Asia Africa and LatAm Much more of our output now takes the form of video had good years financially.
Overall our results will have and storytelling which engages and inspires.
And more disappointed our high expectations, but we should be broadly, some of the best work we carried out and some pleased with the progress we made in integrating TNS of our best deliverables were based on innovative analysis, and in generating the synergies we committed to.
