38 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review Atkins is committed to acting responsibly towards all our stakeholders and to taking a leadership position within our sector.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 39 Our beliefs Five hundred senior managers received Orient Way Rail Depot Our carbon Atkins is committed to acting responsibly awareness training during the year, staff critical philosophy has helped us to towards all our stakeholders and to received information about our activities achieve a prestigious award from the taking a leadership position within our at a Group conference and an awareness Civil Engineering Environmental Quality sector.
We publish information about DVD was circulated to managers Assessment and Awards Scheme our performance on our website throughout the Group to help them CEEQUAL for a key transport project in www.
com cr and engage their teams.
East London linked to the London 2012 summarise the major issues and Olympic Games.
developments during the year here.
The chief executive delivered 16 keynote speeches on the subject to industry bodies Taleem Flagship Campus Our design Sustainability such as the Building Business Leaders for Taleem aims to create the first LEED Sustainability is a serious issue for Forum, Construction Industry Council, certified school in the Middle East whilst all Atkins stakeholders, including Institution of Civil Engineers, Environment responding to the challenges of location governments, public and private sectors Industries Commission, Hong Kong and climate.
Carbon Critical Design and communities across the world.
We Chamber of Commerce and the Middle features include the faade, lighting, continue to incorporate sustainability into East Economic Digest.
landscaping, materials and energy use.
our own operations, to raise awareness among our employees and clients and to We also invested 1m during the year to Atkins Remote Technology ArT take a leadership role in the delivery of develop a suite of carbon calculators to Developed by our Asset Management a low-carbon economy in the geographies assist in the design and engineering of business, this is a web-based energy in which we operate.
Two calculators are management system that not only collects already in daily use.
The first, developed energy data but also allows remote A highlight of the year was the design, by Faithful Gould, is freely available control of heating and cooling systems.
completion and occupation of Atkins via www.
com carbon-calculator The technology produces an average new Bristol office which achieved a and is aimed at boosting the green energy saving of 34% and is installed BREEAM excellent rating.
Sustainable credentials of the construction industry.
at 350 client locations in the UK.
The features of the building include a chilled It enables the relative cost benefits and system is also being piloted in our beam cooling system, a ground source risks of low carbon techniques and own operations.
heat pump, rainwater harvesting and technology to be assessed and allow low-water usage sanitary ware.
The second tool Climate Change Action Plan We construction high levels of recycling were is believed to be the first of its kind and, implemented carbon saving measures for achieved and the project involved as its name suggests, the Remediation the Metropolitan Police enabling them responsible local sourcing of materials Options Carbon Calculator ROCC to reduce carbon emissions by 4% in the and labour.
com is first year of a three-year programme.
geared towards assessing the emissions In addition, one of our technical experts associated with a range of land Energy Efficiency and Renewables has been on pro bono secondment to the remediation work.
for Schools This project determined UK Construction Industry Council CIC to energy performance and potential for help develop the Strategy for Sustainable Atkins has continued to engage with more energy efficiency projects for 170 primary Construction as a joint industry and clients on Carbon Critical Design, resulting and secondary schools throughout government initiative.
in more exemplar projects coming to the UK.
fruition during the last 12 months: Carbon Critical Design Dezhou Urban Planning We were Our efforts continued during the year to Green Asphalt We collaborated with awarded the top prize at an international focus on embedding into all our services Northamptonshire County Council to design competition for urban planning in the challenges and opportunities a carbon develop and install the first 100% Dezhou, Peoples Republic of China.
Our critical economy will bring.
recycled cold asphalt surface course.
The pioneering concept included sustainable sustainable benefits include production planning principles, a unique urban carbon emissions reduced by more than design, and incorporated the citys 90% compared with a hot-mix asphalt, renewable energy initiatives.
100% recycled content and complete reuse of aggregate feedstock.
Production fuel consumption was also reduced by 99%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 40 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review Continued Safety leadership We continued to improve safety leadership We also continue to develop the skills Atkins remains strongly committed to within Atkins.
Our Board directors at required to create, implement and key improvements in health and safety the year-end have undertaken the maintain effective management systems, beyond those required by law.
During the Construction Skills Certification Scheme by investing in the development of our year our chief executive became chair of CSCS test.
During the year, senior quality, safety and environment QSE the Construction Industry Council CIC, management have attended the Atkins managers with the introduction of lean following his position as chair of the Director Safety Tour training course and thinking practices.
Self-assessment against Health and Safety Committee, and we the Safety Leadership programme in the the criteria of the European Foundation continued to work with industry through Rail business was expanded to include for Quality Management EFQM Business national forums such as the Strategic our supply chain.
We also undertook Excellence Model has also been piloted Health and Safety Forum, CIC Health and a safety, health and environment survey by our Middle East business.
The Group Safety Committee, Consultants Health in the UK for the first time, to which over continues to maintain a comprehensive and Safety Forum and BuildSafe UAE.
This has helped programme of assurance for its us to identify Atkins strengths and management systems, pursuing a consistent The Rail business had a serious near-miss weaknesses, providing valuable input to approach to systems certification globally.
when four employees could have been hit our 2009 improvement plan.
These employees now feature Our people in a powerful short film which has been Our work We continue to work to be an employer produced to explain the severity of the We take pride in the quality of products of choice and to provide an environment incident.
This film has been adopted as and services that we provide to our in which our people can flourish and a training tool by other rail organisations clients.
All our businesses are certified succeed.
We engaged more colleagues such as Network Rail and was recognised to ISO 9001:2000 and are expected to in information about our vision, mission in the HSBC Rail Business Awards for satisfy the requirements of the revised and strategy through new internal Safety and Security Excellence.
standard for quality management systems, communication channels and our ISO 9001:2008, during 2009, following Viewpoint survey showed an increase The Highways and Transportation business Atkins Chinas lead in achieving approval.
in employee engagement for the third has set an industry standard for designing consecutive year.
We invested 20m in out risks in projects by using an approach There has been significant focus through training and increased our ranking to that is based on the simple concept of a key business forum to rationalise the 10th position in the Sunday Times Best Big traffic lights: Red, Amber and Green content of management systems and Companies to Work For.
Originally used on the design for to harmonise practice to review client progress on diversity through initiatives Heathrow Terminal 5, the RAG approach feedback management, supply chain and through our collaboration with clients was developed for use in projects for the management and management system and national organisations.
Highways Agency, and has since been controls.
Our Asset Management segment adopted as the industry standard by has continued to develop its Quantum For more detailed information see the companies such as Arup, Halcrow and process for engaging and reviewing Human Resources Review.
The tool now measures performance against 10 metrics including environmental responsibility, health and safety management and operational excellence.
All of the businesses have been able to identify improvement opportunities and introduce efficiencies where possible, such as by sharing how they manage the capture of client feedback, and this work continues.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 41 Our communities In the Middle East employees supported Engaging with education We are passionate about contributing to the sixth Clean Up UAE United Arab We continue to be actively engaged the communities in which we operate and Emirates campaign launched to create in a range of educational initiatives from engaging our people to join together public awareness on the dangers of waste primary schools through to universities.
to make a difference where it counts.
left on beaches or in the water.
The In Derby the Rail business ran a poster project, organised by the Emirates competition asking primary school children Making a difference Environmental Group and held at in the area to depict their thoughts on During the year we refined our charity 44 independent locations, has become climate change and its impact on the policy to give a greater emphasis on a symbol of environmental action and environment with the winning posters engaging our own employees to support a benchmark of cross-sector involvement being displayed in the Atkins office.
in the region and resulted in more than 110 tonnes of waste being cleaned up.
Our graduates are inspiring the next We aim to support our people in their Employees from our Doha office also generation of engineers.
The Engineering own communities around the world organised basketball and cricket Awareness EA group, based in Bristol, through local charitable donations, tournaments for local schoolchildren.
organises and runs initiatives in local fundraising, volunteering activities and schools that are designed to develop sports and social events.
The network Faithful Gould staff from the Sheffield youngsters understanding of what of house managers is now helping to office engaged as volunteers with the engineers do and inspire some to enter co-ordinate and promote these activities Archer Project, which helps homeless men the profession.
The EA group is involved through our offices.
A few examples of and women.
Our employees supported in a number of events and activities that activities that took place around the world the project once a month in the soup aim to promote and explore engineering follow.
Fuller information is available on kitchen during lunchtime sessions by with young people while simultaneously our website www.
serving, cleaning and washing up.
linking in to Key Stage 3 of the National Curriculum.
Activities include visits to During the year, we received the Caring In Newport, Wales employees gave their schools for engineering-related activities Company award in Hong Kong, recognising local communities a helping hand by or talks, onsite work experience students our involvement in the local community revamping the Duffryn Community Link or participation in schemes and events and our commitment to being a socially Cycle Club with a range of new fittings such as the Flying Start Challenge.
and fixtures to fully utilise the limited space available.
The Shaftesbury Through our University Liaison Directors Following the earthquake in the Sichuan Community Centre also benefited from ULD programme, our engagement with province of China, employees in Beijing a new workbench, flooring, whiteboards universities has continued to grow and provided pro bono consultancy advice and notice boards and parts of the centre develop with the objective of being for Chongzhou city to help formulate were fully painted and decorated by regarded as an industrial partner of emergency relief proposals and create Atkins people.
Our ULDs have further developed a strategic planning framework for their relationships with 16 universities reconstruction in the area following the in the UK and are developing relationships damage caused by the earthquake.
overseas with 10 in the USA, two in Employees from other offices in China China, two in Singapore and one in Dubai.
donated approximately 10,000 to support the victims of the earthquake and employee donations were matched by the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 42 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review Continued Our performance Atkins sets its own challenging targets Our activities regarding health and safety This section reports on Atkins corporate as these benchmarks are based on a throughout the last year have included responsibility performance during the year.
reduction on previous year of 5% the promotion of risk assessment as part for office and 15% for engineering and of the European Week of Safety, the Health and safety construction.
For staff the AIR for integration of safety leadership into our It is with deepest regret that we report engineering decreased from 178 to 147, senior management development that a fatality occurred on the Diego Garcia but there was an increase in AIR for office programme and the improvement of Joint Venture DG21 during a tree-felling from 38 to 89 and, of greatest concern, health and safety information on the operation.
Atkins has an equity stake of the AIR for construction increased from Groups intranet.
24.5% in the Joint Venture and we have 1,042 to 1,833. provided support, including advice on Three of our businesses also received how to further improve the health and Nevertheless, our performance remains RoSPA awards: Gold for both Highways safety arrangements.
better than the industry performance as and Transportation, and Design and compiled by the HSE Labour Force Survey, Engineering Solutions: and Distinction for Atkins reports accidents and incidents and we are keen to continue to improve Asset Management which was awarded for staff, contractors, Joint Ventures and by expanding our Safety Leadership for the 22nd year running.
in situations where we are Principal Programme, and to reduce the number Contractor.
The Accident Incident Rate of manual handling accidents, which Environment AIR is used to measure our accident account for 23% of serious accidents in We are now able to report on our energy performance for staff and contractors.
We also actively encourage consumption for approximately 95% of Last year performance was within the the reporting of incidents and near-misses, our operations worldwide.
The remaining Atkins AIR benchmark with the exception of which 1,172 were reported compared parts of the organisation in Poland, the of staff in the construction category.
We view this as a positive USA and offices in India will start collating The benchmarks were 146 for office, step towards accident prevention.
We are not able to 319 for engineering and 1,445 for compare non-UK data as this is the first construction activities.
All our operations are now covered by year this information has been collated.
The businesses are also on target to achieve the revised specification There was significant effort during 2008 OHSAS 18001:2007 by the deadline to extend the scope of our reporting to of July 2009. include worldwide operations and to obtain more accurate data for UK operations.
More accurate data has contributed to a significant reduction in energy consumption.
In the UK we consumed 27.0m kWh in the year to 31 December 2008 compared to Fig.
In the UK the energy data is now verifiable to 72% for gas and Accident incident rate AIR Office Engineering Construction to 77% for electricity.
Data is verifiable to Benchmark 146 319 1,445 100% for energy consumption in Sweden, Staff Denmark, Ireland, Portugal, China and the 08 09 89 147 1,833 Middle East and India.
07 08 38 178 1,042 06 07 12 65 995 05 06 104 151 556 04 05 59 235 2,763 Contractors 08 09 132 0 619 07 08 0 0 708 06 07 382 441 1,221 05 06 0 124 293 04 05 0 124 317 AIR number of accidents per 100,000 staff or contractors WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 43 Worldwide, we emitted 15,071 tonnes of We are now able to report on business The calculation for CO emissions from 2 CO from energy consumption.
2 travel emissions for approximately 90% of our business travel is made using the latest 2 shows the proportion of emissions from our operations worldwide.
The remaining published DEFRA figures for road and air each region.
The calculation for CO parts of the organisation including Poland, travel, the DEFRA figures for rail travel in 2 emissions from our energy consumption Ireland and offices in India will start the UK, and the US Intercity rail emissions is made using the latest published DEFRA collating data in 2009.
Our business travel figure for non-UK rail travel, in the absence figures for electricity in the UK and for data covers road, air and rail travel for of valid country-specific information.
gas in the UK and Ireland and the fivethe UK and Sweden, road and air travel year average from the latest published for the Middle East and India region and For our UK company car fleet we have Greenhouse Gas Protocol figures for each China and air travel for Denmark, the continued to reduce the average emission country other than the UK for electricity.
The figure is now down to 154g km estimated worldwide CO emissions compared to 158g km last year.
2 Remote energy metering was installed at associated with business travel were five pilot locations in the UK during the 23,350 tonnes.
Our waste management facilities have year.
There were immediate results as improved significantly throughout our significant reductions in both gas and In the UK we travelled 74m km by road, worldwide operations.
In Sweden 100% electricity consumption were identified 36.7m km by air and 21.3m km by rail in of the waste that we generate is either and implemented at those locations.
The 2008 09, resulting in total business travel recycled or converted into energy no remote metering is now being rolled out decreasing by 2.4m km compared to waste goes to landfill.
A recycling system to more properties in the UK.
There has been a significant has been trialled successfully with more Energy Certificates have also been reduction of 4.1m km in air travel than 60% of waste being recycled in the introduced for some UK offices and these compared to last year.
However there Hong Kong office.
Additionally, a new will be generated for more locations has been an increase of 0.9m km in road system has been implemented across during 2009 to help raise awareness travel and 0.7m km in rail travel.
We are some of the centrally managed properties on energy performance.
not able to compare non-UK data as in the UK with more than 35% of the this is the first year this information has waste being recycled through these offices.
Portugal is now covered by ISO 14001 having achieved this environmental management systems standard during the year.
All of our operations are now covered by the standard.
3 Tonnes of CO per employee Company car fleet emissions 2 from energy consumption average in the UK 100 A 101-120 B 121-150 C UK 0.89 151-165 D Atkins 154 166-185 E Europe 1.01 186 F Middle East and India 1.20 China 1.01 226 G WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 g km 44 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review Continued Leadership and behaviour are key CR-related Group policies include elements in our environmental quality, health and safety, environment, management approach.
Four of the UK sustainability, community, business businesses have now undertaken the conduct, data protection, dignity and Institute of Environmental Management equality at work, employee disclosure and Assessment IEMA environmental whistle-blowing and the appropriate use senior executive course with the intentions of information technology.
These are in 2009 for the remaining UK business to published on the corporate intranet and complete the course and to review its are provided externally on request.
They suitability for all businesses worldwide.
are reviewed regularly and updated to reflect changes to legislation, emerging Our supply chain management team has good practice and business needs.
been working with a number of Group suppliers in the UK to encourage them to adopt sustainable practices in their own businesses.
The Atkins Environmental Strategy has been developed and will be communicated to all our Group suppliers during the coming year.
Regulatory activity In the UK last year the HSE made three visits to Atkins sites with no enforcement action.
We have not been prosecuted for any breaches of health and safety or environment regulations.
Governance The Board sets Group policies on corporate responsibility CR.
Our chief executive is the Board member responsible for corporate responsibility and for the Groups performance, supported by Group-wide frameworks.
A common management structure governs quality, health and safety and environment QSE.
The Group director for QSE, who reports to the chief executive, is responsible for Group QSE at a corporate level.
Each Atkins business also has dedicated QSE representatives to manage issues at a local level, reporting quarterly.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial statements Investor information Governance Governance 46 Board of Directors 48 Directors Report 52 Corporate Governance Report 58 Remuneration Report 65 Independent Auditors Report
