annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Business review corporate social responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is embedded into our planning and processes.
It is closely aligned with our values.
We aim to grow our business in a socially responsible way.
CSR Committee We introduced SEE risks into our risk Our corporate Social Responsibility cSR management process in 2008.
Our Our values committee is responsible for setting the priority is to continue to integrate these Responsive to the aims of strategy of the groups cSR programme into new locations and employees from customers and overseeing its performance.
While these clear thinking, resolute and brave are not priority risks for us at present, we in decisions additionally, each region has a cSR consider them important in providing us Reliable in delivering everything co-ordinator and each major location has with a balanced risk portfolio.
Each is responsible for Farsighted in relationships the execution of the cSR programme in Performance reporting Skilled at releasing the their region or location and together, The group monitors and measures its entrepreneurial spirit in our people.
they form a group-wide cSR network.
performance on a range of cSR activities through our Quality performance Reports.
Our values are translated into everyday Governance These are reviewed each month at the actions: from our performance The cSR committee remains confident Xchanging performance committee management process, training and that the internal measures taken to review Xpc which includes the chief Executive development, right through to our the cSR information are of a suitable Officer cEO, chief Financial Officer remuneration and benefits strategy.
Xchanging calls upon industry cFO and the group Quality director specialists on specific issues as necessary.
who represents the cSR committee.
See page 45 under internal control Our CSR programme drivers are: Social, ethical and environmental and risk management.
People: focusing on aspects of SEE risks cSR that support and develop The cSR committee reviews the groups Carbon Disclosure Project Xchangings employees SEE risk register to ensure that the correct We also provide information on our Environment: understanding actions plans are in place to mitigate carbon and greenhouse gas emissions and reducing the impact that these risks.
to the carbon disclosure project.
Xchanging has on the environment by ensuring efficient and responsible use of resources Communities: working with the communities within the regions in which we operate, focusing on youth and education.
We support charitable causes by providing CSR Committee as at 1 March 2010 skills, resources and supporting employee fundraising Stephen Brenninkmeijer Marketplace: achieving long-term Committee Chairman and sustainable relationships with our Board Non-Executive Director customers and suppliers.
Daniel Kasmir Neil Watkinson Dilip Keshu Group HR Director Group Quality Director Group Relations Director 28 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Our people Real estate Groups carbon footprint in 2009 Xchangings core asset is its people and Xchanging is looking to enhance its 2008 Tonnes of CO e 2 UK we set out our approach in this key area efficient use of real estate, by prioritising 9,127 8,124 on pages 25 to 27. green buildings when considering new Malaysia 48 61 premises.
We already optimise our France Environment space-per-desk ratios and are investigating 11 17 India as a service provider, with the majority the incorporation of green building 2,836 3,349 of our employees being office based, we technologies in the design process for the USA 37 109 recognise our responsibility to conduct development of a new processing centre 2009 Germany business in a sustainable manner.
For example: 2,981 2,485 Australia Measuring, understanding and reducing the use of natural ventilation as much 35 10 our carbon footprint is high on our as possible numbers in brackets are 2008 comparisons.
the utilisation of other viable energy efficiency technologies Our 2008 carbon footprint values have been restated with the revised emission factors used for Carbon footprint the use of local materials and 2009 calculations, to give a like-for-like comparison.
Our carbon footprint for 2009 was resources in the construction process.
The data for the USa in 2009 relates to the period 15,075 tonnes of cO e 2008 restated: 2 from January to april, after which the office was 14,155 tonnes of cO e, an increase Making our datacentres greener closed and merged with the cambridge operations 2 in Whippany, new Jersey.
This was due We have been working on greening our to increased business travel with the datacentres by moving towards virtual calculated using the ghg protocol corporate acquisition of cambridge and improved servers.
Virtualisation allows multiple accounting and Reporting Standard.
includes actual and estimated data for all offices operated data quality.
it is premature to report virtual server environments to operate by Xchanging.
Excludes employees working at on the carbon footprint figures for within a significantly reduced hardware customer sites.
Based on scope one, two and three cambridge as we are only beginning to environment.
The key benefits are: excluding waste.
Our reducing datacentre capacity aim is to include it in 2010. per server lowering energy consumption in areas outside our direct control, we to power and cool each server aim to work with sustainable third parties flexibility when building, deploying FTSE4Good and engage with our suppliers on their and adding capacity to virtual servers We are pleased to confirm Xchanging approach to corporate social responsibility.
making it easier to migrate servers in remains part of the FTSE4good index See page 30.
Our focus is an a virtual environment.
Series for the second consecutive year.
ongoing understanding of the groups consumption and developing a global Global environment week programme of energy-saving initiatives We held a global environment week for our operations worldwide.
in June 2009 which coincided with the United nations World Environment day on 5 June.
it was an opportunity to communicate with our employees on our environmental successes and future FTSE group confirms that Xchanging plc has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4good plans.
Many of our global offices held criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to local activities including: become a constituent of the FTSE4good index Series.
environmental-themed painting companies in the FTSE4good index Series have met competitions with local schools stringent social and environmental criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible promoting car pooling business practice.
dressing up in green for the day.
The week was a great success and we look forward to holding this again in 2010 and including employees from cambridge.
X c h a n g i ng plc 29 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Business review corporate social responsibility continued Communities Marketplace and measured way.
Each month, We recognise the importance of engaging We aim to achieve long-term sustainable the scores are reviewed by the Xpc with the local communities in which relationships with all our customers and which includes the cEO and cFO.
we operate, and actively encourage our suppliers.
Our values see page 28 employees to participate.
Our focus is and Ethical code of Business conduct Our suppliers on youth and education, linking to one support what we expect of our people Our procurement service purchases of our values skilled at releasing the and their interactions with our customers 1 billion of third party goods and entrepreneurial spirit in our people.
We aim to be honest, services each year.
Xchanging launched We also believe in entering into transparent and ethical in all of our its Supplier policy in 2009, which is sustainable long-term relationships with interactions.
our approach to an Ethical Supplier our community partners, in keeping with programme.
it is based on cSR principles, our value farsighted in relationships.
Our customers covering environmental protection, With the acquisition of cambridge, we anti-corruption standards and labour We support charitable causes by providing now deliver our services to customers and human rights.
skills and resources as well as supporting in 42 countries.
Read our customers is critical to provide all UK contract suppliers have been more on our website on how we are excellent customer service.
Our Service invited to take part in our online Ethical engaging in our communities.
professionals manage the relationships Supplier survey and sign up to the policy.
They invest a all future contracts will incorporate the considerable amount of time receiving policy and survey process.
plans are also customer feedback of their perceived in place to extend this to the rest of the service delivery.
it is tracked in a consistent group beyond our UK contract suppliers.
Xchangings community initiatives Below are just a few examples of how we are engaging in our communities.
UK Our office in Basildon continued to support little havens childrens hospice throughout 2009.
Employees volunteered their time in the sensory garden, hosted a sponsored walk and held quiz nights.
Xchanging developed its relationship with career academies, a charity that works with affiliated schools and colleges.
it equips students with the necessary knowledge and skills required to enter the work environment upon graduation.
Xchanging provides partners in business, internships and guru lectures across major UK sites.
Americas Our office in Bermuda supported the iT for schools quiz in november for the third consecutive year.
Our office in pompano Beach, Florida collected toys for donations to child and Family connections in West palm Beach.
The donations benefited children, teens and adults in the foster care system.
Our office in Whippany, new Jersey held an art auction to benefit the american diabetes association.
Continental Europe Our office in Frankfurt has supported network for Teaching Entrepreneurship nFTE since 2008. in 2009, it hosted its second Biz camp summer programme, which teaches pupils entrepreneurial thinking and gives a taste of the business world.
Employees in Frankfurt took part in The Malteser Social day.
They volunteered their time painting and gardening to improve the lives of many within the city.
Asia Pacific Xchanging and employees in Melbourne and Sydney collectively raised aus$37,000 for the Victorian Bushfire Fund.
it was launched to assist individuals and communities affected by the devastating Victorian bushfires.
Our office in gurgaon opened its doors to pragati School offering building tours and talks, providing an insight into the Xchanging business.
it was awe-inspiring for the children as many had never seen the inside of any of the citys office buildings before.
Employees in gurgaon also supported pragati School with fundraising activities and a recent school garden plantation drive.
com for more details of our CSR activities.
30 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Objectives and targets Our CSR-related objectives and targets were first set and disclosed in 2008.
We are pleased with the performance progress and the direction from the Committee.
The information below highlights the status of new and existing objectives and their targets.
completed Mostly achieved in progress not yet started Issue Objective Target 2008 2009 Update Status Status Management Measuring and improve measuring and improve our cSR data collection processes completed monitoring monitoring of group-wide by the end of 2009 cSR performance Employee develop and measure employee achieve employee awareness of Xchangings On target engagement engagement in Xchangings cSR activity of 75% by the end of 2010 See page 26 cSR programme acquisitions Evaluate cSR practices of Understand cSR activities of cambridge Evaluation completed cambridge following the by the end of 2010 and integration plan completion of the acquisition generated See pages 28 to 30 People Wellbeing Ensure the health and wellbeing deliver a workplace health programme On target of employees at work that is aligned to the business and makes See page 27 a positive contribution to the health and wellbeing of our people by the end of 2011 career continue to provide career introduction of career development On target development development opportunities for framework across the group by the end See page 26 all employees of 2011 Environment Energy use Make efforts to reduce Understand ways in which we can reduce not completed as reduction Xchangings impact on the our energy consumption and create specific revised plan to include environment and help tackle reduction plans across the group excluding cambridge within climate change cambridge by the end of 2009 this target as above with the inclusion of cambridge n a new objective by the end of 2011 See page 29 Environmental improve employee engagement Run a global environment week to engage completed engagement in environmental issues employees across the group excluding See page 29 cambridge by the end of 2009 as above with the inclusion of cambridge n a new objective by the end of 2010 Communities give as you Widen implementation of the achieve silver payroll giving award 5% of On target earn gaYE gaYE initiative across the UK UK employees donating by the end of 2010 Marketplace Ethical supply interact with our suppliers implement ethical and environmental UK process chain to promote cSR within our considerations into supplier policies, tools implementation and supply chain and processes in the UK by the end of 2009 review completed continue the above across the group, n a new objective to roll out leveraging the UK approach, by the end the above to the group of 2011 See page 30 X c h a n g i ng plc 31
