Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Business review Our people We are passionate about our people.
Xchanging recruits, manages and develops a versatile and dynamic workforce.
They are the key to our prosperity and success.
We are committed to realising our peoples ambitions and achieving our common goal to become the global business processor of choice.
Our people We are constantly investing in our Number of employees globally as a fast growing business our ability to people to build capability in our business attract, retain and motivate our people to meet our current and future objectives.
8,211 globally is something we take seriously.
To this effect, exceptionally talented To support our global growth, new graduates are recruited to join our learning and development systems have graduate programmes.
4,541 4,255 3,449 been enhanced and introduced for our 3,116 employees worldwide.
all our people Graduate programmes undergo regular performance reviews, Our two-year graduate programmes give 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 and development plans are in place graduates the opportunity to work closely Figures for 2005 2006 are average numbers throughout the organisation.
Our global with senior executives.
Our graduates of employees for the year.
talent scouting programme actively receive director-level mentoring as part Figures for 2007 2009 are actual numbers seeks to attract some of the worlds of the programme.
They are also exposed of employees as at 31 december for each best business professionals.
to a mix of industry, geographical and respective year.
functional experience, gaining a real Talent management insight into the business.
additionally, Number of employees by our identifying and developing senior and they have the opportunity to gain a segments % of total employees emerging talent is a key priority for professional qualification.
com 1,941 24% full-time group head of Talent to work Americas 2,494 30% with our regional and heads of human Learning and development Continental Europe 1,286 16% Resources to help release the potential Building on the importance of talent and Asia Pacific of these talented employees.
We leadership, The Xchanging academy 2,161 26% Global Procurement have succession plans in place for our the academy was set up in 2009. it is 247 3% Board and regional leadership teams.
led by the group head of learning and General Management 82 1% development and support is in place development.
The academy is an internal for individuals who have the desire and university for all Xchanging employees Figures are actual numbers of employees capability to undertake senior roles in the worldwide.
it comprises a framework, as at 31 december 2009. future growth of Xchanging.
We have model and methodology by which identified a series of Xchanging-specific employees can embark on a consistent, leadership competencies which now measurable and planned learning journey.
play a key part in the recruitment and development of our top talent.
X c h a n g i ng plc 25 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Business review Our people continued a set of global competencies has been Employee engagement Creating a better workplace established providing employees and We have appointed a global head their managers with a clear understanding of internal communications who Nicki Sullivan of their job roles, skills, behaviours and is responsible for ensuring our Business Change experiences.
The implementation and communication with employees remains Xchanging Insurance Services roll-out of the academy across Xchanging open and transparent.
will embed employee development into we continued to invest in and develop their day-to-day operations.
two-way internal communications nicki has two children, aged 16 and channels such as web seminars.
We 12 years, and lives in Maidstone with performance the Xchanging Way share information to inspire, motivate her husband.
embraces a single, group-wide, highand engage with our employees around performance culture.
it creates an the world and to receive their feedback.
Xchanging has always been flexible environment in which all employees This contributes to our objective of with my contracted hours which have can make a real contribution and be motivating and retaining employees.
varied over the years, depending on recognised for their part in Xchangings schooling and availability of childcare.
Most significantly, we have changed i extended from working part time our championship Team Survey cTS.
to four short days and then to five Our bi-annual personal development To improve our understanding of short days which left time for the Review pdR process measures employees views, the online survey is school run.
Some of the hours were performance against objectives.
in now an employee engagement survey completed remotely from home so that 2009, our pdR timely completion rate focusing on the individual employees i could be at home when the children was 93% 2008: 91%.
To enhance rather than employees in the context of returned from school.
having an our pdR process, The Xchanging Talent teams.
This survey went to all employees understanding employer has enabled Management Service was launched in early 2010.
Once employee feedback me to stay in employment with the in december 2009 and it will be fully is reviewed and understood, we will flexibility to accommodate my implemented across Xchanging by July make the necessary changes and will family commitments.
This is an integrated talent service begin implementing where required in a that enables Xchanging to address consistent manner globally.
any changes talent challenges globally in order to will be in line with our aim to continually align development, performance and improve employee experience.
as well as using The Xchanging Talent Reward Management Service internally, we Our reward principles are based around added this service to our hR service fairness, consistency of application and offering in early 2010. flexibility while being market competitive and reflecting the companys ability to pay.
Reward is used to drive a highperforming culture through promoting the company values and encouraging preferred behaviours.
it is supported by clear communication.
26 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Policies Wellbeing Creating a better workplace Our values are backed up by specific Our priority is to provide a wide range policies that set out the standards that of health and wellbeing improvement Womens network we expect our employees to work to.
in the Gurgaon, India With the acquisition of cambridge, UK we have introduced pre-employment Established in december 2008, the Xchanging has become a truly global occupational health assessments.
This womens network has become popular business.
We will be working towards allows any current or long-term health with almost 80% of the womens a suite of global policies during 2010. issues, along with any disabilities, workforce in gurgaon taking part in to be identified before a new starter the activities.
Some of the activities Equal opportunities and diversity commences employment thus minimising conducted by the network included The group is committed to employment any associated risk to the employee.
The celebrating womens day, sessions on policies which follow best practice process involves three simple stages: tax, casual get-togethers and selfbased on equal opportunities for all the completion of an online survey, a defence classes.
There are now plans employees irrespective of gender, race, follow-up call with a Registered general in place to extend this network across colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, nurse if required, and notification of any all of our operations in india.
political opinions, age, nationality, sexual recommendations made.
orientation, religion, marital status, Xchanging Better Workplace social class or family circumstances.
We Ethics Awards ensure that diversity is appropriately Our Ethical code of Business conduct Victoria, Australia.
supported in our workforce and reflected guides the actions of our employees in The annual Xchanging Better in our leaders.
For example 45% of our accordance with our values.
The code Workplace awards recognise that employees globally are women, and we ensures that we adhere to all applicable commitment to health and safety in have a wealth of nationalities across laws, regulations and standards in every the workplace benefits all concerned the group.
country in which we operate around particularly workers by reducing the globe.
Our whistle-blowing policy hardship, improving recovery rates Health, safety and wellbeing provides a safe channel for employees and easing the assimilation of workers providing and promoting the health, to report breaches of policies or back to the workforce.
safety and wellbeing of all our employees illegal activity.
nominations are received from employers across a wide range of Health and safety industries in Victoria.
The awards all Xchanging employees work in an are presented to organisations environment where health and safety risks demonstrating extraordinary results are understood and managed responsibly.
in occupational health and safety or Many of our site locations are based on returning injured or ill workers back the OhSaS 180001 management system to work.
and have a number of initiatives in place to provide a safe and healthy environment for all employees and visitors affected by Xchangings activities.
in 2009, we gained the OhSaS 180001 accreditation for a number of our UK location sites.
