Babcock International Group PLC 22 Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility Our objective is to be the leading engineering support Ethical conduct services company in the UK and in selected overseas The Board insists that our business is carried out to the markets.
Our strategic objectives are set out on page 6. highest standards of honesty and integrity.
We have a strict ethical policy in place with guidance on business dealings.
To achieve our strategic goals we must behave This policy defines expected behaviours and is formally as a responsible company and operate with the highest re-emphasised to senior management each year who formally standards of honesty and integrity.
All employees are expected to avoid Our continuing financial success is built on long-term conicts of interest, to act lawfully and ethically and report customer relationships: technical knowledge and expertise any non-compliance issues of which they become aware.
within our business: our commitment to providing a safe We will be reviewing this policy over the coming year to ensure working environment as well our ability to work within the it continues to meet the Groups requirements as we grow regulatory requirements of all our customers market places, and broaden our activities and to keep abreast of general particularly with regard to environmental issues.
In a sector where it is difficult to nd enough suitably Babcock also subscribes to the Common Industry Standards qualied people, we must focus on recruiting, retaining and for European Aerospace and Defence CIS.
developing the best talent we can.
We must also play our part in encouraging young people into engineering careers.
Whistle blowing This report identies a range of non-financial issues that At a Group level we have an independently managed whistle need to be addressed to help us reduce business risk.
blower hot line and every employee has been issued with We believe the following areas are key to driving our business details of how to contact it.
Any reported issues are relayed success: Corporate Governance: Health and Safety: to Group executives within 24 hours.
This ensures all employees Employees: Customer Relations: Environment: Procurement can anonymously express any concerns that they have about and Community.
the way the business is being operated.
Corporate governance Health and safety We remain committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance, so we can retain our trusted to deliver reputation and continue to work in long-term partnerships with our customers.
In the current economic climate it is more important than ever to demonstrate excellence in our approach to business ethics and internal control.
We address other aspects of corporate governance and internal controls in more detail on pages 36 to 60.
During the year we launched our Home Safe Every Day Our approach to and responsibility for matters relating message, to ensure all our employees, contractors and visitors to corporate responsibility is embedded in our management return to their families each day without injury.
structures and forms part of our approach to the conduct We have always regarded the health and safety of our of business in general.
Divisional Managing Directors are employees and those working alongside them as paramount: responsible for such matters at a divisional level, reporting this is a key priority at all levels of the business.
Due to the to the Chief Executive who oversees things from a Group large range of activities that we undertake across the Group, perspective and on behalf of the Board.
These matters are also some of which are inherently dangerous, our health and safety addressed in the Executive Committee and through the Safety record is vital to our reputation and our ability to retain and Leadership Team which are attended by all divisional Managing win new contracts.
We seek to ensure that best practice, Directors and the Chief Executive.
In addition, we now have innovative programmes and experiences are shared across or will shortly be appointing senior Group managers, reporting the Group in a number of ways: to the Chief Executive, responsible for sustainable procurement, carbon reduction and employee training and development.
Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2009 23 The Safety Leadership Team consisting of the Executive Employees Committee convenes prior to each Executive Committee meeting to discuss health and safety issues.
Babcock operates in highly technical and complex environments and many of our contracts rely on highly skilled, The Corporate Safety Steering Group, chaired by the Chief qualied and experienced engineers and project management Executive meets several times per year attended by the health staff.
We need to have one of the best workforces in our sector and safety managers or directors from each division.
to deliver the best service for our customers.
To achieve this An online best practice forum has been created and is being we need to ensure we can recruit, retain and develop sufficient rolled out across the Group in order to share best practice talent within our business.
as widely as possible across the workforce.
We want Babcock to be a rewarding and inclusive place Crossdivisional visits by health and safety managers to work.
We have group-wide policies relating to the strict are made during each year.
We believe that having a diverse workforce and an inclusive culture is good for our On-site safety walk rounds are regularly undertaken business and should be encouraged.
We will not discriminate by divisional directors.
against employees on grounds of their race, religious belief, Performance is monitored, reviewed and discussed each gender, marital status, sexual orientation or other month by the Safety Leadership team and the Board reviews considerations that do not affect their ability to carry out performance twice a year.
As part of the ongoing drive for safety improvement, We believe people with disabilities should have fair a safety cultural assessment questionnaire is being issued across consideration for all vacancies and should be supported and the Group to employees, customers and on-site contractors.
encouraged in their application and to achieve progress once The divisional and Group-wide results from this exercise employed.
We will make reasonable adjustments wherever will assist in pinpointing what can be done to shape attitudes practicable to accommodate their needs.
and behaviours and provide a better understanding of the current and desired culture.
Recruitment and training Each of our businesses works with different customers and Safety culture performance indicators in different markets.
We believe that, in the main, HR issues, In the past we have not formally assessed the impact of safety including recruitment, training and development and culture initiatives.
We have therefore created a structured succession planning are best managed locally.
Wherever mechanism to measure safety-related programmes and link possible, our divisions seek to recruit from the communities them to performance.
The divisions will monitor and log good in which they operate.
Like many other companies who practice events to meet targets that have been set based operate in similar highly technical, engineering based markets, on injury incident numbers in 2008 9.
Performance we are concerned about the increasing shortage of skilled will be presented in the monthly health and safety reports.
Across our divisions we are working with a number of institutions and have a range of initiatives Over the coming year we will seek to reduce our accident to promote engineering as a career of choice for young people.
frequency rate by 50% as we strive towards our ultimate goal We are placing increasing emphasis on ensuring opportunities of zero accidents.
for career development are managed on a Group-wide basis, to ensure our future generations of senior managers and leading specialists are properly identied and developed.
A senior Group manager is responsible for this and for ensuring key HR matters affecting the Groups reputation and business development are properly addressed.
Number of incidents Incident rate per 100,000 hours worked Total reported lost time accidents prior years restated for acquisitions prior years restated for acquisitions per 100,00 hours worked prior years restated for acquisitions 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2005 2005 2006 Fatalities 1220 1 Major injuries 0.90 0.54 0.88 2007 dangerous occurencies 2006 0.78 Major injuries 0.46  2007 dangerous occurrences 44 40 43 46 50 0.37 2008 2009 2008  186 159 154 89 83 0.49 0.47 2009 0.20 0.17 Other lost time 0.13 0.11 0.10 0.10 0.10 accidents 83 106 128 87 94 The fatality in 08 09 relates to a motor accident in South Africa when our employees stationary vehicle was hit by a third party truck.
Babcock International Group PLC 24 Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility continued Apprentices Apprentice recruitment is undertaken by each We produce our Group-wide magazine Big Picture several division as appropriate for its future requirements.
We have times a year to keep employees and other external 535 apprentices in training within our UK operations, stakeholders informed of the Groups financial performance of which 159 were recruited this year.
We offer accredited and strategic developments as well as promote divisional apprenticeships in a wide range of different trades relevant business initiatives and successes.
to the operations of each division.
Most divisions and many operating sites produce their own In South Africa we have 50 apprentices working on three regular news letters which are distributed by email or are or four year schemes.
Our goal is to increase this number posted on notice boards.
To date we have been able to provide full Some divisions have their own intranets for communicating employment to all the apprentices who have completed with all employees and for disseminating important information.
We are reviewing the possible benets of establishing Graduates In 2006 and 2007, 162 graduates joined a Group-wide intranet.
divisional training programmes, this year we recruited 108 graduates for a Babcock Group graduate programme to provide a wider range of opportunities.
We take a range Customers and customer relations of graduates who have studied engineering, naval architecture, finance, HR, IT and operational management.
Strong customer relations are at the heart of any support We provide formal development and training programmes services business.
We pride ourselves on our ability to work so they can achieve accredited status with the appropriate in partnership with our customers to deliver jointly agreed professional body.
We hope to take on a similar number objectives.
Our financial security is based on a number of key, of graduates again this year.
It is vital to our ongoing business success that we meet and exceed the different financial and quality Management development The Babcock Academy KPIs that are used to measure the success of these contracts.
programme, introduced in 2005 and organised in conjunction with Strathclyde University, is designed to enhance the Ultimate responsibility for Group-wide customer relations lies leadership, strategic planning and commercial skills of our with the Group Business Development Director.
Each division managers and senior executives and to introduce the has a Business Development director responsible for overall Babcock approach to a number of key operational areas.
customer relations and each contract has an identied person During last year around 200 directors and senior managers responsible for liaising directly with the customer and passed through the programme.
In 2009 Phase II has been monitoring performance on the agreed KPIs.
introduced with new modules on Strategic Business Winning For the past five years we have participated in an annual and Improving Operational Performance.
performance review by the Ministry of Defence which measures our performance on all its contracts by quality, value, timeliness Employee communications and eleven core criteria including responsiveness, management of risk, quality of relationship, exibility and innovation.
We communicate with our employees in a number of ways We have regular dialogue with our other customers to ensure to keep them informed of strategic developments and the we identify any potential threats to our relationships and financial performance of the Group as well as promoting best resolve them in a timely manner.
In 2008 we commissioned an independent survey across Our Group-wide Employee Forum meets twice a year.
In response to this and other survey Each business unit sends their elected representative to be results we are taking action to improve the quality of service informed of and consulted on all major developments within that supports our trusted to deliver reputation.
Representatives consult within their businesses and bring any issues to the Forum to be discussed.
We have highlighted the following as areas of focus to ensure we achieve maximum success Partnership by achieving a real partnership both parties feel the benets through added confidence that project goals will be met.
Cost efficiency we are committed, wherever possible, to improve cost efficiency, this is extremely important for many of our customers particularly in todays economic climate.
Our ability to manage and reduce cost is evident in many of our long-term relationships.
Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2009 25 Added value we want our customers to nd us easy to do Procurement business with open, approachable and exible to deliver more than the basic contract requirements We work mainly with government departments or other regulated industries who often have budgetary as well as The results of the research have shown us that we need regulatory or political constraints that could signicantly impact to be more systematic in the delivery of customer service.
We have a duty to ensure that our customers We will commission regular reviews of our business partnering money is spent efficiently and contracts are managed effectively.
arrangements to identify areas that are working well and where action is required.
Our customers rely on us to manage a number of suppliers and sub-contractors on their behalf.
We need to ensure that To ensure a consistent approach across the Group, the supply chain for all our contracts adheres to our standards we have seconded a Customer Relations Project Manager of ethical behaviour, environmental and other working policies.
from the MoD to work with us in 2009 to try to replicate the MoDs performance review with key civilian customers.
We are working with the Government on their Sustainable Through this we hope to establish Group-wide customer Procurement initiative.
As well as seeking to reduce satisfaction benchmarks.
CO emissions part of the initiative is focused on broader 2 sustainable procurement issues.
As part of the MoDs performance review process in 2009 we will be required to Environment complete the Sustainable Procurement Flexible Framework.
We have appointed a Group Sustainable Procurement Manager We recognise that we need to achieve the highest standards to introduce benchmarks and measure performance on of environmental management and that this is a key element a number of KPIs related to this initiative as well as other supply of maintaining our business reputation and success.
During this year we will be looking to introduce In compliance with the Carbon Reduction Commitment, a range of processes and measures to ensure we meet the the Governments carbon emissions trading scheme, Babcock Governments required standards, as well as those of our other recognises the benets achievable by both being more energy customers, and are in a good position from which to improve efficient and reducing our carbon footprint.
We will be able to report on progress next year.
making progress to be fully compliant with the new regulations which will come in to force in April 2010.
Additionally, base lines will be set and performance measurements will Community be introduced.
In many places our operations are the largest employer This regime enhances activities that are already undertaken in the region.
If we are to continue to recruit from our local across the Group, such as participation in the Climate Change communities we must maintain our reputation as a responsible Agreement Gas usage and the EU Emissions Trading Scheme employer.
We therefore seek to engage with the communities Gas and Oil usage by Babcock Marine Devonport.
around our sites and operations and to provide opportunities These activities will help us manage the footprint and reduce for employees to assist with local initiatives and support local our emissions over time and allow us to report accurately charities that are important to them.
We have Group-wide guidelines in place setting out our approach to charitable donations, our commitment to the communities in which we operate and the broader interests of our customers.
As well as ensuring financial donations are appropriately targeted, they also encourage active engagement with the communities in which we operate Environment % through local community support programmes.
In South Africa, local management has identied three specic KPI: areas of support which will benefit the local communities Although our ability to implement good environmental stewardship practices is on occasion as well as being key areas of concern for the country.
These are set for us by customer requirements our target is to education, HIV prevention and training and HIV orphan support.
grow the percentage of revenues in each business segment from contracts which are ISO14001 accredited.
Best practice refers to activities where In support of our major customer we have continued to non-ISO14001 compliant measures are being applied.
provide corporate sponsorship for the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen 10% 70% 100% 100% 100% 65% and Families Association SSAFA, the forces charity providing 90% support to service families in times of need.
Six years ago Babcock was one of the founding friends that helped start a fundraising initiative that now has over 35 companies involved.
35% 30% Across the Group we have provided support to a number of charitable causes and during the year we donated 129,000 Accreditied Best practice 2008: 105,000.
Marine Defence Rail Nuclear Networks Egineering and plant
