DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW HOW WE REPORT Corporate Responsibility is an integral part of BAE Systems Total Performance approach.
Total Performance is about every aspect of the way we do business: Customer Focus, Financial Performance, Programme Execution and Responsible Behaviour.
To reflect this, we aim to increasingly integrate our reporting of Corporate Responsibility performance into the Annual Report and increase the amount of Continuing to embed a high performance culture, including delivery of our information available online.
Corporate Responsibility CR agenda, was one of our five Group Strategic Objectives in 2009.
Responsible behaviour is now further embedded in Our separate Corporate Responsibility Report is our strategy as one of the four key elements of Total Performance.
independently assured by Deloitte LLP.
In this report: Total Performance focuses not just on what we do but also how we do it.
It is about every aspect of the way we do business: Customer Focus, Summary of our 2009 Corporate Financial Performance, Programme Execution and Responsible Behaviour.
Responsibility performance Update on our approach to responsible OUR APPROACH business conduct Responsible business conduct and safety continued to be our priorities for improving CR performance in 2009.
These have been identified as the issues with the most potential to impact the Groups reputation and ability to operate.
Achieving the highest standards in these areas will In our separate Corporate Responsibility Report: build trust and enhance our relationships with stakeholders.
Objectives have been set to drive us towards leadership performance in both areas Our Safety Maturity Matrix explained and encourage adoption of consistent standards across the Group.
Update on our approach to environment www.
com cr09 Strong, visible leadership is essential to the delivery of our objectives.
In 2009, an average of 12.3% of the potential annual incentive for Executive Committee members was allocated according to the Groups achievement of key performance objectives for responsible business conduct and safety.
On our website: Other important aspects of our CR agenda include diversity and inclusion, Our support for local communities environmental sustainability, community involvement and education.
Safety stories from our business Governance of Corporate Responsibility www.
com  Key performance indicators on our CR priorities are reported to the Executive Committee on a quarterly basis and reviewed as part of our Quarterly Business Review process.
CR is an integral part of our Operational Framework, and is subject to internal and external assurance processes.
The Managing Director Corporate Responsibility, Raj Rajagopal, supports line leaders in driving the CR agenda and reports directly to the Chief Executive.
We established a global CR Forum in 2009 to support our operating groups in fulfilling the Groups CR agenda.
The CR Forum helps to develop awareness and understanding of CR among our employees, and embed sustainable improvements across our range of CR focus areas.
Progress against CR objectives is reviewed quarterly by the CR Committee, chaired by non-executive director Andy Inglis.
The Committee provides independent oversight, advice and strategic direction on social, ethical and environmental issues that face the Group.
The Committees report can be found on page 86.
Raj Rajagopal Managing Director, Corporate Responsibility 38 www.
com RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONDUCT BAE Systems is committed to becoming a recognised leader in responsible business conduct.
Our Total Performance approach aims to establish a clear understanding and shared commitment to responsible business Know the Code conduct from all our employees.
Our objective in 2009 was to ensure that our employees are aware of The Woolf Committee an external, independent committee the Code of Conduct and understand how it applies to their day-to-day appointed by the BAE Systems Board and chaired by Lord Woolf, working lives.
During 2009, we trained approximately 91,000 employees former Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales reported its findings working in a wide range of roles in many countries around the world in May 2008.
The Group established a three-year programme in using a range of training materials.
2008 to implement the Committees 23 recommendations on how As an example, our Military Air Solutions business in the UK used BAE Systems could achieve a leadership position in responsible mobile IT training facilities to enable manufacturing employees without business conduct.
access to computers to take the online course in their normal place of 2009 performance work.
Where appropriate, employees were trained through classroom The 2009 milestones for the programme, which focused on reviewing sessions, during which they were encouraged to take part in interactive and strengthening company processes and policies, and roll-out of the case studies.
Code of Conduct, have all been substantively achieved.
The Board Charter Many employees took our online course, which explains the key aspects has been amended to include the Boards responsibilities for ensuring of the Code of Conduct.
The course guides staff through a series of high standards of responsible business conduct across the Group.
The animated scenarios where employees are faced with typical ethical remit of the CR Committee has been extended to include its responsibility dilemmas and includes a test to confirm understanding of the Code.
for oversight and reporting against those standards.
All relevant policies and processes have been agreed by the Executive Committee, and incorporated into the Groups central system of governance, the Operational Framework, at the beginning of January 2010.
Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct, launched in January 2009, defines the principles and standards of responsible business conduct we expect of all employees.
We intend that the Code will be reviewed regularly to ensure it continues to meet best practice, with the first review being conducted during 2010.
In 2010, we plan to provide our top 1,000 suppliers with a copy The Code of Conduct was communicated to employees in 2009 of our Code of Conduct and they will be encouraged to work to through team briefings.
The briefings were designed to cover how the equivalent standards.
Code of Conduct applies to employees in their daily work lives, and aimed Governance to create an environment where employees feel they can speak up, ask We have reviewed Group policies and governance processes in certain questions and raise any issues relating to responsible business conduct.
areas in keeping with the Woolf Report recommendations.
This includes Employees were required to undertake either online or classroom-based the development of a set of Responsible Trading Principles see page 5. training on the Code of Conduct see case study above.
Approximately Our new and revised policies, including our Product Trading and Pursuit of 91,000 employees in our wholly-owned businesses were briefed and Export Opportunities policies, require us to make informed assessments 1 trained in 2009, representing approximately 95% of the workforce.
and decisions about the nature of our products and the business These employees were also asked to formally acknowledge that they opportunities we pursue.
Products must be assessed against four understood and would comply with the Codes requirements.
By the criteria: the type of product, its intended use, the end user and, for 1 end of 2009, approximately 86% of the workforce had provided their exports, the country of sale.
The revised policy on offset agreements with export customers to generate Activity continues to ensure that the remaining employees complete work or create capability in their countries requires us to ensure that robust the Code of Conduct programme.
Refresher training will begin in procedures are in place for assessing and committing to such agreements.
We have also updated our policy to ensure that breaches In the settlement reached with the US Department of Justice in February of the Code of Conduct are subject to disciplinary procedures.
2010 in connection with its investigation commenced in 2007, the The Group is not in a position to require our non-controlled joint ventures Company made commitments to the Department of Justice concerning or suppliers to adopt our specific standards including operating an Ethics the Groups ongoing regulatory compliance, including the appointment Helpline in their business activity.
However, it is our aim that there is of an independent corporate monitor for a period of up to three years clear understanding and a shared set of values governing how we do to monitor the Companys compliance with such commitments.
business with our joint ventures.
1 As at 31 December 2009 wholly-owned subsidiaries only, excluding employees on long-term absence.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 39 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OBJECTIVES BUSINESS CONDUCT SAFETY DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 2009 Senior leadership each to lead Senior leaders each to undertake Senior leadership to participate in objectives two employee focus engagement three safety audits, and flow-down a workshop to develop the inclusion sessions to discuss the global training and requirement to conduct agenda for their business.
Senior Code of Conduct and ethical issues.
safety reviews to two levels below leaders to lead two events with the Executive Committee.
employee groups to develop action Deliver the 2009 Woolf Committee plans to address culture, barriers implementation plan milestones Minimum of Level 3 on the Safety and improvements.
and obtain independent external Maturity Matrix SMM, with 60% of assurance of this.
sites progressed to Level 4 by the Executive Committee to review the end of 2009.
Operational Framework and supporting Employee sample survey on selected policies and processes to identify ethics questions to be carried out in Incident rate targets to be set by potential improvements required to the fourth quarter of 2009.
Results to business at a level reflecting the develop a more inclusive culture.
Any show an improvement relative to the progress required to achieve the changes to be included in the updated 2008 survey results.
July 2009 version of the Operational Incident rate in 2009 to show at least Framework.
a 10% improvement over 2008 and, Senior leadership to develop one for sites with significantly worse than personal objective on inclusion best in class statistics, improvement during the first half of 2009 for targets to be set consistent with implementation in the second half achieving best in class in 2011. of the year.
Progress The Code of Conduct was In 2009, safety audits were largely During 2009, we held a number communicated to employees in completed as planned and, in addition, of workshops attended by senior 2009 through team briefings.
many of our lines of business also management and functional groups required other managers below senior to develop our inclusion agenda.
The 2009 milestones for the Woolf leader level to participate in audits to implementation programme have been The Operational Framework was enhance their safety knowledge.
These covered reviewed to ensure it reflects the approval by the Executive Committee Our operating groups confirmed that the Groups commitment to inclusion, and the Board of proposed solutions minimum standard of safety across and ensure it encourages the in response to the Woolf Reports 23 their lines of business met Level 3 behaviours and culture needed recommendations, and the launch and requirements on the SMM.
Over 60% to underpin the Code of Conduct.
roll-out of the global Code of Conduct.
of major manufacturing sites achieved Senior leadership each committed Level 4.
In late 2009, a sample of approximately to a personal inclusion objective.
10% of employees worldwide were All of our operating groups have set These included objectives relating invited to participate in a survey on targets to reduce the rate of safety to mentoring, supporting womens the Groups approach to responsible incidents in line with achieving best in network events and leading focus business conduct see page 41 class performance by the end of 2011. groups with minority employee groups.
The total incident rate fell by 33% against the 10% improvement target to 562 recorded injuries per 100,000 employees.
2010 All line leaders and functional directors Continue the progress towards a world Develop a global working climate which objectives are required to submit to the Chief class level of safety performance: embraces diversity and inclusion: Executive the level of implementation All businesses and BAE SystemsCreate a plan to deploy the Diversity of core policies in their areas of controlled sites of over 150 personnel and Inclusion Maturity Matrix by the responsibility through the twice yearly to attain Level 4 of the SMM, and those end of the first quarter and meet the Operational Assurance Statement.
In at Level 4 to show progress towards 2010 milestones towards desired cases where a policy is judged not to achieving Level 5 by the end of 2011. end state to be achieved by the end be fully implemented a plan is required of 2015. setting out the milestones to full Deliver at least a 20% improvement compliance.
The objective agreed for in the Lost Work Days incident rate 2010 is that by December all of the compared with 2009. milestones have been met and any future milestones are on track to be met.
com In 2007, we created a Business Development Adviser Compliance Panel Employee engagement the Panel for the review and assessment of adviser appointments In late 2009, a representative sample approximately 10% of employees including for business development, security and offset advisers.
All worldwide were invited to participate in a survey on the Groups approach appointments of lobbyists are required to be reviewed by the Panel, other to responsible business conduct.
The survey covered the six questions than certain domestic US appointments which are subject to separate related to responsible business conduct included in our biennial full legislative controls.
The Panel, which is required to advise the Company employee opinion survey, which will next be held in 2010. as to whether it should proceed with an adviser appointment, is chaired Overall, 41% of the sample responded.
The results confirm that almost all by independent third parties who are partners from leading law firms.
respondents were aware of the ethical standards expected of them, with Our revised process for the appointment, selection and management 75% of respondents believing that the Group demonstrates clear ethical of advisers was described by the Woolf Committee as leading-edge standards see table below.
All advisers added to the Companys adviser register in 2009 were appointed in accordance with a new global adviser policy introduced Whilst these results are generally positive, there remain areas for us to from 1 January 2009, with the exception of a limited number of US focus on and improve.
advisers who were already being assessed before the introduction of Responsible business conduct survey results the new global adviser policy.
However, this limited group of US advisers Change were also assessed by the Panel which recommended their appointment.
2008 2009 from full sample 2008 In accordance with the settlement reached with the US Department of Question survey survey score Justice referred to above, the independent corporate monitor shall serve I have confidence that if I raised an as an ex-officio non-voting member of the Panel and the mandate of the ethical issue at work it would be addressed 67% 73% 6% Panel shall be expanded to include review of certain other matters relating to international business development.
I believe I could report instances of dishonest or unethical practices without Our policy on lobbying governments and other bodies has been revised fear of reprisal 63% 70% 7% to require all those lobbying externally on BAE Systems behalf to comply The culture of BAE Systems is one where with our Code of Conduct.
From 2010, a report on lobbying activities employees are treated with fairness must also be provided to the CR Committee.
and respect 62% 71% 9% An updated Gifts and Hospitality Policy sets out clear requirements I believe BAE Systems demonstrates clear for employees, including limits on the giving and receiving of gifts and ethical standards 73% 75% 2% hospitality, together with recording of these activities.
We have also I think it is safe to speak up and challenge amended our Company Giving Policy to give clear guidance on all the way things are done in BAE Systems 54% 57% 3% Company donations.
I am aware of the ethical standards that Our Facilitation Payments Policy states that employees are prohibited the Company expects of me 94% 97% 3% from making facilitation payments irrespective of whether or not they are permitted by local laws, and requires employees to decline and report Ethics Helpline any request for such payment.
Employees made 870 enquiries to our Ethics Helpline in 2009 to Working to improve industry standards request information and advice or raise concerns confidentially BAE Systems is a member of both the Aerospace Industries Association about business conduct.
Procedures are in place to ensure ethical of America and the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of concerns are investigated and the findings are reported to the Ethics Europe, which agreed common Global Principles of Business Ethics for Review Committee or, for BAE Systems, Inc. to the Ethics Executive the Aerospace and Defence Industry in October 2009.
We are actively working with the UK defence industry to promote the adoption of responsible business practices and we welcome the ETHICS ENQUIRIES FROM EMPLOYEES publication of a draft Bribery Bill.
The Bill aims to provide a comprehensive 1,000 scheme to deter bribery offences enabling courts and prosecutors to respond more effectively to bribery in the public and private sectors 800 within the UK or abroad.
870 BAE Systems, together with other leading multinationals, is supporting a 600 new Centre for Law and Ethics at University College London.
The Centre, established in October 2009, aims to promote debate on business 400 507 ethics and help companies promote an ethical corporate culture.
410 327 200 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 41 2334 BAE Annual Report p38 p45:Layout 1 16 3 10 06:34 Page 42 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED All our operating groups are setting targets to reduce the rate of safety incidents in line with achieving best in class performance by the end of 2011.
Focus on safety at US shipyards In previous reports, we have used days lost to work-related injuries per 100,000 employees as our key safety metric.
This year, we have Ship Repair sites in the US are developing a safety programme aimed moved to reporting the lost work day case rate per 100,000 employees at creating an accident free workplace and to embed a safety culture referenced as the incident rate within the safety objectives to focus on among employees.
Compulsory safety training has been introduced the causes of accidents and enable more meaningful comparison with for all employees and managers.
Safety performance is included in the other companies.
personal development review process for managers.
Regular employee safety surveys are used to help managers understand attitudes to The main causes of major injury in 2009 across the Group continue to be safety and identify areas for improvement.
Three of the four Ship Repair slips, trips and falls on the same level, accounting for 44% of recorded major sites achieved Level 4 on the Safety Maturity Matrix in 2009 and safety injuries.
Other causes of major injury include falls from height 18%, performance has improved significantly.
struck by moving including flying falling object 13% and injured while handling, lifting or carrying 8%.
Root cause analysis of types of incidents Ship Repairs lost work day case rate demonstrated a 57% will be carried out to identify common global issues and solutions.
We are deeply saddened to report the death of one of our employees during deployment of communications equipment in Australia.
We are reviewing the cause of this accident and co-operating fully with the regulatory investigation.
Product Safety Review following Haddon-Cave Report Following the publication of the independent report by Charles HaddonCave QC into the loss of Nimrod XV230 over Afghanistan in 2006, SAFETY BAE Systems has appointed Dr Chris Elliott FREng, a leading systems The safety of employees and those using our products is critical to engineer and barrister, to support and advise Nigel Whitehead FREng, our business and an important responsibility.
Our goal is to ensure Group Managing Director, Programmes & Support, to undertake a review consistently good safety management across the Group in the short of the Groups approach to product safety in the UK.
term and to drive performance to a level comparable with the best The review will examine current policies, processes, governance, actions performing global companies by the end of 2011. and behaviours associated with product safety and will be conducted by In 2008, we put in place a four-year safety plan outlining the steps required a senior team of six people, with relevant qualifications and experience.
to move towards leadership in safety performance.
Ensuring a common The team will work to help develop and enhance the Groups approach to understanding of our safety goals is a priority, particularly given the diverse product safety and, where appropriate, understand how other industries nature of our businesses, the different regulatory environments we operate have addressed comparable matters.
in and the range of safety risks we must manage.
A five-level Safety Maturity Matrix SMM is used to drive continual improvement and to monitor progress across the Group.
By 2011, our target is for all our manufacturing sites to achieve Level 5 best in class.
A Senior Safety Steering Group has been established comprising senior safety leaders from each operating group, the Head of Safety Assurance and the Deputy Managing Director Corporate Responsibility.
2009 performance LOST WORK DAY CASE RATE PER 100,000 EMPLOYEES Each line of business met SMM Level 3 requirements.
This means that KPI 800 they have in place systems aligned with occupational health and safety 789 standard OHSAS 18001 to address the majority of safety issues: that they have a safety risk register: and that there is systematic training for 600 most employees in safety roles.
Over 60% of major manufacturing sites 562 557 554 achieved Level 4, making the step-change to a proactive and integrated 400 approach to safety management across their operations.
Internal audit, in conjunction with senior safety managers, confirmed such achievement 200 of Level 4 through audits at 30 major manufacturing sites globally.
In 2009, we reduced the total incident rate by 33% against the 10% 0 improvement target to 562 recorded injuries per 100,000 employees.
com ENVIRONMENT Reducing our impact on the environment and assisting suppliers to do the same, helps us to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, Wind farm technology and ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
Product environmental performance is also of increasing interest BAE Systems has developed a systematic approach that helps wind to our customers.
farm developers address the impact wind turbines have on radar.
The approach includes potential solutions ranging from modifications to Our global Environmental Policy states our commitment to reducing radar electronics to careful positioning of wind farms and radars, and our impact on the environment and minimising the through-life impacts was awarded a commendation for innovation at the 2009 British of our products.
This is also included in our Code of Conduct.
2009 performance During 2009, our primary focus at a global level was on energy use.
We continued to monitor and report our energy use and business travel on a Group-wide basis.
For the third year running, we have commissioned the Coefficient Company to calculate our 2009 global carbon footprint and to help improve our data collection methods.
This analysis is scheduled to be completed by the end of June 2010.
The Coefficient Company produced and provided an analysis of our 2008 global carbon footprint.
Our carbon footprint has increased since 2007 for two principal reasons.
Firstly, we have improved the coverage and accuracy of our energy and business travel data across the Group.
Supply chain Improvements in data have been supported by our work towards Suppliers are expected to meet product safety and environmental preparing for the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment and the Australian standards.
BAE Systems is a signatory to the UK Ministry of Defences National Greenhouse & Energy Reporting Scheme.
Secondly, new MoD Sustainable Procurement Charter and has committed to improve businesses acquired during 2008 have brought with them associated standards in the defence supply chain by educating suppliers, emissions, increasing our overall footprint.
establishing performance measures and sharing best practice.
Fluctuations in our use of water, waste and volatile organic compounds Our Sustainable Procurement Working Group has published guidance are heavily influenced by programme status.
We continue to monitor and to help employees carry out supplier sustainability risk and impact manage this data at site and facility level, but no longer aggregate it at a assessments.
These cover supplier performance on health and safety, Group level.
environment and business conduct, as well as employee awareness and Efforts to reduce energy use in our businesses this year included a new stakeholder dialogue.
Assessments will be carried out as part of our 1m partnership with the University of Central Lancashire to develop supplier management process from 2010.
Sustainability training is intelligent energy management systems.
being developed in partnership with the UKs Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply and the US Institute of Supply Management, In the UK, an environmental sustainability framework was piloted to and will be launched in 2010. help businesses plan for mediumand long-term risks and opportunities associated with issues such as climate change, materials scarcity and rising energy prices.
The framework covers operational and product impacts, and our supply chain, and will be rolled out across the Group.
Product stewardship Product environment working groups in the UK and US focus on assisting the lines of business in complying with environmental legislation and transferring best practice across the Group.
A product environment management handbook and e-learning course were launched in 2009, and these are supported by a Group-wide intranet site.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 43 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Education and early careers Community involvement Education programmes in our home markets aim to interest young Support for charities and community organisations helps foster good people in science and engineering, and tackle perceptions that relationships with the communities near our sites in the countries engineering is a male career choice.
In the UK, our schools road show in which we work.
Providing opportunities for employees to volunteer is in its fifth year, while in the US we continue to be a strategic partner and fundraise for charity contributes to job satisfaction and a positive with FIRST For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology working environment.
to encourage youth excitement for science, technology, engineering The Company Giving Policy focuses on supporting the armed forces, and mathematics through robotics competitions.
veterans and their families, as well as education projects with a science, Other examples from across the Group are as follows: engineering and technology focus.
Concept2Creation in Australia encourages under 16s to work with The Group makes donations to local, national and international teachers and Group employees to develop a product or service.
charities, and other not-for-profit organisations.
In South Africa, the Group supports the education of children Charity Challenge is our Group-wide employee fundraising and from disadvantaged backgrounds as part of the South African volunteering programme.
In the UK, US and Australia, employees elect governments initiative to create a more equitable society.
During 2008 2009, our partner charities were Sue Ryder Care UK, Leukaemia Foundation Australia BAE Systems is a lead sponsor of the Big Bang event, the UKs and America Supports You US.
largest ever national science, technology and engineering fair for young people and teachers, attended by over 6,500 people.
Our total community investment including our education programmes was 13.8m in 2009.
The Group partners with universities to develop courses that meet the needs of our industry and provide placement opportunities for undergraduates.
As a partner in the development of the UK governments new Diploma in Engineering for 14-19 year olds, the Group is helping to ensure the programme addresses employers needs and puts students in a stronger position when they enter the job market.
We invest in recruiting and developing young people through our graduate and apprenticeship programmes.
In the UK, 352 graduates joined the Group in 2009 and we are one of the biggest recruiters of engineering apprentices, employing 283 new apprentices in the UK in 2009.
2009 performance WORKPLACE During 2009, we held a number of workshops attended by senior We work to ensure that BAE Systems has the right employees with the management and functional groups to develop our inclusion agenda.
right skills to serve customers in all our markets, now and in the future.
This activity is being delivered against a backdrop of skills shortages in Our Operational Framework was reviewed to ensure it reflects the some areas of our industry, and intense competition for science and Groups commitment to inclusion, and ensure it encourages the engineering graduates in many of our home markets.
behaviours and culture needed to underpin the Code of Conduct.
Senior leadership each committed to a personal inclusion objective, An inclusive workplace where all individuals are valued and respected, such as mentoring, supporting womens network events and leading encourages innovation, supports the retention of skilled employees focus groups with minority employee groups.
and increases our attractiveness as an employer to potential recruits.
Training and leadership programmes help us to develop the capabilities A Global Diversity and Inclusion Working Group was launched in 2009 to needed in a changing marketplace and to support employees from co-ordinate our approach to diversity and inclusion.
A five-level Diversity all backgrounds to reach their full potential.
We invest in the skills and Inclusion Maturity Matrix has been developed.
This establishes a of our next generation of employees through our education and early consistent global benchmark, helping our operating groups to chart their careers programmes.
progress from meeting regulatory requirements Level 1 to creating a culture that embraces diversity as a source of competitive advantage Level 5.
During 2010, each operating group will set targets against the matrix reflecting their different stages of development.
com Responding to employee feedback CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Following the 2008 employee opinion survey, the Executive Committee Data on business conduct, safety, environment, and diversity and agreed four performance improvement priorities in response to feedback inclusion is collected by the businesses and collated centrally for review.
2006 2007 2008 2009 Progress in the four areas during 2009 includes: Business conduct Improvement priority Progress in 2009 Personal performance objectives Operating groups continue to Ethics enquiries from employees 410 327 507 870 should be clear and measurable.
1 Employees briefed and trained on the KPI In particular, mid-year personal Code of Conduct n a n a n a 95% development reviews are used Written acknowledgement received to refine objectives.
KPI 1 from employees on Code of Conduct n a n a n a 86% Properly recognise people for Efforts to ensure that managers The increase in the number of enquiries reflects the Groups continued doing a good job.
across the Group are aware of focus on awareness and training relating to business conduct following tools they can use to recognise the roll-out of the Code of Conduct in 2009.
Activity continues to ensure employee achievements.
that the remaining employees complete the Code of Conduct programme.
Business changes that affect us Operating groups are continuing should be communicated in a to improve communication from timely manner.
senior leaders on business Safety changes.
Lost work day case rate Our working culture should enable The roll-out of our Code of Conduct KPI per 100,000 employees 557 554 789 562 everyone to demonstrate high has focused on creating an The Group exceeded its target of a 10% improvement in the gap between standards of business conduct, environment where employees 2008 lost work day case rate performance and the best in class target of and to speak up and challenge feel they can speak up and raise 100 per 100,000 employees.
We have discontinued reporting total recorded injuries to all employees this year as this figure is not readily comparable with other companies.
Environment Total CO emissions thousand tonnes n a 920 1,190 2 The Coefficient Company has been commissioned to calculate the Groups 2009 carbon footprint, the results of which were not available at the date of this report.
The reported increase in the Groups carbon footprint in 2008 reflects improvements in data collection and acquisition activity.
The energy use and CO emissions relating to energy use metrics 2 presented in last years report have been replaced by one metric on total CO emissions.
Data on volatile organic compound emissions are no 2 longer collated at a Group level.
Diversity and inclusion Gender diversity: Male employees 80% 79% 80% 80% Female employees 20% 21% 20% 20% Ethnic diversity: White 87% 82% 85% 85% Non-white 13% 18% 15% 15% ASSURANCE Age diversity: Deloitte LLP have been engaged to provide assurance of CR data Under 25 7% 8% 10% 8% as follows: 26-35 18% 17% 17% 19% Reasonable assurance of business conduct performance data 36-49 42% 39% 38% 37% number of staff briefed, trained and who acknowledged the Code, 50-59 26% 27% 27% 28% and calls to the Ethics Helpline : and 60 7% 9% 8% 8% Limited assurance of other performance data relating to safety Ethnic diversity figures are based on South Africa, UK and US data only.
fatalities, major injuries number and rate and lost work day case rate, business conduct dismissals for reasons relating to unethical behaviour and HR data gender, ethnicity and age diversity.
1 Wholly-owned subsidiaries only, excluding employees on long-term absence.
Deloittes independent assurance report is published within the BAE Systems 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
com cr09 BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 45
