56 Annual report and accounts 2009 Sustainability Making our success SUS TAINABLE Many businesses are successful for a time.
But making success sustainable over time is harder.
Its not enough to meet financial and operational criteria: you also need to meet the expectations of many different stakeholders across a range of issues from safety and environmental management to ethical conduct.
To ensure our success for years to come, in 2009 we defined a sustainability vision and agreed a plan to achieve it: redefined our core values and set out a new Code of Conduct.
Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 57 Our sustainability vision Overview At Balfour Beatty, we believe that investment in the right kinds of This vision mandates our operating companies to achieve minimum sustainability initiatives can add value to both our business and our standards on a range of issues by 2020, with a checkpoint at 2012. stakeholders.
The vision was the culmination of extensive deliberation which included wide consultation with customers, investors and non-governmental It gives us an opportunity to demonstrate leadership and to create real organisations.
The details of the vision were shared publicly at an competitive advantage.
external conference organised by the UK Green Building Council, Balfour Beatty has the scale and breadth of activities to make a very and are available to download from our corporate website.
positive social, environmental and economic impact.
Internally, the vision is owned by the sustainability working group, We have always aimed to meet stakeholder expectations by fulfilling consisting of senior managers with responsibility for Group policy and our responsibilities to wider society.
However, increasingly we are strategy on key issues.
In 2010, the Group also started to define those seeing that long-term growth requires us to engage with the challenges areas considered most material to the business.
and opportunities presented to us by issues such as safety, waste Our 2009 Sustainability report which will be published in May 2010 management or ethical conduct, for example.
and include externally audited data will reflect both the progress made Changes in the business, and a focus on creating a more unified Balfour on our sustainability vision, and the materiality process.
Beatty culture, also makes this the right time to build on the work done In November 2009, over 250 senior managers attended our regular to date and to thoroughly embed considerations about sustainability at Management Conference, including representatives from Parsons every level of the Group.
Brinckerhoff, where key sustainability issues, people management A renewed focus on sustainability, facilitated by the vision, better and leadership were discussed.
positions Balfour Beatty to manage non-financial risk, to exploit opportunities to increase efficiency, and to improve the Groups Policies reputation as a leader in infrastructure development and management.
Balfour Beatty has clearly stated policies and principles available in Balfour Beatty aims to be a leader in this field, and to play a significant full at www.
com for key issues such as: role in helping customers make sustainable choices.
risk management safety and health Leadership and governance for environment sustainability human rights The Balfour Beatty Board sets policy and takes responsibility for equal opportunities the Groups non-financial performance including issues relating to sustainability sustainability.
The Business Practices Committee, which comprises ethics and competitive behaviour.
non-executive Directors, chaired by Mike Donovan, reviews these activities and provides guidance on future activity.
Within this framework, operating companies are required to develop A sustainability vision and a plan to achieve it was launched in October specific policies and practices, relevant to their particular business.
Central to the vision is playing our Risk management part to align the interests of profitable markets and the needs of While risk management is a key driver for our sustainability vision, communities within environmental limits.
non-financial risk is also reflected in our Group-level risk management process.
More detail on this is available on page 70.
58 Annual report and accounts 2009 Sustainability Group ethics and values Our sustainability vision in action Balfour Beatty has enjoyed considerable growth over the past decade.
The following three sections of the report show how we are delivering on the key commitments of our sustainability vision, and illustrate how We believe that having a common set of values that represent the we believe sustainable decisions will help us to grow our business in Group will offer clear business benefits and will support the Group the future.
through the challenges of future growth.
During 2009, we refined our ethical principles and redefined the Groups 1.
We want our shared values of integrity, teamwork, In order to win new work and retain existing customers, we recognise excellence and respect to drive behaviour and prioritisation across our the need to create and develop deep relationships with our customers business.
These values will be embedded throughout the Group in 2010 and suppliers.
Through our leadership of this agenda, we believe as part of an extensive roll-out programme.
we can help create markets where sustainability is consistently the A direct product of the values is the new Code of Conduct.
This sets out best option.
We will begin measuring and tracking key performance the principles by which employees are expected to translate the values indicators for profitable markets in 2010. into everyday actions and decisions.
A new ethics helpline to allow Engaging with customers employees to raise any concerns they might have has also been set up.
We regularly conduct attitude and opinion surveys to ensure we Balfour Beatty was one of a number of companies subject to an continue to meet the expectations of our customers.
In our investments industry-wide investigation by the Office of Fair Trading OFT into business customers tell us that our work in healthcare and education tender activities across the construction sector.
As a result, one of our has improved.
We are pleased that response rates have also increased subsidiaries, Mansell, was fined 5.2m in respect of such instances from 45% in 2008 to 60% in 2009 in healthcare, and from 44% to 70% which took place before its acquisition by Balfour Beatty.
In the US, our Mission Alignment Process gives customers a pro-active mechanism to feed back on performance.
In 2009 the As we reported last year, in October 2008 we reached a settlement average satisfaction score was 4.5 on a 5 point scale.
with the Serious Fraud Office SFO of a long-running investigation in connection with a project in Egypt.
As part of the settlement, As the business has evolved, an increasing number of these customers we appointed an external monitor to review and report on our take advantage of the integrated nature of Balfour Beattys services, anti-corruption policies and processes.
The results of the monitoring working with several operating companies across one project.
In doing work will be summarised in our Sustainability report.
this, customers get a more streamlined and efficient service, for example on the M25 project see case study on page 26, on which Engaging with our stakeholders we are combining our expertise in Professional services, Construction We have identified our key stakeholders and describe in the later services, Support services and Infrastructure investments.
paragraphs of this section how we engage with key groups, including: Much of our work is carried out for governments and regulated employees businesses.
We have regular contact with national and local customers government representatives and engage with them as appropriate.
In 2010 and beyond, we will continue to focus on sharing best practice suppliers customer approaches in our businesses across the Group.
Government and regulators Sustainability as a differentiator local communities.
With an increased awareness of global challenges such as climate change and the security of We also engage with shareholders and potential investors.
We encourage energy supply, we are more frequently asked for our views on two-way dialogue with these stakeholders to give them a better how the design, build and management of an asset can be more understanding of our business and to build relationships with them.
In 2009, this included an Investor Day and visit to the London Aquatics Centre which we are building for the 2012 Olympics.
During the year We work with customers to achieve their sustainability aspirations we had over 140 meetings with investors.
see Tamar Complex case study on page 24.
And, we are more frequently asked to demonstrate that we run our business in a way that considers long-term impacts.
We will continue to invest in the appropriate management processes and skills to ensure that we retain a leadership position in this field.
Supplier engagement We work in partnership with those suppliers who adopt our values as their own and seek to align their objectives with those of Balfour Beatty.
We undertake rigorous checks on the financial strength, health and safety and sustainability record of our supply base to ensure that we do not become over-reliant on any particular business.
Thought leadership Parsons Brinckerhoff is involved in modelling climate change scenarios and undertaking research to identify how the UK can deliver its ambitious 80% reduction in carbon emissions by 2050.
Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 59 Giving our people opportunities Balfour Beatty aims to recruit internally wherever possible and provide all its employees with varied and interesting careers, sometimes across international boundaries.
For example, Sam Bennett joined Balfour Beatty in 2000 and as well as working in the UK, he has undertaken projects in Indonesia, Dubai and is currently in Singapore.
He acknowledges that this has given him a better appreciation of cultures around the world and an appreciation of different ways of working, which in turn makes him a more rounded project manager.
Building on this experience, Balfour Beatty has established a talent management programme to offer other employees similar opportunities throughout the business and aims to offer more Group-wide assignments in future.
Providing the right training Balfour Beatty WorkPlace experienced a significant rise in the number of attacks on security personnel in 2008.
To combat this rising trend, a robust and well-structured approach to training was developed.
This resulted in a 56% reduction in physical interventions and no major accidents or injuries being reported in 2009.
The programme has now been recognised by the industry and Balfour Beatty WorkPlace was a finalist in the industry annual awards for best in class training in healthcare environments.
Healthy communities In 2009, the Accident Frequency Rate was reduced from 0.20 to 0.17, By protecting and strengthening the communities in which we work, the seventh successive year of improvement.
This achievement is we believe we deliver better projects and services and improve particularly pleasing in a time of significant growth.
We also value the vital contribution Regrettably there were three fatalities during the year: two fatal our people make in this area of our sustainability vision.
accidents on our work sites, and one fatal accident when driving on the 2009 worldwide highlights indicators public highway.
Although this is fewer than in the previous year, any loss of life is one too many and we continue to investigate all incidents AFR reduced to 0.17 and accidents to learn from them and prevent similar incidents in future.
number of fatalities 3 2008: 8 In 2010, a review process entitled Zero-In will be established to assess number of permanently disabling injuries 3 2008: 6 operating company progress on their journey to achieve Zero Harm by 2012. number of whistleblowing cases 42 2008: 28 voluntary labour turnover 7.0% 2008: 11% UK only AFR Workforce Balfour Beatty Group since 2001 total absence rate 2.0% 2008: 2.3% Workforce AFR equal opportunities 23% of employees are female 2008: 20% 1.0 140,000 UK graduate retention 90% after one year 2008: 84% 67% 0.9 120,000 0.8 after three years 2008: 60% 100,000 0.7 0.6 80,000 Ensuring safety and health 0.5 Significant attention is paid to safety and health and underpins our 60,000 0.4 licence to operate and our reputation as an employer in local 0.3 40,000 0.2 communities.
To reflect the importance of this issue, Balfour Beatty 20,000 0.1 launched its Zero Harm programme in 2008.
This is designed to 0 0.0 eliminate the risk of harm by 2012, to achieve zero deaths, zero injuries 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 to members of the public and zero permanently disabling injuries among all our people and all those who come into contact with our Governance of safety and health business activities.
Safety and health issues are reviewed by the Board and its executive Balfour Beatty has made significant inroads to improving safety committee.
Balfour Beatty requires all its operating companies to throughout the business in recent years.
The Zero Harm initiative has have formal safety management systems.
These are subject to ignited the imagination of our people and the willingness of all our external audit.
partners to endorse its aims.
It has been adopted throughout all Group operating companies.
Each operating company now has in place a Journey to Zero Harm plan and is working to embed this fully across its business.
ZERO HARM ACROSS OUR BUSINESSES BY 2012 Workforcce including subcontractors AFR 60 Annual report and accounts 2009 Sustainability Our people Across the world we now employ over 50,000 people and we recognise For example an extensive community relations programme is in place that this brings an enormous responsibility to ensure that they are safe.
on the M25 project see page 26 and our construction businesses in We also know that our business success depends on the technical the UK and US actively work with local residents when they undertake capabilities of our people.
To this end, we recognise the importance home refurbishment and replacement.
of attracting and retaining our talented individuals, and investing Community investment in training.
In the UK, we are members of Business in the Community and have Over 12,000 people joined the Group when we acquired PB in October supported their activities throughout the year.
It significantly increases the size of our business and enhances businesses firmly believe that employees who are better connected our international presence.
to their communities are intrinsically more passionate about the work they do and programmes are in place to offer them the opportunity to We want our employees to have opportunities to grow and maximise give something back.
their potential, irrespective of age, gender, ethnic background, colour, disability, sexual orientation or religion.
Given the depth of talent Corporate community investment activity in 2009 has included: already in the Group, and the increasing desire of high potential Creating Building Better Futures, Balfour Beattys own charitable trust, individuals to gain experience in other parts of the organisation, was established as part of the centenary celebrations in 2009.
By the we have rolled-out an e-recruit system that allows our staff to view end of the year, the total raised for disadvantaged young people vacancies across the UK, which we plan to extend worldwide in 2010. exceeded our 500k target, thanks to the enormous fundraising effort by We want to be the employer of choice across all our businesses.
employees, with monies then matched and donated by the Company.
In the US, Fortune magazine selected Balfour Beatty Construction as Continuing support for Get into Construction, a scheme that we one of the 100 Best Places to Work at the beginning of 2010 and Balfour co-founded with The Princes Trust in 2006.
This seeks to encourage Beatty Communities LifeWorks Programme has also been recognised.
disadvantaged young people to consider construction as a career.
In 2010 our priority is the further embedding of the values programme To date a further 1,000 people have been supported through and the launch of a Code of Conduct e-learning module.
Community engagement Continuing our title sponsorship of the Balfour Beatty London Youth We regard good corporate citizenship as an integral part of our business Games.
The Games involved 45,000 participants in 60 competitions and seek to work with local communities to create the physical assets in 2009, with representation from all 33 London boroughs.
The event which enhance local areas.
offers young people the opportunity to compete with teams throughout the capital on an annual basis.
We have committed a further 1.0m to Balfour Beatty seeks to engage fully with the communities and the Games up to 2013. individuals directly impacted by our project work.
We recognise the legitimate interests that our stakeholders have in the way we do The Groups operating companies run their own charitable and business and the need for us to play a positive role in all the societies community investment programmes, in addition to being part and communities in which we operate.
of the corporate activity described above.
Engaging with local people is an important part of our projects.
In the US, for instance, the Balfour Beatty Spirit programme, the Heery This consultation often involves leaflet drops, project websites and Foundation launched in spring 2009, and Balfour Beatty Communities community discussions or exhibitions.
Most of our larger sites have Foundation, established in 2008, give employees the chance to give community relations officers based locally.
They ensure that we liaise something back to the community.
In 2009, Balfour Beatty Communities with key stakeholders on a regular basis and aim to create a sense of donated the first $25,000 instalment of a three-year grant in support of community ownership between the projects and local authorities, Project HOME, a non-profit organisation dedicated to breaking the cycle schools, community organisations, residents and local charity partners.
We know that when our employees are engaged and excited about what they do, they will in turn serve our customers and partners in the best way possible.
With that in mind, we are extremely proud that FORTUNE magazine selected us as one of the 100 Best Places to Work in the US in 2010.
Robert Van Cleave, Chairman and CEO, Balfour Beatty Construction US Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 61 Building energy-efficient homes Mansell built the UKs first Level 6 the highest possible rating homes under the Code for Sustainable Homes in 2009 in Northampton for Metropolitan Housing Partnership.
These highly energy-efficient homes included solar panels, wind turbines and wood pellet boilers plus attractive sunspaces to regulate temperatures.
Rainwater harvesting, a composting system, LED lighting and a sustainable drainage system contribute to the homes exceptional green credentials.
Global equivalent CO2 per m revenue excluding air travel and Dutco Balfour Beatty Global waste year-on-year analysis excluding Dutco Balfour Beatty 45.0 Waste to landll Waste avoided from landll 100 40.0 90 35.0 80 30.0 70 25.0 60 50 20.0 40 15.0 30 10.0 20 5.0 10 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2006 2007 2008 2009 0 0 Materials sourcing and usage Environmental limits We aim to achieve a minimum of 25% of recycled content of major Our core business is about creating and managing physical assets material in new buildings by 2012 where we specify the material.
for individuals and communities but we need to do this within We actively deploy our expertise to encourage customers to consider environmental limits.
The ways in which we do this are explored below.
recycled content where we are not responsible for the specification 2009 highlights indicators of materials.
carbon emissions reduced by 19% since 2005 Ecology The built environment can have a significant impact on the ecology waste 79% of waste recycled of our natural environment.
Some of our operations work alongside number of environment fines 7 in 2009 2008: 5 sensitive ecological areas, such as nature reserves, conservation sites and sites of special scientific interest.
Maintaining a rich diversity of Energy and carbon species and habitats is increasingly important to our customers and In 2009, our CO2 emissions relative to revenue from our vehicles, plant the communities affected by our work.
Through our operations we have and buildings decreased by 19% compared to 2005.
Data from our the opportunity to reduce our impacts on ecological resources and US construction business is included for the first time in 2009, but data enhance them through better design, development and management from Dutco Balfour Beatty in Dubai was unavailable when compiling of our projects.
We have made considerable progress in preparations for Seven minor environmental incidents across the Group resulted in fines the Carbon Reduction Commitment, an energy efficiency requirement amounting to 15,600 during 2009.
These included noise infringement being introduced in the UK in 2010.
In addition to this, we see significant and incorrect labelling of hazardous waste.
opportunity in the infrastructure developments required to facilitate the transition to a lower carbon economy, given our capability to construct Water consumption and manage renewables and nuclear energy generation sites.
While not currently a significant issue, we believe water will become increasingly important in future years in terms of scarcity and ultimately Waste cost to our business.
We continue to measure our consumption of Waste is increasingly considered a key issue for our business, given water and assess opportunities to reduce consumption and provide rising costs of waste disposal to landfill, and the growing infrastructure water efficiency measures across our sites.
We aim to reduce our water market in this area is predicted to reach 8bn by 2015 in the UK alone.
We continue to raise awareness of the waste issue throughout our business and we have been encouraged by the support from our Environmental governance waste contractors in seeking to reduce the level of waste produced.
Strategic environmental issues are reviewed by the sustainability working group, chaired by a Group Managing Director.
An environmental In 2009, our global operations generated some 3.9m tonnes of waste managers forum reviews key topics and shares best practice between 3.2m in 2008 reflecting data being reported by our US construction operating companies.
Environmental performance is audited regularly business for the first time and increased activity in Hong Kong.
Data and Group-wide statistics are collated to measure the Groups major from Dutco Balfour Beatty was unavailable when compiling the chart.
Some 79% of the waste we generated in 2009 was recycled 49% in 2006.
We have established a global target to reduce our waste to In 2010 we aim to set a global baseline for greenhouse gas emissions, landfill by 50% per m revenue by 2012 against a 2010 baseline.
waste, water, major materials usage and continue to work towards the 2012 goals defined in our sustainability vision.
