our business Annual report and accounts 2009 21 Case studies Simplifying the D eliveRY of complex projects for our customers together, our four businesses enable us to work throughout the lifecycle of infrastructure assets from raising and structuring funding, through programme management and design to construction, systems integration and lifetime operation and maintenance.
this matters to infrastructure owners who want to cut risk and cost by working with fewer, better integrated suppliers.
By bringing together two or more businesses we can simplify the delivery of large and complex projects as many of the following case studies show... 22 Annual report and accounts 2009 Professional Construction support infrastructure services services services investments Blackfriars Station The Thameslink line runs right through London from Bedford to Brighton.
Linking two airports, two major London rail termini and nine London Underground stations, its one of the UKs busiest rail routes.
so busy that 50% of regular users say they sometimes cant board trains because of overcrowding.
Were helping to keep them on track.
Changing TrAins The solution to overcrowding on Thameslink trains is simple: The schedule is tight.
We started in september 2008 and finish by run more frequent, longer trains.
Whats not so simple is 2012, so the new trains can be running in time for the Olympics.
With at accommodating those trains.
Station platforms must be least 200 engineers in the project office and up to 500 workers on-site, lengthened, bottlenecks must be cleared.
it helps that we can bring together the key resources from within the organisation from specialists in piling and bridgework to world-class One of the worst bottlenecks is the 1886 Blackfriars railway bridge rail experts.
To bring them into the 21st century we are widening and strengthening the bridge and building a new station This follows the success of our 115m project to build the new across it, for network rail, with realigned tracks and new covered underground northern ticket hall at Kings Cross st Pancras.
London platforms spanning the river Thames.
A new southern concourse will Mayor Boris Johnson described our work there as the standard by give passengers access from the south of the river for the first time.
which all new station developments should be judged.
its a tricky job, made trickier by the need to keep the station open virtually throughout the programme to minimise disruption for passengers.
We have done much of the work at night and over weekends and holidays, while causing as little disturbance to neighbours as possible over Christmas 2009, the office stayed open 24 7 to respond to neighbours concerns and received not one complaint.
Its like changing the engines on an aircraft mid-flight!
Youd rather not do it that way, but youve got to keep the passengers moving.
Chris Evans, Project Director, Balfour Beatty Left We completed the Christmas bridge slide on exactly the date we had planned a year earlier.
That tells you how confident we are that we will finish the job on schedule.
Peter Pannell, Construction Manager north station, Balfour Beatty Right Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 23 A vital link... Thameslink is a 50-station route through London from Bedford in the north to Brighton in the south.
It also links the international airports at Gatwick and Luton.
On the north side of the river we are giving the station a purpose-designed entrance building to improve passenger access.
Spanning the river Blackfriars will be Londons only cross-river station.
With passenger access from both sides of the Thames, its widened platforms will rest on the existing bridge supports and will also utilise piers from an adjacent disused bridge.
Spot-on slide Over Christmas 2009 we replaced an old bridge section with a new concrete and steel bridge, built on-site, in a meticulously planned 149-hour operation.
We slid the 600-tonne span 21 metres into place over more than seven hours.
The timing was critical: if wed missed that window, there would have been no opportunity to try again until Easter 2010 or the following Christmas.
Avoiding congestion To keep lorry traffic off Londons... through crowded roads, the steelwork is being delivered by barge.
central London In London, Thameslink connects the St Pancras International, and London Bridge rail termini.
The upgrade programme will allow 12-car trains, adding 10,000 extra seats in peak periods.
On the south side of the river were creating an entirely new station entrance and exit serving Londons south Bank arts complex and an expanding area of offices and studios.
Thameslink Programme Indicative future network Key July 2007 By end 2015 possible destinations This map shows an indicative route network.
The 2015 Thameslink train service is subject to further evaluation and consultation by the DfT.
Kings Lynn Peterborough Cambridge Bedford Luton Airport Parkway Finsbury Park West St Pancras International Hampstead City Thameslink Blackfriars Elephant & Castle London Bridge Loughborough Jn Dartford Streatham Wimbledon Norwood Jn East Croydon Sutton Sevenoaks Gatwick Ashford Airport East Grinstead Tunbridge Wells Guildford Horsham Eastbourne Brighton Littlehampton 24 Annual report and accounts 2009 Professional Construction support infrastructure services services services investments Tamar Complex, Hong Kong The development project will bring together the legislative and executive arms of Hong Kongs Government on a single site.
We won the contract with an open door design that symbolises openness, emphasises sustainability and creates an exciting new public open space for a crowded island.
Rainwater recycling for irrigation of open space Opening Shading devices D OOrs Designing a seat of government is a very special responsibility.
Hong Kongs leading building firm, Gammon Construction 50% owned The building will be iconic, becoming a visual symbol of the by Balfour Beatty is undertaking the 320m project in joint venture Government itself.
Our winning design for Hong Kongs with Hip Hing Construction.
We won the contract for our ability to new government complex rose to that challenge with provide world-class design and construction as an integrated package, elegant simplicity creating an open door to Hong Kong and for the high standards of sustainability, safety and sensitivity to on a landmark waterfront site next to Victoria Harbour.
local needs that we embodied in our approach.
The 27-storey Central Government Complex Office Block with two Construction will take 39 months, for completion in 2011, and at the wings form the doorway, designed to symbolise the Governments height of building work some 3,000 people will be employed on-site.
openness and transparency, flanked by the smaller 11-storey Legislative Council Complex and the four-storey Central Government Complex Natural light funnel lower block.
The Tamar development project will be an iconic place to mark Gammons leading position and Balfour Beattys involvement in the Hong Kong construction industry.
Edward Yeung, Project Director, Gammon Construction Left This project is a fantastic platform to advance sustainable construction.
There are many environmental aspects to the programme, from waste management, partnering with the university on bio-remediation to materials sourcing.
shirlee Algire, Group sustainability and Csr Manager, Gammon Construction Right Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 25 Green door The new complex will be one of the Scenic door The design carefully controls the buildings Safer door To build the towers we are using Hong Kong Governments greenest offices.
some of bulk and height to avoid intruding into views of the citys an innovative self-climbing external scaffolding the key environmental features are indicated below.
mountain backdrop from the harbour and of the harbour system that reduces the use of tower cranes from the Victoria Peak.
and provides a safer working platform compared with conventional scaffolding.
Breathing air into the city Solar water heating and solar The open door shape is not just electricity panels symbolic: it provides a wide breezeway that maximises air flow and sunlight penetration into a busy area of the city, so that air quality will benefit from breezes blowing across Central District from the harbour area.
Green roofs Double-layer ventilated faades Water features improve microclimate Green spaces improve microclimate A park for the people Half the site is dedicated to public open space.
The landscaped green carpet running through the site will maximise public access to the waterfront and will include trees, water basins, a sculpture garden and an amphitheatre.
26 Annual report and accounts 2009 Professional Construction Support Infrastructure services services services investments M25 its the worlds longest city bypass and one of the busiest roads in Britain, keeping congestion out of the nations capital.
Pummelled by over 200,000 vehicles a day, its increasingly overloaded and needs constant maintenance.
Keeping it fit for purpose has involved not just highways engineering but some sophisticated financial investment.
Mobilising C APiTAL Funding major infrastructure programmes is a challenge for Our integrated capability enabled us to be the prime mover in making governments when public spending needs to be constrained.
We had the capital to invest 80m in creating Connect Partnership with the private sector offers a practical solution, Plus and taking a 40% stake.
We developed the unique and complex mobilising large amounts of capital without increasing public PPP model for the contract which benefits both taxpayers and our sector borrowing.
shareholders by sharing risk and cost savings.
And we convinced 16 commercial banks, plus the European investment Bank, to provide As a leading member of the Connect Plus consortium, weve set a new funding in 2009s uncertain markets.
benchmark for public-private partnership PPP with our 6.2bn contract to upgrade the M25 and maintain and operate it for 30 years.
We are 50 50 partners with skanska on the design and construction work and 52.5% partners with Atkins and Egis on the operation and The contract covers the 188km of the M25 and substantial stretches of maintenance contract.
Our proven experience with these partners the motorways that cross it some 440km in total.
Connect Plus is and the Highways Agency convinced the Government to agree widening 67km of the M25 to four lanes each side, and refurbishing the this uniquely long-term commitment, which will help keep the two 1.1km tunnels on the A1 M at Hatfield, in time for the London 2012 capital moving.
Further upgrades are likely to follow.
in the meantime, we have begun a maintenance and operation contract running to 2039, which extends from collecting tolls on the Dartford Crossing and clearing drains to renewing carriageways and replacing bridge bearings.
Balfour Beatty has staked 80m on this contract, which we see as a model for enabling governments to address public financing needs and sustain economic growth.
Tim Jones, Chief Executive, Connect Plus Left I worked for Balfour Beatty on the original road in the 1970s and 80s and the widening programme in the 90s.
Until now, the Highways Agency has never had a maintenance contract longer than five years but it seems only right that we should take care of this road for the next 30.
Mick McCarry, Construction Director, skanska Balfour Beatty Joint Venture Right Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 27 23 South Mimms Control Centre Our main control centre for the operation and maintenance contract is at south Mimms, where we began work on the very first section of the M25 back in 1973, and our back-up facility A1 M Hatfield Tunnel We are refurbishing the 1.1km is at Dartford.
twin-bore Hatfield Tunnel located between Junctions 3 and 4 of the A1 M upgrading its mechanical and electrical systems and installing new monitoring equipment.
16-23 Road widening With skanska we are 27-30 widening two sections of the M25 from three lanes to four in each direction: the 41km section between the M40 and the A1 M and the 26km stretch from the M11 to the A13.
Watch your speed A key part of the widening work is managing traffic flows to minimise disruption while ensuring safety Road worker safety We have already for road users and our workers.
completed over 2.5m hours of road construction work without a single reportable accident.
Hemel St Albans Hat eld Hempstead M1 A1 M M11 Chelmsford M10 Harlow 21 22 21a M25 20 23 27 24 25 1 26 1 19 High M1 18 Wycombe En eld Watford 17 Brentwood 28 M11 Edgware M25 Hendon 29 M40 Ilford Basildon 16 1a Dagenham M25 Maidenhead Slough Helping 200,000 30 15 M4 31 4b M4 vehicles a day 14 1a 1b 13 2 around the 12 3 M2 2 M3 UKs capital 11 M20 Croydon 4 Chatham Camberley M3 10 9 5 M26 M20 M25 Maidstone M25 Farnborough 7 8 8 6 Aldershot Reigate Pooling resources rather than feeding surface water into existing drainage systems, we are building M23 balancing ponds that make good natural habitats.
1a Motorway Commitment to sustainability is a key aspect of the Dartford-Thurrock River Crossing Trunk Road contract.
We have already imported 400,000 tonnes of At Dartford our responsibilities include recycled material including glasscrete, in which crushed maintaining the bridge and tunnels and glass substitutes for sand.
And we are reusing over 87% collecting tolls from more than 150,000 of the waste materials produced on site for example, vehicles each day.
by shaping and landscaping excavated material to make noise barriers and natural habitats alongside the road.
28 Annual report and accounts 2009 Professional Construction Support infrastructure services services services investments MAINE CANADA New Energy Alliance We form partnerships and alliances because we want to look beyond traditional client contractor relationships.
isnt it better to form single teams working towards shared objectives?
This approach has worked so well with national Grid in the UK that we have now taken it to the Us at national Grids request.
NEW HAMPSHIRE VERMONT Manchester Newburyport Utica sharing Syracuse Albany Boston MASSACHUSETTS NEW YORK POWEr Hartford Providence Were great believers in alliancing.
In our experience, working national Grid now serves 3.4m customers in the northeastern Us, CONNECTICUT as one team sharing both the risks and the rewards for achieving where it has a Us$1.7bn programme to renew power lines and efficiencies keeps everyone focused on getting the job done substations dating back to the 1920s.
Last year we set up new Energy PENNSYLVANIA rather than quibbling over the fine print in their contracts.
Alliance nEA, one of two external partnerships which bid successfully to work on this programme under a wider alliance framework for in the UK weve established several successful alliances with national RHODE ISLAND sharing best practice.
nEA is a joint venture with MJ Electric, one of Grid.
One is renewing the gas mains network in Greater Manchester the largest Us contractors in this field: what we bring to the relationship over eight years: another is carrying out some 500m of work to is our design and project management expertise and our experience upgrade and develop the electricity transmission network in the of alliancing, which is just beginning to gain traction in the Us.
nEAs success is already attracting attention.
We see it as a We are convinced that such relationships are the way forward.
And as springboard for building our presence in the Us, where the power national Grid extended its operations into north America, it was keen NEW JERSEY transmission market alone offers big opportunities.
in this and many to establish similar structures there.
other fields, our proven expertise in alliancing will give us a real competitive edge over the years ahead.
New York Alliancing is creating global opportunities for us because were starting to demonstrate such great results and added value from this contractual model.
Kevin George, Project Director, Balfour Beatty Right Historically, our work has been delivered by short-term labour as isolated projects.
By assembling these into a much larger programme of work, we have achieved continuity of employment for our people, invested in their training, developed shared values and goals and established a Zero Harm safety culture.
Dorothy Changelo, Transmission Lead, new Energy Alliance Left Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 29 Network coverage Largest electricity provider High voltage in addition to the overhead lines, national Grid has 8,600 miles of national Grids transmission the network has 90 miles of overhead power lines and its facilities operate at voltages MAINE underground cable and 524 network spans upstate new York ranging from 69kV to over 330kV.
Our alliance is and Massachusetts, new primarily responsible for the Hampshire, rhode island and new England network and also Vermont, making it the regions operates in upstate new York.
largest electricity transmission service provider.
NEW HAMPSHIRE VERMONT Manchester Newburyport Utica Syracuse Albany Boston MASSACHUSETTS NEW YORK Hartford Providence Electricity transmission system CONNECTICUT PENNSYLVANIA RHODE ISLAND Bringing NEW JERSEY electricity New York to 3.4m customers in New England Science of alliance Sharing what we know Working on live wires We are developing a toolkit of Knowledge-sharing works both Our Us partners are experts in best practice for the creation and ways.
We have catenary support the specialist techniques that operation of alliances across all systems and techniques for allow work to take place on sectors of our business.
This will working safely and efficiently on live power transmission lines.
give us a competitive advantage power lines spanning roads and This enables construction with customers who understand waterways.
These enable us to activities to proceed safely the benefits of working in minimise disruption to traffic without system outages, a collaboration and the value of flows, and we are sharing our valuable option when energy sharing risk and reward.
demands require the lines to be in continuous operation.
30 Annual report and accounts 2009 Professional Construction support infrastructure services services services investments Victoria desalination project This centurys most precious resource could easily be fresh water.
As river flows dwindle and water tables fall, demand for seawater desalination is growing fast.
in Victoria, Australia, were helping to create Australias largest and more environmentally friendly reverse-osmosis desalination plants.
Quenching THirsT For most of the past 10 years, Australia has been plagued by PB won the design contract in joint venture.
The skills we brought to the drought.
So much so that securing rainfall-independent water partnership included expertise in tunnel, power and water engineering, supplies is now seen as crucial to economic and population and also environmental engineering.
By 2013 the countrys five largest coastal cities will have been criticised for their environmental impacts and our client, the all have desalination plants and the biggest is currently Victorian state Government, was determined that this plant should be being designed by Parsons Brinckerhoff PB engineers just as green as possible.
This innovative project is currently PBs largest contract in Australia.
When complete, the AUs$3.5bn plant will supply 150bn litres of water Due to start pumping fresh water by the end of 2011, it is already raising a year to Melbourne and surrounding towns through an 84km pipeline, our profile not only in Australia but throughout the world as the water supply meeting about a third of the citys water needs.
Those needs are and distribution industry expands to serve an increasingly thirsty planet.
in september 2009 Melbournes water storage capacity was barely 30% full.
To allow construction work to start quickly, we have been able to mobilise over 150 people to work on the designs without delay.
This water is needed urgently, so were working fast to design and deliver the whole project.
Tim Ellis, Project Director, Parsons Brinckerhoff Award winners Parsons Brinckerhoff was named Australias best large engineering consulting firm in the 2009 BrW Client Choice Awards.
recognising both expertise and customer service, these are the only awards of their kind based on independent research.
Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 31 1 2 3 4 5 6 Seawater intake Filtration Reverse osmosis Remineralisation Storage Water outlet seawater enters through Pre-treatment filters Filtered seawater is pushed Desalinated water is Drinking water is stored for seawater concentrate intake structures via long remove solids such as through ultra-fine membranes remineralised to meet distribution through the returns to the ocean through tunnels around a kilometre sand and sediment.
Fresh Australian drinking water Melbourne and regional diffuser structures via long from the plant.
it is drawn so water passes through, guidelines and state health water networks, where it tunnels about 1.4km from the slowly that even small fish leaving seawater requirements.
may be blended with water plant.
Ocean currents dilute it can swim against the current, concentrate behind.
and a protective grille keeps marine life out.
Salt water in... fresh water out from the sea... to Melbourne... seawater drawn in gently to protect Drinking water is distributed to local regions, marine life.
Melbourne and the surrounding area.
Green roof: Australias largest, covered in indigenous plants and shrubs.
it helps blend the plant into the landscape, provides noise and heat insulation and cuts maintenance.
Green power: energy Reconstructed dune New coastal park: new Energy-efficient Major ecological use will be offset by 100% system: using recycled 8km network of foot, cycle design: energy recovery restoration: 225 by electricity from new spoil from site and bridle paths links with devices significantly hectares around the plant, wind farms in Australia.
reduce power previously cleared for plant with the natural consumption.
mining and grazing, landscape and shields restored to create neighbours from noise.
wetlands, coastal and swampy woodlands and new habitat for local fauna.... with minimal impacts 32 Annual report and accounts 2009 Professional Construction Support Infrastructure services services services investments Building Schools for the Future in partnership with local councils, we are not just building and refurbishing schools: our brief is to transform the way education is delivered and find ways to make use of the new schools to engage with the wider community and benefit as many people as possible.
Transforming E DUCATiOn The Governments Building Schools for the Future programme Why choose us?
Certainly not because were one of the UKs largest encourages councils to be visionary.
The two councils of school builders.
We werent looking for a builder in the words of the Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton took the opportunity councils own project director, we were looking for a strategic partner.
They didnt just appoint a building and As well as planning, design and construction expertise, we have capital refurbishment contractor.
They got together with Balfour to invest in PPP projects and the facilities management capability to Beatty and formed a Local Education Partnership mandated take care of them for many years.
And we know about Local Education to transform the way education works in their area.
Partnerships: to lead this one we seconded a colleague from newcastle, Under the new 10-year partnership we have a 450m contract to where Parsons Brinckerhoff is already involved in a similar partnership.
design, build or remodel and operate 27 schools.
We will also be investing up to 20m equity to build several new schools and operate them on 25-year PPP concessions.
The councils wanted to deliver a sustainable legacy of skills and employment, as well as supporting business growth, and they chose us because we responded to that challenge.
Mark Howden, Head of regeneration, Balfour Beatty Education Left Potentially it is the start of a much wider relationship.
Our priority is to deliver the schools and the education transformation that the councils are seeking.
But the councils are already talking to us about other opportunities outside the education sector.
Dave swarbrick, Managing Director, Balfour Beatty Education Right Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 33 Using local contractors When big companies A legacy of skills We aim to grow a new generation Well-schooled in education As well as the undertake major capital programmes, they often bring of skilled workers.
its hard for subcontractors to offer two councils mentioned here, Balfour Beatty is in their existing subcontractors.
responding to the apprenticeships: their contracts may not last long working on BsF schemes in Knowsley, southwark, councils challenge, we are determined to ensure that enough or they may be too small to support such a big islington, Greenwich, Hackney, Haringey, stoke, local contractors dont miss out on the largest inward commitment.
so in Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton Liverpool, and Manchester.
We also have 10 existing investment to these areas in recent times.
We have we will work with a not-for-profit partner who will PPP school concessions in the UK and a new promised 40% of on-site jobs to local people in employ apprentices directly, placing them with supply PPP technical college about to open in singapore.
Blackburn from year one, rising to 60% by the peak of chain contractors to give them continuity and breadth We have already committed over 60m of the programme.
We are holding Open Days to meet of experience.
Balfour Beatty Apprenticeships is an equity investment to the education sector.
local firms and identify opportunities for them to pitch innovative approach to delivering our target of almost for work.
26,000 apprenticeship weeks and is attracting great interest from other councils.
Quiet spaces Transforming Meet individual needs to work Learn E DUCATiOn Open, safe environment Imaginative timetabling Stimulating lessons Collaborative teaching Bright, flexible teaching spaces Artists impression of Darwen Vale school 34 Annual report and accounts 2009 Our markets B roadly-spread growth m Arkets Our principal markets transport, utilities and social infrastructure promise long-term growth, driven by factors such as population changes, urbanisation and the need to renew ageing infrastructure.
Approximately three-quarters of our business comes from regulated utilities and governments, whose economic stimulus programmes have effectively reduced the impact of the financial crisis for us.
We believe the shortand long-term prospects for our markets are good: and while there may be some turbulent waters in between, the diversity of our markets will help us navigate them successfully.
Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 35 Whats driving infrastructure growth?
Developed and emerging economies Our principal international infrastructure markets promise long-term there are significant differences between our infrastructure markets growth driven by a number of factors: in developed and emerging markets.
Across most developed economies, much infrastructure is nearing Population growth, demographic shifts and urbanisation, requiring the end of its service life and must be replaced.
Ageing electricity major new infrastructure investment generation and transmission assets cannot meet regulatory standards International trade, which depends on quality transport networks, and have to be replaced or upgraded.
And, against a background of stimulating investment in port, road, rail and aviation infrastructure climate change and rising global demand for water, there is a strong impetus to reduce leakage from elderly networks and enhance storage sustainability concerns, requiring the upgrading of power and water and flood control facilities.
treatment facilities to meet more stringent air and water quality standards, and also stimulating investment in more efficient In the Uk, the regulated utilities maintain investment through the transportation networks economic cycle, in line with the plans agreed with their regulators at the start of each regulatory cycle.
this applies to power transmission, Ageing infrastructure needing extensive renewal and upgrading, water and rail.
In the near term, Government investment in areas such particularly in the developed economies in which we operate.
as roads, education and health may be squeezed by fiscal deficits: but where the pursuit of cost efficiency leads to more outsourcing US construction as GDP% and PPP arrangements, this will create new opportunities.
Industrial Infrastructure Residential 6.0% and commercial markets should recover earlier than public markets.
In the Us, as in the Uk, Government will need to curb spending.
5.0% However, there is a continuing need for new infrastructure in the 4.0% sunbelt states where population is rising fed by migration from the north, immigration from the south and relatively high birth rates.
3.0% In the developing world, a key driver for infrastructure investment is 2.0% urbanisation and the consequent massive shifts in population.
In 1975 there were only three cities with a population over 10m people.
By 2015 1.0% the UN projects there will be 22 and 18 of these will be in emerging 0.0% economies.
Our markets in Asia, Australia and south Africa were generally not hit as hard by the recession as the Us, europe, and the Source: For GDP US BEA Bureau of Economic Analysis : for construction output US Census Bureau.
middle east and are recovering faster, aided by the recovery of commodity prices.
As a long-term trend, infrastructure expenditure in our main markets has been relatively stable, particularly when compared to the Breakdown of urban population 19502015 residential, commercial and industrial markets.
As economic stimulus Emerging Developed 100 programmes, introduced as a result of the financial crisis, tail off over the next few years, governments will be under increasing pressure to 80 reduce public spending.
Investment in government-funded infrastructure, such as large Uk road projects, will inevitably be reduced while public 60 finances recover.
so we will be looking to other infrastructure sectors and territories to offset that reduction in opportunity.
40 some infrastructure investment, particularly large capital projects, can be deferred but spending on power generation and transmission 20 and water networks will remain an urgent necessity.
We are advantaged by the diversity of infrastructure markets themselves, 0 1950 1955 1960 1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 which continue to provide new areas of opportunity and by the Source: United Nations diversity of our own capabilities.
Markets and opportunities Procurement trends there is a continuing trend for infrastructure owners to take a more Transportation sophisticated approach to infrastructure procurement.
they look to Roads suppliers like Balfour Beatty to provide a broader range of integrated road usage tends to rise with GDP.
In the near term Uk investment is services, to engage earlier in the planning and design process, to get likely to remain flat, but with a change in emphasis from building new involved in the lifecycle management of assets, and increasingly to roads to managing the existing network better, widening roads and help finance both assets and services.
this gives us an expanding range managing traffic flows more effectively a trend that plays to our of roles to pursue on any given project or programme.
strengths see m25 case study on page 26.
Indicators are that political will in the Us is gathering for the passage of a major road infrastructure expenditure bill.
1964 1966 1968 1970 1972 1974 1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 Output GDP % 36 Annual report and accounts 2009 Our markets Water OECD forecast of infrastructure investment the Uk is a stable market, committed to major renewal of ageing Water Road Electricity Rail infrastructure, under regulated five-year plans.
the Us has similar 1,800 issues with ageing infrastructure, particularly on the east Coast, 1,600 accentuated by population shifts to the sunbelt states.
Water assets 1,400 are largely funded by municipalities and activity is likely to increase 1,200 with economic recovery when difficulties raising bond finance ease.
1,000 In developing economies rapid urbanisation demands increasingly 800 complex engineering solutions, particularly for waste water treatment 600 and disposal.
the market for desalination is also growing see Victoria 400 desalination project case study on page 30.
200 2000201020102020 20202030 0 Social infrastructure Transmission and distribution only Only OECD BRICs social infrastructure includes education, healthcare facilities and social Rail and military housing.
In the Uk we should continue to benefit from the substantial programme of infrastructure renewals and enhancements agreed Healthcare with the rail regulator.
In the Uk a period of major hospital building is winding down.
In the Us, the recovery of the freight market should restore demand Pressures on public spending are likely to constrain major new for rail investment and we expect the building and upgrading of metro projects but will also encourage outsourcing, creating support systems to be a good medium-term market driven both by urban service opportunities for us.
population growth and the need to reduce road congestion in cities.
In the Us, healthcare is currently a private sector market and will continue to respond to demand driven by an ageing population the success of european high-speed rail programmes is inspiring other and migration.
many of our other geographic markets also offer governments, including the Us, to consider investing in high-speed links considerable opportunity as they develop their healthcare provision and electrification.
As a world leader in electrification, we are well to meet the needs of fast-growing or ageing populations.
placed to benefit from the growing global trend to shift people out of cars and planes onto lower-carbon electrified rail services.
Education In emerging markets, urbanisation will continue to drive demand In the Uk all political parties are committed to investment in schools, for more investment in metros and inter-city networks.
so a level of spending should be sustained whichever party wins the 2010 election.
Our experience in Building schools for the Future BsF Aviation is a competitive advantage, as variations of such models are likely to Airports around the world have been a major market for Balfour Beatty, continue to be used in education see Building schools for the Future from Chep Lap kok in Hong kong to terminal 5 at Heathrow.
the Parsons case study on page 32.
Brinckerhoff PB acquisition has further strengthened our position in In the Us, both lower and higher education should continue to be an airports.
this market is closely linked to the economic cycle and is attractive market.
Demand continues to be driven by population shifts expected to show some early recovery.
and a birthrate bulge working through the system.
Utilities Social and military housing Power In the Uk, social housing investment has nearly doubled since 2003.
From 2016 the Uk faces a looming energy gap as up to a third of more recently, activity has been reduced by the fall-off in private generating capacity may be closed because it cannot meet eU clean sector housebuilding, to which many social housing projects are linked: air regulations.
Over the following years a succession of nuclear plants but we expect activity to recover in the medium term as the private will reach the end of their service lives.
Bridging this gap will require housing market recovers.
a major building programme encompassing a mix of generation In the Us, we expect a number of opportunities to arise in the military platforms.
Balfour Beatty, including through PB, has a substantial housing market, in which we are a strong player, and see a continuing position in many aspects of power generation which should give us flow of prospects from the military base realignment and closure access to this market.
the Uk transmission market also offers programme BrAC.
We also see opportunities as the PPP model considerable opportunity driven by ageing assets and also by extends to other forms of accommodation projects.
renewable energy sources, such as wind power, often in remote locations, which will need to be linked to centres of population.
Industrial and commercial the Us transmission market is also strong see New energy Alliance the private sector accounts for much of the remainder of our business, case study on page 28. spending has doubled since 2002 and and involves the construction of offices and other buildings for our renewables are adding to demand.
retail, industrial and commercial customers in the Uk, Us, Asia and the emerging markets offer major opportunities in generation and middle east.
We are established suppliers of construction services transmission driven by economic growth and demographic shifts.
and PB greatly strengthens our position in the related provision of PB strengthens our position because of its experience and track professional services.
this market moves with local economies and record in both developed and emerging markets in Australia, Asia, should recover early.
We expect to increase our exposure in this sector the middle east and south Africa where PB is programme managing over the next few years, to help offset changes in our other markets.
one of the worlds largest power station projects.
