Corporate responsibility Reporting approach We see corporate responsibility CR as an integral part of the way we run our business and, to this end, we report below key data on our impacts and activities over the last year.
For the second year running, we are also producing a separate on-line CR report, which includes more detail on our activities in each of the main impact areas.
This year, we have divided the on-line CR Report into a selection of different stakeholder-focussed sections and these will be available from January 2010 on our dedicated website: www.
CEO Statement The past eighteen months have been extremely challenging for the property sector and despite some current signs of increasing stability, we anticipate that the market will remain fragile in the short term.
These tough operating conditions call for innovation in business strategy and a robust approach to risk management.
We must ensure that alongside our primary focus on cash conservation, we continue to achieve strong sales, customer satisfaction, employee wellbeing, positive community relations and good environmental management, In this context, our CR strategy must add value to the business, reflect stakeholder concerns and help us to adapt so that we are best placed to take advantage of potential opportunities as we come out of the recession.
All investments we make in CR initiatives at Grainger will continue to be rigorously assessed for costs and benefits, while we strive to anticipate future challenges for the sector and position ourselves to best respond to them.
We are currently undertaking a review of our CR strategy, which incorporates a programme of stakeholder consultation.
The outcome of this review will be a strategy that is aligned with our evolving business priorities and to the risks that arise from changing environmental, social and economic pressures.
Please see our website for more detailed information.
Despite being a period of significant change, we have continued to see strong CR performance in the year and we fully achieved or substantially progressed 60% of our targets.
I am proud that a commitment to responsible business is at the heart of Grainger s operations.
We are continually learning from our experience and expect to perform even better in years to come.
Andrew Cunningham Chief Executive Officer Opportunities and risks While the economic downturn has dominated much decision-making over the last year, we believe that CR issues remain material to the short, medium and long term prospects of our business.
Moreover, failing to address our corporate responsibilities would expose us to risk.
The good management of our CR impacts presents several opportunities for Grainger to increase performance, for example through reduced costs, enhanced asset value and increased social capital.
Engaging with and investing in the community is an essential part of good property management.
It gives us the opportunity to enhance the communities in which we operate and is also central to the planning process.
Working to continually improve our service quality and relationships with customers will improve customer satisfaction and could result in reduced void periods, a protected rental income and increased lease renewals.
Initiatives that contribute to the health and wellbeing of our employees will contribute towards enhanced employee productivity and company reputation.
We also see the progression towards a low carbon economy as one that offers several opportunities for companies such as ourselves to differentiate and streamline our operations, such as through providing innovative solutions for more efficient property management and by future-proofing our assets ahead of tightening regulations.
We believe these will help us to maintain a strong market position and competitive advantage as the UK s largest listed specialist residential property owner.
22 On the other side of the coin to these opportunities, we also recognise a number of potential risks, such as tightening regulations, increasing costs of meeting required planning and development standards, and changing customer and investor expectations.
By anticipating and addressing these risks we hope to manage their impacts on our business and convert them into opportunities for differentiation wherever possible.
We have now commissioned Energy Performance Certificates EPCs for the majority of properties in our portfolio.
This means that both rental customers and buyers acquiring properties from us have access to an assessment of the energy performance of their building.
While other market factors have somewhat over-shadowed the impact of energy efficiency on property attractiveness and value over the last 12 months, we expect this issue to be of growing importance as we emerge from the downturn and energy prices continue to rise.
Governance The Board maintains overall responsibility for CR at Grainger.
The Operations Board is responsible for implementation of CR policy and reviews progress against targets against a six monthly progress assessment and as required.
Specific target delivery is assigned to individuals and teams across the organisation, meaning that there is a shared responsibility for integrating responsible practice into all of our operations and functions.
Last year we reported that we planned to establish a series of Working Groups around our key areas of focus.
We have successfully launched an Environmental Working Group, bringing together professionals from our property services, asset management and corporate teams to address environmental issues across the business.
Other Working Groups are currently on hold as we undergo the process of a CR strategy review.
One outcome of this review will be a revised governance structure, which will be published on our website.
We have various policies and procedures which inform our CR strategy, these are set out in full on our website: http: www.
asp Performance Target achievement Grainger 2008-9 CR target performance: number of targets meeting each threshold of achievement No or minimal No or minimal progress Less than 25% progress Less than 25%, 2 Limited progress 25-49% Partially achieved 50-74% Fully achieved Limited progress 25-49%, 3 100%, 7 Substantially achieved 75-99% Partially achieved 50-74%, 1 Fully achieved 100% Substantially achieved 75-99%, 2 In 2008 09, we set targets across all of our main identified impacts.
We have fully achieved 7 47% of our 15 CR targets and have substantially progressed a further 2 13%.
For a full breakdown of our performance against targets, and for a full set of key performance indicators, please see our downloadable CR report: www.
It should be noted that: We saw particular success in targets related to customers, employees and the community.
We set ourselves a range of challenging environmental targets this year.
Two were completed, one was substantially progressed, one was started and one has yet to be addressed.
23 Several targets related to the appointment of suppliers for both refurbishment and development projects.
Target progress in relation to development practices could not, however, be assessed as no new developments were started this year.
Best practice procedures are already in place for our development activities.
We set out environmental design standards and construction process requirements in contracts and proactively engage with contractors about sustainability issues.
This will continue to be a feature of all future developments.
A number of business decisions, such as that to broaden the training of property managers, has delayed delivery of some targets related to training in specific areas as we have spent more time in planning these programmes.
We will continue to work towards the achievement of all of our targets that were not achieved this year.
Ideally, we would have liked to fully achieve more of our targets.
Personnel changes meant that some implementation programmes were started a little late in the year and a focus on cost minimisation across the business has slowed progress in some areas.
Despite these significant challenges, we are proud to have made progress against almost all targets, putting in the groundwork to ensure their achievement in the future.
Our business strategy has evolved significantly over the past two years and we acknowledge the need for our CR strategy to reflect this.
One goal of our aforementioned strategy review is to align our CR strategy more closely with key business priorities.
The outcomes of this will be a more relevant and well-embedded strategy and, correspondingly, higher target achievement in future years.
Notable achievements and activities: carbon emissions: - We have seen overall emissions from air transport reduce significantly this year Source 2007 08 Carbon Emissions 2008 09 Carbon Emissions Office electricity consumption 372 476 Office central plant heating Not available Not available Energy use in common parts Not available Not available Air travel 62 31 Rail travel 13 26 Taxi travel Not available Not available Car travel Not available Not available Energy use at development 346 3.5 The energy used within tenanted properties under our ownership and management forms the greatest part of our carbon footprint.
However, due to tenant power supply being outside of our control we are unable to access this data or put in place significant measures to reduce consumption within tenant demise.
We have, therefore, chosen to focus our monitoring on those areas over which we do have control.
Despite extending the monitoring of transport carbon emissions, we have seen overall emissions from air transport reduce significantly this year, with rail transport making up a greater proportion of transport costs and emissions.
A reported increase in electricity use within our offices is largely due to improved accuracy and coverage of monitoring and moves into new space in Birmingham and Frankfurt.
Due to few development projects being on site over the past twelve months, carbon emissions from diesel used on site is much reduced.
We continue to work towards obtaining meaningful electricity data for the common parts of our managed blocks and hope to be able to report this fully next year.
Given that all of our offices are in multi-tenanted buildings, we are unlikely to ever be able to access data on central plant emissions from our offices, but instead we continue to improve the quality of electricity monitoring, such as through live energy meters which are being put in place in all of our UK offices.
We continue to assess the viability of obtaining emissions data for car and taxi travel, but at present, the material benefits of this task would overcome the significant complexity associated with collecting the information effectively.
24 Notable achievements and activities: other areas of performance We have successfully completed a number of changes to our internal communications programme, including relaunching our intranet Source, introducing a cascade briefing system for employees and giving a few staff each month the opportunity to have breakfast with the CEO for open discussion on topics of their interest.
We have built upon last year s success in raising our employees awareness of sustainability issues, by establishing a network of eco-champions in offices across the UK and Germany.
The champions are daily advocates for energy, water and waste efficiency and they also promote volunteering and sustainable transport opportunities to other staff members across our offices.
Our employees have shown remarkable enthusiasm for community volunteering and we easily met our target to achieve 20% of employees contributing time to a good cause.
A total of 71 days were dedicated to good causes.
These included helping to build houses with Habitat for Humanity and creating a horticultural learning space at a community centre for Business In the Community s Give and Gain day.
We have scored well in tenant feedback surveys, which is particularly positive given the current focus on maintaining revenue streams.
Around 80% of tenants leaving our properties rated Management Department services as either excellent or very good.
We ran a pilot project placing energy monitors into all the flats in one of our properties, to give tenants live information on the electricity they use at different times of the day.
We now intend to roll these monitors out across various parts of our managed portfolio and within our own offices as well as placing them in all houses when we carry out major refurbishment works.
Nearly half of the properties to receive Energy Performance Certificates EPCs to date are rated C or above.
25 Advisor s Statement Upstream Sustainability Services, part of Jones Lang LaSalle, has been working to advise Grainger plc on corporate responsibility CR for several years.
This programme of work includes helping Grainger to set its 2008-09 CR targets, as well as to assess the extent to which it has achieved these targets.
Due to Upstream s long-standing relationship with Grainger and its CR commitments, the review of performance against targets and this statement itself cannot be considered as fully independent, nor should any data be viewed as formally verified.
However, Upstream has carried out a st th full and documented review of Grainger s performance and management of CR over the year 1 October 2008 30 September 2009 and all information presented is accurate to the best of Upstream s knowledge.
The method for assessing Grainger s level of performance against CR targets and commitments was based on: 1.
Meetings and telephone interviews with Grainger representatives, responsible for target delivery 2.
Detailed review of documentation and information submitted by Grainger and collected by Upstream over the year A percentage score has been awarded against each target, depending on the evidence received to validate completion.
For some targets that relate to management actions rather than quantifiable performance, it has been necessary for Upstream to use its professional judgement to assess the evidence received and award weightings for various milestones achieved.
Upstream s review can conclude the following general findings: Almost half 47% of Grainger s 2008-9 CR targets have been fully achieved, with a further two targets 13% substantially progressed over 75% achieved.
A further 4 targets 27% have been progressed either minimally at least 25% achieved or partially at least 50% achieved.
Only two targets 13% were not progressed at all this year.
Upstream has made the following specific findings: Targets relating to employee initiatives are an area of particular achievement to highlight for Grainger for the last 12 months.
Upstream is pleased to see success in improving internal communications, encouraging staff to volunteer for community causes and identifying individuals in all offices to become eco champions, promoting a more sustainable workplace.
These initiatives underline Grainger s commitment to fully engaging its staff in order to embed sustainability into all aspects of its operations.
Grainger has made good progress in communicating with its customers and investors for feedback on its approach to business and the needs of its stakeholders.
Customers of market let properties are now contacted at point of moving into a property, exiting a property and when they are visited by one of Grainger s contractors.
These feedback questionnaires received largely positive responses this year, with approximately 80% of exiting tenants rating Grainger s Management Department services as either very good or excellent.
Grainger has continued to maintain a dialogue with its top shareholders around corporate responsibility and has proactively engaged with two more investors this year, obtaining valuable feedback on how its sustainability strategy is viewed by both socially responsible and mainstream investors.
The two supplier targets have been assessed as not progressed and minimal progress.
The lack of progress in this area can in part be attributed to a break down of communication channels and the departure of key members of staff during the target scoping stage.
In assessing progress, it has become clear that a more rigorous scoping exercise, including a cost-benefit analysis, should have been carried out when deciding on the appropriateness of these targets to refurbishment activity.
Grainger does continue to demonstrate impressive performance in reducing the environmental impacts of its development activities, setting out a range of environmental design standards and construction process requirements in its standard contracts and engaging with contractors about sustainability issues on an ongoing basis.
However, there have been no new projects commencing this year, so these targets were only relevant to refurbishment works.
As the economy picks up in the coming year, Upstream encourages Grainger to adopt a renewed focus on promoting high standards of environmental awareness within its refurbishment supply chain, whether this is through contract specifications or engagement activity.
26 Despite a challenging year, it is clear to Upstream that Grainger has retained its commitment to corporate responsibility and continues to recognise this as an important part of its business strategy.
While performance against CR targets has not been as strong as in previous years, this is largely a product of setting some particularly stretching targets in some areas, significant internal reorganisation over the previous year and a focus on cost constraint.
Grainger is currently undergoing a process to review its CR strategy over the next few months and will redefine its commitment in a way which is meaningful in a changing economic and regulatory landscape, relevant to core business objectives and reflective of stakeholder desires.
Upstream looks forward to working with Grainger to develop and deliver its new strategy and to realise the opportunities presented by its commitment to sustainability.
Abigail Dean Senior Consultant Upstream Sustainability Services, Jones Lang LaSalle October 2009 27
