Directors Report Corporate Social Responsibility 338 8 C Co orporat rporatee SSoocial cial R Responsibilit esponsibility y At BBA Aviation, sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility are a 40 Board of Directors and Executive Management fundamental part of our vision, mission and values and are key to achieving our goals.
Health and Safety 42 Financial Matters Protecting the health and safety of our employees and all those aff ected by 44 Additional Disclosures our business is a priority at BBA Aviation.
46 Directors Corporate Operational management are responsible for the management of, Governance Statement and continuous improvement in, health and safety performance.
They are 52 Directors Remuneration supported by a dedicated team of health and safety professionals, both senior Report level managers and numerous site-based managers who assess health and 60 Going Concern and safety risks and who regularly evaluate site performance.
Performance Integrity Statement of Directors Responsibility statistics such as near miss reporting, recordable incident data, lost work day Responsibilities case rates and workers compensation claims are compiled on a continuous F Fi inancial stat financial statements ements basis, monitored closely through our management processes and reported regularly to the Executive Management Committee and the Board.
Our 61 Independent auditors report to the members of BBA global web-based reporting, audit and training tools assist us in identifying Performance Aviation plc in respect of trends and in developing and communicating plans to support further the consolidated financial Safety improvements in our health and safety performance.
statements At 2009s year-end we recorded a Group-wide Recordable Incident 62 Consolidated income Rate RIR of 4.18, which is 15% lower than our RIR performance of 4.92 in 2008. statement This represents the lowest rate for the current portfolio of our aviation 63 Consolidated balance sheet businesses since we started to compile statistics in 2002.
Targets are set People 64 Consolidated cash flow Service and approved in all our business units on an annual basis and as the safety statement improvement programmes that are now embedded in our businesses 65 Consolidated statement of continue to mature we look forward to making further progress towards comprehensive income our zero incident and industry leadership goal in safety practices and 65 Consolidated statement of performance, and a proactive safety culture.
changes in equity 66 Accounting policies of Environment the Group Integrity Managing the impact of our business on the environment through the 69 Notes to the consolidated We earn the trust and respect of our stakeholders with honesty, fairness, effi cient and safe use of resources and the reduction of waste is a key financial statements openness and by honouring our commitments.
responsibility of our executive team and of the management teams at each of 95 Independent auditors report our facilities.
For a number of years BBA Aviation has been tracking, and aiming to the members of BBA Responsibility to improve, the effi cient use of the resources our businesses consume.
We Aviation plc in respect of the We are committed to managing our impact on, and contributing positively to, now operate an environmental reporting system for all businesses, where parent company financial statements society and the environment.
each site is required to record its own use of resources such as electricity and water and report regularly, using the same global web-based reporting, audit 96 Company balance sheet Safety and training tools employed to compile health and safety performance 96 Accounting policies of We are dedicated to safety and security, the elimination of hazards and statistics.
Through annual self-assessments and site audits, our personnel the Company protecting people, property and our environment.
develop site improvement plans, which are reviewed annually by senior 98 Notes to the Company management.
In addition, we engage external consultants to conduct routine financial statements Service review and validation of environmental metrics.
Further details on the process 102 Principal subsidiary We strive continually to anticipate customer needs, exceeding their for review of risks, including health, safety, environmental and other operational undertakings expectations.
risks are set out in item 1 on page 50 Systems of Internal Control.
103 Five-year summary Our businesses continue to achieve and maintain external 104 Shareholder information People certifi cation of environmental practices.
This autumn three ERO sites achieved We are committed to investing in and empowering our people through accreditation to ISO14001: Environmental Management Systems, making a training and education and to providing them with opportunities for total of four ERO, three APPH sites and one Legacy Support site with this rewarding careers.
We believe that operating to a recognised set of best practices will over time yield positive results.
Sites which have achieved certifi cation Performance have found that drawing together environmental requirements, programmes We focus on delivery of long-term and sustainable value, continuous and objectives into a unifi ed framework has assisted in making environmental improvement and reliability.
matters part of the fabric of their daily business life.
We are conscious that we service an industry that has attracted We now have in place management processes and systems that allow us to adverse comment relating to its impact on the environment.
The industry collect consistent sets of key data and target improvements across all of our continues to work to drive improvement in its environmental effi ciency and facilities in a number of areas including health and safety and the use of we continue to support the eff ort to improve the sustainability of aviation into resources.
These, along with a new Group-wide approach to people the future.
For example, ASIG has signed an agreement with Rentech and development, will play an important part in our future CSR journey.
eight airlines at Los Angeles International Airport to supply renewable synthetic fuel for ground service equipment, beginning in late 2012 when the Providing CSR leadership is the responsibility of all of our managers and plant producing the fuel is scheduled to go into service.
throughout 2009 each of our businesses has made concerted eff orts to Two recent projects demonstrate our commitment to taking progress in our four focus areas: account of environmental concerns.
The completed renovation of the Health and safety executive terminal and two existing hangars at Signatures operation at San Environment Francisco International Airport pictured on page 17 has been submitted for People Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED Commercial Interiors Community certifi cation.
LEED is a rating system developed by the US Green Building 38 Council.
Projects that achieve LEED certifi cation make use of environmentally Aviations businesses play an active role in supporting a variety of local, friendly building products, energy effi cient electrical and mechanical systems regional and national organisations and charities.
Local businesses identify and environmentally sensitive construction practices to provide high building charities and community projects in which they would like to be involved and, performance and to minimise environmental impact.
ASIG, which manages where appropriate, eff orts are co-ordinated at a local or business level to the fuel system on behalf of a consortium of 20 airlines at Denver International deliver more meaningful support to a chosen activity.
Airport, has achieved Gold Leader status under the Colorado Department of We recognise that we form part of the broader global community Public Health and Environments Environmental Leadership Programme.
and it is our responsibility, as a good neighbour, to contribute to those locations where we are resident.
In addition to providing support to our People surrounding communities through our practices of local employment, local We value the talent that each individual brings to BBA Aviation.
Investing in training and, where appropriate, the purchase of local goods and services, we our people has been an area of focus for BBA Aviation in 2009 and it will are proud to play an active role in a variety of local activities and charities.
One continue to be important to support all our employees and help them of the Groups goals for 2010 is for all Group sites and facilities to have some develop their capabilities and realise their potential.
Twenty of our most senior community involvement.
This will be an opportunity for employees to work executives undertook an executive education programme at Goizueta together demonstrating BBA Aviations common values in action and help Business School, Emory University Atlanta in 2009 as part of a rolling strengthen employee engagement and our relationships with our local programme of senior management development.
One such community involvement project undertaken in 2009 and training is important at a local as well as at a Group level.
For example, was the garden makeover by the H S Aviation facility in Portsmouth for a local ASIG launched a 17-week ESOL English for Speakers of Other Languages pilot not for profi t organisation, providing much appreciated time and skills as well programme at their Orlando operation, completed by 27 employees, giving as donating garden furniture, plants and other materials.
them valued opportunities and this programme will now be rolled out to other locations in the USA.
Encouraging training and development supports the continuous improvement of the calibre of our people, enhances the performance of our businesses and can impact positively on the world around us.
Satisfying the highest ethical standards, complying with the law and exercising appropriate sensitivity to the needs of our employees, the communities in which we work CSR Governance and Reporting and the environment must be integrated with our business goals in a Responsibility to the Board for relationships with all our stakeholders lies with complementary manner.
This balance cannot be achieved unless all of our the Group Chief Executive.
Mark Harper, a non-executive director, is BBA employees are engaged in this eff ort.
The Group Health, Safety and Our people form the foundation of each BBA Aviation business.
To Environment Director, Kimberly Tuyn reports directly to the Group Chief sustain a committed, progressive workforce, it is critical that we treat our Executive and is responsible for delivering our Group Health, Safety and employees equitably.
A large part of this investment in our employees Environment strategy while the Group Secretary, Zillah Stone, has Group-level involves ensuring that we operate fairly at all times and do not permit oversight of wider CSR activities through chairing the CSR Steering discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment on the Committee.
This Steering Committee includes representatives from each of basis of race, religion or belief, colour, gender, disability, national origin, age, the operating businesses and has cross-functional representation.
military service, veteran status, sexual orientation or marital status.
This In 2009 the CSR Steering Committee examined the Groups includes giving full and fair consideration to suitable applications from approach to CSR and, after discussion with the Executive Management disabled persons for employment and making appropriate accommodations Committee, BBA Aviations Approach to CSR was reviewed and approved by so that if existing employees become disabled they can continue to be the Board in July.
For 2010 the Committee has set itself a programme of employed, wherever practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, projects, each targeting a particular area of CSR activity to improve and making every eff ort to fi nd suitable alternative employment and to provide develop.
BBA Aviations 2008 Corporate Social Responsibility Report We believe in instilling this commitment to fairness in our entire staff including our Approach to CSR can be found on the Companys website and require that all our employees abide by the highest standards of ethical www.
We also produced a poster version of the CSR Report conduct.
The training programme on our Code of Business Ethics which was in 2009 which was distributed to all our facilities and we plan to produce a updated in 2008 in conjunction with the revision of the Group Policies report and poster again in 2010.
Manual has continued to be rolled out across the USA in 2009 and in 2010 this The annual Control Risk Assessment questionnaire completed by training is to be supplemented in both the UK and the USA by e-learning each operating business includes questions on CSR matters which have been modules.
As well as the Code of Business Ethics, the Group Policies Manual revised to refl ect the updated Approach to CSR.
The responses will be includes policies on bribery and corruption, gifts and entertainments, reviewed and collated by Group Internal Audit and will be fed into the disclosure of unethical conduct, equal opportunities and anti-harassment development of future CSR action plans.
These plans will also be informed by guidelines and competition law.
Compliance with each of these policies and our monitoring of measures in each of our four key areas of focus Health and with the Groups procedures concerning the appointment and remuneration Safety, Environment, People and Community.
In 2009 these measures were of foreign agents is the subject of review as part of the ongoing BBA Aviation reviewed in the quarterly operating review meetings held by senior Internal Audit Programme and the eff ectiveness of these policies is monitored management with each business, building on our long-standing programme alongside the risk review process described in item 1 on page 50 Systems of of Group, business, company and location-based performance targets for Internal Control.
More details on Group policies and the procedures Health and Safety and Environmental metrics.
supporting them, including the 24-hour hotline available to all employees in We have been a member of the FTSE4Good index since BBA conjunction with the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy, are set Aviation plc was renamed after the demerger in 2006 and BBA Group plc had out in item 11 on page 51 Systems of Internal Control.
been a constituent of the index since 2001.
This index incorporates companies We provide our employees with various opportunities to obtain that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
We also information on matters of concern to them and to improve their awareness of participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
the fi financial and economic factors that aff ect the performance of the Company.
These include all hands briefi ngs, staff forums and meetings with Board Focus trade unions that take place throughout the year.
The Board welcomes the progress that has been made in 2009 in focusing on Corporate Social Responsibility as part of BBA Aviations broader business Community objectives.
BBA Aviations Approach to CSR document is another step in the Each of our sites and businesses recognises the importance of being a good embedding of CSR into the business operations of BBA Aviation and the Board neighbour and contributing to the community in which it operates.
BBA looks forward to the development of this approach in 2010.
