28 Corporate responsibility At Helical we recognise that our business activities impact on the As a result of the review, our key activities over the next year will environment and the wider communities in which we operate.
Over focus on: the past year we have been analysing the way that our business manages The introduction of aspirational strategic targets as well as environmental and social issues.
This has led us to the conclusion minimum standards across environmental and social impacts that we must focus on developing a robust and strategic approach to that address our most significant business risks.
embed environmental and social considerations into our business Improved measuring and monitoring of environmental and social operations.
Our priority as we move forward is to ensure that Helical is positioned Improved public disclosure through the Annual Report and on the to minimise the business risks of any adverse environmental and social Group website.
impacts from our investment, development and asset management activities as well as maximise the benefits that a strategic approach Delivery against our strategic targets.
to corporate responsibility can bring to the business.
Our approach Review of progress in the year to 31 March 2009 To date, we have largely focused on environmental impacts, and the setting of annual targets to monitor and report on progress.
After our We continue to manage our environmental and social impacts in the last assessment of progress in the year to 31 March 2008, we took belief that doing so can help us secure planning consent, improve asset the decision to review our overall approach to ensure that we are marketability, reduce the operating costs of our managed assets delivering maximum impact through our work in this area.
and also mitigate the risk of future legislation and regulation.
A selection of last years highlights are described below.
Helical commissioned Jones Lang LaSalle to assist with this process, with two key objectives: 1 Employees To ensure that our stakeholders priorities particularly investors and joint venture partners are echoed in our approach to Helical Bar is committed to treating our employees equally and fairly.
As at 31 March 2009, we employed 24 people including executive Directors.
During the year to 31 March To continue listing in the FTSE4Good UK Benchmark Index 2009 we carried out reviews to a number of our key employee policies which we have been part of since 2001, using current and to ensure legislative compliance, notably our equal opportunities, future inclusion criteria as a basis to inform practical action.
whistle blowing and harassment and sexual discrimination policies.
The review concluded that: We also implemented revised maternity and anti-bribery policies.
There are no incidents to report against these policies to date.
The targets in the year to 31 March 2008 were focused on individual assets which enabled us to drive operational improvements.
We continue to maintain high levels of staff retention, and consequently Going forward, there is a need to bring these commitments together retain a highly skilled and experienced team.
This also reflects our as portfolio-wide aims to ensure consistency and to gain strategic ability to continue to offer a competitive remuneration and benefits value from our efforts.
In addition, we identified the need to package.
The table below shows a breakdown of the average broaden the scope of our strategy to include socio-economic length of service.
Total number Average length There are a number of immediate and medium-term priorities that of people of service years we need to address in order to meet and exceed shareholder Directors & management 9 14 expectations and drive true value from our activities in this area.
These include improved reporting on environmental performance Finance 7 7 and employee management, and a clear policy commitment on Administration 8 5 climate change.
Stakeholders felt that the flexibility of Helicals approach and business model was one of its core strengths and a key factor in its success to date: this should continue to be one of the key principles of our corporate responsibility strategy.
Stakeholders felt that there were a number of areas where we could make improvements in order to ensure greater consistency in responding to environmental and social challenges.
For example, establishing a set of minimum environmental standards for our development and refurbishment projects.
Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009 2 Health and safety We will integrate environmental considerations into the design of 29 new and refurbished buildings, seeking wherever possible to Helicals policy is to develop a culture throughout its organisation that is achieve good practice standards.
committed to the prevention of injuries and ill health to its employees or others that may be affected by its activities.
The Board of Directors We will prohibit the use of materials that have potentially and senior staff are responsible for implementing this policy and ensure hazardous effects, as well as tropical hardwood that has not that health and safety considerations are always given priority in come from sustainably managed sources.
planning and in day-to-day activities.
We will minimise the risks of pollution or contamination arising from our activities and seek to operate a good neighbours, policy, particularly during construction or demolition.
3 Community investment We will seek to reduce the adverse environmental impacts Helical takes a strong interest in community issues.
Community associated with our own office management practices and engagement is an on-going concern throughout the development procurement policies.
process, from planning until development completion.
At our Bramshott Place development in Liphook, for example, we have We will communicate effectively with our contractors, consultants signed up to the Considerate Constructors Scheme which follows a and agents, as well as our tenants wherever practical, in order to strict code of practice in relation to construction impacts such as help and encourage them to meet our environmental standards noise, vehicle movements and community liaison.
and improve their own environmental performance.
The following examples also demonstrate how community We will monitor and review our performance against our engagement has benefited the communities that we work within: environmental objectives on a regular basis in order to demonstrate that we are achieving the standards that we set We recently completed a wide ranging consultation for our ourselves and ensure their ongoing appropriateness.
proposed development at 200 Great Dover Street involving the local community which resulted in reducing the height of the Practical action proposed building, making alterations to the facade design to Our approach to environmental management is pragmatic, practical integrate it better into its surroundings and altering ground floor and tailored according to individual assets or projects.
We continue to uses from retail to flexible mixed-use space.
comply with environmental legislation as a minimum and go beyond where it is practicable to do so.
The following examples provide an In Exeter, as part of our planning application for the St Loyes overview of some of our environmental initiatives in the year to 31 College scheme, we have been working closely with a local leisure March 2009: and football club, located within one of the most deprived residential wards in England.
As part of our s106 contribution we are discussing Bramshott Place, Liphook: In partnership with Urban Renaissance a package of benefits that will enable the club to invest in the Villages we recently received planning consent to develop 147 future of its junior football teams through improved pitch and retirement homes to the Eco-Homes 2006 Excellent Standard.
The units will produce between 10 and 12% of their own energy sources from solar heating.
Furthermore, water harvesting systems At a corporate level we continue to support charitable causes.
Over have been sensitively incorporated into the scheme to support the past year we have donated 14,400 to charity including UNICEF landscaping.
To reduce car dependency, we will be introducing a and Land Aid.
Helical Bar continues its involvement with Land Aid village bus to transport residents to and from the local and our Chief Executive Michael Slade is a trustee of the charity.
Shepherds Building and 61 Southwark Street, London: 4 Environment Following an energy audit at Southwark Street which highlighted Policy and objectives recommendations for energy savings, low cost energy efficiency We recognise our responsibility to reduce any adverse environmental measures such as lighting sensors have been fitted at both impacts arising from our business activities.
The Groups full buildings in common areas.
Larger capital investments have also environmental policy can be found on the website.
The following been made to replace old plant and machinery including boilers, environmental objectives ensure that we address our key water pumps and pressure vessels which has resulted in improved environmental impacts throughout the property process: energy efficiency.
In acquiring new properties, we will investigate pollution and other environmental risks as part of our due diligence procedures.
5 Suppliers We will limit our consumption of natural resources, including Fair treatment of suppliers remains a key priority for Helical, energy and water in an attempt to maximise efficiency and particularly in challenging market conditions.
The Groups policy minimise waste.
is to settle all agreed liabilities within the terms established with We will pay particular attention to good waste management suppliers.
During the year to 31 March 2009, the average payment practices, seeking to reduce, re-use and recycle before disposing period to suppliers was 29 days.
of the rest according to the best practicable environmental option.
We will take care to protect landscape and biodiversity and try to Board responsibility improve the quality of these wherever practical.
Board level responsibility for employment, health and safety, community and environmental issues lie with the Groups Chief We will be mindful of the transport associated impacts of our Executive, Michael Slade.
developments and investments and attempt to promote more sustainable forms of travel to and from properties.
For further information on our approach to corporate responsibility, please visit our website www.
Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009
