Bellway p. l. c. 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Responsibility Policy Commitment Through sustainable building we aim to create new communities and lasting environments for people now and in the future.
Bellway believes that its reputation is critical work towards recognised good practice in report regularly to the Board and external p p to the creation of long-term value for its sustainability and corporate responsibility.
stakeholders on performance using shareholders.
We recognise that financial sustainability indicators.
treat all employees fairly and invest in p success is reinforced by our behaviour training for the long term to bring out the The following structure has been put in place beyond the balance sheet.
Protecting and best in our people.
to achieve these commitments: enhancing our reputation and social licence to operate is a significant element of sustained provide a healthy and safe environment in the Chief Executive is responsible for this p p financial success.
which to work through an effective health policy and advises the Board on all and safety management system.
At Bellway, the term Corporate Responsibility describes how we manage the environmental, demonstrate continual improvement in the Chief Executive is supported by the p p social and economic effects of our business our approach to sustainable developments Sustainability Management Working Group and how these affect our employees, in both design and practice.
which includes senior employees from customers, shareholders, suppliers, the across the Group who are responsible for recognise and respond to the challenges p communities where we work and the the development and review of this policy.
and opportunities that are presented by environment that we operate in, and goes climate change.
the financial directors or managers of each p beyond our legal or regulatory obligations.
regional division are responsible for This policy sets out how we will operate invest in the communities we develop in p implementation and reporting on and drives the Groups corporate a way that contributes to local community performance.
Bellway is committed to reporting annually Through Bellways commitment to corporate manage our environmental footprint and p on its approach to corporate responsibility responsibility we will: aim to enhance our performance in areas and has established key performance where we operate, particularly in relation engage and respond to stakeholders, p indicators to enable others to judge our to energy and waste.
This policy does not replace customers, government and communities consider and respond to the social and existing policies on environment, health and p that we affect.
safety and wood procurement, but has been environmental effects of the homes we develop and communities that we create.
developed to work in conjunction with them.
comply with all relevant legislation as a p All policies are available on the Bellway minimum standard.
improve internal and external awareness of p website www.
co. uk and are our corporate responsibility programmes reviewed annually.
p Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Bellway p. l. c. 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Bellway p. l. c. 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Rubicon, London Borough p of Greenwich.
pp This year we have re-used 13,843 s tonnes of demolition material on our sites.
Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Bellway p. l. c. 15 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 2009 Corporate Responsibility Statement As one of the largest developers of new homes in the UK we realise that Bellway has a significant role to play in combating climate change and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Climate change is one of the biggest The Code measures the sustainability of a All Bellway sites operate Site Waste challenges facing society today.
It is clear that home against nine specific design criteria Management Plans.
These plans help to the way we manage our businesses and live including the use of renewable energy, the reduce the amount of waste produced our lives will have a profound affect on future inclusion of water conservation systems and which means less waste is sent to landfill, less generations.
Managing the energy used in our the promotion of greener transport options.
energy is used in transporting waste and homes and the way they are constructed will It is intended to minimise the environmental more materials are recycled.
This year we play a significant role in limiting greenhouse effects of the construction process and help have saved more than 550,000 in landfill tax gas emissions.
combat climate change and has been geared by re-using 13,843 tonnes of demolition to improve the environmental credentials of material on our sites.
As one of the largest developers of new homes over the long term.
In meeting the homes in the UK we realise that Bellway has We measure our improvements in waste Codes requirements we have installed 242 a significant role to play in combating climate management in terms of skips used per solar panels and 23 heat pumps.
Water-saving change and reducing greenhouse gas home sold.
Last year we reported that 4.3 devices in a typical Bellway home will save emissions.
skips had been used per home sold, this year 103 litres per person per day.
we have improved upon that measure and Recognising our responsibilities we have For several years Bellway has built a large have reduced the figure to 3.6 skips per developed the following five strategic percentage of its production in timber frame.
In addition to managing site waste, principles that steward our day-to-day Timber is a renewable material and we all our offices recycle ink cartridges and activities: estimate that for every timber frame home segregate waste paper.
protection of the environment in which we build we save about four tonnes of CO2 p The general public are becoming increasingly about the same amount produced by driving we are working.
aware of the need to reduce waste and, in 14,000 miles.
some sites, we have been able to introduce prudent use of natural resources.
p In addition to energy savings in the home, waste segregation facilities in kitchens or creating environments that have the p when planning new sites we take into communal recycling facilities in apartment potential to add to economic growth and account transport considerations and, where schemes.
possible, offer alternative options such as car In 2004 we introduced our Dont let your clubs and cycling to work schemes.
This year social considerations that recognise the p home get away with it campaign and sent 174 of our sites have been developed within needs for a changing and advancing all our customers good practice guidelines 500 metres of a transport node and over population.
detailing simple household management 2,211 homes have access to a cycle store.
practices they could follow that would benefit the development of communities that will p The careful management of waste can result the environment.
This campaign is still running endure and where people will aspire to live.
in significant benefits to the environment as today with all Bellway hand-over packs The construction industry was one of the well as cost savings.
Bellway recognised some containing a list of good practice guidelines first sectors to be affected by the tightening time ago the importance of managing waste which we encourage our buyers to follow.
of credit markets, and for Bellway, this year efficiently and has steadily been making has been one of consolidation.
improvements to the way we manage our site waste.
This is particularly important as Notwithstanding this, we have continued to the current landfill tax will rise from 40 per make good progress in delivering more tonne to 73 per tonne by 2013. homes that meet higher sustainability standards.
In line with our Climate Change Policy, we have delivered 428 homes to Code Level 3, which represents an increase of 380 over the corresponding period of 2008.
Bellway p. l. c. 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 2009 Corporate Responsibility Statement continued A donation from Bellway supported the f Great North Air Ambulance.
ff This year 84% of the land we developed was The health and safety of our staff, During the year we have also engaged our brownfield, and over many years we have sub-contractors, and those visiting our employees in a local initiative and offered built a successful track record for our developments is of the utmost importance them a cycle to work scheme enabling them regenerative capabilities.
During the year we have instigated a to make substantial savings on the purchase the most challenging environments we have number of awareness campaigns to improve of a new bicycle.
For employees with young returned derelict and deprived problem areas site safety.
We are pleased to report that we children we have also provided childcare back to the community.
Where we are have had no injuries on site involving broken vouchers which can be used towards the working in North Solihull the physical bones, as a consequence of regular tool box cost of childcare, saving an employee around regeneration aims to improve the entire area talks, focusing on ladder campaigns to 900 per year.
through the provision of new housing.
The eliminate the risk of falls from height and Bellway employees make a very real business plan with our partners is shaped so working with the Health and Safety Executive difference to the communities in which they that the land receipts are recycled and money to bring greater awareness to working with work and we are proud of the contribution is ploughed back into the community which quick hitch buckets on excavators.
Our our own staff make to many voluntary benefits local residents.
overall performance has improved for the organisations around the country.
Regular fourth consecutive year lost time accidents We are particularly pleased to have received initiatives such as dress down days, raffles and totalled 20, as opposed to 45 last year.
the Major Housebuilder of the Year award staff sponsorships result in valuable funding this year.
The award is judged by peers of the This year we have registered one in three of for a variety of charitable causes throughout industry and takes account of our approach our sites with the Considerate Constructors the country.
to customer satisfaction, design, sustainability, Scheme.
The Site Code of Considerate The building industry provides an important planning and health and safety awareness.
Practice commits us to ensure that during the source of employment across a broad range build process we are considerate and of specialist trades.
Despite the very difficult respectful good neighbours.
The scheme is economic environment we have sought to monitored independently taking into account maintain our base of skilled craftsmen site cleanliness, safety, environmental including 30 apprentice positions.
We have awareness and ensures that we are also now started to recruit workers on a accountable and responsible in the manner in limited scale and hope to continue building which we steward our site operations.
our workforce as the economic climate improves.
Major Housebuilder of the Year Considerate Constructors Scheme Bellway Homes was named Major Housebuilder of the Year The Considerate Constructors Scheme is the national initiative at the Building Awards 2009. set up by the construction industry to improve its image.
Sites and companies that register with the Scheme sign up to and are monitored against a Code of Considerate Practice, designed to encourage best practice beyond statutory requirements.
