Bellway p. l. c. 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Environmental Policy Statement Consideration We recognise that we have responsibilities to both limit damage to, and enhance, the environment.
Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Bellway p. l. c. 19 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Bellway Group is one of the largest housebuilders in the UK.
The housebuilding process affects the environment by the use of land and consumption of resources throughout the development process.
It is our objective to ensure that, at the conclusion of a development, an attractive and sustainable new environment has been created that will continue over time.
Bellway is one of the largest housebuilding recognise and respond to the challenges p groups in the UK.
The housebuilding process and opportunities that are presented by affects the environment by the use of land climate change.
and consumption of resources throughout In addition to our key commitments, the the development process.
It is our objective Group has identified a number of specific to ensure that at the conclusion of a priority areas which we will endeavour to development an attractive and desirable new achieve: environment has been created that will be sustainable over time.
consideration of environmental aspects in p the selection and procurement of land for Conservation strategies are an important i Recognising that we have responsibilities element in planning new developments to development, including implications for to both limit damage to, and enhance, the ensure the protection of wildlife.
We work biodiversity and sustainable development.
with ecologists to protect wildlife habitats.
environment, this statement sets out our policies for managing the environmental meeting and, where possible, exceeding p aspects across our business.
government targets for the redevelopment of brownfield land.
Key objectives are to: influencing the design of sites, housing, and p minimise any deleterious effects on the p fittings to minimise effects on both the environment and, where possible, to seek natural and built environment.
environmental enhancements, concentrating on areas where there is providing environmental benefits and p most room for improvement.
minimising nuisance arising from construction activities and preventing aim to meet and, where practicable, p pollution on development sites.
exceed all relevant environmental legislation and regulations.
consideration of environmental issues p within our corporate functions and improve our environmental performance.
p everyday business decision-making set specific environmental objectives and p processes.
targets and periodically review progress The above statement will be balanced against against these.
ensure that Bellways environmental aims p and their importance are communicated throughout the Group, including to appropriate sub-contractors and suppliers, and that a copy of this policy statement is displayed in each Bellway office and site.
consider the role that Bellway can play in p helping to contribute to the principles of sustainable development within the UK.
