40 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 coRPoRate social ResPonsiBility intRoduction coed darcy waste management Regeneration crosses the entire spectrum of the property industry Work is underway in South Wales to transform the site of a and impacts the environment, communities and individuals alike.
former refinery into a picturesque urban village of 4,000 homes, For us to continue to make a positive impact, we place great 500,000 sq ft of commercial space and 3,000 jobs.
emphasis on Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, seeking to excel in the following five key areas: In May 2008 the former Llandarcy oil refinery was purchased Sustainability and environment by St. Modwen from B. P. for a nominal sum.
This was the first time that BP had approached the open market to dispose of its Charities and awards disused sites.
Communities and partners Expected to take up to 25 years to complete, remediation works Employment and people are two years ahead of schedule and work has already started Health and safety on the first phase of development.
Recycling is the watchword on this project, where offsite disposal is seen as the absolute last sustainaBility and tHe enviRonment resort.
carbon Reduction commitment Before we began our remediation works approximately 2,000 From April 2010, the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme requires qualifying companies to measure, litres of oil were drained from the site per year.
In the last ten monitor and report their operating CO2 emissions and to buy months alone 500,000 litres of oil have been recovered to be allowances from the government for each tonne of CO2 produced.
converted to recycled fuel oil.
Year one of the scheme to April 2011 will be a reporting year only In addition, 10 kilometres of pipeline has been removed and to establish baselines.
Subsequent years will require allowances to sent for recycling, including 8,500 tonnes of steel and 220 be bought in advance to cover companies projected emissions.
So far 2.1m cu ft of concrete have been As a qualifying company, we recognise that CRC has a positive role crushed, ready for reuse within the site for structural fill.
A to play in maintaining the value of our portfolio.
By improving the use has even been found for the contaminated sludge 3.5m way we track our carbon emissions, and providing the appropriate cu ft of which is likely to be turned into topsoil through bio incentives to put into place mitigation measures across our remediation.
portfolio, the scheme will enable us to benefit from our leadership in some of these areas and to expand our reach into others.
The vast scale of this project helps our drive for low energy processes, as there is ample room to treat materials on site waste management thereby reducing truck movements, and eliminating off-site Landfill is the principal mode of waste disposal in the UK.
We have tipping at landfills.
long recognised that landfill sites are a finite resource, and that A sustainable approach has also been taken to importing reliance on land filling is unsustainable and a potential source of material for backfilling and landscaping.
A local drift mine the greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide and methane.
is supplying around 1.75m cu ft of blasted rock that would As a result, we have chosen not to rely on landfill by actively otherwise be sent to landfill.
This will be used on the site to minimising waste production and disposal across all of our sites create development platforms.
via the implementation of an effective waste management system.
Since 2008, all of our sites with a construction value of over Key Facts: 250,000 have required a detailed Site Waste Management Plan.
The Coed Darcy project runs until 2026, by which time 4,000 residential units and 500,000 sq ft of commercial development will have been constructed, along with community centres, schools and a hospital.
Infrastructure improvements include improvements to Junction 43 of the M4 and the construction of a southern link road.
Coed Darcy is being developed through a partnership of local and national interests.
Neath Port Talbot Council and The Princes Foundation for the Built Environment have joined with us to form a site management company, to protect and deliver the vision of the scheme.
co. uk Below The bitumen terminal at coed Darcy which was demolished in 2009.
indd 41 02 03 2010 11:45 42 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 Below etruria valley, stoke-on-Trent: coRPoRate social ResPonsiBility continued 95% of materials arising from demolition are reclaimed for re-use on our sites.
co. uk Remediation and re-use of land Careful re-use of land helps to minimise the impact of previously example: wembley central undeveloped greenfield sites.
It is no wonder, therefore, that the In Wembley, we have refurbished an underused office remediation of land for redevelopment is one of the most important development and a derelict multi-storey car park as part of aspects of regeneration.
our regeneration of the area.
The existing six floors of office accommodation has been downsized to two with the remaining Almost 100% of our building activity occurs on brownfield sites and we are proud to be the UKs leading expert in brownfield four, and a further floor being constructed on top, converted development, remediation and regeneration.
This rewarding into new residential accommodation.
The car park has been and important work involves us cleaning up the landscape and refurbished with substantial improvements made to the transforming derelict, disused or contaminated sites into thriving lighting and ventilation to create a more welcome and safer communities and business destinations that provide homes, jobs environment in keeping with the newly-transformed retail and and a brighter environment.
It is valued highly by our clients and residential areas of our scheme.
partners who trust us to remove the risk from their former sites and leave a legacy to be proud of.
Reclamation We employ the most sustainable and technically advanced Where demolition is unavoidable, we ensure that as many of the remediation methods, ranging from pumping out hydrocarbon materials as possible are reclaimed and re-used on site, either as spillages, to baking the soil and employing innovative hard core or integrated into the design of the new development.
biodegradation techniques whereby micro-organisms are used to Across our entire portfolio an average of 95% of the demolition clean up the soil.
materials arising are re-used on site in this way.
Through re use and reclamation, we reduce the need for mining for new example: Biotraps at longbridge construction materials and their physical transport onto site.
We We have been investigating and using innovative ground also minimise unnecessary waste and off-site disposal.
remediation solutions at the 468 acre Longbridge development in Birmingham.
example: llanwern, newport An excellent example of our reclamation of materials is at the This has included the use of BioTraps: passive sampling former Llanwern Corus steelworks site in Newport, South devices to collect actively growing bacteria from groundwater.
Combined with DNA testing, these devices detect bacteria with Wales.
Here we are progressing steadily with the remediation genes that enable them to degrade naturally organic pollutants works and to date, have reclaimed an impressive amount of raw present in the ground, left over from the sites former use as a materials including 1,500 tonnes of iron ore, 3,000 tonnes of car manufacturing facility.
copper, 150,000 tonnes of steel and 400,000 tonnes of concrete.
Although extensively used in the USA, BioTrap technology is new to the UK and the study carried out at Longbridge was the sustainable materials first of its kind in the country.
We provide carefully designed sites with high quality buildings and look for the most environmentally effective solutions for our The BioTrap studies at Longbridge provided clear evidence that occupiers in terms of the whole life cost.
We take several factors bacteria capable of degrading organic pollutants are present into consideration: and active in the site, enabling more sustainable, low cost remediation solutions.
We use as many renewable materials as possible for example timber framed windows and linoleum flooring in preference to PVC.
Reusing buildings Both modern and older buildings, even if unused or underused, We assess the embodied energy of materials energy used in are a valuable resource.
If minimal energy and materials are their production against their effectiveness in keeping a building required to make a building safe, habitable and efficient in energy warm in winter and cool in summer for example metal usage, r usage, r ecy ecycling an e cling an exis xisting building c ting building can be mor an be more sus e sust tainabl ainable than e than cladding has low embodied energy, a high recycled content and r rebuilding.
c can be r an be recy ecycl cled at the end of its useful lif ed at the end of its useful life.
Ho e. How we ev ver, a c er, a concr oncret ete e or brick c or brick c or brick c or brick c avity wall s avity wall s avity wall s avity wall structur tructur tructur tructur e has a higher thermal mas e has a higher thermal mas e has a higher thermal mas e has a higher thermal mass, which s, which s, which s, which The r The r The r The r The r e-use of buildings r e-use of buildings r e-use of buildings r e-use of buildings r e-use of buildings reduc educ educ educ educes the envir es the envir es the envir es the envir es the environment onment onment onment onmental c al c al c al c al cos os os os osts of ener ts of ener ts of ener ts of ener ts of energy, gy, gy, gy, gy, can help to achieve a natural ventilation strategy.
wat wat water and building mat er and building mat er and building mat erials, minimising the envir erials, minimising the envir erials, minimising the environment onment onmental al al impacts of the fide impacts of the fide impacts of the fide impacts of the dev v v vel el el elopment.
Our designs utilise standard sizes of building materials to avoid waste and off-site fabrication methods to reduce material use.
The l The l The long-t ong-t ong-term natur erm natur erm nature of the fide e of the fide e of the dev v vel el elopment plans f opment plans f opment plans for many of or many of or many of our sit our sit our sit es oft es oft es often enabl en enabl en enable us t e us t e us to l o l o lease the e ease the e ease the exis xis xisting ac ting ac ting acc c commodation, ommodation, ommodation, W We empl e emplo oy a highl y a highly skill y skill ed t ed team of sus eam of sust tainability advisor ainability advisors t s to o refurbishing if required, while we progress the longer-term r re evie view mat w material sel erial selections and advise on alt ections and advise on alternativ ernatives that off es that off er er solution through the planning system.
In this way we do not take enhanc enhanced envir ed environment onmental perf al performanc ormance.
e. the step of demolishing buildings unless absolutely necessary.
indd 43 02 03 2010 11:45 44 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 coRPoRate social ResPonsiBility continued sustainability targets example: green court, our new south west regional office We adopt a long-term approach to achieving and improving our Our new BREEAM excellent rated regional office has been sustainability targets.
A review of our targets will see us focus on designed to showcase St. Modwens ability to deliver buildings the following areas for 2010: with high environmental credentials.
Reduction in energy use particularly energy derived from the The building has been designed to be naturally ventilated with burning of non-renewable fossil fuels.
We have added to our automatic opening windows linked to a Building Management targets a requirement for 10% renewable energy sources in new System allowing for night-time cooling which, coupled with building projects.
a high thermal mass, maintains a comfortable temperature Use of buildings greater focus on the cost in use of buildings throughout the day.
and the potential value this creates.
During 2010 we will offer Maximum use is made of natural daylight.
Intelligent lighting energy in use calculations to enable new occupiers to maximise control systems help to reduce the energy consumption of their buildings efficiency.
the building whilst solar control glazing, brise soleil and a Waste recycling the target of recycling construction waste has substantial roof overhang reduce the solar gain to prevent the increased from 60% in 2009 to 75%.
Transport more environmentally friendly forms of transport High insulation levels help to reduce the heating energy use and and locally sourced labour materials will be given greater hence CO2 emissions.
All building products have been vetted for consideration in 2010.
We will stipulate in all specifications the their environmental impact.
use of local labour and travel plans for contractors who work on Completed in June 2009 the building has performed well our remediation, infrastructure and building projects.
through a warm summer and cold winter delivering energy New initiatives we will continue to look at cleaner ways of savings in excess of 20% over a standard office building.
generating electricity, using renewable energy sources such as wind power, solar power, bio fuels and geothermal energy.
sustainable workforce Enhancing our sustainability needs the commitment to improving environmental performance at both the corporate and local level.
Standards are set at Head Office and we ensure that our project teams follow best practice in sustainable development.
We work with some of the worlds leading environmental and sustainability specialists who ensure that we are implementing leading edge techniques and that we are able to disseminate our best practices across all of our schemes.
2009 TARGET 2009 ACHiEVEd SUSTAinAbLiTY % % Remediated materials re-used or recycled 96% 99% Demolition products reclaimed for retention on site or recycling 90% 94% Construction project waste re-used or recycled 60% 75% Energy consumption better than required by building regulations.
25% 100% Building projects with at least 10% of power from a renewable energy source 5% 33% Schemes with water usage reduction technologies 100% 100% Schemes with water recycling technology 30% 36% on speculative projects in excess of 50,000sq.
ft for industrial buildings and 25,000 sq.
ft for offices For our current building programme for 2010, we will achieve BREEAM excellent on our two college projects.
At the new Warwickshire College the following sustainability measures are being incorporated into the scheme: 100% of the remediated material will be recycled or re-used Energy consumption better than required by building regulations The following renewable energy solutions will be provided Water usage reduction technologies Wind turbine and photovoltaic cells Recycling of all recyclable construction waste Ground and air source heat pumps Combined heat and power unit 16949 24 02 10 Proof 14 16949STMODWEN.
co. uk cHaRities and awaRds example: three Peaks challenge the st. modwen environmental trust St. Modwens North Staffordshire office employees and business The Trust is a fund established to provide support to community contacts raised almost 12,000 in 2009 for the Donna Louise and environmental projects.
It is affiliated to the Governments Childrens Hospice in Stoke-on-Trent by completing the Three Landfill Tax Credit Scheme LTCS and is regulated by ENTRUST.
Our Environmental Trust is run by a board of trustees comprising representatives from the board of the company and a majority We would like to say a massive thank you and well done to of independent trustees who have experience in environmental everyone who took part in the Three Peaks Challenge.
delighted with the money that has been raisedIt costs around 400 per day per child to receive much needed respite care and the The Trust seeks to support environmental, historic building money raised by the St. Modwen teams will help us provide around and public amenity schemes that have enduring and long-term benefits, and a high level of public engagement.
The Trust largely 28 days of care it makes a huge difference!
operates by funding projects where alternative funding is unlikely Melanie Mills, Head of Fundraising & PR to be available, targeting not-for-profit organisations such as for the Donna Louise Trust community groups, and charities who themselves are initiating the relevant projects.
In 2009 we have committed over 115,000 to helping nine individual projects across the UK.
example: RsPB, faxfleet nature Reserve The trust awarded 7,000 to the RSPB for the restoration of the Faxfleet Pond Nature Reserve which is situated close to our 116 acre Melton Business Park development in Hull.
The money for the Nature Reserve a freshwater wetland will help to maintain the natural habitat of rare and threatened wildlife.
The work is also expected to attract and encourage Our excellence, skill and commitment to regeneration, development, other animals and insects to the Reserve including dragonflies, sustainability and communities continued to win recognition in 2009, damselflies and the secretive and rare water shrew.
a year in which we won the following prestigious awards: Finding the money to carry out the management and restoration Property week midlands developer of the year 2009 of such small wetland sites can be often very difficult so we are extremely grateful to The St. Modwen Environmental Trust for its Awarded to our Midlands office in recognition of their broad portfolio generous donation towards the cost of the work we can now of schemes designed to help revitalise and improve the commercial attractiveness of key locations across the region.
Success criteria ensure that both the wildlife and local village residents can enjoy included demonstrating pioneering new techniques, management the ponds wildlife for many years to come.
systems, quality architecture and innovative forms of funding.
Pete Short, RSPB Humber Sites Manager energy institute environmental award In addition to those causes we have helped via the St.
This award recognises the importance of environmental issues Modwen Environmental Trust, other charities and community in todays society.
This accolade was awarded to our Coed Darcy organisations with whom we have worked closely in 2009 scheme in South Wales, as the best new initiative to benefit the include the Donna Louise Trust, Coombs Wood Scout Group, the environment, having also shown management commitment and Race for Life and Trentham Watersports Association.
good prospects for wider application and sustainability.
indd 45 02 03 2010 11:45 46 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 coRPoRate social ResPonsiBility continued communities and PaRtneRs example: aReva, staffordshire delivery In March, we consulted extensively with Stafford residents Our seven regional offices provide us with national, regional and and other key stakeholders prior to submitting a planning local knowledge, presence and expertise.
Our ability to supply application to redevelop AREVA T&Ds current premises into a this hands-on, local approach means that our regular partners 55m, 350,000 sq ft business and science park.
The application local authorities, key Government stakeholders, community was submitted in May and received planning permission in July.
groups and commercial organisations continue to select us as their preferred developer to bring about important regeneration Over 200 people attended our two-day public consultation schemes across the country.
event, which was based on an open forum rather than formal In a difficult economic climate, we have remained realistic about presentation.
Information and images illustrating proposals for the deliverability and viability of our schemes.
We have treated the site were displayed with members of the St. Modwen and our partners and communities with the respect that they deserve AREVA T&D teams available to answer questions and receive and have refused to overpromise to secure short term and quick comments and feedback on the proposals.
wins: preferring instead to focus on the long term goal of scheme completion.
This approach may have initially given rise to a slowing As well as the formal public consultation event: down of certain schemes, but ultimately our determination and A specific website for the development was set up, patience, and that of our partners, will be rewarded.
We are now one of a very small number of developers on site with major Over 1,000 letters were sent out, together with a series of developments across the UK and as we see many of our other press releases, and schemes coming back to life, we are in a strong, financially robust A two week public exhibition was held in the Guildhall position to deliver them.
Shopping Centre in central Stafford.
community consultation We appreciate fully that, for our developments to be truly sustainable, we must provide opportunities for the local community to become involved in decisions that concern their future.
Therefore, we place significant value on public consultation which can enhance the quality of our developments by: Bringing valuable local knowledge to bear: Encouraging links with local contractors, suppliers and labour: and Leading to greater and wider understanding of our development.
community investment public realm Sustainable development doesnt stop with the site, it is about providing a complete solution for the entire community.
This is why w why we activ e activ el ely inv y inves est in the c t in the communities in which w ommunities in which we build via e build via our c our c our c our c our c our c our commitment t ommitment t ommitment t ommitment t ommitment t ommitment t ommitment to the design, l o the design, l o the design, l o the design, l o the design, l o the design, l o the design, look and f ook and f ook and f ook and f ook and f ook and f ook and feel of public r eel of public r eel of public r eel of public r eel of public r eel of public r eel of public realm the ealm the ealm the ealm the ealm the ealm the ealm the public spac public spac public spac public spaces and amenities that f es and amenities that f es and amenities that f es and amenities that f orm an import orm an import orm an import orm an important part of our ant part of our ant part of our ant part of our schemes.
co. uk We are committed to equal opportunities for all employees from example: wembley central, new public square recruitment and selection through to training and development, We opened the new public square, which is the centrepiece of appraisal and promotion to retirement.
Everyone receives equal the first phase of our 90m redevelopment at Wembley Central, treatment regardless of their gender, colour, ethnic or national in the summer.
It provides some much needed open public origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
space to Wembleys thriving high street and has created a much more pleasant and safer environment for the local community social inclusion to enjoy, as well as providing a natural meeting place for Over their lifecycle, our regeneration and development projects will help to trigger economic growth and create job opportunities for shoppers, residents and visitors to the town centre.
thousands of people across the UK.
In addition to the employment The opening of this public square marks an important milestone opportunities generated by people and businesses moving into our for Brent Council and St. Modwen.
We look forward to the new schemes, there are also thousands of construction jobs created as square being used as a place for the local community to come the projects are developed.
The opening of the new shops is a sign of the markets We seek to work closely with local communities throughout confidence in Wembley and something which local residents have our period of involvement with a scheme to ensure that these looked forward to.
We look forward to working with St. Modwen opportunities are fairly distributed and accessible to all.
to bring an exciting calendar of events to the square for residents, shoppers and visitors.
example: social inclusion at longbridge Councillor Paul Lorber, Leader of Brent Council We encourage the employment of local people.
As part of the 1 billion regeneration of Longbridge, where we expect to create up to 10,000 new jobs, we are working very closely with the Employment Access Team EAT : an organisation comprising Birmingham City Council, the Learning and Skills Council and Jobcentre Plus.
St. Modwens support and participation in the EAT partnership will help to ensure that local people can benefit from and secure access to, the new employment opportunities that arise from the Longbridge development both during and beyond its 15 year project lifecycle.
A key aim of this work is to get long-term unemployed people back into the workforce and to give local residents genuine access to training and jobs on the Longbridge development site.
emPloyment and PeoPle our commitment to employees It is because of the skill, dedication and efforts of our employees Health and safety that we have become the quality business we are today.
We The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for our health and understand that it is vital to look after our employees and reward safety policy.
By adopting this top down approach, safeguarding each of them accordingly.
In the current difficult economic climate the health and safety of our employees, suppliers, the public and we have been forced to make some difficult decisions, but have broader community alike sits at the top of our corporate agenda.
sought to preserve our core skilled workforce, even if that has We do not normally carry out any construction work on site meant certain short-term sacrifices by our employees.
The directly, therefore the health and safety procedures adopted by co-operation and willingness which has been shown during this our contractors form a key part of our supplier selection, and are difficult time bears great testimony to the loyalty and qualities of rigorously tested and monitored.
Consistent with previous years, we continued to produce equal opportunities excellent results in 2009 with no fatalities and no prosecutions As a responsible employer we are duty bound to set an example to for breaches of health and safety, placing us in the upper our customers, suppliers and all other organisations with whom quartile of our sector in this area.
