26 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility BlackLining Demo DELIVERING ON OUR PRINCIPLES A FORWARD-LOOKING AND SUSTAINABLE APPROACH.
This is providing us with a recognised and Customers and marketplace respected policy framework for our work We are a focused European textile and progress with regard to corporate maintenance business providing workwear, responsibility.
We have also since joined linen, facilities and direct sales services, the Global Compacts UK Network and allowing our wide and diverse customer attend meetings with fellow professionals BlackLining Demo base to focus as they need to on the at which updates on Global Compact management of their core business related projects are shared.
Having only Peter Ventress deliverables.
relatively recently joined the Compact Chief Executive these are particularly useful to us.
Our customers demand the highest standards of products and service: they In October 2009 we distributed an initial We continue to maintain a forwardneed us to be continually improving our fact nding questionnaire to all of our looking and sustainable approach product range, sourcing the products that business units in order to gather further to managing our business.
We invest they need, providing the highest standards information about how they are applying for the long-term in our employees of cleanliness, reliable and timely when we each of the Compacts ten principles.
and in our operational initiatives that collect and deliver, exible in the services We are using the information collected importantly both reduce the impact that we offer, while at the same time to identify what should be our immediate of our operations on the environment following appropriate operational and areas of focus.
As expected by the and reduce our cost base.
We recognise Compact we aim to provide our first the importance of establishing and We recognise the areas that are likely to Communication on Progress by the end maintaining strong partnerships with our have an impact on the long-term value of January 2011. customers.
In the main we therefore of the group.
How we engage with our The importance of CR continues commit to our customers with contracts stakeholders employees, customers, to be recognised by the board and of at least three years, although healthcare partners, investors and community greatly BlackLining Demo it acknowledges its responsibility in contracts may be longer.
We know the in uences how successful we are now and establishing and updating the CR policies importance of understanding our how successful we will be in the future.
that are distributed throughout the group.
We achieve Our aim is to be ahead of each of our These policies speci cally cover ethics, this through both the day-to-day contact stakeholders expectations.
There are the environment, our employees and the that we have with our customers, for a number of corporate responsibility CR communities in which we operate.
The example through our transport staff who related key performance indicators that board has determined that responsibility work on dedicated routes, and our key are regularly monitored across the group.
for CR policy implementation and customer account management teams The groups Major Injury Rate and Senior monitoring of compliance lies overall who have regular face to face contact.
Management Retention Rate are shown with the Chief Executive.
To support him on page 2 and on page 27 of this We recognise that our customers will be with this, as we maintain a decentralised Corporate Responsibility Report for each continually seeking to reduce the impact management structure, our local of our regions.
In January 2009 we were of their operations on the environment.
management teams take responsibility accepted as a participant in the United They depend upon us to adhere to certain for the implementation of the group CR Nations Global Compact.
standards and demand that we manage policies within their own jurisdictions.
the services that we provide in an This ensures that we take into account environmentally friendly way.
By focusing local cultures and legislation.
on re-usable products, washing in bulk The board regularly reviews the and continually optimising our washing management of corporate , we provide our customers with related issues.
the opportunity they need to reduce their impact.
We offer them an environmentally Accepted participant in the friendlier solution to their textile United Nations Global Compact maintenance requirements: in most We continue to work with our textile suppliers instances the ef cient industrialised to obtain con rmation that they are adopting process that we provide is more appropriate working practices in the areas of human rights, freedom of association and environmentally friendly than if our collective bargaining, child labour, compensation, customers had maintained their laundry discrimination and working against corruption.
27 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors BlackLining Demo Dialogue with our suppliers The Managing Director of each business Maintaining a motivated unit is responsible to the Chief Executive We believe it is paramount that our workforce driven by an for maintaining health and safety partners and suppliers are treated with experienced management team procedures appropriate for the respect and that we promote collaborative environment of that unit.
We are continually One of our key strategic objectives is responsibilities include providing safe reviewing our procedures and the to maintain high levels of operational systems of work: for example ensuring potential risks associated with using ef ciency, and so our senior management rotation of laundry operatives overseas suppliers.
It is important teams are continually striving to advance responsibilities to avoid fatigue, training on to us that our suppliers and their operational excellence.
Our senior machinery operation and manual handling sub-contractors adhere to the groups management teams motivate and to ensure correct lifting, and training on requirement for the provision of encourage our staff, who through their procedures for using laundry cages and appropriate labour standards regarding continued efforts drive our success.
Our employees are regularly employee age, working conditions and They are the people who interact with provided with training appropriate to their the general treatment of workers.
our customers, understand their needs roles and responsibilities and procedures As participants in the United Nations and provide the standards of service that and systems are documented in Global Compact we are continuing to are expected.
We therefore recognise handbooks or manuals.
We carry out work with our suppliers to ensure that that maintaining the strength of our periodic risk assessments at business units local legislation related to the minimum experienced management teams is very BlackLining Demo and invest in improvements to our safety working age is complied with.
We work important in delivering the standards that systems when and where required.
with and are in constant dialogue with our customers require and expect.
That is We regularly review our health and safety our direct suppliers, carrying out periodic why we monitor as a key performance procedures to ensure they re ect legislative reviews to assess compliance with the indicator the Senior Management or business sector changes and groups policies.
During 2009 we carried Retention Rate for each country and developments.
For example, during 2009 out just under 40 reviews at overseas region and for the group as a whole: in the UK we have responded proactively textile suppliers, including two revisits, statistics for 2007 to 2009 are shown in promoting initiatives to heighten driver in order to con rm the extent to which in the table below.
speed awareness, as well as providing appropriate standards were being them with advice on the use of mobile adopted.
All observations that we have Senior Management phones and hands free kits.
Speed limiters made to suppliers have been addressed.
Retention Rate 2007 2008 2009 in distribution vehicles are used broadly UK and Ireland 92% 100% 96% throughout the group.
Maintaining health Nordic 91% 96% 85% We have a robust reporting system and safety as a priority Continent 94% 77% 96% for use in the unfortunate occurrence of health and safety related incidents.
Group 93% 91% 92% We recognise that one of our key priorities Any such incidents are promptly reported is to provide our staff with a healthy and The number of Senior Management included in the calculation of the Retention Rate for 2009 has been increased to take into account changes in and investigated, and actions agreed BlackLining Demo safe working environment.
the management structure of both the group and individual business units.
to minimise the risk of such incidents Some of our employees work in a reoccurring.
Group incident statistics are production environment incorporating regularly collected and reviewed.
The table typically inherent risks.
Some are working below shows the 2007, 2008 and 2009 with industrial laundry machinery and Major Injury Rate for each of the UK and equipment and are involved in the Ireland, Nordic and Continent regions.
movement and transportation of textiles.
It is therefore of the utmost importance 1 Major Injury Rate 2007 2008 2009 to us that we maintain for our employees, UK and Ireland 0.36 0.42 1.07 as well as for customers and others affected by our activities, a high standard Nordic 0.00 0.19 0.58 of systems for health and safety.
Continent 1.00 0.40 0.58 Group 0.46 0.37 0.87 1 Major Injury Rate Number of Major Injuries Total Hours Worked x 1,000,000 In each of the three regions, and for the group as a whole, there has been an increase in the rate in 2009 compared to 2008.
It is not believed that this re ects a signi cant deterioration in the health and safety environment, t, rather increased management awareness and better reporting.
Investing in new safety equipment In the Netherlands management have purchased If an employee were unfortunately to Automated External Defribulators AEDs become disabled during the course of their r for all locations.
These allow a local first aider employment, every effort would be made to administer fast treatment to anyone who has to ensure that their employment with suffered a cardiac arrest.
The sooner help is provided using an AED the greater the chance the group continues and that where of survival.
considered necessary, appropriate retraining is arranged.
There were no instances during 2009 of an employee becoming disabled during the course of their employment.
28 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility continued BlackLining Demo Providing the right training This can range from uctuating seasonal Reducing our impact volumes in our hotel operations, to a The responsibility for staff training on the environment steadier trend in our garment divisions.
and recruitment lies with our business Given our many years of experience in We know that we operate in a business unitline management.
We focus on this industry we are able to readily predict that needs extensive use of utilities and induction training at all levels, individual demand uctuations and so are well natural resources.
We recognise the development plans and, where positioned to provide opportunities for environmental impact of our operations appropriate, cross-border transfers.
exible working arrangements that may and we understand the risks and We provide a mixture of on-the-job better suit individual circumstances, for opportunities associated with training for our operational, sales and example, for parents with young children these challenges.
service employees and leadership training and for those studying.
In recognising the potential environmental for our more senior staff.
We are We are geared towards the diverse nature impact of our operations, our business committed across the group to in-house of our workforce.
For example, the group units carefully monitor the occurrence of training and promotion of internal has a whistleblowing system by which any environmental spillages, leaks or other candidates.
We have established a series staff may, in con dence, raise concerns incidents.
Any such incidents would be of long-term incentive schemes for senior about possible wrongdoing in financial promptly reported to the executive board management at our business units.
reporting or other matters including and company board, as well as the General training and development plans BlackLining Demo breaches of our CR policies.
This system relevant local or national agency.
are designed to meet the expectations operates throughout the group in a During 2009 there were two minor of and prospects for our dedicated number of languages.
In the UK for spillage incidents.
instance, this system is at present available The working group that we established in 14 different languages.
During 2009, Valuing diversity in 2008, comprising representatives from four issues were raised by employees, all of our major business units, continues We currently operate in 15 countries, all of which related to personnel or to meet on a regular basis.
Their role encompassing a wide range of languages employee welfare concerns.
All of these continues to be to share and identify ways and cultures.
We value diversity in our concerns were promptly reviewed by in which our business units can reduce workforce and have a group-wide human management and appropriate action even further their use of water, energy resources and employee policy prohibiting was taken where required.
Their work also promotes discrimination against employees or improvement in the ways we measure and potential employees on any grounds.
It is Employee dialogue monitor the environmental impacts of our also our policy not to discriminate against It is our policy to maintain an ongoing operations.
The group has discussed and disabled persons, particularly regarding dialogue with our employees in local agreed the optimum machine set up for recruitment and selection, training, career operations, and to listen to their concerns the different types of laundry that we development and promotion.
Our local management teams operate garment, mat, garment and We continue to operate in a challenging actively address with our employees facility, hotel and restaurant, healthcare.
We employ a signi cant any day-to-day issues, although dialogue Business unit management have been number of migrant workers, although is also maintained at country level prompted to consider appropriate capital recent self-repatriation has caused us via staff associations and trade unions investments to align their laundries with to look at alternative labour sources.
Dedicated staff are dif cult to recruit and The extent to which we use utilities and retain, so it is important to our business Working with the community natural resources is really important to success that we continue to meet our Our operations recruit where they can us because of both increasing costs and employees needs and expectations, from their local communities: as a pending carbon emission legislation.
since they are key in meeting those consequence we recognise the importance We are continually looking at ways in of our customers.
of maintaining a strong local reputation which we can reduce our use of natural Our employees come from a wide range and have a group-wide policy that requires resources, both via process re-engineering of social and educational backgrounds, our businesses to respect all local cultures and optimisation, and capital investments with varying age pro les.
By providing employment that generate the greatest monetary that through recognising and valuing opportunities to members of our local savings with aggressively short payback the differences in our staff, we are better communities we re ect the diversity of periods.
To help us with our work in this positioned to attract and retain those that these communities within our workforce.
area, we follow the guidelines set out by we need.
The nature of our operations the European Textile Services Association, Many of our plants are in suburban requires exible working arrangements an industry body representing the textile areas, operating from early in the morning and shift patterns, through which we can rental services sector in Europe.
until late at night, and in some cases for often accommodate different individuals 24 hours.
We therefore carefully monitor lifestyle needs.
the impact our operations might have on local residents, particularly with regard to outdoor lighting, yard and vehicle noise, and pollution.
To ensure continuing close relationships, we maintain an ongoing dialogue with our neighbours, local authorities and councils, to discuss any issues that may arise.
29 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors BlackLining Demo Communicating with our people In Denmark monitors have been installed in the canteens at all plants.
These keep our staff informed about company news, including new customer wins, training opportunities and initiatives, employees of the month and voluntary projects.
We continue to recognise the following Optimising our use and disposal four areas as being of particular of detergents importance to us: We work closely with our detergent Water use: suppliers to nd ways to optimise our usage of detergents and decrease the Energy consumption: use of water in rinsing, as well as energy.
BlackLining Demo Use and disposal in ef uent of cleaning We have already progressed signi cantly detergents: and in this eld, for instance by installing water Transport-related energy consumption.
and heat recovery recycling systems that reduce the volume of detergent solids We use local plant performance indicators disposed of in ef uent.
These initiatives on water, electricity, chemicals and oil gas have typically resulted in a reduction in usage.
Our business units measure, detergent usage of approximately 10%.
monitor and report these monthly, comparing the latest results against those Shortening delivery distances budgeted.
Because these performance indicators are designed for business unit We are mindful of any future national managements bene t, they are not or local legislation in this area and are consolidated into Regional or Group continually working towards meeting and numbers and so they are not shown here.
We regularly review our vehicle routes to ensure the Water recovery most ef cient use of our eet resources and fuel while recognising customers We continue to use water recovery individual requirements.
systems in the majority of our operations, BlackLining Demo as they can reduce water consumption by between 20% and 25%, helping to preserve natural resources and at the same time controlling costs.
Installations continue at other locations where the bene t is seen to be suf cient.
Reducing heat and energy loss Our strategy to reduce heat and energy loss is to install new more ef cient technology in key parts of our operations, where most energy is used, and where there will be a signi cant environmental bene t. For our laundry operations this Decreasing the number typically means boilers and driers.
New of delivery vehicles technology has helped us control the During 2009 Sunlight has made modi cations use of energy by recycling hot water, to shift patterns, reallocated customers and recovering energy from boiler exhaust revised distribution patterns.
This has resulted in a decrease in the number of delivery vehicles gas, recovering heat from drier exhaust, of over 10%, lowering our cost base and monitoring tumbler temperatures to reducing the environmental impact of our optimise drying time and recovering high distribution procedures.
pressure steam for use elsewhere in the laundry process.
New technologies have typically reduced energy consumption by between 10% and 30%, depending on the operation concerned.
30 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 BlackLining Demo BlackLining Demo GOVERNANCE Governance 31 Corporate governance statement 35 Board of directors BlackLining Demo 40 Report on directors remuneration 47 Directors report 51 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements
