UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23 Learning and development we established our Property People and organisation Management learning and development programme through UNITEs ability to adapt to changing circumstances continues to our Training Academy in Birmingham.
This purpose built facility, be underpinned by a strong values-based culture which, together within our flagship student accommodation, is designed for with our commitment to first class people practices, makes our inducting and training our customer facing teams in the organisation a place to achieve a challenging, rewarding and consistent delivery of our customer service standards.
Leadership and learning featured heavily across the organisation through 2009 as new processes and ways of Leadership development we delivered a new programme to working were embedded to provide improved customer focus all managers on effective execution of strategy.
We continued throughout UNITEs buildings and working practices.
The role of our the roll-out of our core Leadership and Mentoring programmes people in delivering the strategic priorities of the business is clearly ensuring leadership excellence.
recognised through our approach to talent management and Performance management and reward through our Personal development.
Throughout 2009 we focused our organisational Development Plans, we developed a consistent approach to development approach around ensuring our organisation is performance measurement and management and clearly effectively designed to execute our strategy through the completion linked our reward structures to performance against key of our transformational change programmes.
Key initiatives included: strategic priorities.
Organisation design through both strategic and detailed Values competency model we used and further developed our organisation design initiatives, we redesigned the business core competency framework Job Fitness Model aligned to our around our core competencies of Development Management, values, for our business unit operations and support functions.
Property Management, Asset Management and Fund Management.
The detailed design work covered a number of Aligning our talent strategy to our business strategy to ensure areas including work processes, role accountabilities, information that we have the right mix of skills and expertise in senior roles.
flows, key interactions, decision boundaries and skills and We are committed to investing in high performing individuals capability requirements.
We also redesigned our key support who exert the greatest degree of influence on company functions Finance, HR, Procurement, IT to ensure lean, performance and we have tailored development plans for value-add support service delivery aligned to the goals of our potential successors.
We have added three new roles to our core business units.
Leadership Executive with a focus on developing our business for growth and engaging our people with our strategic goals.
Change management through the delivery of our Property Management and Development Management change Looking ahead programmes, we continued to instill effective change The Groups actions during 2009 have moved the business on management skills into our business.
These core skills will to a stronger footing.
Consequently it is now well placed to adapt stand us in good stead as we move to an environment of to a changing market environment and to take advantage of the continuous improvement and strategic evolution through 2010. opportunities that we expect to emerge as a result of funding cuts Employee engagement we continued to work hard to engage in UK Higher Education.
our people with the priorities and change required across the 2010 seems likely to be a period of further uncertainty for the UK business.
Our employee survey benchmarked our organisation economy, not least because of the impending election and lack of within the top 30% of UK companies.
UNITE also featured clarity regarding the impact and future of the Governments in the Britains Top Employers 2009 for Best Examples of stimulus package.
However, demand for student accommodation is based on Ensuring our strategy is clear from the boardroom to the front strong fundamentals and with the Groups sound financial base line we have embedded a high-quality business planning and established operating platform, it is well placed to weather process to provide individual employees with a clear line of sight any near term volatility and prosper for the long term.
Our framework ensures that we have an aligned set of goals and clear performance measures, with a more integrated risk and resource planning process.
