ENVIRONMENTAL AND BUSINESS REVIEW SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT AT THE HEART OF OUR BUSINESS Top 20 UK home builders overseen by a highSUSTAINABILITY REMAINS AT To refine this further over the past year, THE HEART OF BERKELEY pro le Executive Committee.
In October 2008, we asked a selection of our stakeholders we were ranked first in the benchmark for the The past year has been a period of about our reporting and which issues they unprecedented global economic turbulence, second year running.
FTSE4Good measures believed we should be addressing.
As a the performance of companies that meet with the UK homebuilding sector being result, we have prioritised the following particularly exposed to great uncertainty globally recognised corporate responsibility issues as being material to our strategy standards, and aims to promote investment and challenges.
Despite this, Berkeley and reporting.
remains passionate in its commitment to in those companies.
We are delighted that sustainability.
We have integrated principles our listing continued in the most recent of sustainability into our core business assessment which took place in March 2009, ECONOMIC strategy, both in terms of the day-to-day despite the introduction of more challenging Financial performance management of our business, and the requirements related to the management developments we build.
Indeed, our focus of our climate change impacts.
Customer satisfaction on brown eld development and long-term Local economy and job creation investment in complex mixed-use projects A RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH Supply chain management For us, the term sustainability describes re ects our passion and commitment to creating a legacy that we can be proud of.
our management of the environmental, social Housing quality and economic risks facing our business in a We believe that this strategy has given Berkeley a fide nitive competitive responsible and sustainable way.
Key to our sustainability strategy is our commitment to advantage over our peers.
ENVIRONMENTAL identifying and minimising these risks, and Climate change to operate ef ciently in order to create new Complete information on our sustainability impacts, actions and achievements can be opportunities.
Over the coming year we will Land use found on our website and in our Sustainability be working to further assess the complete Energy Report.
2009 will be the second successive range of financial, regulatory, reputational Water year we have been able to certify our and physical risks posed to our business by sustainability reporting to Level C of the the sustainability agenda, in order to fully Waste Global Reporting Initiative GRI Sustainability quantify their likelihood and signi cance.
Environmental performance Reporting Framework, including an even wider standards range of indicators than previously.
The GRI OUR MATERIAL IMPACTS In order to establish which sustainability Framework sets out principles and indicators Transport for measuring and reporting on economic issues were most pertinent to Berkeley and how best to disclose information relating to environmental and social performance in a balanced and transparent manner.
these in 2008, we applied a five part test for SOCIAL materiality recommended by AccountAbility.
Health and safety LEADING THE SECTOR These tests identified issues with the following characteristics: In April 2008, The Berkeley Group was Community engagement awarded the UKs prestigious Queens Award Direct short-term financial impacts Employees for Enterprise: Sustainable Development.
Prioritised previously through This award recognises companies which have our sustainability reporting and made outstanding advances in performance policy commitments or have a high level of continuous Identified by our peers as important and or achievement in sustainable development.
material to their business performance We were praised for our strong leadership, promoting best practice in the sector and Affect stakeholder decisions and behaviour embedding sustainability throughout the Embedded, or are expected to become entire business operations.
We also use two embedded, in regulation or legislation external benchmarks NextGeneration and FTSE4Good to help us guide our strategy and assess our performance relative to our peers.
NextGeneration is a benchmark of the R&A R&A PRINT.
indb 20 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:45:24 09:45:24 21 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GOVERNANCE We manage sustainability in a way that allows us to measure and understand our performance, learn lessons and share good practice across the business.
Our strategy is led by the Main Board, and supported by the Sustainability Governance Committee.
The Sustainability Governance Committee is made up of directors from across the Group and chaired by Rob Perrins, Group Finance Director.
This ensures that the sustainability strategy remains closely aligned A TWO WAY RELATIONSHIP with our business objectives.
To facilitate dialogue between the Board and each of the working divisions, there is Customers Residential Local Communities Employees and Commercial also a Group-level Sustainability Working Consultation during the Lets Talk and Lets Act Group, made up of representatives from Commissioning regular planning phase campaigns market research Providing local updates Training across the business.
This, in combination before and during construction Adhering to our Customer satisfaction surveys with Sustainability Working Groups held Involvement in comprehensive range of Pre-letting commercial at a divisional level, and project team charitable initiatives employee and health and property, and working meetings, helps to ensure the application with occupiers to Participating in safety policies of the sustainability strategy at an determine specification the Considerate operational level.
Issue-speci c forums Constructors Scheme also operate on a time-limited basis to address challenges and opportunities arising from key issues such as energy Contractors, Consultants Affordable Housing Investors and procurement.
and Suppliers Providers Reporting our financial and Building collaborative Building collaborative sustainability impacts on STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT our website and through the relationships relationships Engagement with our stakeholders publication of annual reports Management rules Delivering affordable housing Participation in surveys and communicate our is integral to the development of our requirements indices such as FTSE4Good strategy, and we communicate with Project evaluations and NextGeneration them in a variety of ways.
Providing responses to requests for information Government National, Non-Governmental Industry Bodies and Regional and Local Organisations Trade Associations and Research Responding to consultations Engaging with Organisations Using our practical experience industry bodies to pro-actively lobby on Sitting on relevant Participating in industrykey issues industry task groups wide initiatives Engaging with NGOs R&A R&A PRINT.
indb 21 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:45:24 09:45:24 BUSINESS REVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL AND BUSINESS REVIEW SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 22 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT [CONTINUED] AT THE HEART OF OUR BUSINESS Over the past year we have also committed 2008 09 PERFORMANCE LOCAL ECONOMY AND JOB CREATION Twenty six management and performance 11,132 homes to be built to Code Level 3 and We strive to contribute to the areas in which we 2 72,057m of commercial space to BREEAM targets guided our progress in 2008 09. work, not just through building homes but also Of these, we fully achieved sixteen targets, Very Good, which is equivalent to a 25% stimulating the local economy and creating improvement above Building Regulations for and partially met a further six.
We are long-term employment opportunities.
This delighted with this performance, energy improvement.
We have also reduced occurs both through the construction process our operational carbon emissions by 10%, which demonstrates our continuing and our completed mixed-use developments commitment to sustainability despite exceeding our target of 5%.
that go on to drive economic regeneration of tough market conditions.
This becomes even more pertinent HEALTH AND SAFETY during a time of economic downturn.
Here we provide a focus on our progress We are proud to have maintained our strong in four key areas: climate change, health Health and Safety performance, with an Our Armouries development at Royal Arsenal, and safety, waste and local economy and incident rate of 3.91 during 2008 09 compared Woolwich is estimated to create around 500 job creation.
Our Sustainability Report to the All Builder Average provisional of 6.1. construction jobs.
It is also estimated that provides a full assessment of progress 1,900 full-time equivalent jobs will be created against all our targets.
We believe this is in part due to our Good by the completed Warren development, Order campaign, which focuses on eliminating of which The Armouries forms a part, health and safety risk factors that may be the CLIMATE CHANGE and around 420 through the non-residential Climate change remains at the forefront of the cause of an avoidable accident on site.
Over space within The Armouries itself.
the past year, we have refined the Good Order UK sustainability agenda.
The homebuilding sector has a key role to play in helping to scoring criteria in order that we can better In January 2009, St George hosted the second recognise areas of improvement and address reduce the UKs carbon emissions by 80% Imperial Wharf job fair in partnership with by 2050, as per the Governments stated goal.
the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham.
The aim of this was to highlight to Our biggest climate change impact comes We have also facilitated the training of residents the range of local jobs available from the homes we build, and we fully support 125 of our contractors management and across the development and provide access the Government intent for all new homes to supervision staff through the provision of to training agencies.
The success of the be Zero Carbon by 2016.
We feel, however, twelve 2 day CITB Site Safety Plus and 5 first job fair was demonstrated especially that much greater clarity is needed in relation day CITB Site Management Safety Training by one Imperial Wharf resident who found to this, especially regarding the definition of Scheme courses, equalling in excess of 430 employment through last years job fair, person days of Health and Safety training.
and was in attendance at the 2009 event Zero Carbon.
Indeed, we believe that in order to tackle emissions from the housing stock on behalf of her new employer.
WASTE alongside meeting the long-term challenge of increasing the UKs housing supply, a Waste continues to be an increasingly important issue within the construction sector.
number of fundamental policy issues need to be addressed.
We are therefore committed With landfill taxes set to rise by 8 tonne every year until at least 2013, by which point they will to engaging with Government and relevant industry task groups and over the past year be around 72 tonne, this is clearly an area representatives from The Berkeley Group in which significant financial savings may have participated in : be made.
The UK Green Building Council GBC Our waste management practices are Zero Carbon Task Force: recognised as amongst the best in the industry.
All our sites operate a Site Waste The All Party Parliamentary Climate Management plan and monitor the waste Change Group: they produce via a bespoke Waste Data Tool, The Energy Efficiency Partnership which is analysed on a quarterly basis.
for Homes New Build Group: and In 2008 09 we reduced the amount of waste The Zero Carbon Hub Energy we were sending direct to landfill by 35%, Efficiency Workstream.
generating savings of nearly 1.5 million.
indd 22 22 28 7 09 28 7 09 11:42:59 11:42:59 23 01 02 03 QUALITY PUBLIC REALM Berkeley creates a sense of place places where people want to live, work and play 01 Ten acre riverside park at Imperial Wharf 02 People enjoying opera at Battersea Reach 03 The gardens at Beaufort Park 04 The park at All Saints, Eastbourne 05 Our annual Jazz festival at Imperial Wharf 01 04 05 R&A R&A PRINT.
indb 23 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:45:34 09:45:34 BUSINESS REVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL AND BUSINESS REVIEW SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 24 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT [CONTINUED] AT THE HEART OF OUR BUSINESS Green roofs feature at many of our developments Committed to reducing our direct water consumption Energy Centre at Grosvenor Waterside Achieving a 5% year-on-year reduction LOOKING AHEAD Our emphasis during 2010 will continue in operational CO2 emissions until 2012 associated with our offices and sites to be on delivering truly sustainable communities and working to achieve ever from May 2008 baseline figure: and greater operational efficiencies to support Reducing by 50% construction waste and enhance our financial performance.
sent directly to landfill by 2010 based This will be guided by our desire to retain a on a 2007 08 baseline.
leading position within the NextGeneration benchmark, and to remain listed on the We will continue to take a holistic view of FTSE4Good Index.
This includes continuing sustainability, and the economic, social and to work to our climate change commitments, environmental aspects this encompasses.
which have been in place for a number Over the next year, we will therefore also of years.
These commit us to: be undertaking work to assess the local Ensuring that all sites seeking planning and regional socio-economic benefits of permission continue to commit to one project, with a view to developing a certifying all new homes to Code Level 3 methodology which could be applied to excluding refurbishments : other projects in the future, and working with our estate managers to understand Ensuring that all sites seeking how our own approach may facilitate planning permission continue to commit sustainable estate management.
to certifying all commercial space to BREEAM Very Good, specifically seeking Details of all 25 of our 2009 10 targets are a 25% improvement above Building contained in our 2009 Sustainability Report.
Regulations for energy performance excluding refurbishments : For further information about sustainability Ensuring that 95% of completed Berkeley within the Berkeley Group, please visit developments are on brownfield land: www.
co. uk sustainability Reducing our direct water consumption or email us at associated with our offices and sites sustainability@berkeleygroup.
co. uk by 5% annually until 2012, from May 2008 baseline figure: R&A R&A PRINT.
indb 24 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:45:50 09:45:50 25 IMPERIAL WHARF, LONDON 01 02 IMPERIAL WHARF, LONDON A truly vibrant cosmopolitan lifestyle in the heart of London 01 The stunning riverside regeneration scheme 02 The view over Riverside Park 03 The Waterside bar and restaurant 04 Quality space, inside and out 03 04 R&A R&A PRINT.
indb 25 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:45:57 09:45:57 BUSINESS REVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL AND BUSINESS REVIEW SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 26 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS 10 % reduction in operational Reduced the amount of waste carbon emissions we send directly to landfill by 2007 10,572,105 35% 2008 saving us nearly 8,702,166 2009 7,836,644 1.5 million kg CO2 yr in landfill tax Consistently high customer satisfaction Committed 2007 90% 2 2008 89% 72,057m 2009 of commercial space 91% to BREEAM Very Good Low health and safety incident rates 2007 7.2 2008 3.8 Committed 2009 3.9 11,132 RIDDOR rate per 1,000 homes to be built to Code Level 3 R&A R&A PRINT.
indb 26 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:46:19 09:46:19 27 QUEEN MARYS PLACE, ROEHAMPTON 01 QUEEN MARYS PLACE, ROEHAMPTON 01 A stunning refurbishment of a Grade 1 listed building and walled garden 02 The Mews houses and courtyard with water rill 02 R&A R&A PRINT.
indb 27 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:46:31 09:46:31 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW 28 LANDSCAPED WITHIN AN HISTORIC SETTING, GUNWHARF QUAYS, CONSISTING OF BARS, A MULTI-SCREEN CINEMA, SHOPS & RESTAURANTS, IS AT THE HEART OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF PORTSMOUTHS WATERFRONT.
THE LANDMARK 29-STOREY TOWER IS A STUNNING CENTREPIECE AND COMPLETES THE DELIVERY OF THIS AWARD-WINNING SCHEME.
