26 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility report Core values and approach to Summary of new 3i Infrastructure corporate corporate responsibility responsibility investment policy As a public company, 3i Infrastructure is committed to putting its core values into effect by The Companys approach to corporate investing responsibly and encouraging responsible business conduct among its portfolio responsibility is commercially based and driven companies.
by 3i Infrastructures aim to be a partner of choice for current and potential portfolio 3i Infrastructure aims to be a top performer in corporate responsibility among infrastructure companies.
investment companies and a positive influence for sustainable social and environmental practices across its international investment portfolio.
The Board, which as a whole is responsible for the definition and implementation of the Specifically, 3i Infrastructure is committed to: Companys corporate responsibility policy, views an active approach to corporate 1.
Human rights responsibility as a genuine competitive Respect the protection of international human rights and avoid complicity in human rights advantage, that will help maximise long-term violations.
In carrying out its mandate, the Company will: 2.
Labour workplace rights be commercial and fair: Uphold the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining: abolish child labour: eliminate forced and compulsory labour: and end employment discrimination.
respect the needs of its shareholders, suppliers, the local community and the 3.
The environment businesses in which it invests: Take a cautious and responsible approach to the environment: promote compliance with maintain its integrity and professionalism: environmental law, improvement in management standards and the sustainable management of and natural resources: and help combat climate change by supporting the development of products strive for continual improvement and services that are environmentally beneficial.
Anti-corruption The Board will, in partnership with the Investment Adviser, review its approach to Avoid corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery, upholding compliance standards corporate responsibility every year, and will and integrity and complying with relevant anti-fraud and money-laundering regulations.
keep innovating in this important area.
In the year under review, the Board, in conjunction The Company sees these aspirations as going beyond corporate good governance and with the Investment Adviser, conducted a compliance with local and other law.
The policy is not just concerned with doing no harm or comprehensive review of the Companys ethical business practices, but impinges on issues of wider trust and corporate reputation, corporate responsibility policy, taking into which are critically important in the new global climate of public mistrust of the financial sector.
account factors such as globalisation and 3i Infrastructures international growth in New procedures at the Investment Adviser have been adopted based on a simple corporate developing markets, as well as a recognition responsibility materiality test for all investments, and a requirement for the Board and Investment that public expectations are growing at a time Adviser to demonstrate, throughout the life of the investment through to exit, that they when trust in the financial services sector is have taken account of the issues and understand the value opportunities and risks involved.
Increased By encouraging corporate learning and the sharing of good practice, the Board believes this process will regulation on a wide range of issues affecting be self-reinforcing.
a number of industries also needed to be taken into account.
As a result of this review, a new corporate responsibility policy was developed by the Investment Adviser and adopted by the Company, the main features of which are summarised below.
The policy and the revised procedures were designed to provide the Board and the Investment Adviser with a clear framework, as well as the tools, to think about and manage issues relating to corporate responsibility throughout the investment process.
3i Infrastructure plc 27 Annual report and accounts 2009 Investment assessment Investment committee and final approval Corporate responsibility in While each investment is considered on its own Investments are then presented by the our investment activity merits, the Investment Adviser has a standard Investment Adviser to the Board.
If approval is The Company views corporate responsibility review process for all types of investments given, it is usually subject to a number of as both an opportunity and a risk.
which aims to identify all of the issues that may conditions precedent which may include affect the Companys decision to invest.
some relating to corporate responsibility Opportunity Consideration of corporate responsibility issues issues, for example, a key appointment is embedded as a mandatory part of this being made, or confirmation that a The Board and the Investment Adviser process.
certain process meets a certain standard.
believe that an active approach to corporate Once all conditions precedent have been responsibility has the potential to bring a wide The key steps in the process are: met, final approval is given and the variety of business benefits to the Companys Preliminary appraisal from the Investment investment is made.
portfolio companies including: Adviser 3i Infrastructure operates internationally improved efficiency, reduced costs and During which a decision is taken on whether and across a broad range of sectors so it is also lower waste: to commit further resource to progress the important that it considers issues in the increased employee, customer and supplier investment opportunity and place it in context of local and sector expectations.
engagement: formal work in progress.
The full international resources of the Investment Adviser will be leveraged to greater access to international markets: Board and Investment Advisers Partner ensure that local and sector considerations are review new market opportunities: taken into account in the investment process.
Where the decision is taken to progress the enhanced brand and reputation: The time taken to go through the whole opportunity after a detailed review by the investment process varies significantly and greater awareness and management of Board and a group of senior and depends upon many factors, including the risks: and experienced investment executives in the nature of the investment and the complexity investment advisory team.
A decision is also a potentially wider pool of buyers for the of the issues, as well as the number and nature taken at this point as to what further asset in the event of a sale.
in-depth analysis and due diligence should For 3i Infrastructure, the opportunity is be undertaken.
Experience suggests that one of the straightforward: supporting the sustainable fundamental factors for investment success Due diligence and negotiation growth of portfolio companies has the is the quality of the portfolio company potential to increase their value.
Where alongside other commercial due management team.
The approach the diligence and negotiation an explicit review Company takes to assessing potential Risks of environmental, ethical, governance and investments places considerable emphasis on social issues is undertaken by the The most significant corporate responsibility understanding and being comfortable with the Investment Adviser for each investment risks arising from the Companys investment management team.
Their approach to dealing under review.
activity are likely to relate to environmental, with due diligence on corporate responsibility ethical, governance and social issues.
Failure to issues can be a useful indicator of quality.
Dealing with any corporate responsibility identify or manage these risks effectively not issues which emerge Creating value only has the potential to undermine the Identifying an issue in due diligence may Before an investment is made, the Board and success of the portfolio companies but also result in 3i Infrastructure withdrawing, but the Investment Adviser agree a clear value might compromise 3i Infrastructures not necessarily so.
There are three levels of creation plan with the board and with the reputation and that of its Investment Adviser.
compliance with the Companys policies: management team of the potential investee Identifying and managing these risks is full: partial: and serious non-compliance.
company who will be responsible for delivering therefore an important part of managing risk Confidence in the capacity of the the plan.
This will also involve an expectation for 3i Infrastructure.
management team of the potential that 3i Infrastructure and the Investment The Companys investment process involves investee company and their will to address Adviser will deliver on the actions they are four key stages: issues satisfactorily will be a key responsible for in the plan.
These may relate to determinant of whether the Company strategic input, providing specific expertise or Fundraising proceeds with an investment or not.
providing access to relevant relationships around Investments are made using the Companys The relationship of the Company and the world.
The initial post-investment phase own financial resources, raised at IPO and Investment Adviser with the potential will involve validation and refinement of the through a subsequent Placing and Open Offer.
investee company may mean that issues plan.
Such a plan would also include any Interest in the degree to which public can be resolved and that there is full environmental, ethical, governance or social risks companies and investment companies compliance before the investment is or opportunities that were identified either in consider environmental, ethical, governance completed.
Helping to resolve an issue may due diligence or in the post investment analysis.
and social issues has been growing among a be an important element of the Companys Portfolio reviews take place every six months.
number of investors in public markets.
and the Investment Advisers ability to add In these reviews the Investment Adviser value as well as enhance the investment The Company communicates its approach on presents the progress and future plans to the opportunity.
corporate responsibility issues to investors in a Board.
Any material corporate responsibility variety of ways, including its website, annual issues that were part of the initial plan would accounts and through direct contact.
be included in this until they are resolved.
In addition, at least once a year, other corporate responsibility issues will be considered on the agenda.
3i Infrastructure brings a collaborative approach to the companies in which it invests.
28 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility report continued While the Board and Investment Adviser have Sources of expertise extensive sector expertise, and despite the The Company is able to draw upon a wide Investment Adviser taking a role on the board, range of sources of internal and external the portfolio companys managements expertise on corporate responsibility issues.
knowledge of their company and their ability These include the Investment Adviser itself, to deliver on a plan cannot be matched.
It is its professional services teams, which have the management who, being closest to the specialised knowledge on specific issues, situation, must make most decisions.
sectors and markets as well as its advisers.
An early priority, therefore, is to help ensure The Investment Advisers scale, international that the governance of the portfolio company reach and network also provides access to is as robust as possible and to help support the leading international consultancies on portfolio companys management team and environmental, ethical and social issues for a board.
wide variety of purposes, from compliance to The Investment Adviser has dedicated creating value in portfolio companies.
Portfolio programmes and activities to help build board companies themselves are a rich source of capacity and capability.
These include 3i knowledge and through the Investment Groups Active Partnership programmes and Advisers Active Partnership programme and events such as CEO forums and sector events, other means, experience sharing is which are opportunities for the CEOs of our encouraged.
portfolio companies and of other 3i Group investments to come together.
Environment These provide an opportunity to learn from, and As an investment company with no share experiences with peers in other companies employees, governed by a non-executive either in or outside the same sector and country.
Board of Directors, 3i Infrastructure has no Realisation direct material impact on the environment.
While the Company is predominantly a very long-term investor in its assets, in situations Procurement where there are strong strategic reasons for 3i Infrastructure has developed policies and selling an asset or where an attractive offer is procedures in relation to services from thirdreceived it will make pragmatic disposals, as party providers.
As far as possible, the 2 was the case during the last financial year for I Company will work only with suppliers who and the Alma Mater Fund.
support its aim to source products responsibly.
Corporate responsibility plays an important 3i Infrastructure aims to have a collaborative role in every sale process, as the due diligence relationship with its service providers and, and valuation processes of potential buyers, be wherever possible, will work with its service they trade or financial buyers, or any other providers when problems or issues arise to institution, will evaluate each investments help them meet its requirements.
corporate responsibility strategy, systems and performance.
Transparency 3i Infrastructure wishes to comply with best market practice in terms of disclosure and transparency.
This report is fully compliant with the recommendations of the Walker Review.
