Business review continued Highlights 04 Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility 06 Chief Executives statement 10 Business review 10 Q&A on Admirals UK Car Insurance 12 Group review 13 UK Car Insurance 17 Price comparison 19 Non-UK Car Insurance 24 Principal risks and uncertainties 26 Corporate responsibility 32 Governance Introduction our way to ensure a good working environment.
51 Financial statements Corporate Responsibility CR is embedded Each year our UK employees have completed an throughout the business in our approach to anonymous web-based survey to collect views recruitment and how we treat our employees, our on what it is like working for Admiral.
The survey approach to customer service, the contribution we includes questions relating to a wide range of topics make to our communities and to charities, and how including morale, development, management, we view our impact upon the environment CR is a communication and social aspects of working part of everyones role at Admiral.
In 2009 the survey also included our Canadian employees.
During 2010 we are planning This report gives an overview of our approach and to roll out the survey to our overseas businesses.
highlights some of our achievements during 2009 and the challenges for 2010.
The survey results are analysed by department and each department manager is expected to share The CR report outlines what we do in the key areas the survey results with their team, explore issues of corporate responsibility: and concerns, and then make recommendations to address them.
Employees Customers The key results relating to morale and whether Charitable giving and Community employees feel that their opinions are important are Environment provided in the table below.
There are no specifi c targets with respect to the survey results as the During 2009 we won a number of awards supporting Executive team use the results to look at trends our commitment to CR and these are detailed in within the scores rather than absolute values.
each section of the CR report.
It is pleasing that all of the survey results in the key We are particularly proud to have been included in areas measuring morale, association with Admiral the Management Today Most Admired Companies and how employees feel Admiral treats its customers award.
The award is voted on by the top companies have improved during 2009 except for the measure in the UK across nine criteria.
Admiral came 16th Morale is high in my department.
Whilst the score overall this year, 2008 81st and was named as for this measure was still at an impressive 86% the Britains Most Admired Insurer.
Executive team take responsibility for looking at the areas of the business where morale is lowest.
Employees The people working at Admiral are our key asset.
90% of UK and Canadian employees completed the We have a simple philosophy if people like what survey with over 2600 responses.
they do, they will do it better.
So we go out of Fig 1 Survey question 2006 2007 2008 2009 Morale is high within Admiral 76% 89% 90% 93% Morale is high in my department 87% 82% 90% 86% Taking everything into account I am happy at Admiral 92% 87% 90% 91% Every effort is made to understand the opinions and thinking of employees 74% 73% 86% 87% I am proud to be associated with Admiral 91% 91% 94% 96% I would recommend Admiral as a good place to work 90% 90% 94% 95% I am more likely to stay at Admiral because of the share schemes 69% 71% 71% 79% Admiral is truly customer oriented 90% 88% 90% 90% Admiral treats its customers fairly 86% 84% 87% 88% Admiral Group plc 26 Annual Report 2009 For more information visit: www.
co. uk Perhaps the best measures of our employees The fi final results were announced on 25 February 2010 assessment of their working environment are the and are based on questionnaires completed by UK independent surveys they have completed.
employees, randomly selected by the organisers.
For the 2010 results, surveyed during November 2009, We are very proud to have been included in The 1,100 employees provided responses a response Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work rate of 75% of those receiving the questionnaires.
For in all 10 years since its fi first publication and received special recognition for being one of only two The table below provides the overall scores out of 7 companies to have achieved this.
In the 2010 list we compared to the previous two years.
were extremely pleased to be placed in 16th position an excellent result for Admiral and everyone who The scores have improved in all areas with works for Admiral.
signifi cant improvements in how employees feel about their pay and benefi ts compared to similar Using a methodology refi ned over the past seven positions in other companies.
The score representing years, the organisers have identifi ed the eight key how employees feel about Admirals charitable giving factors that defi ne the best companies to work for also improved signifi cantly.
It is important for employees to understand the Leadership: how people feel about the head of Companys goals and objectives.
We work to the company and its most senior managers.
communicate this in as many ways as possible.
My company: feelings about the company people Everyone is encouraged to attend the annual Staff work for as opposed to the people they work with.
The SGM is arranged to My manager: peoples feelings towards their enable employees to hear the views of the Executive day-to-day managers.
Directors and some of the Non-Executive Directors Personal growth: to what extent people feel on a wide range of subjects which in 2009 included stretched by their job.
the performance of the Group and the market within My team: peoples feelings about their colleagues.
which we operate: the experiences of Non-Executive Fair deal: how happy employees are with their pay Directors within and outside of the Group: and the and benefi ts.
We believe that being wellGiving something back: how much companies are informed improves motivation and makes Admiral thought to put back into society and the community.
Wellbeing: how people feel about stress, pressure and the balance between their work and home life.
