26 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Responsibility Corporate responsibility is embedded in our approach and has been an integral part of Alliance Trust for many years.
During the year Alliance Trust undertook a review Marketplace of its performance with regard to corporate As an investment company we are, first and responsibility issues.
The purpose of the review foremost, accountable to our shareholders was to recognise those activities already who expect us to invest our capital in order undertaken by the Company or its employees in to generate returns for them.
Our investment this field and to set a benchmark against which philosophy is based on the long term and future performance can be assessed.
that requires us to assess all aspects of the The Company considered its performance in the companies in which we invest.
A company following areas: whose management has little or no regard to its own corporate responsibility profile is unlikely Marketplace by which we mean the to prosper over the long term and is more businesses in which we operate, both as susceptible to reputational risks, all of which an investment company and through our will influence our decision on whether to invest subsidiary companies in that company.
Workplace providing an environment in Within our financial services business, Alliance which each of our employees has an equal Trust Savings, our pricing model is based chance to develop their full potential primarily on charging by activity, rather than Community ensuring that Alliance Trusts amount invested, to ensure that the costs of that reputation is maintained and enhanced business are shared equitably among its clients.
within the communities from which our We have adopted policies on gifts and investors, clients and employees are drawn hospitality and other potential sources of Environment acting responsibly in conflict of interest, to minimise the risk of our consumption of natural resources decisions being unduly influenced by personal and energy considerations.
In each of these we noted existing activities and We meet with our shareholders, both considered actions which could be taken to institutional and individual, throughout the improve our performance, as discussed below.
year, as described in the Corporate Governance We will report on progress against these actions section of this report.
Many of our individual in future years reports.
shareholders are also clients of Alliance Trust Savings.
This means that we have regular feedback on all issues affecting the Company and the services we offer.
Objective We will continue to enhance our investment process to ensure that we consider the corporate responsibility profile of those companies in which we choose to invest.
indd 26 20 4 09 12:51:39 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 27 Workplace Community A comprehensive suite of policies is in place The Company has established a charitable and is communicated to employees both at the foundation to encourage employees to support time of induction and periodically thereafter.
local voluntary organisations and matches the Together these are intended to protect charitable donations and fundraising activities of employees from unlawful discrimination, offer the foundation, using the proceeds of dividends them a working environment where they which have not been claimed as a result of the have a right to be treated with consideration shareholder concerned becoming untraceable.
and respect, and support high standards of The foundation is managed through a strategic conduct and performance.
These policies also partnership with the Scottish Community ensure that we meet our health and safety Foundation which offers guidance and requirements and treat disabled employees in support, both in identification and screening accordance with our statutory obligations.
The of requests for assistance and in administration Company also allows employees to enter into of the foundation, as well as providing further flexible working arrangements.
However, decisions as to which organisations should receive support are made In addition to a grievance procedure which by the employees themselves, through the allows employees to issue concerns either foundation.
formally or informally, there is a whistleblowing policy which enables sensitive issues to be raised The Company also operates a policy whereby independently of line management.
employees can take up to two days additional leave to act as unpaid volunteers for local A wide range of training opportunities is offered organisations.
As well as formal training on matters related to their current role, delivered During the year ending 31 January 2009, by a combination of formal training days and the foundation raised 8,000 from which e-learning, the Company encourages further donations of just over 7,000 were made to development through a relationship with the local organisations providing befriending and University of Abertay, Dundee which allows counselling services to help them train more employees, regardless of location, to enrol for volunteers.
In addition the Company, through Tayside Fire A formal performance appraisal process, where Brigade, made a donation of 2,500 to The employees are set formal objectives on an Fire Fighters Charity in recognition of a swift annual basis and their achievement against response to a fire in the Companys Head Office.
those objectives is assessed at the end of the No political donations were made during the year.
period, is intended to ensure that employees have a clear view of their performance and Objective potential within the Company.
Together with We will encourage greater take-up of team meetings and company wide briefings this volunteering opportunities by employees.
provides the employees with the opportunity to be closely involved in the success of the business.
Objective We will initiate a regular employee opinion survey to identify areas of concern to employees and ensure that they understand the issues facing the Company.
indd 27 20 4 09 12:51:39 28 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Responsibility Environment Carbon Footprint Reporting Alliance Trusts own environmental impact is This year for the first time we are reporting limited.
However any reduction in this impact carbon dioxide CO emissions based on the 2 benefits the Company directly, through Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting reductions in costs for energy and consumables, and Reporting Standard.
For this purpose, our and demonstrates our commitment in this inventory comprises: area.
Various measures are already taken in this Scope 1: gas, fuel oil, refrigerant loss regard, namely: Scope 2: non-renewable electricity purchased Scope 3: business travel by personal car, air and rail Encouraging the use of electronic communications.
2.2% of our shareholders Based on the foregoing, CO emissions for have opted to receive our annual report 2 our UK operations amounted to 674 tonnes, electronically and 45.7% of clients of representing 2.11 tonnes per full time Alliance Trust Savings have signed up for employee.
Based our Online share dealing service on our previous methodology for reporting on Use of video-conferencing and telephone emissions, there was a reduction in emissions of conference calls rather than travelling to 16 percent from the previous year.
meetings our offices in Dundee, Edinburgh and London are connected by videoCarbon Footprint Analysis conferencing equipment for this reason Air conditioning Office waste is recycled, and paper from refrigerants 2% sustainable sources is used, wherever Fossil fuel 14% practicable and cost effective Personal car business Electricity Our new head office in Dundee has been travel 36% 4% designed with energy considerations in mind Rail and will offer further opportunities to reduce travel 2% our environmental impact.
Objective We will develop a formal environmental policy to identify and manage all of the Companys environmental impacts.
Air travel 42% report front amends.
indd 28 20 4 09 12:51:39 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 29 Voting Policy The Companys policy is to exercise the voting rights which attach to shares held within the investment portfolio wherever practicable, since this is the mechanism by which management of those companies are held accountable to the shareholders.
In most cases, our practice is to vote in line with the recommendations of management and for the year ending 31 January 2009 we voted as follows: In favour of management recommendations 280 Against management recommendations 10 Abstentions 0 Votes against management were largely in the US where we voted for shareholder proposals to split the role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and to have an advisory vote on executive remuneration.
In the UK we voted against making a political party donation and in Asia against a potentially dilutive issue of new shares and to prevent a company acquisition.
