Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 People Building a foundation for success Our ambition is to be the place to work.
This is driven by the recognition that Amlins continued success is dependent on our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain talented staff.
Mark Farrow Human Resources Director Key performance indicators Business focus S Staf taff tur f turnover nover We believe that there is a strong correlation between effective people practices and shareholder value.
Our objective is to create a strong alignment between the Groups vision and goals and employee interests.
2008: 11.3 2008: 11.3% % We aim to sustain and raise the performance of the business by developing staff to S Senior underwriter tur enior underwriter turnover nover their full potential, by motivating staff appropriately and by planning ahead so that we are capable of properly addressing succession issues.
2008: 4.2 2008: 4.2% % A Average verage iin nd dustry exper ustry experiience o ence of f sen seniior un or und derwr erwriiters ters 2009 highlights Organisation growth and development, increasing existing and future capability.
2008 2008: : 22 22 y year ears s Experienced and stable employee group.
T Tra raiin niing expen ng expendi ditur ture e Good progress with ACI human resources integration.
Positive employee feedback from Ipsos MORI Employee Survey.
Reward and remuneration arrangements reviewed in line with best practice.
2008: 1.7 2008: 1.7% % 2010 priorities Support Group-wide organisational development, including post-acquisition integration and establishment of new ventures.
Introduce a more profi t focused incentive plan for ACI.
Continue review of Group reward and remuneration arrangements.
Implement new Learning Management System.
Excludes ACI as this information not currently available.
Shareholder information 201 Amlin employed a total of 1,161 people Group operating structure at 31 December 2009 with 512 new staff joining the Group during 2009.
This includes 371 people joining through the Amlin Group acquisition of ACI, 47 lling vacancies Group functions created by leavers and 94 new roles.
Total employees: 1,161 176 staff Underwriting expertise and a consistent approach to underwriting risk management and control are critical to our success, making the retention of skilled and experienced underwriters a business 1 priority.
Our senior underwriters have on average 23 years experience in the insurance industry and an average of Amlin London Amlin UK Anglo French Amlin Bermuda Amlin Corporate 1 11 years service with the Amlin Group.
Underwriters Insurance 256 staff of 284 staff 42 staff 32 staff 371 staff which 33 are 23 Senior 6 Senior 3 Senior 28 Senior One of our principal objectives is to Senior Underwriters Underwriters Underwriters Underwriters maintain voluntary turnover, excluding Underwriters retirements, of our senior underwriters, below 10% per annum and our overall employee turnover below 15%.
During 2009 turnover of senior underwriters management, have been delivered through People development was 1.9% with overall staff turnover 1 a number of key internal and external being 4.9% During 2009 the Group continued to sponsor.
These have given Amlin the and promote the Compass Leadership Organisational development opportunity to provide meaningful career Development Programme, initially launched 2009 has been a year of considerable development for our existing staff and also in 2007, with a further group of staff attending change, in terms of both organisational to recruit fresh talent and experience into an assessment centre.
The Programme is structure and numbers of staff, underlining the organisation.
In particular, the Group intended to identify leadership potential and the continued growth and development of appointed a new Group Operations Officer to provide a basis for future development.
It is a testimony to the strength during the year whose primary remit is to As with previous attendees, this intake have and depth of the Groups talent base advise and support the Chief Executive subsequently been provided with tailored that these changes have been managed in the execution of the Groups growth development plans.
successfully and without major interruption strategy and to take a leading role in Amlin continues to offer a number of core to business operations or performance.
development programmes focused on The changes in 2009 were driven by the Other key appointments have provided people management.
Where appropriate, strategic direction of the business which the opportunity to further strengthen our development programmes are run in has included greater growth through expertise in the areas of underwriting, conjunction with external providers such as acquisition.
The organisational changes, riskmanagement, risk modelling, Roffey Park and Coverdale.
Approximately described on page 18, providing clearer compliance, finance, investor relations 50 employees attended these personal separation of Group and business unit andinvestment management.
development programmes during the year.
1 Excludes ACI as this information not currently available.
Employee turnover and experience at 31 December 2009 Senior Other Underwriting Claims Claims Operational Underwriters Underwriters support staff support Operational support Group Total Turnover 3.7% 15.1% 35.2% 0.0% 8.3% 4.5% 7.0% 12.2% 10.1% Voluntary turnover 1.9% 6.0% 13.8% 0.0% 4.5% 4.5% 5.6% 8.9% 4.9% Mean age of employees 45.0 36.9 36.2 40.7 39.5 43.6 37.4 37.6 40.2 Mean service of employees 11.2 6.7 5.9 8.7 6.5 9.2 4.6 5.3 8.1 Note: Excludes ACI, non-executive directors and employees on permanent ill health.
57 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 People continued In addition to these management the Group.
The importance of achieving Job satisfaction relevant qualifications has been highlighted programmes the Charity & Community with the launch of a new Professional Panel believed that there was scope for Qualification Policy which identifies the the Group to play a more active part in 8% recommended qualifications for key roles supporting a preferred charity, with the and the standards and study support that benefit of providing further learning and 12% is provided.
The aim was to incorporate a UK-based Employee engagement community project into a personal Amlin is committed to seeking the views development event, to create a powerful, of its employees and a third Employee dynamic and challenging environment for Opinion Survey was carried out by Ipsos learning and to provide a direct link with 80% 9% MORI in July 2009 covering UK and Amlins Corporate and Social Responsibility Bermuda staff.
This survey again provided policy.
Further details of this activity are the opportunity to obtain feedback from provided in the Corporate and Social staff and enables the Group to track Responsibility section of this Report.
Satisfied 80%Dissatisfied 8% performance against the positive results Neither 12% Dont know 0% In addition to our core development received in 2006.
Ipsos MORI also programmes, all managers and supervisors provides normative data that enables Staff understand the need for change have been encouraged to attend two Amlin to compare its results with other specific training modules: Grasping the organisations, both within the financial Nettle and the Diversity Workshop.
These services sector and more generally.
programmes help managers address poor 5% 80% of targeted staff participated in the performance and to understand the benefits 2009 survey 72% in 2006 providing a of diversity in the workplace.
Since 2007, high level of confidence in the efficacy 170 managers have attended Grasping the of the results.
The survey collected staff Nettle and, during 2009, 140 managers views against key subject areas including attended the Diversity Workshops.
organisation strategy, leadership and In order to support the Groups growth management, recognition and reward strategy and increase our long-term and communication.
9% 92% capability, January 2010 marked the start The survey recorded significant of the new Amlin Graduate Development improvements in staff responses in all Programme.
Amlin recognises that in areas, both against the 2006 results and order to compete for the best talent in the Agree 92%Disagree 2% against the MORI norm groups.
There Neither agree or disagree 5% Dont know 1% market we need to offer a dynamic, high were material improvements in views on performance, development programme leadership and line management and we Senior leadership have a clear vision which provides graduates with the are delighted that Amlin had MORI top 10 of where the Company is going opportunity to experience a wide range level scores in the following areas: ofbusiness disciplines within a structured, job satisfaction development framework.
To this end a 4% feeling valued and recognised two-year rotational programme has been 10% understanding business and personal designed to accommodate four graduates, goals and objectives rotating through eight business areas.
confidence in and clear vision from Graduates will be encouraged to study leadership forand sit the ACII examinations.
line management The attainment of professional feeling part of a team qualifications is becoming increasingly management and pace of change important in the financial services industry level, credibility and nature 9% 85% and continues to be strongly promoted by ofcommunications Agree 85%Disagree 1% Neither agree or disagree 10% Dont know 4% Source: Ipsos MORI Amlin Group Staff survey 2009.
Shareholder information 201 Results have now been presented to staff Amlin Amlin C Corporate Insurance developing the capabilit orporate Insurance developing the capability y and feedback received.
Active plans to address relevant matters are currently The acquisition of ACI increased the since acquisition have been effective being drawn up and will be incorporated number of staff employed by the Group by communication of the employer brand, in business plans for 2010.
integration of management reporting, job Staff within ACI are located across fi five mapping and the design of variable pay Remuneration offi ces: Amstelveen 184, Rotterdam 49, and bonus arrangements.
During 2009, the Remuneration Committee Brussels 96, Antwerp 26 and Paris 16. reviewed a number of aspects of the However, there remains work to Groups remuneration structures, seeking Included within head count are 109 staff be completed.
Key objectives for to ensure that they continue to support the previously employed by Fortis Insurance 2010 include further integration of strategic objectives of the Group and that Belgium, although they worked for ACI.
management information and reporting, the stated remuneration objectives are in The successful transfer of these staff harmonisation of job evaluation and practice being delivered.
The background to ACI was a key integration risk and it salary administration structures, the and conclusions to this review are is pleasing that in September 2009 the implementation of the new bonus discussed in more detail in the Directors majority of individuals chose to take up arrangements and the communication Remuneration Report.
and roll-out of the Groups core values throughout ACI.
Elsewhere, human resources integration is progressing well.
