Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate responsibility Underpinning all our actions Amlin is committed to building a sustainable business through the consistent application of our values in relationships with our shareholders, employees, clients and other stakeholders.
We aim to make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate, placing integrity and professional excellence at the heart of our business practice.
Charles Philipps Chief Executive We continue to improve the quality and scientific research into the natural hazards Partners.
Amlins involvement in this capital transparency of our corporate reporting.
most relevant to our business.
markets venture enables us to maintain In 2009 we received the ICSA Hermes an active involvement in developing Amlin specifically funds the Forecasting risk transfer mechanisms for insurance award for Innovation in Governance Group, whose research into probabilities risk.
It is possible that instruments such Reporting FTSE250 category.
Previously ofextreme weather events relates directly to as catastrophe bonds could be used we have won  our underwriting business.
A major research more widely to transfer weather-related Building Public Trust Awards in the output this year was a study from Jim Elsner catastrophe risk forinsurers, companies following categories: FTSE250 of Florida State University on the conditions and even government or neo-governmental TellingItHow It is, People and present in the years of multiple hurricane organisations.
The study examines the development of such solutions for the records of surface sea temperature, sun In this review we summarise our corporate institutions requiring catastrophe insurance.
spot activity, La Nia and their correlation responsibility activity under the four key with severe frequency hurricane formation.
pillars: Environment, Marketplace, 2: Inform public policy making For the next study we have recommended Employees and Community.
As a leading capital provider and underwriting European windstorm as a subject, linking insurer in the Lloyds Market, Amlin supports Environment academic and commercial advances in the actions of the Corporations management catastrophe risk analysis.
Another study in keeping climate change high on the public Amlin is a recognised leader of catastrophe byBob Hart, also of Florida State University, policy agenda.
Lloyds is engaged with the insurance and reinsurance and we estimate is using the tropical cyclone track data and finance group of the London Climate Change that some 35-40% of all global insured re-analysis of the global atmosphere to Partnership Greater London Authority and property risks are affected by climate create two tools.
The first is a system that has lobbied MEPs in Strasbourg on ABI change.
The risks and opportunities tracks landfall probability depending on the orCEA initiatives.
presented by climate change are considered storm location and the second focuses on and evaluated by the Climate Change and In 2009, Amlin was a signatory to the the climate of the winter season following Environmental Panel, composed of senior Copenhagen Communiqu on Climate ahurricane season.
underwriters and chaired by the Chief Risk Change and supported the Prince of Wales Officer, which meets on a quarterly basis.
RPI research is regularly published and Rainforest Project.
The Panel also reviews Amlins initiatives peerreviewed in prestigious journals and insupport of the six key principles from the director Tony Knap shares this work with 3: Support climate awareness insurance industry bodies such as the ClimateWise organisation, a collaborative amongst customers insurance group of which Amlin was a Geneva Association.
Amlin underwrites catastrophe schemes founder signatory.
The six principles andreinsurance in developed and third world Amlins Chief Risk Officer was a panellist areasfollows: regions.
We believe our role is to provide key at the 2009 Global Insurance Summit in recovery services and we initiated a payment Zurich.
Our Catastrophe Modelling manager 1: Lead in risk analysis on account scheme with key brokers to is participating in a new Climatewise Amlins leadership position in catastrophe provide fast settlement in the wake of major Collaboration to explore what insurers re insurance is supported by a strong catastrophe events.
This was made possible cando in the short term to respond to the analytical underwriting stance, backed by the modelling capability developed by long-term step-changes in weather patterns.
In 2009, we continued as Amlin over several years and we work closely one of eleven industry sponsors of the Risk 2009 saw the launch of two insurancewith reinsurance brokers to ensure that Prediction Initiative RPI, with the dual aim of linked securities funds from our joint clients have the most up-to-date modelling venture fund manager, Leadenhall Capital enhancing our knowledge while encouraging and assessment of their risk.
Shareholder information 201 Amlin UK has invested in the latest Mapflow Amlin encourages the Manager, taking due For completeness, we elected to include technology to enable underwriters to analyse account of the investment objectives that employee commuting determined by a UK flood risk probability and thus provide have been set by Amlin for the Manager, to: survey which generated a 66% response, clients with the optimum cover for their waste recycling and water usage.
These incorporate environmental, social commercial property.
are generally included in FTSE company andcorporate governance issues environmental audits but somewhat Amlin is interested in developing intoitsinvestment analysis and illogically not included in CO footprint 2 commercial insurance policies to protect decision-making processes: calculations.
Amlins total CO per employee 2 new technologies that tackle climate was 6.19 tonnes inclusive of these factors, encourage high standards of performance change.
We insure European wind farms or 5.42 tonnes if compared with the scope on environmental, social and corporate and solar energy capture and we can offer of most FTSE calculations.
This is within governance issues as an integral part of its a green repair or reinstatement option on the estimated average CO range for a UK engagement dialogue and voting activities: 2 selected UK property products.
We have financial services company of between also developed specialist insurance for the seek appropriate disclosure on 5.0and 5.5 tonnes per employee.
recycling and waste reprocessing industries environmental, social and corporate Air travel and electricity usage are Amlins and the transport of hazardous chemicals.
governance issues by the entities in greatest CO impacts.
Since we added Amlin also provides marine liability insurance whichit invests: 2 512 new employees and six new offices against accidental pollution during transport promote responsible investment across tothe Group during 2009, we are not yet in of materials to recycling or disposal sites the investment industry, and to work with a position to set travel reduction targets for between ports within Europe.
other in achieving this goal: and the Group as a whole.
However, we propose Amlin is keen to engage with the insurance to compare the 2009 carbon footprint of report to Amlin on an annual basis on market in the design and delivery of solutions our existing business to that for 2008, with its responsible investment activities, in for the developing world for protection aviewto reducing our impact over time.
particular the four points above.
This will against severe weather-related disasters.
be delivered to Amlin in an electronic In late 2009 we leased additional office Our reinsurance underwriting teams are format as specified by Amlin, within at space in our St. Helens headquarters able to consider risk transfer mechanisms least 10 business days from the year end.
and are taking this opportunity to install such as catastrophe pools and we have sensor lighting and video conferencing instigated a discussion with Lloyds and Where Amlin invests in pooled funds, which facilities on both the new and existing the UK Department for International does not require an IMA to be entered into, floors.
We regularly review the direct Development DFID to consider where Amlin establishes the firms SRI philosophy environmental impact areas under our ourcapital markets expertise may be of by reviewing the documentation around control to reducewaste and energy use in assisting developing countries to suchpolicies.
deal with the potential for severe disruption Taube Hodson Stonex, our equity fund from catastrophic events.
As well as making 6: Report and be accountable manager, with close to 200 million of Amlin investments through Leadenhall Capital In July we engaged Deloitte LLP to carry out funds under management at year end, Partners managed funds, we have also limited assurance on the compilation of our hasa clear interest in environmental issues.
invested in catastrophe bonds through the 2008 carbon footprint in accordance with Specific investments of our assets with a purchase by Syndicate 2001 of Mexican the International Standard on Assurance Clean Energy theme include nuclear utility earthquake and windstorm bonds during Engagements 3000.
The independent companies EDF and Exelon, solar energy theyear.
assurance statement, together with the through Q-Cells and Orklas subsidiary basis of reporting and results summary Renewable Energy Corporation.
4: Incorporate climate change is published on our website.
Similarly our intoinvestment strategy We have also engaged with our pension Carbon Disclosure Project and Climatewise Amlin has a policy of carefully selecting asset trustees on the adoption of a similar submissions are available online.
classes for investment but outsources the SRIapproach.
Amlin has been a member of the majority of specific investment management FTSE4Good Index since 2003, a clear 5: Reduce the environmental decisions to a panel of investment managers.
indicator that the company is recognised The majority of assets are allocated to cash impact of our business forits approach to corporate responsibility.
or fixed income investments, although In last years Annual Report, we undertook there is a small equity content as well.
to measure the carbon footprint of Group For the first time, the ClimateWise Managing The fund managers selected to manage companies over which financial control Committee commissioned Forum for the a segregated portfolio must sign an wasexercised and results published in 2008.
Future to carry out an independent review Investment Management Agreement IMA Data collection and analysis using GHG and of the 2009 reports.
Amlin was commended for our strong governance, clarity on risk which contains the following responsible Defra protocols was included in our Carbon analysis and commitment to engaging investment clause: Disclosure Project submission.
93 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate responsibility continued employees in environmental sustainability.
Amlins comparative claims service performance 2009 Amlin was selected as a best practice case study for the ClimateWise annual report.
Performance 1 poor 10 excellent Amlin London market range 8.8 8.6 Marketplace 8.4 8.2 Broker relationships 8.0 Amlin accesses business through a wide 7.8 range of brokers and intermediaries 7.6 see page 8 table.
The diversity of our 7.4 7.2 businesses, providing afull spectrum of 7.0 commercial and specialist insurance and 6.8 reinsurance, means our client base is 6.6 similarly diverse, ranging from large global 6.4 brokers, through regional brokers and local 6.2 intermediaries to some direct customers.
6.0 Client relationship management is discussed AB C D E FG H I in the divisional business reviews on pages 26 to 45.
A: Keep you informed of progress F: Claims staff committed to delivering excellent service B: High calibre claims people G: Highly responsive to broker needs C: Deploy technology effectively to improve service H: Build good relationships with brokers Service quality D: Strong commitment to paying fair claims I: Process claims speedily E: Highly effective implementation of new processes Amlins Vision for a second fi five-year term to Source: Gracechurch Consulting 2014 continues to be the global reference for quality in our markets and we aim to provide excellence client service from risk placement to claims payment.
We focus commitment to treating customers fairly, data into perspective: for example, Amlins on retaining business over the long term weconduct regular client satisfaction yacht division, which accounted for 13 of and on building strong relationships with surveys among 5,000 20% of direct the 87 complaints received, managed 29,321 both brokers and insureds.
Our depth of customers of our two yacht brands, Haven policyholders during 2009. knowledge of the insureds business allows Knox-Johnston and St. Margarets.
In 2009, Amlin Bermuda received no complaints us to respond effectively in the event of a our call handling and documentation was and Anglo French Underwriters received 4 claim or endorsement as illustrated in the rated good or very good by 98% of Haven complaints during 2009.
Amlin Corporate case study on page 31.
2008: 98% and 99% of St. Margarets Insurance in the Netherlands received 11 2008: 95% customers.
Claims service Gracechurch Consulting, an independent complaints, 4 of which are outstanding was similarly rated by 89% of Haven research fi rm, conducts regular research and in Belgium ACI received 10 of which 2008: 100% and 97% 2008: 93% into claims performance in the London 2remain outstanding.
Having been ranked second for our overall 2009 claims performance, Nonetheless, on rare occasions we do Developing our business weare participating in their quarterly receive complaints which are handled Having established international operations ClaimsPerformance Monitor for 2010. in linewith procedures which are FSA in Singapore, Amlin continues to engage compliant in the UK and compliant with with the Lloyds worldwide markets team We are committed to providing an excellent localregulations elsewhere.
as they investigate potential new markets, claims service, resolving and paying most recently in Brazil, Russia and the Middle valid claims as quickly as viable given Amlin Underwriting Limited operates a East.
However, our 2009 acquisition of Amlin the complexity of some of the risks we client complaints policy with procedures Corporate Insurance has provided a solid underwrite.
In our Bermuda reinsurance forreporting, investigating and responding continental European platform for growth and division for example, the service level to complaints relating to all business placed we are focused on ensuring the successful standard for payment of claims is ten with Syndicate 2001.
Complaints are logged integration and development of this region.
centrally, their resolution is monitored and business days and during the last quarter of2009, the division took just eight business their nature and frequency are reported Amlin remains one of the largest participants days from receipt of the valid claims request torelevant boards.
in the Lloyds market and 75% of our to payment being received by the broker.
2009 gross written premium 2008: 88% Of the 87 complaints received in 2009 orbrought forward 2008: 96, 33% were was written through Lloyds.
We seek to Amlin also operates in the SME market, settled within 4 weeks, 17% within 4 to 8 contribute positively to all aspects of the notably in the UK and France, and in niche weeks, 30% in more than 8 weeks and 20% Lloyds community, including the sound businesses such as yacht and pleasurecraft, 17 remained outstanding at the year end governance and operation of the market, bloodstock and livestock.
It is important however to put this 94 www.
Shareholder information 201 so that it remains attractive to brokers Our core values andclients for the placement of their risks.
Amlin professionals continue to work with Professional excellence the Lloyds market associations to drive We are professional in all we do, continually developing our skills and expertise.
forward market reform technologies, both as pilot Claims Transformation Programme Integrity or early adopter Lloyds Exchange and We are fair and honest and we deliver on our commitments.
by encouraging our peers and broker counterparties to use them.
Specifi cally, Leadership our Group Finance Director is a board We take clear and considered views of the future.
We communicate our objectives and empower our team to achieve them.
member of the Lloyds Market Association.
Amlin representatives served on the Lloyds Superior performance Claims Service Review Board and many of We seek to excel in both the levels of service and the results we achieve.
its committees, including those for Marine, Motor, US Casualty Reinsurance, Aviation, Teamwork Finance and Risk.
We work together to deliver excellent performance, taking responsibility, holding ourselves Amlin helps to fund the Lloyds 360 Risk accountable and respecting the contribution of others.
We communicate effectively and Insight programme which explores business give each other the space to do the job.
risk and opportunities at a macro-level.
In May 2009 it published a joint study Focus on sustainability with the International Institute of Strategic We take a measured approach in our business strategy and in our acceptance and Studies on the potential impact of climate management of risk to secure the long-term viability of the business.
change on global security, with the subject further debated at November conferences The fi first project is an ethnographic study in London and New York, organised in Employees of the London and Bermuda insurance collaboration with NATO.
Other subjects Amlins Vision includes being recognised markets, conducted by Professor Paula explored in 2009 included piracy in the as the place to work, with staff who Jarzabkowski of Aston University and Gulf of Aden, cyber-terrorism and cyberunderstand our strategy and their role part-funded by the Economic and Social crime and the political risk potential of indelivering and exceeding our goals.
It began in July 2009 theeconomic downturn.
Animportant element in achieving this is with interviews and observation of Amlins Lloyds also joined the consortium funding being a responsible employer, operating fi first reinsurance team and selected peers at the the super computer managed by the Centre class employment practices and engaging Lloyds box.
The project aims to compare for Earth System Intelligence at Hartree with our employees.
the basis of trading and the implications for which will improve forecasting of weather future evolution of the specialist insurance The 2009 acquisition of Amlin Corporate and catastrophe claims.
Lloyds also market in London and Bermuda.
Insurance increased employee numbers participated in the IBM Global Innovation by over 50% and presented us with new The IICI is commissioning an academic Outlook meeting on water: sponsored the challenges in relation to European working institution to undertake a second study, second Catastrophe Modelling Forum and practices, languages and the need to build which will look at the challenges and funded two PhDs at the London School of a new Human Resources team in Belgium practical approaches to measuring the Economics on global climate model output to replace services previously provided by risk associated with exposure to large and its use in the insurance industry.
Over the second half of the commercial losses in situations where The Insurance Intellectual Capital Initiative year, signifi cant progress has been made in historical data is limited.
This project IICI is a new consortium of organisations aligning ACIs employee offering with that willbesupported and part-funded by the associated with the Lloyds insurance market ofthe remainder of the Amlin Group.
NaturalEnvironment Research Council which are working together to stimulate and andthe Technology Strategy Board.
Amlins strong culture and values proved fund research into areas of interest to the an important factor in attracting ACIs Having successfully completed his term as broader insurance industry and build closer staff to join a group with little brand profi le President of the Insurance Institute of London links with the academic community.
Amlin in their local markets.
This strength was in October 2009, Amlins Chief Executive has committed 25,000 per annum for three demonstrated in the results of the 2009 Ipsos Charles Philipps was invited to join the new years, together with Hiscox, Aon Benfi eld, MORI employee survey, conducted prior Insurance Profession Task Force set up by the Liberty, Lloyds Tercentenary Foundation, to the acquisition of ACI, which delivered Chartered Institute of Insurers with the primary the Society of Lloyds and the Worshipful aim of raising standards of professionalism and 80% job satisfaction, 78% trust in the senior Company of Insurers.
Our Chief Risk Offi cer leadership team and 85% agreeing the latter transparency within the insurance industry.
is a member of the Steering Group.
95 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate responsibility continued have a clear vision ofwhere the company is at least quarterly and comprises senior developed multi-year strategic partnerships going.
representatives from each UK business area.
with three charitable organisations WindReach, YouthNet and the Youth Athletic The majority 92% of employees In 2009, the Charity and Community Panel Organisation each of which was allocated understand the need for change and launched a new initiative called Community US$20,000 in 2009.
71% feel the pace of change is about Action Learning, which we believe is unique right.
While this is significantly higher within the Lloyds market.
We were keen to The balance of the US$100,000 charity than the Ipsos MORI financial norm of advance Amlins corporate responsibility budget was donated to the School for 37%, we appreciate the need to continue from fundraising challenges to providing the Performing Arts, to fund a school to communicate the benefits of change practical support and engagement within programme, and to the Bermuda Autism effectively across the enlarged Group.
acommunity that would present challenges Support and Education Society, to fund a Currently, 73% of staff feel well informed of a different kind.
The feedback presentation Board Certified Behavioural Analyst.
Amlin about what is happening within Amlin and and video clearly demonstrated that the Bermuda also sponsored two charitable 85% feel the information they receive is objectives for all parties had been achieved events in 2009: the Physical Abuse Centre credible, in line with the Top 10 norm.
and the Panel agreed to a repeat programme 30th anniversary Gala Dinner and Troika, in 2010. a youth event.
On 2nd October, all ABL ACI employees are represented by a Works staff participated in an office volunteer day Council and Amlins UK employees by a We retained Macmillan Cancer Support as at WindReach, an organisation that exists Consultation Forum.
Since the Groups our UK corporate charity in 2009, and our to enrich the quality of life for people with combined workforce now exceeds 1,000 15,000 corporate donation, together with special needs.
The day involved helping in more than four European countries, we over 20,000 of staff fundraising, contributed WindReach prepare for its harvest festival.
will be examining options for a Group-wide to Macmillan Grants for patients in the Activities included painting the camping employee representative group.
From 2010, we resume our and playground equipment and giving the support of a Palliative Care Clinical Nurse Amlin seeks to align employee interests sensory nature trail a facelift.
It was an Specialist at Imperial College Healthcare on further by awarding share options to all enriching experience for all who participated.
the basis that, once the fixed term expires, eligible employees under the Share Incentive the post will be funded by the NHS Trust.
The 2009 award means that those Amlin Bermuda continued to work with employed since the middle of 2007 now Amlin UK, based in Chelmsford, retained the Association of Bermuda International have a stake in the Company equity valued local charity Farleigh Hospice as their Companies Education Awards ABICEA in excess of 10,000 at 31 December 2009. partner for 2009, adding over 15,000 donating a total of US$45,000 to twoofstaff fundraising to a corporate donation year college sponsorships for Bermudian We offer sabbaticals of up to six months to of 3,000.
Following a review and greater nationals.
Several Amlin employees were employees with more than ten years service.
publicity of our matched funding policy, themselves scholarship recipients and This opportunity for more extended family 2009 saw an increased number of staff participate in the mentoring programme.
time, travel or other life-enhancing activities participating in charity fundraising activities.
Amlin Bermudas Managing Director proved popular again in 2009, with 10 staff Each panel member has a separate budget continues to be a committee member 2008: 16 taking sabbatical leave.
for their business unit, which has led to a forABICEA and a BFIS Advisory Trustee.
The good conduct of employees in their broader range of charities being supported management of business relationships over the year.
Singapore and with colleagues is critical to creating Amlin Singapore continued its support We again donated 3,500 to the Lloyds pride in the Company and to our aspiration of the General Insurance Associations Community Programme, under whose to be a socially responsible company.
We Global Internship Programme and provided auspices we again ran a personal also believe that initiatives creating a better speakers for the Associations Talent effectiveness programme for the National work life balance are directly beneficial Outreach Project.
Skills Academy and undertook a gardening to the Group by improving efficiency and challenge at a sheltered housing scheme morale.
Amlins core corporate values are Europe forthe elderly, both in Tower Hamlets.
an important part of the Code of Conduct Neither Amlin Corporate Insurance nor available on our website to which all AngloFrench Underwriters has a formal Bermuda employees are expected to adhere.
charity and community policy, although Philanthropy is an important part of theformer previously participated in charity Community corporate life in Bermuda and, despite fundraising through the Fortis Foundation.
having only 32 staff, Amlin Bermuda plays We have advised them that the Amlin UK an active role in the local community.
Having Amlins UK charity and community activities Group is supportive of corporate social established that their colleagues wished are guided and facilitated by a panel, chaired responsibility initiatives in local markets and to support organisations involved in youth, by the Group Finance Director, which meets both divisions are formulating plans for 2010. education and sport, the charity committee 96 www www www.
Shareholder information 201 Focus on the community Developing potential together During the summer of 2009, twelve managers participated in Amlins A fantastic and worthwhile experience that provided the opportunity fi first Community Action Learning project at Newlands Bishop Farm, to put into practice the time management, teamworking and problem near Solihull.
The Farm is run as a commercial enterprise and solving skills acquired in previous development programmes.
The Farm enables people with learning diffi culties, known as project workers, itself is something rather special and I am proud to have been involved to gain valuable skills including woodwork and horticulture.
then employ those skills by working in the local community, thus Deputy Claims Manager, Amlin UK generating some 200,000 annual income for the centre.
The Amlin team was presented with three challenges to be completed Everyone at Newlands Bishop Farm, and the project workers in over three days to: erect a shelter by the vegetable garden including particular, really enjoyed having the Amlin team at the Farm and storage for tools: design a rainwater collection and irrigation system helping make their place of work even better.
The work that was and create a farm shop from a derelict building.
Existing skills in done by the group was of a very high standard and will be there for a project planning and teamworking combined with a real camaraderie long time to come.
It is always bene cial to have large organisations with the project workers and some very hard work to successfully work alongside us and we would very much welcome any future complete the project on time.
Centre Manager, Newlands Bishop Farm This project provided a novel and valuable development opportunity which really benefi ted our community partner and is, we believe, unique among our London market peer group.
There was no mistaking the enthusiasm and sense of achievement refl ected in theproject video presented to the Charity and Community Panel, theproject sponsors, and we look forward to returning Left and top right: Amlin managers hard at work on the shelter and tool storage.
withasecondteam of volunteer managers in 2010.
Bottom right: The Amlin team outside the new farm shop.
