98 Aviva plc Corporate Responsibility committee report Annual Report and Accounts 2009 This report provides details of the role of the Corporate Members of the Committee are interviewed as part of the Responsibility Committee and the work it has undertaken external assurance process of the CR programme and the during the year.
subsequent management report, including Avivas action plan, The purpose of the Committee is to provide guidance and is reviewed by the Committee to assist the strengthening and direction to the Groups corporate responsibility CR future direction of the programme.
programme, review the key CR risks and opportunities and to In line with the Combined Code requirement, the Board monitor progress.
The Committee also reviews the Groups undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its committees strategy for CR together with the Groups CR targets.
The full during the year, including the Corporate Responsibility terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Committee.
com, and are also available This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on from the Group Company Secretary.
The following directors served on the Committee during Carole Piwnica the year: Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee Period Member From To Carole Piwnica Chairman 14 January 2006 To date Euleen Goh 1 January 2009 To date Andrew Moss 12 July 2007 To date Lord Sharman 14 January 2006 To date Scott Wheway 5 December 2007 To date The Committee met on four occasions in 2009 and the members attendance record is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 88.
The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the content and scope of the Companys 2009 CR Report, monitored the management of the CR risks affecting the Group and helped establish a process by which regions could report performance and progress to the Committee.
In November 2009 the Company announced its intention to put its CR Report to an advisory vote of shareholders at the 2010 AGM as a means of obtaining feedback on the report and the Companys performance in this area.
The report is set out on pages 67 to 78 and further details of the resolution are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Committee reviewed each regions performance and progress during the year against the Group key performance indicators and, for the first time, began to review performance of Group functions which contribute to our CR programme activities, beginning with Group procurement.
In addition, it reviewed Aviva Investors approach and progress in Sustainable and Responsible Investment.
The Committee also received updates on the Groups key CR programme activities, including climate change, community investment, diversity and external benchmarking.
The Committee reviewed the Groups carbon offset projects as part of managements commitment to be carbon neutral on a global basis.
