24 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Our people Global minimum standards Diversity and inclusion To maintain the right balance between overall control and effective local Barclays operates across the globe and engages with employees across a decision making we have established global governance frameworks and wealth of diverse and rich cultures.
Our mission is to create confidence and minimum standards to regulate how we manage and treat our employees trust to do the right thing for both our customers and employees through around the world.
The key areas covered by the minimum standards are creating a truly inclusive environment.
We will achieve this through ensuring summarised below.
that everything we do treats people fairly through valuing diversity.
An example of the progress made in this area is that currently three of our major Performance management and compensation businesses have female Chief Executive Officers who lead more than half of The performance and development process provides employees with the our employees globally.
opportunity to have regular discussions with their line managers about their performance and to receive coaching for their personal development.
Health and safety The performance of employees is typically assessed twice a year and a Our commitment is to ensure the health, safety and welfare of our performance rating is agreed with the line manager.
employees and to provide and maintain safe working conditions.
Effective We are committed to the principle of pay for performance.
management of health and safety will have a positive effect on the services Compensation is based on the performance of individuals and their we provide.
Good working climates will help our employees to perform businesses.
Our compensation philosophy is to drive a high performance better in serving our customers which in turn will create value for all our culture within the appropriate risk and governance frameworks.
stakeholders customers, employees, shareholders and the communities that we serve.
Employee relations Barclays recognises and works constructively with 30 employee Training representative organisations throughout the world.
Developing both existing and new employees is key to our future prosperity.
Regular employee opinion surveys are used to assess employee We undertake this through formal classroom-based training and informal engagement.
The findings are benchmarked against other global financial on-the-job training, education and coaching.
Minimum mandatory training services organisations and high-performing organisations.
is provided to all employees to ensure that our employees understand Barclays policies and procedures and their role in meeting our regulatory responsibilities.
Headcount by business unit full time equivalent Global employment statistics 2008 2008 000s % 2009 2009 UK Retail Banking % of female employees Barclays Commercial Bank % of senior executives who are female Barclaycard % of senior managers GRCB Western Europe who are female GRCB Emerging Markets % of employees working part-time GRCB Absa Barclays Capital Turnover rate Barclays Wealth Resignation rate Head Office Functions Sickness absence rate Headcount by world region full time equivalent 2008 000s 2009 UK Africa and Middle East Continental Europe Americas Asia Pacific 0 0 8 5 16 10 24 15 32 20 40 25 48 30 56 35 64 40 0 7 14 21 28 35 42 49 56 Barclays Performance 26 Key performance indicators 30 Consolidated summary income statement 31 Income statement commentary 39 Five-year consolidated summary income statement 40 Consolidated summary balance sheet 41 Balance sheet commentary 45 Capital management 47 Additional financial disclosure 58 Analysis of results by business
