20 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 The role of banks and banking in society The severity of the current financial crisis and the magnitude of public support that has been channelled into the financial sector have prompted a heated debate about the role, scale and usefulness of banks.
In this article from The Sunday Telegraph, John Varley provides a summary of how we have responded.
My belief is that the work of banks is important to the economies of the 40%.
That growth lifted millions of people around the world out of poverty world: and is therefore important to society.
But with that role goes the and gave billions of people a better life.
The benefit has been felt as much in obligation to conduct our business responsibly and to support economic the developing world as the developed.
Maintaining it, and continuing to progress.
make peoples lives better because of it, requires change, but judicious Most customers that I speak to say that they want to get back on track, change.
And that includes the requirement that we, the banks, define our to move forward again and to put the recession behind them.
They want core purpose in a way that people understand and support.
their bank to focus on providing them with the means to build opportunity, Banks contribute to society through five core activities: providing security and a better future.
And they want their bank to put its strength reliable and efficient payment systems: delivering safe storage for deposits and resources at their disposal in a way that is at once helpful and prudent.
and savings : maturity transformation or the conversion of savings into To them, thats what supporting economic progress means.
loans : asset management: and what is loosely referred to as investment The causes behind the financial crisis are complex and have already banking.
The industry has much to be sorry for, and, as the chief executive of a big bank, I have expressed sorrow and regret for the errors that The core activities of an investment bank we, as a sector, made.
Without decisive, determined and significant action to Some question the utility of investment banking.
I want to explore the restore confidence by authorities around the world, including here in the UK, point here for a moment.
What lies behind the question is the presumption the banking system would have collapsed.
Even those banks that did not that investment banking is gambling.
But it is clear to me that the three core take capital from governments clearly benefited and continue to benefit activities of an investment bank advice, execution and funding, from these actions.
We are grateful for them, and our behaviour should each of which I describe below note that proprietary trading is not a core acknowledge that benefit.
function are critical to the health of the real economy, because those The task of governments, regulators and banks alike is to learn the activities are aimed at helping clients generate the real economy outputs lessons of the last two years and to ensure that nothing like this happens of investment, trade, wealth generation, and employment.
Decisions have to be taken about the banking industry that will banks are vital intermediaries in the economic system connecting sources influence its shape and direction over the next 30 years decisions relating of funds with investment opportunities.
History shows that healthy global to capital, funding and liquidity, leverage, provisioning, accounting and GDP growth requires funding support from the capital markets.
We have already seen considerable change since the start Ill illustrate.
A list of some clients on whose behalf Barclays Capital, our of the crisis: banks are much better capitalised: leverage is down materially: own investment bank, has been active recently a matter of public record liquidity buffers have increased: risk management practices have been does not reveal names that you would associate with gambling.
But there will be more change.
include Her Majestys Government: The Kingdom of Spain: The Republic This means there is an important and difficult trade-off to be of France: The Republic of South Africa: Roche: Pfizer: Sainsburys: British engineered between improving the stability of the financial system on the Telecom: Vodafone: Novartis: Centrica: EDF: London Stock Exchange: one hand and stimulating and supporting economic growth on the other.
As John Lewis: Network Rail: Harvard University and General Electric.
policy-makers strive to get the balance right, we should not lose sight of the These governments and companies are no more involved in gambling fact that, no matter how painful this crisis, the world is in a much better place than we are gambling by serving them.
They represent the real economy.
today than it was 30 years ago.
Over that period, even having taken into We support them with their financing and risk management needs which, account the impact of the current recession, the net growth in global GDP in turn, drive economic growth.
While I have cited household names, the is well above 120%, representing a real per capita increase of more than companies we serve in the area of financing and risk management include www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 21 Key points Banks provide: Reliable and efficient payment systems Safe storage for deposits and savings Maturity transformation Asset management Investment banking thousands of mid-sized companies as well manufacturing and service implementing those, as well as the new FSA Code on Remuneration.
At businesses which may not be household names but which employ a large Barclays, we have been working on reforming our remuneration practices proportion of the UK workforce.
since the beginning of this year.
Our historical practices were generally well What does financing and risk management mean?
As I have noted, aligned with the changes afoot, but we are amending where we need to.
there are three activities in an investment bank.
The first is providing advice.
This is, though, difficult territory.
On the one hand, we must be sensitive This means working with clients to design solutions for their needs, whether to the views of many stakeholders that bankers are paid too much.
On the they are financing government debt: raising funds to build a new factory: other, we have to recognise that talent is not a commodity, and that our raising funds to complete an acquisition: or hedging the risk of foreign shareholders and customers expect Barclays to field the best people we can currency, commodity or interest rate volatility to ensure certainty of cash flow.
across all of our businesses.
We compete in global markets, and labour has, The second is execution.
The investment bank helps clients put in place in my experience, never been more mobile.
We will strive to get the balance whatever solution has been designed, irrespective of who designed it.
Our objective is to pay the minimum compensation consistent could involve ensuring new equity or debt makes its way from investors to with competitiveness and performance.
Banks commit to ensure that such issuance will be successful Those calling for an age of simpler, old-fashioned, more tightly regulated by promising to take whatever investors do not.
Execution could also involve banking were probably not around in the days of Bretton Woods or Glass structuring a risk management solution by purchasing appropriate Steagall.
Because if they were, they would remember a time when less than securities and packaging them to meet client objectives.
Banks take 50% of the adult population in the developed world had a bank account, risks here to help their clients absorb and manage their own risk.
when credit was strictly rationed, when a mortgage cartel controlled home The third is funding.
The efficiency of markets for new issuance loans and when, with credit supply directed by governments, industry whether debt or equity is entirely reliant on the existence of effective and complained constantly of being starved of funds.
efficient secondary markets through which equity and debt securities are Regulation is a substitute neither for sound judgement nor for a sense traded.
Secondary market activity that is daily dealing in the stock market of personal and corporate responsibility.
The primary obligation lies with signals investor appetite for different types of transactions: provides clear bank boards.
We must keep our sights at all times on what our customers benchmarks for pricing and lowers the cost of issuance.
Market makers like expect of us helping them achieve their financial goals and helping them Barclays Capital play a critical role in maintaining the efficiency of traded take appropriate risk : and on what our owners expect of us that we will markets by ensuring that clients can always get access to a price and can be use well the resources generated by running a profitable business.
Those confident that individual markets will be available when they need them.
two things, for me, are the essence of responsible banking.
All three of these activities have clear relevance to the health of the real Translated into an operational agenda, a bank which is behaving economy.
If you switch off investment banking, you switch off a responsibly and a bank which is playing its role in society should invest for fundamental supply of credit to companies and governments.
It should support appropriate risk taking by its customers.
It suggests that global economic growth of 4% per annum which I would should run capital ratios that create confidence.
It should employ talented argue is what the world needs to create employment and relieve poverty staff.
It should manage its business in a way that enables it to pay dividends through time requires global capital markets to grow at twice that rate to its shareholders mostly pension funds on which retired citizens rely.
I cannot think of a better way to demonstrate the social utility of And it should pay due tax to its revenue authorities.
And if you think of the societal issues that confront our world an ageing population, a lack of infrastructure Success in banking supporting economic growth, the need for greater health provision, climate Success in the banking sector creates good things for society the change broadly based banks with capital markets capabilities have the facilitation of wealth creation by customers: the generation of direct and skills to help.
They help with savings and investment products to support indirect employment: payment of dividends and tax: economic stabilisation the privatisation of welfare provision: with financing resource in the areas and growth.
But success creates responsibilities, and we must understand of health provision and infrastructure and with trading skills in the area of the obligations that go with being a successful bank.
We have to make the management of carbon emissions.
certain that we use our profits well in particular, that our contribution to society recognises society's contribution to our success.
Regulation in banking The strands of responsible banking and successful competition are The new regulatory structure will require banks to hold more capital and intertwined.
We are, I believe, at our most productive in an economic and more liquidity.
There will be a new focus on top down supervision to ensure social sense if we compete successfully.
The capacity of British banks like that regulators have the tools to manage collective risk in particular, the Barclays to support the UK economy in the way that I have been describing amount of debt in the system.
Products must be simpler and more depends on the banking playing field being kept level as the authorities here transparent.
And incentives and compensation must be better aligned to and around the world make their decisions.
Safeguarding existing jobs and delivery, must take account of risk, and must be paid out over time.
Good creating new ones and lending supportively to British householders and performance should be rewarded fairly.
This businesses thereby helping create jobs beyond those which exist directly is something we have always believed.
in the banking industry, itself one of the biggest employers in this country.
On compensation specifically, the international agreement on reforms Ultimately these things depend on our being allowed to compete on equal to the structure of remuneration that were announced by the G20 in terms with the best banks in the world.
September is a good step forward.
The British banks have committed to Note This article by John Varley was first published in The Sunday Telegraph on 15th November 2009.
