22 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Sustainability Responsible banking arclays is making progress on embedding sustainability into our Despite the difficult business.
We are ranked in the top quartile of global banks in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
However, we realise we have a economic conditions in long way to go and will continue to build our programme in the Byear ahead.
We have remained open for business throughout the downturn, and at the same time have reinforced our commitment to be 2009, we have continued to a responsible lender, providing access to credit and support while maintaining prudent lending standards.
We are focused on offering a strong, maintain our commitment safe and responsible service that contributes to the economic progress of society as a whole.
to corporate and social As well as supporting our customers and clients, and the communities in which we operate, we have: responsibility as it is an developed our role as an equal opportunities employer: integral part of how we taken action on climate issues: and aimed to operate as a responsible global citizen.
We report The Group Executive Committee is responsible for our overall sustainability progress on integrating strategy, and works to support the Chief Executive in its implementation.
This Committee, along with the Board, reviews progress against sustainability through sustainability objectives twice a year, using a robust reporting framework that includes over 100 performance indicators.
We integrate sustainability five themes.
into our operations in five areas.
Customers and clients In 2009, we continued to help customers make the most of their money with advice, innovative new products and services, and tailor-made help for those in financial difficulty.
Whilst remaining conservative in our approach to risk, we have remained competitive in the mortgage market and increased our lending by 7% to a mortgage balance of 87.9bn at the end of 2009.
At the same time Barclaycard provided a package of support, including a price freeze for many of our UK customers.
Our strategic sustainability themes Customers Financial Environment Diversity and Citizenship and clients inclusion our people Ensuring our Extending the reach Minimising direct Attracting employees Managing Barclays products and services of banking services environmental impacts from the widest indirect economic, meet the needs of in developing markets by mitigating Barclays possible talent pools ethical, social and customers and clients and reducing financial energy, water and and developing and environmental impacts, by developing innovative exclusion in developed carbon footprints and retaining colleagues encouraging our solutions to enhance markets.
managing the risks and on the basis of supply chain to be more performance, opportunities associated performance and ability.
sustainable, and investing relationships and with climate change.
Progress in 2009 Progress in 2009 Progress in 2009 Progress in 2009 Progress in 2009 m m % bn bn 35 3.2 3.5 24 55 gross new lending to entry-level bank accounts tonnes of carbon has been of Barclays senior invested in communities UK households and opened across our global traded to date with a managers are female globally businesses operations to date notional value of 45bn % bn 87.9 79 500,000 58,000 157 total UK mortgage lending of surveyed employees employees received direct suppliers completed our new funding package believe Barclays is an support for fundraising, sustainability screening at the end of 2009 to support credit unions environmentally volunteering and giving questionnaire during 2009 and community finance responsible bank organisations in the UK www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 23 Go online Key points Further information on our Sustainability policies and performance is available at 35bn gross new lending to UK households and www.
com sustainability businesses More than 58,000 employees received direct support for fundraising and volunteering In April 2009, we committed to make an additional 11bn of credit Diversity and our people available to the UK economy over the year.
Our gross new lending in 2009 Our diversity and inclusion strategy is focused on increasing the number was 35bn, about half to households and half to businesses.
of senior women across our business.
To read more, refer to page 24.
Financial inclusion Citizenship In the UK our Cash Card Account is an entry-level bank account with almost With more than 48 million customers in over 50 countries, we must act as 844,000 customers, many living in deprived areas, while Money Skills a responsible global citizen.
This means ensuring that we do business in a is a new programme designed to help disadvantaged people make socially and ethically responsible way, while working with our supply chain informed, responsible financial decisions.
partners to ensure they adopt a similar set of principles.
Across Africa, we offer dedicated accounts for people on low incomes, Barclays believes that banks have a crucial role to play within the and are one of the only global banks to work with indigenous financial communities they serve even more so during these challenging systems as a way of providing wider access to financial services.
In 2009, as well as committing over 55m to community initiatives Environment around the world, we also invested our skills and resources.
58,000 As part of our commitment to minimising our environmental footprint, we employees gave their time to support a wide range of projects, from helping successfully made our global banking operations carbon neutral in 2009. those affected by HIV AIDS in Africa, to providing free financial advice for Barclays Climate Action Programme continues to focus on greater elderly people in the UK.
energy efficiency, as well as working with suppliers to reduce their CO2 Barclays operates in accordance with the Universal Declaration of emissions and developing products and services that will help our Human Rights, and Barclays Statement on Human Rights further integrates customers to do the same.
these issues through our employment policies and practices, our supply Partnerships are also a crucial part of the programme, such as our work chain and the responsible use of our products and services.
with the World Wildlife Fund in eastern Africa to pioneer a new era of In 2009, working with the United Nations Environment Programme conservation in the region where communities are supported to utilise their Finance Initiative, we developed a human rights toolkit, which provides a resources more sustainably.
framework for lending managers and which we have embedded into our Many of our major environmental and social impacts are indirect and own employee guidance tools on environmental risk.
arise through business relationships with suppliers and clients.
Our As well as managing our own direct social, ethical and environmental Environmental and Social Impact Assessment policy focuses on any lending impacts, by working closely with our suppliers we can help them to share we carry out in sensitive sectors and is also the mechanism by which we our commitment to sustainability.
apply the Equator Principles to our projects.
The Equator Principles are based This was underlined in 2009 with the launch of a new statement on on the International Finance Corporations Performance standards, which Supply Chain Sustainability, outlining how we work with suppliers and what form the financial services industry standard to manage environmental and we expect from them in return.
social risks in project finance deals above US$10m.
Our Environmental Risk Management team operates across the Group, and in 2009 it assessed more than 290 project and non-project finance transactions.
n 2008, Barclays committed to a global Banking on Change three-year partnership with nongovernmental organisations NGOs partnership CARE International and Plan International I in order to extend innovation and accelerate sustainable access to basic financial services.
The three-year initiative aims to reach more than 500,000 people Developed partnership with CARE across Africa, Asia and South America International and Plan International and represents a 10m commitment to improve access to basic financial by Barclays.
services in Africa, Asia and South The partnership perfectly combines the experience and delivery structures of America the two NGOs with the financial expertise Three-year initiative intends to of Barclays.
Together this will enable us to promote and train community groups on reach 500,000 people and is a savings-led community finance and create 10m commitment by Barclays bespoke financial channels, products and services.
The initiative gives individuals the opportunity to save regularly and provides communities with a way to manage their money, increasing their ability to deal with life emergencies, and invest in their own and their childrens future.
