12 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Business Review Nick Williams Chief Financial Officer Introduction BlueBay is one of the largest independent asset managers of fixed income credit products in Europe, with a total of $24.3 billion of Assets under Management AuM as at 30 June 2009.
BlueBay offers two different product lines to its clients: long-only funds and long short funds.
Its long-only funds are designed as actively managed products with the objective of producing targeted excess returns over their benchmarks over the course of the credit cycle.
Its long short funds are intended to produce attractive risk-adjusted returns to investors over the long term.
BlueBays products are currently grouped into six credit strategies which cover the spectrum of credit quality, ranging from investment grade to distressed debt, as well as emerging market debt and a multi-strategy long short fund.
The Company also manages a number of segregated long-only accounts on behalf of large institutional clients.
BlueBay distributes its products either directly to institutional clients or indirectly via intermediaries such as distributors.
It has dedicated sales and marketing teams based in London, Tokyo and Connecticut.
Industry environment Secular credit market opportunities BlueBay was founded in response to two secular developments in the debt capital markets.
The first was the advent of a mainstream European corporate debt market, sparked by the introduction of the Euro in 1999.
The second was the rapid growth from 1998 onwards of global emerging market debt as a major asset class.
Despite the significant upheaval in all financial markets over the past year, we continue to believe that these two secular drivers of our business model remain intact.
Business Review 13 The overlay of the start of a new credit cycle on the secular credit market trends presents a very attractive set of external circumstances for BlueBay.
The global corporate debt market comprises Long-only flagship funds index returns for the periods indicated: all publicly traded debt instruments other Six Six months months Year than those issued by governments and supraended ended ended national agencies.
Within this market, the US Dec 2008 June 2009 June 2009 corporate debt market is estimated to be the % %% largest single component in terms of value of iBoxx Euro Corporates Index -2.6 7.4 4.6 instruments outstanding, currently estimated Merrill Lynch Euro 3-month Libor Index 2.9 1.3 4.2 at $3.5 trillion Source: Merrill Lynch.
The Merrill Lynch European Currency High Yield Constrained European corporate debt market is estimated Hedged in Euro Index -29.0 39.4 -1.1 to be over half this size with approximately JP Morgan EMBI Global Diversified Index -11.8 15.7 2.1 $2.1 trillion of instruments outstanding JP Morgan GBI-EM Broad Diversified USD Unhedged Index -5.1 6.3 0.8 Source: Merrill Lynch but has experienced 50% JPM EMBI Global Diversified and 50% JPM GBI-EM Broad Diversified USD Unhedged Index -8.4 11.0 1.7 faster growth in recent years, driven by the JPM Corporate Emerging Markets Bond Diversified Index -15.8 21.6 2.4 introduction of the Euro which facilitated the development of a homogenous debt UBS Global Convertible Focus Index USD n a 7.3 13.4 Annualised since inception on 9 December 2008. capital market in Europe and the trend of growing disintermediation of the banking system from the credit process.
In addition, Market performance in 2008-09 In such an exceptional environment, it is strong demand for fixed income instruments a tale of two halves hardly surprising that all credit indices lost from liability-driven investors seeking yield The first half significant amounts of value during the in a low interest rate environment has been It has been widely documented that credit first half of our financial year.
Given the markets had deteriorated significantly comparable size of Gross Domestic Product since the onset of the credit crunch in The second half of the EU and the US, we believe that despite July 2007.
At the start of the financial year By the early part of 2009, credit spreads had the current credit crisis, in the medium to in July 2008, our view was that the effects significantly surpassed previous historic highs.
long term, the European corporate debt of the credit crunch were far from over.
While there is ample evidence that individual market will continue to experience strong Market conditions took a dramatic turn for corporate defaults have increased, at an growth, similar to that witnessed in the US.
the worse following the collapse of Lehman index level, the default rates implied by Brothers in September 2008.
Much has these spreads were well above any that had Emerging markets have historically accounted already been written about this period of been observed in modern financial history.
for only a small part of the global securities financial history and doubtless much more For investors who took the view that such markets, with investor demand being will be written in the years to come.
default rates were unlikely to materialise, dampened by limited issuance and liquidity, the coupons attached to credit products insufficient data quality and the significant In the aftermath of the Lehman Brothers began to look increasingly attractive.
Our volatility in the asset class.
However, collapse, a number of other high profile banks view is that credit markets probably reached following a number of major financial crises and insurance companies experienced severe their trough towards the end of 2008 and during the 1990s the most significant of difficulties which led to a widespread fear of that the early part of 2009 has seen the start which was the Russian default crisis of 1998, counterparty insolvency amongst all market of a new credit cycle.
This view is supported volatility in the asset class has steadily participants.
There was a generalised flight by the performance of all credit indices in reduced, credit quality has improved and to safety favouring cash, government bonds the first half of 2009. diversification has increased across the asset and the US Dollar, which led to widespread class in terms of the total number of issuing illiquidity in many of the credit markets in For BlueBays business the overlay of the start countries and corporations.
These trends which BlueBay operates.
The OTC markets of a new credit cycle on the secular credit have been sustained by robust domestic for credit derivatives ceased to function market trends presents a very attractive set economic growth, the general adoption of effectively as counterparties dramatically of external circumstances.
floating foreign exchange rates and increased increased their margin requirements and foreign exchange reserves, all of which have often refused to unwind contracts where driven the upward momentum in ratings.
The this would result in cash outflows.
resulting growth of the asset class has been further enhanced by the increasing issuance of securities denominated in local currencies and by issuance of securities by corporate borrowers located in emerging markets.
