Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 35 Governance Corporate Responsibility Introduction of the group.
In 2009, approximately one quarter of all staff Close Brothers aims to integrate Corporate Responsibility across the group participated in the scheme.
The board has CR across the groups businesses and has continued to do recently agreed to reduce the eligibility criteria for employees so throughout the year despite difficult and challenging from two years service to six months in order to encourage financial markets.
increased participation in the scheme.
The board believes that its main CR focus should be on: Responsible Finance Our success and strong reputation depends on treating all Ensuring recognition of CR initiatives throughout the customers fairly.
Close Brothers Group has a successful track group: record of building long-term relationships with its customers.
The groups employees: During the last twelve months, the group has conducted reviews to ensure its businesses have embedded Treating Acting responsibly to its customers that it conducts Customers Fairly TCF.
The group has implemented TCF business with: both onshore and offshore, fully supporting the FSAs initiative.
Group control functions are responsible for The environmental impact of its activities generally: and monitoring the application of TCF across our businesses, ensuring all staff are briefed on TCF policies.
TCF is an ongoing The groups contribution to local communities.
process and the group will continue to develop its policies and procedures taking into account regulatory views and industry The board encourages the adoption of key CR principles best practice.
Given the diversified nature of the group, Close Brothers businesses are responsible for The group recognises its responsibility to minimise the implementing the groups CR principles.
opportunity for fraud across its businesses.
All group companies have anti-money laundering and, where It is the responsibility of each employee to read and appropriate, fraud prevention policies.
understand the groups CR principles and to implement the companys requirement regarding CR.
It is the managers and Each of our regulated businesses has a dedicated anti-money directors responsibility to effectively manage, monitor and laundering and compliance officer who reports to the head of evaluate the continued progress of CR efforts as part of the group compliance.
Regular training is given to all staff to companys strategy and the boards commitment.
ensure continuing awareness of anti-money laundering and fraud prevention issues.
Employees Close Brothers is committed to recruiting, training, Throughout these recent difficult markets, Close Brothers developing and retaining high calibre people in order to robust funding model and prudent underwriting criteria have maximise their potential and derive business benefits.
Close enabled it to continue to lend to small and medium sized Brothers is an equal opportunities employer and does not enterprises.
judge applications for employment by race, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation, nationality or political bias.
Environment The group recognises the importance of minimising the Close Brothers businesses are responsible for implementing environmental impact of its activities.
their own health and safety policy to establish procedures appropriate to their particular activities.
All businesses have a In 2009, Close Brothers Group participated in the Carbon health and safety policy which is communicated to employees Disclosure Project for the fourth consecutive year, as part of a joining induction pack, staff handbook or via the demonstrating its commitment to reducing carbon intranet.
The groups commitment to monitor, maintain and emissions.
This disclosure currently measures annual carbon improve health and safety in the workplace is evidenced risk information for the groups 10 Crown Place office in through the appointment of an accountable health and safety London.
officer in all businesses who is responsible for regularly reviewing their policy and minimising the risk of stress or In September 2008, an energy audit was carried out at this injury at the workplace.
office, the results of which identified a number of measures which have the potential to reduce annual emissions.
Close Brothers is committed to ongoing training and development of its staff and provides compulsory and The group continues its commitment to limit greenhouse gas voluntary programmes as appropriate for each business, emissions and water usage and to recycle waste materials at supporting training for qualifications.
In 2009, over two thirds its 10 Crown Place office.
At this office, green tariff energy is of employees attended internal or external training courses.
procured and there is a recycling programme in place for All divisions offer development and performance reviews for toners, paper and general waste.
their staff which, in most cases, forms part of an annual appraisal process and addresses training and development Community plans.
Close Brothers continues to encourage employee participation in local community projects and offers to match funding.
The group offers a Save As You Earn scheme to all eligible Many businesses encourage charitable donations by offering a employees allowing them to participate directly in the success Give As You Earn scheme for staff and in 2009 Winterflood U07387 pp25-51.
indd 35 30 9 09 18:33:10 30 9 09 18:33:10 Ser Ser Ser Server: ver: ver: ver: studio studio studio studio 2 2 2 2 Set Set Set Set up: up: up: up: rich rich rich rich First First First First Read Revisions Read Revisions Read Revisions Read Revisions Serv 36 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Governance Corporate Responsibility continued won a gold quality mark from Charities Aid Foundation awarded as recognition for having around 40% of employees giving through the scheme and actively promoting participation throughout the year.
Charitable donations made during the year amounted to 154,000 2008: 168,000 despite the challenging economic environment.
Matched funding for employees participating in fundraising activity accounted for 17% with the remainder from direct company contributions to charities across the UK and Europe.
The companys largest contributions were to Charities Aid Foundation, Princes Trust and Macmillan Cancer Support with smaller donations to a range of charities in the UK and Germany supporting medical research, communitybased projects in Malawi and many other worthy causes.
Close Brothers has had a relationship with Business in the Community for the past eight years and continues to be a full member as a reflection of the groups commitment to improve its impact on society.
