ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:08 Page 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY The Group takes its responsibilities as a good citizen seriously.
ETHICAL STANDARDS The policies below explain how the Group has successfully All Bodycote personnel are expected to apply a high ethical standard, implemented these.
consistent with an international UK-listed company.
PEOPLE COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS The strength of the Group primarily rests in its people and one Bodycote has systems in place designed to ensure compliance with of the key challenges for management is to ensure availability all applicable laws and regulations and conformity with all relevant of appropriately qualified people to support its continued growth.
Bodycote is fortunate to have a competent and committed COMPETITION international team that is well respected in technical and business Bodycote aims to win business in a differentiated high-value manner.
Most acquisitions are based on historical relationships with The Group does not employ unfair trading methods and it competes Bodycote personnel which is a testament to the integrity of the vigorously but fairly within the requirements of the applicable laws.
The Board has established a remuneration policy Employees are prohibited from either giving or receiving any inducements.
which rewards performance while offering competitive base packages.
In line with the policy of continuous improvement, the Group has added further resources in this area to assess management performance and to improve the succession pipeline for future business leadership.
Bodycotes employment policies are non-discriminatory, complying with all current legislation to engender equal opportunity irrespective of race, gender, religion, disability, sexual orientation or nationality.
RESPONSIBLE 34 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:08 Page 35 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST ENVIRONMENT Directors and employees are expected to ensure that their personal Bodycote operates modern, efficient equipment around the clock.
interests do not at any time conflict with those of Bodycote.
Shareholder The Group aggregates demand from a wide range of customers employees are advised of and comply with share trading codes.
to maximise efficiency and minimise energy costs.
By replacing under-utilised in-house thermal processing operations with Bodycotes POLITICS state-of-the-art equipment, the overall amount of energy used by Bodycote does not make political donations.
industry can be dramatically reduced, as is explained in the following SAFETY & HEALTH two pages.
Appropriate safety and health policies and procedures are in force The replacement, where possible, of harmful materials has reduced in the Group.
In 2004 the Group commenced reporting its performance the need for disposal of waste products.
Additionally, the adoption of internally in terms of lost time, frequency and severity of accidents recuperative heating and closed water cooling systems has reduced in a uniform manner.
As a result, each facility is now able to benchmark energy consumption and emissions.
its safety and health performance and formulate strategies for The success of Bodycotes processes in addressing these issues is improvements.
Bodycote is committed to the highest practicable key to its environmental credentials.
The Group does not simply aim standards of safety and health management.
Bonus payments to to minimise its own energy consumption, but also to effect substantial Directors and senior executives are, in part, dependent on achievement reductions in its customers energy use.
of these targets, which are now key performance indicators.
The Group has begun to participate in carbon reduction schemes and is making the necessary preparations to enable disclosures on greenhouse gas emissions to be made in advance of the Climate Change Act 2008 and more generally for the Company to report on the sustainable and efficient use of energy and other resources.... the Group does not simply aim to minimise its own energy consumption, but also to effect substantial reductions in its customers energy use BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 35 ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:08 Page 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED CARING FOR OUR ENVIRONMENT Bodycote is totally committed to achieving environmental best practice throughout its business activities, ensuring that these meet relevant laws and regulations, that they are acceptable to the community at large and that their environmental impact is reduced to a minimum.
The Company recognises that the pursuit of economic growth and a healthy environment are closely linked.
Ever at the forefront of technology, Bodycote was one of the first thermal processing companies to use microprocessor controls to tightly control furnace atmosphere and emissions and introduced its first load-forecasting systems over 20 years ago to reduce peak energy demand and minimise waste.
A proactive approach to improving energy efficiency means that Bodycote has implemented a variety of systems to reduce water and gas consumption and re-use energy.
This continuing focus on lessening its impact on the environment has resulted in Bodycote advancing toward ISO 14001 environmental accreditation at all its facilities, with more than three quarters of the Group having already achieved this standard.
At every stage where Bodycote is involved in the manufacturing cycle, its operational aim is to lessen the overall impact on the environment.
The key to Bodycotes positive contribution lies in efficiency.
As an aggregator of specialised engineering services, Bodycote reduces the carbon footprint of its customers activities by increasing the lifespan of their products and using modern, energy efficient equipment.
Without Bodycote, companies would be using older technology and running their equipment at reduced capacity, both of which are a drain on energy and financial resources.
Working with Bodycote enables customers to commit more easily to carbon reduction initiatives.
In many geographic jurisdictions this can lead to additional value generation as carbon reduction legislation is brought into force.
36 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 37 HOW CAN ENERGY INTENSIVE THERMAL PROCESSING BE ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY?
When you first consider the science of thermal processing from an environmental point of view, you may ask the question, How can such an energy intensive process help the environment?
However, if we consider a world without heat treatments, HIP or coatings the advantages become immediately apparent.
Take an average car, for example whether diesel, petrol, electric or gas, all need parts that are heat treated, HIPed and coated.
For the wheels to turn, bearings are needed, yet few people realise that it is thanks to heat treatment that the humble wheel bearing lasts the lifetime of the car and beyond.
Certainly, better design and improved lubricants assist with this extended life, but without heat treatment a wheel bearing would be lucky to last a week.
The same applies to gearboxes, final drives, engines and, in fact, all the moving parts of the vehicle.
Modern thermal processing techniques have allowed design engineers and manufacturers to use much lighter materials, such as aluminium, and have significantly prolonged component lifetimes.
By treating the aluminium used for castings and suspension components, the weight of the vehicle is reduced, which in turn leads to reduced fuel consumption and improved efficiency.
Without thermal processing, the average car would weigh substantially more and require frequent replacement of parts due to wear resulting in more mining, more transport, more machining, more waste in short, a significant environmental impact.
So, whilst thermal processing is an energy intensive business, it is a vital part of the manufacturing chain and its use saves the energy it consumes many times over.
The alternative would require the use of energy on such a scale that many of the things that we consider an essential part of modern day life would be economically unviable.
BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 37
