F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 25 Business Review Our strategic approach and commitment to corporate responsibility Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our strategic approach and commitment to corporate responsibility CR CR commitment F&C identifies its key stakeholders as shareholders, clients, employees, suppliers, government and non-government The Board is committed to maintaining the highest organisations, the wider community, other asset standards of governance and corporate citizenship.
We management companies and companies in which we recognise that in addition to our responsibilities to clients invest.
We engage widely with stakeholder groups through and shareholders we also have responsibilities to regular dialogue tailored to meet the requirements of each employees, suppliers, the environment, the companies in stakeholder group.
which we invest and the wider community in which we CR categories supporting the strategic ambitions operate.
F&C has established key performance indicators KPIs for CR strategy each of the CR categories detailed below, details of which The Company has two overarching strategic ambitions: can be found on the Corporate Responsibility section of the Companys website.
A summary of our objectives in To enable our clients to respond effectively to changing each area is set out below.
dynamics in the world economy through our products and through influencing companies to improve business performance.
Marketplace To ensure that we meet the highest practicable F&C will use the influence of its clients assets to engage standards of corporate responsibility in our own with companies on all relevant CR matters where this will operations.
F&C intends to increase the number of milestones achieved being an instance in We have defined four key categories supporting our which a company improves its policies, procedures or strategic ambitions: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace practices following engagement and where F&Cs and Community.
participation has been a major factor to 300 by 2010.
We are committed to monitoring and reporting on progress F&C will issue voting instructions in line with its Corporate against the targets set within each category, both internally Governance Operational Guidelines on 100% of global on a quarterly basis and externally at least annually.
resolutions that it is mandated to on behalf of clients and F&Cs CR policies are guided by a number of broadly will publish its voting history.
F&C will contact 100% of accepted international standards and benchmarks.
companies following an abstention or vote against Wherever practicable, we seek external validation of our management.
progress and publish these results.
F&C considers the following key external measures to Environment validate our relative CR performance.
F&C is targeting carbon neutrality internally and is External validation committed to helping our clients and suppliers cut carbon emissions.
Over the next three years F&C will obtain 100 per cent.
of its energy usage from renewable sources, 2008 Existing 2010 where such markets exist.
position position target BITC Corporate F&C will source 100 per cent.
of its paper from chlorine free Responsibility Platinum recycled supplies, reduce waste to landfill by 20 per cent.
Index Gold status Gold status status and increase its own recycling by 20 per cent.
EIRIS FTSE4Good Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion F&C will actively embark on an internal education UN Global programme on the effect that water and waste Compact CCP Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion management has on the environment.
Carbon Disclosure F&C, through its marketplace engagement activity, will Project Member Member Member widen its influence to the companies in which it invests.
Principles for Responsible Founding Founding Founding Investment signatory signatory signatory F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 26 Business Review Our strategic approach and commitment to corporate responsibility Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Some of our 2009 community or charity events In February, several members Stewart McAndie took part in In July, a team of F&C fund 75 F&C employees took park in of the CR Committee travelled the London Marathon in April.
managers travelled to a primary the JP Morgan Chase to a primary school in Camden He raised over 3,000 for the school in Lewisham to transform Corporate Challenge in to paint a classroom.
Tusk Trust, a conservation an overgrown patch within the Battersea Park, London, charity whose work is spread school to a vegetable and herb raising funds for SportsAid.
Corporate responsibility key performance indicators Category KPI statistic 2009 performance 2010 targets Marketplace Number of resolutions voted on during the year 99.97% 100% Proportion of companies contacted following an abstention or vote against management 100% 100% reo engagement successes in year 376 350 Community Staff participation in GAYE 12% 15% Employees participating in charitable events and charitable fundraising 462 475 Staff volunteering for community projects 34% 75% Environment Carbon neutrality Full Full Reduction in paper consumption 5% 5% Workplace Employee survey participation 75% Top decile Staff satisfaction 70% 75% Diversity training staff coverage 100% 100% F&C targets 15 per cent.
of employees participating in the Workplace Give As You Earn scheme and will match employee F&C is committed to ensuring good practices in managing contributions up to a set monthly level.
How is Corporate Responsibility implemented by F&C will undertake an employee survey and will, by 2010, F&C?
target top decile employee participation levels.
The Board is ultimately responsible for CR within the Group.
Development of F&Cs policies on CR and their F&C always seeks to employ the best person for each job implementation throughout the Group are co-ordinated by and does not discriminate on grounds of gender, race, the CR Committee, chaired by David Logan.
ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, age or physical disability.
of employees on the importance of recognising and embracing diversity in the workplace and the community as a whole.
Alain Grisay David Logan F&C encourages share ownership and will continue to 31 March 2010 31 March 2010 operate all-employee share schemes.
Community F&C intends, over the next three years, to introduce financial support and, wherever practicable, offer employees time off work to support Charitable Activities.
In 2010 F&C is targetting 75 per cent.
of all employees dedicating at least one working day per year to a charitable or community programme.
