BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Capability development Corporate responsibility Having built a safety and operations learning framework to enhance the capability of our staff to deliver safe, reliable, responsible and efficient Safety operations, we defined target populations for these programmes more Safety, people and performance are BPs top priorities.
We constantly accurately in 2009. seek to improve our safety performance through the procedures, More than 2,700 front-line operational leaders across our global processes and training programmes that we implement in pursuit of operations have started one or more of the modules within the Operating our goal of no accidents, no harm to people and no damage to the Essentials programme which seeks to embed the BP way of operating environment.
Our Operations Academy OA, a partnership with In 2009, a third-party-operated helicopter carrying contractors the Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT, is also now well from BPs Miller platform crashed in the North Sea resulting in the tragic established.
Seven cadres of senior operations staff have already loss of 16 lives.
In addition, BP sustained two fatalities within our own attended this academy and three of these have graduated: all are operations, one, when a rig worker was lost overboard during drilling applying their learning and having a deep influence in the operations operations in Azerbaijan and a second, in a crush injury on a well pad community.
We also have an Executive Operations Programme which in Alaska.
has continued to support the executive team and senior business leaders We deeply regret the loss of these lives.
in the development of their unique operations capability requirements.
Safety and operational performance Process safety management In 2009, BPs safety record continued to improve, as indicated by We continued to implement the 2007 recommendations made by the BP measures of personal safety including reported recordable injury US Refineries Independent Safety Review Panel Panel, which following frequency RIF and days away from work case frequency DAFWC.
the incident at Texas City in 2005, reviewed process safety management Our overall RIF of 0.34 was significantly lower than the rate of at our US refineries and our safety management culture.
Our DAFWCF was 0.069, an improvement In accordance with those recommendations, we appointed an on the level of 0.080 in 2008.
Independent Expert for a five-year term to monitor their implementation.
In 2009, eight work-related major incidents were reported, We again co-operated closely with the Independent Expert in 2009, compared with 21 in 2008.
Major incidents include incidents resulting in providing him access to our sites, personnel and documentation and fatalities, significant property damage or significant environmental routinely supplying him with progress reports.
All fatalities and other major incidents and many that have the Experts second annual report, published in 2009, he acknowledged BPs potential to become major incidents, are discussed by the group sustained focus on its safety and operations agenda and the priority operations risk committee GORC, chaired by the group chief executive.
given by executive management and the board to safe, reliable and Our mandatory internal requirement to undertake incident investigations responsible operations.
The report identified areas for continued focus seeks to ensure that we learn as much as possible from each incident and highlighted the progress made in several areas, including the and take action to prevent re-occurrence.
development of capability programmes, OMS implementation, safety and There were 234 oil spills of one barrel or more reported in 2009, a operations auditing, and the improvement of metrics to monitor process significant reduction on the 335 spills that occurred in 2008.
During the course of 2009, we also provided regular volume of oil spilled in 2009 was approximately 1,191 million litres, a progress updates to the Safety, Ethics and Environment Assurance reduction of 65% compared with 2008.
This performance follows several years of intense focus on See Legal proceedings on pages 99-100 in respect of ongoing training and procedures across BP.
BPs operating management Texas City refinery matters.
system OMS, which provides a single operating framework for all BP By the end of 2009 our safety and operations audit team had operations, is a key part of continuing to drive a rigorous approach audited a total of 94 BP businesses, including all major operating sites, to safe operations.
2009 marked an important year in the continuing within a three-year period.
The audits, which in 2009 included pilot audits implementation of OMS.
for analysis against the requirements of the OMS, have provided a rigorous process for assessing our businesses against BPs relevant Safe, reliable and responsible operations standards and requirements.
Having been introduced at eight operating sites in 2008, implementation We also participated in industry-wide forums on process safety.
of the OMS gathered pace in 2009.
The system was up and running at We chaired the API ANSI multi-stakeholder group developing a standard 70 operations across the business by the end of the year, including all our for public reporting of leading and lagging process safety indicators.
operated refineries and petrochemicals plants.
This represents around Through this and other bodies, we shared our learning with other 80% of the operations for which OMS implementation is planned, with organizations within and outside the oil and gas industry.
the remainder scheduled to be live by the end of 2010.
Taking a systematic approach is integral to improving safety and Six-point plan operating performance in every BP site.
Our OMS covers all areas from Our efforts on process safety included taking action to close out our process safety, to personal health, to environmental performance.
By six-point plan for process safety, which was launched in 2006 to address applying consistent principles and processes across the BP groups immediate priorities for improving process safety and minimizing risk at operations, the system provides for an integrated and consistent way of our operations worldwide.
We have either completed the required actions working.
These principles and processes are designed to simplify the or integrated the few continuing requirements within the OMS, for organization, improve productivity, enable consistent execution and focus tracking to completion.
We established a clear approach for future BP on performance.
monitoring of these within the internal HSE & Operations Integrity Report.
This report, which is the key source of management information relating to safety and operations in BP, is prepared quarterly for the GORC.
46 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Technology development Environment BP invests in, or jointly funds, research and development seeking Climate change opportunities to reduce our potential environmental impacts, for example, BP recognizes that climate change is a global concern representing a sound and marine life research, a range of water management projects significant challenge for society, the energy industry, and BP.
and advanced drill cuttings treatment.
BP also participates in public and a We monitor and report on greenhouse gas GHG emissions, and private partnerships to develop new technologies.
These include: we manage our GHG emissions through a focus on operational energy the Energy Biosciences Institute EBI in the US, which conducts efficiency.
Each year since 2002, we have estimated the reduction in our research into biofuel technologies, improved oil and gas recovery and reported annual emissions due to efficiency projects and the running carbon sequestration: total of these estimated reductions is now 7.9 million tonnes Mte, the Energy Technologies Institute ETI in the UK, which seeks to including 0.3Mte estimated for the last year.
accelerate the development of energy technologies to reduce GHG However, last years sustainable reductions have been more emissions including offshore wind and for marine, tidal and wave than offset by additional emissions from increased operational activity.
energy: and As such, we are reporting 65.0Mte of GHG emissions for the year 2009, the Carbon Mitigation Initiative at Princeton University, to research 3.6Mte higher than the 61.4Mte reported for 2008.
Increased throughput the fundamental environmental, and technological issues in carbon from US refineries, the start-up of our Tangguh LNG project in Indonesia management.
and deepwater production platforms in the Gulf of Mexico account for much of this increase.
Regulation We expect that additional regulation of GHG emissions in the BP operates in more than 80 countries and is subject to a wide variety future and international accords aimed at addressing climate change of environmental regulations concerning our products, operations and will have an increasing impact on our businesses, operating costs and activities.
Current and proposed fuel and product specifications, strategic planning, but may also offer opportunities in the development of emission controls and climate change programmes under a number of low-carbon technologies and businesses.
See Regulation Greenhouse environmental laws may have a significant effect on the production, sale gas regulation on page 48. and profitability of many of our products.
To address this expectation, we factor a carbon cost into our There also are environmental laws that require us to remediate investment appraisals and the engineering design of new projects.
We and restore areas damaged by the accidental or unauthorized release of do this by requiring projects to make realistic assumptions about the likely hazardous materials or petroleum associated with our operations.
These carbon price during the lifetime of the project.
This is used as a basis for laws may apply to sites that BP currently owns or operates, sites that it assessing the economic value of the investment, and for assessing previously owned or operated, or sites used for the disposal of its and options to optimize the way the project is engineered.
This is our way of other parties waste.
Provisions for environmental restoration and evaluating investments to ensure they are competitive not only in todays remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount world but in a future where carbon has a more robust price.
of BPs legal obligation can be reliably estimated.
The cost of future environmental remediation obligations is often inherently difficult to Environmental management estimate.
Uncertainties can include the extent of contamination, the During 2009, we began integrating our environmental management appropriate corrective actions, technological feasibility and BPs share of systems into our operating management system OMS and piloted an liability.
See Financial statements Note 34 on page 160 for the amounts integrated approach to identify potential environmental and social provided in respect of environmental remediation and decommissioning.
These are intended to improve our consistency A number of pending or anticipated governmental proceedings and effectiveness in identifying and mitigating the environmental and against BP and certain subsidiaries under environmental laws could result social impacts of our operations.
Our major operating sites are all in monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more.
We are also subject to certified under the international environmental management system environmental claims for personal injury and property damage alleging standard ISO 14001, with the exception of the Texas City petrochemicals the release or exposure to hazardous substances.
The costs associated plant which is seeking certification in 2010. with such future environmental remediation obligations, governmental None of our new projects entered a protected area in 2009. proceedings and claims could be significant and may be material to the Our protected areas classification includes the International Union for results of operations in the period in which they are recognized, but it is the Conservation of Nature IUCN I-IV, Ramsar and World Heritage not expected that such costs will be material to the groups overall designations.
results of operations, our financial position or liquidity.
However, we We continue to strengthen our processes for managing cannot accurately predict the effects of future developments on the compliance with environmental regulations in each of the countries in group, such as stricter environmental laws or enforcement policies or which we operate.
In addition, each employee is required to comply with future events at our facilities, and there can be no assurance that material the health, safety and environmental requirements of the BP code of liabilities and costs will not be incurred in the future.
We expect our partners, suppliers and contractors to comply the groups environmental expenditure see page 60. with legal requirements and operate consistently with the principles of our code of conduct.
Information on the environmental impact of our operations and our efforts to manage resources responsibly are discussed in our annual BP Sustainability Report which is available on our website at www.
a We report greenhouse gas GHG emissions, and emission reductions, on a COequivalent basis 2 including CO and methane.
This represents all consolidated entities and BPs share of equity- 2 accounted entities except TNK-BP.
47 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Greenhouse gas regulation US and EU regulations Increasing concerns about climate change have led to a number of Approximately 60% of our fixed assets are located in the US and the EU.
international, national and regional measures to limit greenhouse gas US and EU environment and health and safety regulations significantly emissions: additional stricter measures can be expected in the future.
affect BPs exploration and production, refining, marketing, transportation Current measures and developments affecting our businesses include and shipping operations.
Significant legislation in the US and the EU the following: affecting our businesses and profitability includes the following: The Kyoto Protocol currently commits 38 ratified parties to meet emissions targets in the commitment period 2008 to 2012.
United States The UN summit in Copenhagen in December 2009 where Parties to The Clean Air Act CAA regulates air emissions, permitting, fuel the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC took specifications and other aspects of our production, distribution and note of the Copenhagen Accord.
The Accord recognizes the scientific marketing activities.
Stricter limits on sulphur and benzene in fuels view that the increase in global temperature should be below 2C.
will affect us going forward.
Additionally, many states have separate Signatories to the Accord are to append to it their emissions targets laws similar to the CAA.
for 2020 or their proposed GHG mitigation measures.
By the end of The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and The Energy Independence and January 2010 the UNFCCC had received submissions of national Security Act of 2007 affect our US fuel markets by, among other pledges to cut and limit greenhouse gases by 2020 from 55 things, imposing renewable fuel mandate and imposing GHG countries.
According to the UNFCCC, these countries together emission thresholds for certain renewable fuels.
States such as account for 78% of global emissions from energy use.
California also impose additional carbon fuel standards.
The European Union EU Climate Action and Renewable Energy The Clean Water Act CWA regulates wastewater and other effluent Package which requires increased greenhouse gas reductions, discharges from BPs facilities, and BP is required to obtain discharge improvements in energy efficiency and increased renewable energy permits, install control equipment and implement operational controls use by 2020 as well as including the Revision of the EU Emissions and preventative measures.
Trading Scheme EU ETS directive.
This regulates approximately The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act RCRA regulates the one-fifth of our reported 2009 global CO emissions and can be generation, handling, and disposal of wastes associated with our 2 expected to require additional expenditure from 2013 when the operations and can require corrective action at locations where such revision of the scheme EU ETS Phase 3 comes into effect.
Australia has committed to reduce its GHG emissions by between The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 5-25% below 2000 levels by 2020, depending on the extent of Liability Act CERCLA, can, in certain circumstances, impose the international action.
Australia has also developed an emissions trading entire cost of investigation and remediation on a party who owned or scheme.
If passed in law, it will cover around 70% of the nations operated a contaminated site or arranged for waste disposal at the GHG emissions including stationary energy and transport emissions.
BP has incurred, or expects to incur, liability under CERCLA or New Zealand has agreed to cut GHG emissions by 10-20% from similar state laws, including costs attributed to insolvent or 1990 levels by 2020, subject to certain conditions.
New Zealand is unidentified parties.
BP is also subject to claims for remediation costs extending the scope of its Emission Trading Scheme in July 2010. under other federal and state laws, and to claims for natural resource In the US, recent national legislation has imposed stricter automobile damages NRD under CERCLA, the OPA 90 and other federal and fuel emissions standards and biofuel mandates and legislative state laws.
proposals would impose GHG emission limits through cap-and-trade The Toxic Substances Control Act regulates BPs import, export and programmes as well as mandates for alternative energy and sale of new chemical products.
The Occupational Safety and Health Act OSHA, imposes workplace The US Environmental Protection Agency EPA released a GHG safety and health requirements on our operations along with endangerment finding in late 2009 giving it authority to regulate significant process safety management obligations.
GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act: it has also issued a GHG The Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, requires reporting rule covering major stationary emission sources and emergency planning and hazardous substance release notification as upstream fuel suppliers.
well as public disclosure of our chemical usage and emissions.
A number of additional state and regional initiatives in the US will The US Department of Transportation DOT regulates the transport affect our operations including regulation in California seeking to of BPs petroleum products such as crude oil, gasoline and reduce GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, including petrochemicals.
reductions in the carbon intensity of transport fuel sold in the The Marine Transportation Security Act and the DOT Hazardous state.
Materials HAZMAT and the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Canada has adopted an action plan to reduce emissions to 20% Standard CFATS regulations impose security compliance regulations below 2006 levels by 2020 and the national government seeks a on BP and require security vulnerability assessments, security coordinated approach with the US on environmental and energy mitigation plans and require security upgrades that increase our cost objectives, such as a North America-wide cap-and-trade system.
Each of these measures can increase our production costs for certain products, increase demand for competing energy alternatives or products with lower-carbon intensity and affect the sales of many of our products.
48 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review The US refineries of BP Products North America Inc BP Products are The EU Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals subject to a consent decree with the EPA to resolve alleged violations of REACH legislation requires that we register chemical substances we the CAA and implementation of the decrees requirements continues.
A manufacture or import into the EU with a complete set of hazard and 2009 amendment to the decree resolves remaining alleged air violations risk data.
Existing manufactured and imported substances were all at the Texas City refinery through the payment of a $12 million civil fine, a preregistered by 1 December 2008 and qualified for a timed phase-in $6 million supplemental environmental project and enhanced CAA for full registration during the period 2010-2018.
Crude oil and natural compliance measures estimated to cost approximately $150 million.
The gas are exempt from registration requirements, while fuels are fine has been paid and BP Products is implementing the other provisions.
exempt from authorization but not registration.
REACH affects our For further disclosures relating to Texas City refinery, please see Legal refining, petrochemicals and other manufacturing operations.
proceedings on pages 99-100. International marine fuel regulations under International Maritime Various environmental groups and the EPA have challenged Organisation IMO and International Convention for the Prevention of certain aspects of the operating permit issued by the Indiana Department Pollution from Ships Marpol regimes impose stricter sulphur of Environmental Management IDEM for our upgrades to the Whiting emission restrictions on ships in EU ports and inland waterways and refinery.
In response to these challenges, IDEM has reviewed the the North and Baltic seas beginning in 2010 and with a stricter global permits and responded formally to the EPA.
The EPA either through cap on marine sulphur emissions beginning in 2012.
Further IDEM or directly can cause the permit to be modified, reissued or in reductions are to be phased in thereafter.
These restrictions require extremis terminated or revoked.
BP is in discussions with the EPA and the use of compliant heavy fuel oil HFO or distillate, or the IDEM over these issues and clean air act violations at the Whiting, Toledo, installation of abatement technologies on ships.
These regulations will Carson and Cherry Point refineries.
Settlement negotiations continue in place additional costs on refineries producing marine fuel, including an effort to resolve these matters.
costs to dispose of sulphur, as well as increased CO emissions and 2 energy costs for additional refining.
European Union In the UK, significant health and safety legislation affecting BP BPs operations in the EU are subject to a number of current and includes the Health and Safety at Work Act and regulations and the proposed regulatory requirements that affect our operations and Control of Major Accident Hazards Regulations.
These include: The EU Climate Action and Renewable Energy Package and the Maritime regulations Emissions Trading Scheme ETS Directive see Greenhouse gas BP Shippings operations are subject to extensive national and regulation above.
international regulations governing liability, operations, training, The EU European Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control IPPC spill prevention and insurance.
These include: Directive imposes a unified environmental permit requirement on our In US waters, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90 imposes liability major European sites including refineries and chemical facilities and and spill prevention and planning requirements governing, amongst requires assessments and some upgrades to our facilities.
A others, tankers, barges and offshore facilities and mandates a levy proposed Industrial Emission Directive would replace the IPPC on oil imported and produced domestically to fund oil spill response.
It would merge several existing industrial emission Some states, including Alaska, Washington, Oregon and California, directives, impose tighter emission standards for large combustion impose additional liability for oil spills.
plants and be more prescriptive as to the Best Available Techniques Outside US territorial waters, BP Shipping tankers are subject to BAT to be used to achieve emission limits.
This may result in international liability, spill response and preparedness regulations requirements for further emission reductions at our EU sites.
under the UNs International Maritime Organization, including the The EC Thematic Strategy on Air Pollution and the related work on International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution, the revisions to the Gothenburg Protocol and National Emissions Ceiling International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, Directive NECD.
This will establish national ceilings for emissions of the International Convention on Oil Pollution, Preparedness, a variety of air pollutants in order to achieve EU-wide health and Response and Co-operation and the International Convention environmental improvement targets.
The EC is also considering the on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage.
use of a NO and SO trading scheme as a tool to achieve emission To meet its financial responsibility requirements, BP Shipping maintains X 2 reductions.
This may result in requirements for further emission marine liability pollution insurance to a maximum limit of $1 billion for reductions at our EU sites.
each occurrence through mutual insurance associations P&I Clubs but The EU Regulation on ozone depleting substances ODS, which there can be no assurance that a spill will necessarily be adequately implements the Montreal Protocol on ODS was most recently revised covered by insurance or that liabilities will not exceed insurance in 2009 requires BP to reduce the use of ozone depleting substances recoveries.
ODS and phase out certain ODS substances.
BP continues to replace ODS in refrigerants and or equipment, in the EU and elsewhere, in accordance with the Protocol and related legislation.
Methyl bromide an ODS is a minor byproduct in the production by our petrochemicals operations of purified terephthalic acid and the progressive phase out of methyl bromide uses may result in future pressure to reduce our emissions of methyl bromide.
The EU Fuel Quality Directive affects our production and marketing of fuels.
Proposed changes to this directive would require BP to achieve life cycle GHG emission reductions in fuels we sell and would also facilitate the introduction of biofuels into gasoline and diesel.
People and their capabilities are fundamental to our sustainability as a initiatives aimed at increasing the numbers of recruits and diversifying business.
To build an enduring business in an increasingly complex and the sources from which we recruit.
The external hiring initiatives are competitive industry, we need people with world-class capabilities, supported by plans for accelerated discipline development, prioritized ranging from deepwater drilling and operating refineries to negotiating deployment and retention schemes.
with governments and planning wind farms.
The continuous improvement we are making to performance We had approximately 80,300 employees at 31 December 2009, management and reward will help ensure that BP meets the compared with approximately 92,000 at 31 December 2008.
This expectations of these new recruits who are highly mobile and whose reduction principally reflects the transfer of our convenience retail sites skills are in high demand.
to a franchise model and the progress we have made in making BP a We aim to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, career simpler, more efficient organization.
development, promotion, training and reward for all employees, Our focus in 2009 has been on ensuring we have the right people including those with disabilities.
Where existing employees become in the right roles including renewal of the group leader population.
We are disabled, our policy is to provide continuing employment and training seeking to promote continuous improvement by embedding the BP wherever practicable.
leadership framework throughout the organization.
This framework sets We have revitalized our approach to D&I.
In 2009, the focus out how BP leaders are expected to behave in delivering our strategy and has been to re-establish D&I as a corporate priority.
There is now achieving sustained high performance.
We are striving for deeper skills clear ownership by the business of D&I plans which are the direct development and continuing to align reward frameworks to promote responsibility of the relevant SPU or function.
Each SPU and function has our desired behaviours and outcomes.
Diversity and inclusion D&I is a D&I plan against which progress is measured.
In addition the group an important part of all our people processes in BP and involves chief executive chairs the global D&I council.
This council is supported by acknowledging, valuing and leveraging our similarities and differences a North American regional council and segment councils.
We are creating for business success.
momentum which we expect will lead to sustainable progress on D&I.
We have made significant progress in changing the culture of the The group people committee, formed in 2007, continues to take group to one with a stronger performance focus and which places more overall responsibility for policy decisions relating to employees.
In 2009, value on deep specialist skills and expertise.
Creating this culture has this included senior level talent review and succession planning, required us to enhance our approach to performance management embedding of D&I plans in the businesses and the structure of long-term at the business, team and individual level and to align performance and incentive plans.
We continue to increase the number of local leaders and We have completed the second cycle of our redesigned employees in our operations so that they reflect the communities in performance management and reward process to ensure that there is a which we operate.
For example, in Colombia, national employees now direct link between performance and incentive reward.
Throughout the make up 98% of BPs team, while in Azerbaijan, the proportion is around organization we have also achieved greater differentiation of 85%.
By 2020, more than half our operations are expected to be in performance ratings and, as a result, in incentive compensation spend.
non-OECD countries and we see this as an opportunity to develop We believe this will continue to improve the performance focus of a new generation of experts and skilled employees.
At the end of 2009, 14% of our top 492 group leaders were In managing our people, we seek to attract, develop and retain female and 21% came from countries other than the UK and the US.
highly talented individuals in order to maintain BPs capability to deliver When we started tracking the composition of our group leadership in our strategy and plans.
Our three-year graduate development programme 2000, these percentages were 9% and 14% respectively.
We continue to currently has 1,400 participants from all over the world.
raise our senior leaders awareness of D&I, and further training is planned We are focusing on the need for deep specialist skills.
Accordingly, we have increased external hiring in infrastructure and We aim to develop our leaders internally, although we recruit technical areas.
The energy industry faces a shortage of professionals outside the group when we do not have specialist skills in-house or such as petroleum engineers.
The number of experienced workers when exceptional people are available.
In 2009, we appointed 40 people retiring is expected to exceed that of new graduate hires.
To help address to positions in the group leadership population.
Of these, 20 were this issue we are developing more robust resourcing plans supported by internal candidates.
50 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review The Leadership Framework is being embedded through access to BP continues to apply a policy that the group will not participate directly management development programmes and progress will be measured in party political activity or make any political contributions, whether in by a new 360 feedback tool.
The group-wide management development cash or in kind.
Specifically, BP made no donations to UK or other EU programme, Managing Essentials Effective Performance political parties or organizations in 2009.
Conversations, has now run in 41 countries.
A further five programmes have been developed in 2009 which address particular leadership Social and community issues challenges faced by the group leader, senior level leader and first level Contributing to communities leader populations.
We seek to make a positive difference wherever we operate.
To do this, We provide development opportunities for all our employees, we take action that is relevant to local circumstances, mutually beneficial including external and on-the-job training, international assignments, and designed to create enduring, as opposed to short-term, solutions.
mentoring, team development days, workshops, seminars and online Our investments in education and local enterprise development aim to learning.
We encourage all employees to take five training days per year.
build local capability as part of our business agenda, either through our Through our ShareMatch plan, run in around 65 countries, we local employees or through the provision of goods and services.
match BP shares purchased by employees.
As a global energy company, BP operates in a diverse range Communications with employees include magazines, intranet of countries and in a variety of environmental and social conditions.
sites, DVDs, targeted emails and face-to-face communication.
Team A common feature of these operations is the lifespan of our projects meetings are the core of our employee engagement, complemented some BP projects might last as long as 30-40 years.
This longevity by formal processes through works councils in parts of Europe.
These requires that BP seeks to cultivate and maintain enduring relationships communications, along with training programmes, are designed to with the communities and governments in these areas.
To do this, BP is contribute to employee development and motivation by raising committed to finding solutions that create mutual benefit: work with local awareness of financial, economic, social and environmental factors communities, agencies and organizations on finding solutions to issues affecting our performance.
that can bring benefit to both the local operations as well as help to meet The group seeks to maintain constructive relationships with community development needs over a projects lifespan.
We always seek solutions that are aligned to the strategy of our In 2008, we received feedback through our employee engagement local businesses.
For example, in education we support projects that surveys that, while there was still very high loyalty to BP as a company, contribute to the wider sustainable development agenda of the particular employee engagement was declining as we worked through the difficult country but also develop skills and capabilities that are relevant to BP.
actions needed to turn around our performance.
In response, we have In doing this, we involve ourselves, as appropriate, in supporting the made it a priority to ensure that BPs group leaders are better equipped enhancement of the availability, quality and relevance of education to tell our story and engage their staff in supporting our strategy.
This can range from the The progress we have made in employee engagement is evident development of new geo-science and petro-technical offerings at from the results from our 2009 employee survey.
The response rate for universities, to the support for English language-based technical the survey improved year on year with 57% of people completing the training, to the support for a broader understanding of the legal aspects survey, up from 42% in 2008.
The Employee Satisfaction Index and our of oil and gas management for policy makers, to the basics of the oil Pulse survey scores for Performance culture and Safety and Compliance industry for journalists.
culture all improved year on year.
In some instances we get involved in supporting elements of We continue to make significant efforts to communicate the macro-economic planning to ensure that issues such as good revenue intent and progress of our ongoing cost-efficiency programmes, to management practices can enable wider national development.
In doing minimize any potential negative perceptions within the business.
We this we usually facilitate access to world class policy thinkers on a have moved quickly to manage these people and performance changes range of issues through BPs global relationships with leading while keeping the focus on safety, continuous improvement and education institutions.
These improvements are expected to continue in We also seek to support the development of the local supply 2010, but we have already delivered material reductions in complexity, chain as a way of deepening the involvement of local enterprise in BP cost and headcount.
The way we do this depends on local conditions but can include training, business advisory services or financing The code of conduct programmes that aim to help develop existing business products and We have a code of conduct designed to ensure that all employees services, improve internal standards and practices, or create new comply with legal requirements and our own standards.
The code defines small enterprises.
what BP expects of its people in key areas such as safety, workplace We support various voluntary, multi-stakeholder initiatives aimed behaviour, bribery and corruption and financial integrity.
Our employee at sharing best practice and improving industry-wide management of key concerns programme, OpenTalk, enables employees to seek guidance social and economic challenges.
We are a member of the Extractive on the code of conduct as well as to report suspected breaches of Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, which supports the creation of a compliance or other concerns.
The number of cases raised through standardized process for transparent reporting of company payments and OpenTalk in 2009 was 874, compared with 925 in 2008. government revenues from oil, gas and mining.
We are also members of In the US, former US district court judge Stanley Sporkin acts the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights through which we as an ombudsperson.
Employees and contractors can contact him have developed a robust internal process designed to ensure that the confidentially to report any suspected breach of compliance, ethics or security of our operations around the world is maintained in a manner the code of conduct, including safety concerns.
consistent with our group stance on human rights.
We take steps to identify and correct areas of non-compliance We make direct contributions to communities through community and take disciplinary action where appropriate.
Our total contribution in 2009 was $106.8 million, which were reported by BPs businesses for non-compliance or unethical included $1.3 million to UK charities.
The majority of our community behaviour.
This number excludes dismissals of staff employed at our expenditure was directed towards education and technical retail service station sites, for incidents such as thefts of small amounts training projects.
