214665 Finsbury WWP pp59-BC 6 15 09 1:51 PM Page 59 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 59 Alliance Trust Savings Limited SAVINGS PLAN The Company participates in the Alliance Trust Savings Limited Investment Trust Savings Plan, which facilities both regular monthly investments and occasional lump sum investments in the Companys shares.
Shareholders who would like information on the Savings Plan should call Alliance Trust Savings Limited on 01382 573737.
Calls to this number are recorded for monitoring purposes and are charged at local rates, non-BT line charges may vary.
INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS ISA AND PERSONAL EQUITY PLAN PEP ISAs are a tax-efficient method of investment, introduced by the Government.
A number of changes to the structure of ISAs and PEPs have been introduced with the aim of removing the complexities associated with the existing PEP and ISA schemes and to provide savers with more certainty and flexibility.
The principal changes to ISAs and PEPs are: The distinction between Mini and Maxi ISAs has been removed.
All ISAs have been reclassified as either a Cash ISA or a Stocks and Shares ISA, and both types of ISA are available indefinitely with no set end date.
The annual subscription limit has been raised from 7,000 to 7,200.
Investors may use their entire allowance to invest in the Stocks and Shares ISA.
Alternatively, investors are able to save up to 3,600 of their allowance in a Cash ISA with one provider.
The remainder of the 7,200 can be invested in a Stocks and Shares ISA with either the same or a different provider.
All PEPs have been reclassified as Stocks and Shares ISAs and become subject to the ISA rules.
Under the new rules, investors can transfer some or all of the money invested in Cash ISAs over previous years into a Stocks and Shares ISA without affecting the annual subscription limit, but not the vice versa.
Investors may also invest in one Cash ISA and one Stocks and Shares ISA, subject to the annual subscription limits, each April to April tax year.
A Cash ISA and a Stocks and Shares ISA can be with the same or different providers.
Capita Registrars Share Dealing Service A quick and easy share dealing service is available to existing shareholders through the Companys Registrar, Capita Registrars, to either buy or sell shares.
An online and telephone dealing facility provides an easy to access and simple to use service.
Type of trade Online Telephone Share certificates 1% of the value of the deal 1.5% of the value of the deal Minimum 20.00, max 52.50 Minimum 25.00, max 102.50 There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated forms to fill in.
The online and telephone dealing service allows you to trade real time at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
To deal online or by telephone all you need is your surname, shareholder reference number, full postcode and your date of birth.
Your shareholder reference number can be found on your latest statement or certificate where it will appear as either a folio number or investor code.
Please have the appropriate documents to hand when you log on or call, as this information will be needed before you can buy or sell shares.
For further information on this service please contact: www.
com online dealing or 0870 458 4577 telephone dealing Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras and may be recorded for training purposes.
