were in place throughout the period under review unlisted investments remain subject to approval and at 4 March 2010.
The deed poll is available for by the Board.
In the case of the regional equity inspection at the Companys registered office during portfolios, the Fund Manager has the flexibility to normal business hours and at the Annual General recommend to the Board their delegation to external Meeting.
The Company has insurance in place which third party investment managers when this seems indemnifies the Directors against certain liabilities likely to result in better investment performance.
arising in carrying out their duties.
Throughout most of the period under review there were two such managers for the North America Investment management and administration large and mid-cap equity portfolios, namely Barrow Most investment trusts, including your Company, have Hanley and T Rowe Price, and there was one no employees and instead appoint fund management manager for the Japan portfolio, Goldman Sachs companies to manage their investment portfolios and Asset Management GSAM.
An independent deliver investment performance, as well as to carry specialist multi-manager, FundQuest, advised the out the ancillary functions of administration, secretarial, Manager in relation to the appointment of third accounting and marketing services.
The Company party investment managers for the North America has appointed F&C as Manager.
As reported in the Annual Report and association with F&C, having originally established Accounts 2008, the Manager ceased the advisory and developed it for the purpose of managing its relationship with FundQuest and terminated the assets as far back as 1953.
F&C is now owned by sub-management agreement with Loomis Sayles F&C Asset Management plc FCAM, a large panin February 2009.
In January 2010, the Manager European investment group listed on the London terminated the sub-management agreement with Stock Exchange.
The appointment is governed by a GSAM and brought the management of the Japan management agreement, which is terminable upon portfolio back to F&C following a presentation by its six months notice given by either party.
information on this agreement is set out in note 4 on the accounts.
Responsible ownership The Companys relationship with F&C is fully The Managers stated belief is that good governance arms-length with no cross-directorships or common creates value and therefore it takes a particular share interests.
Part of the legacy is that the names interest in corporate governance and sustainable Foreign & Colonial and F&C are often used business practices.
This includes the integration of synonymously in the public arena, although the environmental, social and governance issues into its companies each own their respective names and are investment decisions.
It votes all of its shares across two distinct and completely independent entities.
all global markets whenever possible, and engages Jeremy Tigue acts as Fund Manager to the with companies on corporate governance matters to Company the Fund Manager, on behalf of F&C, encourage good practice.
This includes engagement and is responsible and accountable for the entire on significant social and environmental issues, where portfolio including private equity, and other key these may impact shareholder value.
areas such as marketing and investor relations.
His The Managers current policy, which is available responsibilities extend to asset allocation, gearing, on its website, has been reviewed and endorsed risk management within limits set and regularly by the Board, which encourages and supports the monitored by the Board and the private equity Manager on its voting policy and its stance towards fund of funds investments managed by Pantheon environmental, social and governance issues.
The Ventures Limited Pantheon and HarbourVest Board periodically receives a report on instances Partners LLC HarbourVest.
The Fund Manager where F&C has voted against the recommendation now acts as a representative of the Company of the management on any resolution.
It also expects on the advisory committees of these managers.
to be informed of any sensitive voting issues involving Recommendations for further private equity and the Companys investments.
