Operating and Financial Review Corporate Social Responsibility our newly built premises in 2010 we will to trade or fail to service their clients properly introduce chilled beam air conditioning, we will benefit as investors seek our services.
The Board considers that the environmental which is up to 60% more energy efficient and As always, our ability to gather assets and risk from direct actions taken by the Group is intend to utilise technology to manage attract clients will depend on the severity and minimal, and that the main social responsibility lighting in a manner which minimises duration of market fluctuations.
Although focus should be on the Groups staff and wastage.
We will continue to introduce we expect trading conditions to remain customers.
Information on the Groups energy-efficient schemes and look at ways of challenging over the next twelve months, we employment policies and client service is optimising building energy performance and believe that investors will continue to transfer detailed in the Directors Report.
However, reducing our electricity usage.
their assets to us in order to benefit from the we appreciate that alongside providing our services and information we provide, clients with the best service and producing We provide an Ethical Investment Service to together with the transparency, choice and profits for our shareholders, we can also take assist clients who wish to invest in a socially control available through our platform.
sensible steps to reduce the impact of our responsible manner.
This includes an ethical business on the environment.
We continue to investment guide and a dedicated section of In his statement, the Chief Executive shred and recycle confidential waste and have our website with a tool which enables clients outlined some of the current challenges arrangements for the collection of recyclable to search for funds which meet their ethical facing the business, such as the low interest waste such as printer toner cartridges, cardboard, criteria.
rate environment, the economic climate and newspapers and out-of-date literature.
The current low interest also continue to recycle redundant IT The Group seeks to contribute to the rates are likely to lead to a material loss of equipment through specialist third parties.
communities in which we live and work.
In income in the 2010 financial year, although addition to providing employment opportunities the improved market levels seen during July In many respects, our objective of reducing and minimising our environmental impact, we and August 2009 will go some way towards waste and minimising the environmental have also chosen to support a local community offsetting this.
impact of our business is aligned with our initiative.
The Board have agreed to provide objectives of protecting client data, reducing support of 30,000 p. a for five years to a The Board has reviewed the Groups strategy costs, and improving efficiency.
It is our aim project that, like our own business, seeks to and has concluded that in the current to deal with clients and other businesses encourage savings and financial awareness.
uncertain climate it still remains the right electronically wherever possible and we have The organisation provides these services in approach.
We will focus on exploiting invested heavily in providing a user friendly, deprived areas within Bristol.
opportunities with the aim of replacing the comprehensive website and automated links lost income resulting from lower interest to banks and fund providers.
We provide the Every year we receive many requests for rates and continuing to grow the business.
facility for clients to opt out of receiving support from a wide range of charitable and Opportunities include the increased ISA paper valuations and contract notes.
Though often very worthy allowance, new fund launches, the eligibility these documents are now available in causes, unfortunately we are not able to make of protected rights monies into our SIPP, the electronic format through our secure website.
We have made it prospect of investors becoming more costOur investment in this area will continue and company policy to support only one charity sensitive and looking to reorganise their we aim to further reduce the amount of paper or non-profit organisation each year which is portfolios by transferring into Vantage, and we use whilst providing better service.
The selected from suggestions received from an increase in demand for our advisory benefits will grow as more people and employees within the Group.
This year we are services, as investors seek guidance through businesses choose to transact business and proud to support Bristols Under Privileged the current market uncertainty.
Childrens Charity, and our fund raising initiatives have been focused on this charity.
Resilient systems, a focus on providing clients Business travel is another area which impacts with a high-quality and low cost service, and both our costs and the environment.
We do Future Outlook the adherence to cautious risk policies are at not provide company cars as standard to the core of the Groups approach.
We will managers or to our network of advisors.
During the 2009 financial year, the credit continue to invest in our systems, equipment These advisors are spread throughout the UK crisis turned into a financial and economic and infrastructure, as well as maintaining which minimises travel time.
Several banks have experienced high quality staff.
We believe such an telephone advice service to handle those cases financial difficulty.
Asset values have seen approach will ensure client satisfaction, help where a face-to-face meeting is unnecessary.
Throughout the crisis, our maintain existing business and attract new clients have been able to rely on our business and so will enhance long term value We appreciate that there is more we could do assistance and continued supply of relevant for shareholders.
to reduce the impact of our business on the information.
The Group has displayed environment and we aim to improve on the resilience in these difficult market conditions, positive steps we have already taken and although there has been an inevitable impact ensure that social, environmental and ethical on the value of client assets under Tracey Taylor considerations are taken into account in our administration due to the market downturn.
Group Finance Director future decision making.
When we move to As other investment advisory businesses cease 22 September 2009 17 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009
