HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Sustainability Share capital Issued Rights and obligations Sustainability governance Real Estate and implemented by Health, Safety and Fire Co-ordinators HSFCs based in each country Sustainability at HSBC exists as a GMO function, in which HSBC operates.
The HSFC may call upon with senior executives charged with implementing regional and Group resource by way of support at sustainable business practice in all major regions any time.
through inclusion in the Group Standards Manuals and through induction and developmental training.
Despite the considerable international pressure on terrorist networks over the past few years, the The Corporate Sustainability Committee, a global threat from terrorism persists.
HSBC remains Committee of the Board, is responsible for advising committed to maintaining its preparedness and to the Board, committees of the Board and executive ensuring the highest standards of health and safety management on corporate sustainability policies, wherever in the world it operates.
including environmental, social and ethical issues.
At an operational level, implementation of these Group Security provides regular risk policies is managed primarily by Group Human assessments in areas of increased risk to assist Resources, Group Risk, Group Compliance and management in judging the level of terrorist threat.
In addition, regional security functions conduct regular security reviews to ensure measures to The terms of reference of the Corporate protect HSBC staff, buildings, assets and Sustainability Committee are available at information are appropriate for the level of threat.
The members of the Committee throughout 2009 were W K L Fung Supplier payment policy Chairman, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart and N R N Murthy, each of whom is a non-executive Director, The Company does not currently subscribe to any G V I Davis, Lord May and Dame Mary Marsh code or standard on payment practice.
It is the appointed a member on 31 July 2009, who are nonCompanys policy, however, to settle terms of director members of the Committee.
There were five payment with those suppliers when agreeing the meetings of the Corporate Sustainability Committee terms of each transaction, to ensure that those during 2009.
Following each meeting, the suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment, Committee reports to the Board on its activities.
and to abide by the terms of payment.
HSBC reports on its progress in developing and It is HSBC Holdings practice to organise implementing its sustainability strategy annually in payment to its suppliers through a central accounts the HSBC Sustainability Report, which is externally payable function operated by its subsidiary, HSBC verified and prepared using the Global Reporting Bank.
Included in the balance with HSBC Bank Initiative.
 has been is the amount due to trade creditors which, at re-appointed for 2009 and will verify the Groups 31 December 2009, represented 24 days average commitment to carbon neutrality and adherence to daily purchases of goods and services received from the Equator Principles.
The HSBC Sustainability such creditors, calculated in accordance with the Report 2009 will be issued on 28 May 2010 and will Companies Act 2006, as amended by Statutory be available at www.
Sustainability risk Share capital HSBCs approach to managing sustainability risk is Issued share capital detailed on page 264.
The nominal value of the issued share capital of HSBC Holdings paid up at 31 December 2009 was Health and safety US$8,704,117,884 divided into 17,408,206,768 The maintenance of appropriate health and safety ordinary shares of US$0.50 each and 1,450,000 nonstandards throughout HSBC remains a key cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each: and responsibility of all managers and HSBC is 301,500 comprising 301,500 non-voting deferred committed to proactively managing all health and shares of 1 each.
safety risks associated with its business.
HSBCs The percentage of the nominal value of the total objectives are to identify, remove, reduce or control issued share capital of HSBC Holdings paid up at material risks of fires and of accidents or injuries to 31 December 2009 represented by the ordinary employees and visitors.
shares of US$0.50 each, non-cumulative preference Group standards, instructions and related shares of US$0.01 each and non-voting deferred policies and procedures are set by Group Corporate 328
