HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Sustainability risk Insurance operations Life insurance businesses HSBC has always aspired to the highest standards of Sustainability risk conduct and, as a matter of routine, takes account of Unaudited reputational risks to its business.
Reputational risks Assessing the environmental and social impacts of can arise from a wide variety of causes, including providing finance to the Groups customers has been ESG issues and operational risk events.
As a banking firmly embedded into HSBCs overall risk group, HSBCs good reputation depends upon the management processes.
Sustainability risks arise way in which it conducts its business, but it can also from the provision of financial services to companies be affected by the way in which clients, to whom it or projects which run counter to the needs of provides financial services, conduct themselves.
The sustainable development: in effect this risk arises training of Directors on appointment includes when the environmental and social effects outweigh reputational matters.
Within GMO, a separate A Group Reputational Risk Committee function, Group Corporate Sustainability, is GRRC was established in 2008 at which Group mandated to manage these risks globally working functions with responsibility for activities that attract through local offices as appropriate.
Sustainability reputational risk are represented.
The primary role Risk Managers have regional or national of the GRRC is to consider areas and activities responsibilities for advising on and managing presenting significant reputational risk and, where environmental and social risks.
appropriate, to make recommendations to the Risk Group Corporate Sustainabilitys risk Management Meeting and GMB for policy or management responsibilities include: procedural changes to mitigate such risk.
With effect from 2010, Reputational Risk Committees have been formulating sustainability risk policies.
This established in each of the Groups regions.
These includes oversight of HSBCs sustainability committees will ensure that reputational risks are risk standards, management of the Equator considered at a regional as well as Group level.
Principles for project finance lending, and Minutes from the regional committees will be tabled sector-based sustainability policies covering at GRRC.
those sectors with high environmental or social impacts forestry, freshwater infrastructure, Standards on all major aspects of business chemicals, energy, mining and metals, and are set for HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, defence-related lending : undertaking an businesses and functions.
Reputational risks, independent review of transactions where including ESG matters, are considered and assessed sustainability risks are assessed to be high, and by the Board, GMB, the Risk Management Meeting, supporting HSBCs operating companies to subsidiary company boards, board committees and assess similar risks of a lower magnitude: senior management during the formulation of policy and the establishment of HSBC standards.
These building and implementing systems-based policies, which form an integral part of the internal processes to ensure consistent application of control system see page 313, are communicated policies, reduce the costs of sustainability risk through manuals and statements of policy and are reviews and capture management information to promulgated through internal communications and measure and report on the effect of HSBCs training.
The policies cover ESG issues and set out lending and investment activities on sustainable operational procedures in all areas of reputational development: and risk, including money laundering deterrence, providing training and capacity building within counter-terrorist financing, environmental impact, HSBCs operating companies to ensure anti-corruption measures and employee relations.
sustainability risks are identified and mitigated The policy manuals address risk issues in detail and consistently to either HSBCs own standards, co-operation between GMO departments and international standards or local regulations, businesses is required to ensure a strong adherence whichever is the higher.
to HSBCs risk management system and its sustainability practices.
