HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued dependent on the achievement of objectives share awards under HSBCs various share plans and which derive from those determined at Group share schemes as a consequence of the 2009 rights level.
Since 2008, these objectives have issue.
The adjustments were based on the theoretical typically been categorised in four segments ex-rights price, which was considered to be the most financial, customer, process and people.
appropriate methodology to reflect the rights issue.
Financial and non-financial metrics are used to The adjustments under certain share plans and share measure performance against the objectives, schemes were approved by the relevant tax which include profitability, expense control, authorities, where necessary.
In the case of the customer recommendation, employee HSBC France and HSBC Private Bank France share engagement, adherence to HSBCs ethical plans, similar adjustments were made by these standards, lending guidelines and internal subsidiaries as a consequence of the rights issue.
Effective risk The adjustments were to the ratios at which the management is emphasised to maintain a strong subsidiary company shares are exchangeable for and secure operating platform, and that HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 influences employee remuneration.
Actual levels following the exercise of options.
of variable pay depend on the performance of Employee share plans are subject to the the Group, its constituent businesses and the following limits on the number of HSBC Holdings individual, taking into account competitive ordinary shares that may be subscribed for.
In any market practice and relevant regulator 10-year period not more than 10 per cent of the requirements: HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue from time to ensure that the interests of HSBC and its to time approximately 1,742 million HSBC employees are aligned with those of its Holdings ordinary shares at 1 March 2010 may in shareholders, that HSBCs approach to risk aggregate become issuable pursuant to the grant of management supports the interests of all options or be issued other than pursuant to options stakeholders and that remuneration is consistent under all-employee share plans.
In any 10-year with effective risk management, the Group period not more than 5 per cent of the HSBC requires a proportion of variable pay awards Holdings ordinary shares in issue from time to time above certain thresholds to be deferred into approximately 871 million HSBC Holdings awards of Restricted Shares.
In addition, ordinary shares on 1 March 2010 may in aggregate employees are encouraged to participate in be put under option under the HSBC Share Plan or HSBC Holdings savings-related share option be issuable pursuant to the HSBC Holdings Group plans and local share ownership arrangements.
Share Option Plan, the HSBC Executive Share Option Scheme, the HSBC Holdings Restricted Employee share plans Share Plan 2000 or the HSBC Share Plan.
The number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares that may To help align the interests of employees with those be issued on exercise of all options granted on or of shareholders, share options are granted under allafter 27 May 2005 under the HSBC Share Plan and employee share plans and discretionary awards of any other plans must not exceed 1,585,250,000 Performance Shares and Restricted Shares are made 1,119,000,000 prior to adjustment for the rights under the HSBC Share Plan.
There have been no issue HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
Under the awards of discretionary share options since HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans, 30 September 2005. the HSBC Share Plan, HSBC Holdings Group Share Set out on pages 320 to 326 are particulars of Option Plan and the HSBC Holdings Executive outstanding employee share options, including those Share Option Scheme there were options outstanding held by employees working under employment over 337,038,157 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares at contracts that are regarded as continuous contracts 31 December 2009 1.9 per cent of the issued for the purposes of the Hong Kong Employment ordinary shares.
Particulars of options over HSBC Ordinance.
The options were granted at nil Holdings shares held by Directors of HSBC consideration.
No options have been granted to Holdings are set out on page 347 of the Directors substantial shareholders, suppliers of goods or Remuneration Report.
services, or in excess of the individual limit for each The effect on earnings per share of granting share plan.
No options were cancelled by HSBC share options and share awards is shown in diluted during the year.
earnings per share on the face of the consolidated The Remuneration Committee agreed to make income statement, with further details disclosed in adjustments to all unexercised share options and 319 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Share plans the Earnings per share Note 13 on the Financial the employing company, options may be exercised Statements.
before completion of the relevant savings contract.
Under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related All-employee share option plans Share Option Plan and the HSBC Holdings SavingsThe HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Related Share Option Plan: International the option Plan and the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share exercise price is determined by reference to the Option Plan: International are all-employee share average market value of the ordinary shares on the plans under which eligible HSBC employees those five business days immediately preceding the employed within the Group on the first working day invitation date, then applying a discount of of the year of grant may be granted options to 20 per cent except for the one-year options awarded acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
Employees under the US sub-plan where a 15 per cent discount may make contributions of up to 250 or is applied.
Where applicable, the US dollars, Hong equivalent each month over a period of one, three or Kong dollars and euro exercise prices are converted five years which may be used on the first, third or from the sterling exercise price at the applicable fifth anniversary of the commencement of the exchange rate on the working day preceding the relevant savings contract, at the employees election, relevant invitation date.
The exercise period of the to exercise the options.
Alternatively, the employee options awarded under all-employee share plans may may elect to have the savings, plus where be advanced to an earlier date in certain applicable any interest or bonus, repaid in cash.
circumstances, for example on retirement, and may Options granted over a one-year period are only be extended in certain circumstances, for example on available under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related the death of a participant, the executors may exercise Share Option Plan: International and will be the option up to six months beyond the normal exercisable within three months following the first exercise period.
The closing price per HSBC anniversary of the commencement of the savings Holdings ordinary share on 28 April 2009, the day contract.
Options granted over three or five-year before options were awarded in 2009 under the periods will be exercisable within six months HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan following the third or fifth anniversary of the and the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share commencement of the relevant savings contract.
In Option Plan: International, was 4.57.
The allthe case of redundancy, retirement on grounds of employee share option plans will terminate on injury or ill health, retirement at or after normal 27 May 2015 unless the Directors resolve to retirement age, the transfer of the employing terminate the plans at an earlier date.
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 6.78.
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 6.52.
3 Exercisable at a 15 per cent discount to the average market value of the ordinary shares on the five business days immediately preceding the invitation date.
321 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Share plans Subsidiary company share plans Discretionary Share Plans predetermined TSR performance condition, were made to employees at all levels of HSBC.
Note 10 on the Financial Statements gives detail on share-based payments, including awards of The vesting of these options was subject to the Restricted Shares made in 2009. attainment of pre-determined relative TSR performance criteria, except in HSBC France which The HSBC Share Plan was approved at the 2005 was acquired in 2000 where performance criteria Annual General Meeting and amendments were were phased in.
There are no outstanding approved at the Annual General Meeting in 2008. performance conditions that remain to be satisfied Awards of Performance Shares are made under this for the exercise of discretionary share options.
Under Plan to executive Directors and other senior the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan, the executives.
The performance conditions for these maximum grant of options which could be made to awards are described under Performance Shares on an employee in any one year together with the page 339.
Performance Share awards under the HSBC Awards of Performance Shares are directed to Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 was 150 per those senior executives who can influence corporate cent or in exceptional circumstances 225 per cent performance such as members of the Group of the employees annual salary at the date of grant Management Board.
Due to market context it was plus any bonus paid in the previous year.
decided that no awards of Performance Shares would Under the HSBC Holdings Executive Share be made in 2009.
Option Scheme the maximum value of options Awards of Restricted Shares may be made to which could be granted to an employee in any one other senior executives.
In addition, awards are year was four times the employees relevant typically made to employees as part of the Groups earnings.
Awards of Restricted Shares The options are generally exercisable between define the number of shares to which the employee the third and the tenth anniversary of the date of will become entitled, generally between one and grant.
three years from the date of the award, and normally subject to the individual remaining in employment.
The exercise price of options granted under the To date, all vesting awards of Performance Shares HSBC Share Plan, and previously under the HSBC and Restricted Shares have been satisfied by the Holdings Group Share Option Plan, is the higher of transfer of existing shares.
To create additional core the average market value of the ordinary shares on tier 1 capital and retain funds within HSBC, the the five business days prior to the grant of the option Board has agreed that new shares may be issued to or the market value of the ordinary shares on the date satisfy the vesting of awards of Restricted Shares of grant of the option, or the nominal value of a and Performance Shares that cannot be satisfied share.
The exercise price of options granted under from shares held by employee benefit trusts the HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme commencing in 2011. was the market value of the ordinary shares on the business day prior to the grant of the option.
The The maximum value of awards that may be HSBC Share Plan will terminate on 27 May 2015 granted to an employee in any one year under unless the Directors resolve to terminate the Plan at the HSBC Share Plan is 700 per cent of the an earlier date.
employees annual salary at the date of grant.
For the purpose of the limit, any Restricted Share awards The exercise period of the options awarded made on or shortly after the commencement of under discretionary share incentive plans may be employment or in substitution for all or any part of advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, any bonus to which the employee would otherwise for example on the sale of a business.
In the case have been entitled, are excluded.
of the HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme, the exercise period of the options awarded Since September 2005, no share options have may be extended in certain circumstances, for been granted under the HSBC Share Plan.
There example, on the death of a participant the executors may be particular circumstances in the future where may exercise the option beyond the normal exercise option grants could be appropriate.
Prior to 2005, discretionary awards of share options, with vesting subject to the attainment of a 322
