HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Involvement Disabled Remuneration policy Share plans matters and the financial and economic factors Employees affecting HSBCs performance are regularly shared At 31 December 2009, HSBC employed 302,000 full with employees via management channels, internal and part-time employees worldwide, compared with seminars, and in-house communication channels 325,000 at 31 December 2008 and 330,000 at such as the company intranet, which is accessible to 31 December 2007.
The main centres of employment the majority of HSBCs employees worldwide.
The are the UK with approximately 53,000 employees: Groups annual Global People Survey gives the US 29,000, India 35,000, Hong Kong 28,000, employees the opportunity to provide systematic Brazil 24,000, Mexico 19,000, mainland China feedback on their experience of HSBC, and survey 14,000 and France 11,000.
HSBC negotiates with results are followed through and acted upon.
The five highest concentrations of union membership are in Argentina, Brazil, Employment of disabled persons mainland China, Malta and Mexico.
It is HSBCs HSBC believes in providing equal opportunities to policy to maintain well-developed communications all employees.
The employment of disabled persons and consultation programmes with unions and there is included in this commitment and the recruitment, have been no material disruptions to its operations training, career development and promotion of from labour disputes during the past five years.
disabled persons is based on the aptitudes and The Group People Strategy was introduced in abilities of the individual.
This set a number of priorities: strengthening disabled while employed by the Group, efforts are leadership capabilities and developing people skills made to continue their employment and, if in general, robust performance management necessary, appropriate training is provided.
complementing a reward strategy which is market competitive, and improving employee engagement.
Remuneration policy Continuing emphasis was given in 2009 to As the quality and commitment of its human capital increasing international mobility to broaden the is deemed fundamental to HSBCs success, the internationalism and diversity of employee Boards stated strategy is to attract, retain and experience.
Training was focused on risk awareness, motivate the very best people: this strategy is change management, customer orientation and referenced to the overall business strategy and the performance management.
continued to improve significantly in the year see non-financial KPIs on page 20.
In a business that is based on trust and relationships, HSBCs broad policy is to recruit HSBC remains committed to creating a diverse those who are committed to making a long-term and inclusive work environment reflective of its career with the organisation since trust and customer base, international workforce, and the relationships are built over time.
communities in which it operates.
It has a Groupwide strategy to build an inclusive culture.
Focus Remuneration is an important component in an is placed on improving gender, ethnicity and age individuals decision about which organisation to diversity to ensure the long term sustainability of the join and to stay with but, in HSBCs experience, it is organisation, taking into account global demographic not the overriding one.
HSBC seeks to attract people changes.
Diversity initiatives are implemented at a who wish to work for an organisation with strong regional, country and global business level and local and sound values, one which is meritocratic and and national laws are respected.
Employee network competitive, and which offers challenging career groups, flexible working and mentoring programmes development.
are promoted and established, where possible, to In line with the overall principles applied to facilitate open discussion of workplace issues for executive Directors by the Remuneration Committee employees and to foster an environment that described on page 335 in the Directors celebrates diversity and inclusion.
Remuneration Report: Employee involvement employees salaries are reviewed annually in the context of business performance, market HSBC values and encourages open communication practice and internal relativities.
Employees have the opportunity to benefits are largely determined by local market share views via learning programmes, networking practice: events and management blogs, and to enrich their experience and perspectives through international employees participate in various variable pay and cross-business assignments.
