can continue to reward shareholders and employees, of the likely effects that climate change and the build long-lasting relationships with customers and responses to it will have upon its business and those suppliers, pay taxes and duties in those countries of its customers.
The Group further developed its where it operates, and invest in communities for ability to research the commercial implications of future growth.
climate change mitigation initiatives, improved the make up and distribution of its investable index HSBCs continuing financial success depends, offering, The Global Climate Change Benchmark in part, on its ability to identify and address certain Index and benefited from the continuing counsel of non-financial considerations which are material to Lord Stern as advisor to the Group Chairman on the business, and to mitigate the risks and maximise economic development and climate change.
the opportunities arising from them.
These generally fall into one or more of the following four broad Community investment areas: HSBC has a long-standing commitment to the Business sustainability communities in which it operates.
Many of the Groups key markets are emerging economies.
Environmental issues HSBCs operations bring benefits to its host Community investment countries through tax contributions, and to local people and businesses through employment, training, Employee engagement purchasing and investment.
Beyond the impact of its core business, the Group aims to encourage social Business sustainability and economic opportunity through its community HSBC aims to build long-term customer investment activity.
relationships around the world through the provision HSBC focuses this activity on education and the of a consistent and high-quality service and customer environment because it believes they are essential experience.
The Group uses the benefits of its scale, building blocks for the development of communities financial strength, geographical reach and strong and are prerequisites for economic growth.
Global brand value to achieve this.
education programmes such as Future First, JA More HSBC aims to take advantage of the TM Than Money and Eco-Schools focus on helping opportunities and manage the risks presented by disadvantaged children, promoting financial literacy emerging global trends by leading the development and environmental education and understanding.
The of sustainable business models to address them.
The Groups flagship environmental programme is the Group understands that the world is changing, with HSBC Climate Partnership, a US$100 million increased longevity, a widening gap in the relative commitment to working with The Climate Group, growth rates of emerging and mature economies and Earthwatch, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute the need to move to a lower-carbon economy in and WWF on tackling climate change.
order to mitigate some of the effects of climate In 2009, HSBC donated a total of change being significant examples.
Over the long US$100 million to community investment projects term, HSBC anticipates playing a leading role in 2008: US$102 million, or US$99 million at constant shaping the market response to these challenges and exchange rates.
is among those financial institutions identifying how business can respond in ways that bring both Employee engagement environmental and social benefits, as well as providing viable economic returns.
Employee engagement describes employees emotional and intellectual commitment to their Environmental issues organisation and its success and is critical to the long-term ability of the Group to deliver the highest HSBC focuses its environmental initiatives primarily quality of financial services.
HSBCs annual Global on addressing and responding to issues associated People Survey shows that employees value the with climate change, including energy, water Groups commitment to sustainable business management and biodiversity.
Climate change has practices and view the Group as being a leader in the potential to materially affect HSBCs customers this regard.
HSBC has made sustainability a key and, by extension, the Groups long-term success, element of the employee induction and senior introducing new risks to business activity.
However, management training programmes, and has fully it also has the potential to stimulate a new era of low integrated sustainability risk issues into the Groups carbon growth, innovation and development.
In risk management processes covering corporate 2009, HSBC continued to deepen its understanding clients.
