IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility 09 We believe that clients choose IG for our reputation.
In return, we have built a consumer-focussed business with strong customer relationships Corporate Social Responsibility Responsibility has been at the heart of our business since the Groups inception in 1974.
Over the years we have demonstrated our belief in acting fairly, honorably and transparently with all our stakeholders, from clients and employees to suppliers.
Educating our clients We believe that clients choose IG for our reputation.
In return, we have built a consumer-focussed business with strong customer relationships and we commit to providing ongoing education throughout the clients trading life.
We also take seriously our commitment to the wider society and have taken a number of steps to reduce our environmental footprint.
This years Corporate and Social Responsibility Report can be found within the Directors Report on page 44.
Key initiatives in the past year Introduced Close-Out Monitor system to limit potential losses at no extra charge to the client: Increased online client education seminars with high customer satisfaction rating over 80% rated seminars 4 5 out of 5 : Achieved the ISO 27001 security standard for Information Security: Continued our graduate recruitment programme: Paper statements reduced by 75%, representing more then half a million sheets of paper saved, in addition to envelopes and printer cartridges: Improved recycling initiatives, including IT equipment: and Initiated free employee counselling service.
Engaging employees IG is a rapidly growing company and provides a fast-moving and successful working environment.
Our employees have pride in what we have achieved and a strong sense of belonging.
This culture is reflected in a number of accolades awarded to the company last year: Britains Top Employer: named as one of the UKs top 50 employers: Sunday Times Best Companies to Work for: listed as One to Watch : and Corporate Research Foundation: named as one of Britains Top Employers of 2009. n
