qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 23 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% In November 2008, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$600 year and its composition and terms of reference are detailed in the Corporate million 9.5% senior unsecured notes due 2018.
We have an Environment Steering Group to manage environmental issues, chaired by Jeremy Darroch CEO and comprising Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the securities, a holder of the securities senior managers from across the business.
We also have separate Arts and has the option to require the Company to redeem or purchase its securities at a Cycling steering groups.
Other groups are in place to oversee health and safety price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and human resources policy.
up to the date of repurchase, if there is a change of control of the Company i which, if the securities carry an investment grade credit rating, results in a The Group runs an annual risk workshop on corporate responsibility issues and downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or a withdrawal of that rating: or maintains a corporate responsibility risk register.
The Group also undertakes ii which, if the securities carry a non-investment grade rating, results in a consultation with stakeholders that assists in corporate responsibility risk downgrade by one or more notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment identication.
We participate in the Media CSR Forum a group of responsibility grade rating: or iii where if the securities do not carry a credit rating, the experts working in the media which helps us identify some specic sectorCompany does not seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating.
related issues where we should take responsibility.
Our employees can communicate their views on corporate responsibility via the Sky Forum of UK broadcasting licences elected Sky employees and through the annual People Survey.
The Group is party to a number of Ofcom broadcasting licences for the broadcast of the Sky Channels.
Our commitment to seeing the Bigger Picture means that we: The Broadcasting Act 1990 as amended by the Broadcasting Act 1996 and the 1.
Operate our business day-to-day in a responsible manner, and strive to do Communications Act lays down a number of restrictions on those parties the right thing for every part of the Sky community, based on our permitted to hold Ofcom broadcasting licences.
Among those restricted from understanding of their needs and expectations.
holding Ofcom broadcasting licences or from controlling a licensed company are 2.
Work to foster a culture of doing the right thing and taking responsibility a local authorities, b political bodies, c religious bodies, d any company throughout our business so that our people will know how to act in a way controlled by any of the previous categories or by their ofcers or associates, that reects these principles.
e advertising agencies or any company controlled by such an agency or in 3.
Create an environment where consumers can trust our products and services: which it holds more than a 5% interest.
and where they have the ability to consume them with minimum risk.
Play our part in contributing positively in areas where we believe Sky has a Licensees are obliged to comply with these ownership restrictions.
Failure by a unique opportunity to make a difference Sport, Arts and the Environment licensee to do so either by the licensee becoming a disqualified person or and look for ways to enable our customers and people an opportunity to join any change affecting the nature, characteristics or control of the licensee which in with our activities in the UK & Ireland.
would have precluded the original grant of the licence may constitute a breach of the licence and, if not rectied, could result in revocation of the licence.
The Group produces an annual Bigger Picture review which provides full details Material agreements of corporate responsibility activities.
This information can be found on the web The following material agreements have been entered into outside the ordinary at www.
com corporate course of business during the two years immediately preceding the date of this ling: The Group is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations list, and has achieved a Bond issues Silver standard in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility In February 2008 the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$750 Index.
The Group takes part in the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP which million 6.10% senior unsecured notes due in 2018 assesses companies for potential risks and opportunities relating to climate change.
In November 2008 the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$600 million 9.5% senior unsecured noted due in 2018. see significant Responsibility agreements above.
One of our biggest responsibilities is to deliver great service and great products to our customers: to continue to provide our customers with the tools to use our products and services responsibly and safely: and to make these products and Corporate responsibility services accessible and useable for everyone.
We also have to make sure that The Group has developed an approach to Corporate Responsibility called The the way we source and deliver our products and services, and the way we Bigger Picture which focuses on our responsibilities in the way we do business operate day-to-day, is responsible and ethical.
day-to-day: our environmental impact through our own operations and inspiring actions in others: our efforts to widen participation in sport: and, our The Group has pioneered market-leading parental control technology for our TV support for the arts, through our sponsorships and community activities.
We platform, allowing parents to protect their children from material they consider also encourage all our people and customers to join in with our Bigger Picture inappropriate.
Features include lters to prevent the viewing of selected activities.
programmes, the ability to restrict access to specic channels, complete removal Until 16 June 2009, the Group had a board and executive-level Bigger Picture of the adult channels from the listings screen, monitoring of spend on Sky Box Steering Group BPSG, comprising senior executives and two Non-Executive Ofce and online and PIN controlled access to classied lms broadcast during Board Directors to manage this approach, provide leadership and drive the day.
The BPSG met twice during the year and We provide all Sky broadband customers with free parental controls for life for provided regular updates to the Board.
their internet connection through McAfee, our internet safety and security partner.
We are working with Childnet International, a charity focused on On 16 June 2009, the Board established The Bigger Picture Committee as a keeping children safe online, to ensure we are providing the best information formal committee of the Board.
The Bigger Picture Committee will meet twice a British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 23 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 24 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued Corporate responsibility climate change.
Our environmental programme comprises five strands: inspiring action, pioneering green technology in the home, creating a smaller operational continued footprint, inuencing our supply chain and measuring our impact.
Our for customers on how to use the internet safely.
The Group is an active member environmental performance data is independently assured.
We update and audit of the UK Council for Child Internet Safety.
our carbon footprint each year, using the results to map out which areas we should focus on to achieve the greatest reduction in our own footprint.
Over the The Group takes seriously the need to provide its services in a way that past four years, we have reduced our emissions by 16%, at a time when we encourages responsible gambling.
All of the Sky Betting & Gambling team have signicantly grown our business.
receive regular training to ensure that they are equipped with the right knowledge and skills to meet our regulatory and social commitments.
We have In 2007, we launched a world first night-time auto standby feature for our setworked hard to ensure that Sky Bet, Sky Vegas, Sky Poker and Sky Bingo have all top boxes.
This has now been extended to also include daytime standby, and been awarded a seal of approval from GamCare, an organisation that promotes has been rolled out to all of our customer set top boxes.
This will save over responsible gambling, in recognition of the importance we place on delivering 20 million on our customers energy bills and 90,000 tonnes of CO more 2 the highest industry-recognised standards for customer protection.
than double Skys entire carbon footprint.
In January 2009 we unveiled a new investment of 233 million to develop Europes most sustainable broadcasting We have had a dedicated accessible customer service team for disabled or facility, set to enter service in 2011.
Features will include natural ventilation vulnerable customers since 2003.
In 2008 9 we increased this team to over 100 systems, onsite renewable energy generation and rainwater harvesting to people, now taking over 5,000 calls each week.
All of our accessible customer irrigate green spaces and to ush all toilets in the building.
We have rolled out a service advisors receive both disability awareness and data protection training.
new initiative across our supply chain to work with our production suppliers to In 2008 we exceeded all Ofcom requirements for subtitling, audio description build environmental excellence into everything we do.
The first in a series of and sign interpretation, and in 2009 we continue to exceed those requirements.
initiatives saw us working with Shine Productions to cut emissions arising from In March 2009 we decided to increase the amount of programming that was the latest production of Gladiators by 35%.
On screen we air a range of green supported with audio description to 20% across all Sky channels except Sky programming to cater to varied tastes of our customers.
The Ofcom requirement is currently 10%.
In response to a new Ofcom requirement for sign presented programming we led the We are working with our charity partner Global Action Plan to facilitate action in establishment of the British Sign Language Broadcasting Trust BSLBT.
The partnership provides access to a series of nationwide UK trust has been created by Ofcom as an acceptable alternative to delivering sign and Republic of Ireland grass roots initiatives that aim to encourage action on presented programming on low audience channels.
This new requirement climate change through sustained behaviour change.
One of these is Appetite currently affects 19 of Sky channels.
for Action, a sustainable food initiative aimed at primary schools across the UK In May 2009 our accessible remote control was awarded the Age OK and Ireland.
The initiative launched in September 2008 with a dedicated website accreditation from Help the Aged and Age Concern.
The Sky remote was the first for teachers and their pupils.
So far over 1,400 schools have registered.
We product in the UK to gain this accreditation, recognising products that have been have also developed a volunteering strand specically for our supply chain designed with the needs of older people in mind.
The accessible remote is which we piloted in April, matching up local teams with local schools to guide provided free of charge to any customer who would benefit from it.
We plan to roll this model out by region with the intention of having a national programme with 150 teams by the end of 2010.
In 2008 09 the Group has set up a Data Governance Committee DGC to Internally, we have an EcoTeams programme to help our employees reduce promote and ensure the protection of personal data.
The DGCs role is to ensure their environmental impact at home and at work.
We are also working together that appropriate processes and controls are in place to ensure that Sky to ensure Global Action Plan is left in a more sustainable position as a charity at processes personal data in accordance with Data Protection laws, and that the end of our partnership in 2010. individuals are able to exercise their rights under such laws.
The DGC is chaired by Mike Darcey, Chief Operating officer, and reports to the Executive and Audit For our staff, we offer incentives from tax-free bike loans to cash-back on hybrid Committee.
The Groups framework Data Protection Policy has been circulated cars.
They also receive an online carbon credit card, which allows them to bank to all managers to cascade to their staff.
The framework policy is designed to credits for environmental activities like cycling to work, which can then be outline and promote consistent standards and practices in handling personal redeemed for rewards.
data across Sky, and sets out the responsibilities of Sky people in managing personal data, as well as setting out the escalation process should staff become Further details are included within The Bigger Picture Review which can be aware of any breaches of the policy.
Data protection compliance also extends to accessed via www.
all those third parties who process personal data on Skys behalf.
Sport The Group has developed Sky Responsible Sourcing Principles to ensure our Sport is an important part of what we do at Sky.
We want to encourage products are manufactured by our suppliers in a safe, ethical and participation in sport and help develop future talent.
The Group encourages environmentally aware manner.
These principles explain what we expect from sports participation by customers and staff through three main partnerships.
our suppliers and cover areas such as their environmental management and labour practices.
In May 2009, the Group committed to sign up to the new In 2008 09, the Group became the principal partner of British Cycling for the Prompt Payment Code, devised by the government with The Institute of Credit next five years.
Over this time, we will work together to ensure the sport Management ICM.
Signatories of the code commit to pay suppliers on time, benets at every level from grass roots through to the elite.
We have created our give clear guidance to suppliers on payment procedures and terms and to own professional British road cycling team.
Team Sky are managed by Great encourage adoption of the code throughout their supply chain.
Britain Olympic performance director, Dave Brailsford CBE and are aiming to have the first British winner on the Tour fide France within five years.
Alongside Environment their professional activity, we hope that Team Sky will inspire the nation to Sky aims to lead by example in tackling climate change.
We have ambitious plans to work with British Cycling to get one million minimising our environmental impact through our operations and our supply additional people cycling regularly by 2013.
Following on from the success of chain, and inspiring action amongst our customers and people in tackling Sky Sports London Freewheel in 2008, where 50,000 cyclists took to trafc free 24 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009
