Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 26 01 ICG is a thriving multicultural organisation employing 130 people, who speak 29 different languages and manage investments in 17 countries.
01 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Personal and corporate integrity have always been at the heart of participate in our success through a Save As You Earn Share Scheme.
ICGs activities, both in the way we work as a team and how we We regularly review the benefits offered to employees.
Following interact with our clients and the wider community.
We are committed employee feedback have recently introduced childcare vouchers to ensuring that we meet our corporate social responsibility and and a bike to work scheme.
transact business in a sustainable way.
ICG believes that the continued development of our employees The Board is responsible for ensuring that we meet and uphold is integral to our success, not only in terms of the necessary professional high standards of corporate social responsibility in all our activities.
or technical skills, but also their contribution to the Companys future.
Our approach focuses on: Our commitment to performance management and development is set out in our Employee Handbook and enforced through our annual 3 Our people: staff appraisal process, with staff encouraged to participate in a wide 3 Our investors and financial partners: range of development programs and courses to assist them to grow 3 Our environment: and and apply their skills.
This year almost 500 training days were completed with an average of 4.2 days per employee.
A total of 66 development programs and courses were held to meet the personal development needs of Our people our employees, and to continually develop the commercial, personal, management, financial and technical skills within the Company.
In ICG recognises that the continued attraction, development and addition, our employees receive regular compliance training, such as retention of exceptional staff enables us to reach our full potential as an annual anti money laundering course, so that they and the Company an organisation.
ICG strives to provide and engender a positive and can meet our legal and regulatory obligations.
uplifting working environment so that our employees maintain high All our employees operate in an office environment and the levels of engagement and motivation.
It remains a priority that our Directors are committed to developing and maintaining a management employees understand the strategic aims and objectives of the company, culture that ensures the health, safety and welfare of employees and and understand their role in achieving them.
We also ensure our others while on Company premises.
During the year no reportable employees are treated with fairness and respect.
We strive to ensure accidents or incidents occurred either under UK Health and Safety that the talents of all our employees are fully developed and utilised regulations or similar regulations in our offices outside the UK.
and that no one receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of their gender, race, sexual orientation, religion, ethnic or national Our investors and financial partners origin, disability, age, marital or health status.
The strength of our local network and diversity of employees is We are committed to ensuring we are as transparent as possible fundamental to our continued success.
We are thriving as a multicultural with all our investors.
This includes financial transparency, by organisation employing 130 people, who speak 29 different continually improving the amount and timeliness of financial disclosure, languages and have made investments in 17 countries.
and governance transparency, enabling our investors to understand, All employees are of the highest calibre in their chosen field, and assess and hold accountable our Directors.
In this way we believe have been attracted by the sense of cultural belonging and purpose we are able to cultivate mutual understanding and appreciation, at work which ICG offers.
which in turn reinforces our positive reputation and brand sustainability.
We regularly review our compensation and benefits schemes Our commitment to our investors extends to our actions as an to ensure they are market competitive, and continue to align the investor ourselves.
As such, we seek to invest in companies who act interests of both employees, and investors.
We help our employees responsibly, and who comply with environmental, regulatory and Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 27 02 03 A third of our employees donated their time to support projects as part of our CSR programme.
As minority partners in virtually all our investments, extended this initiative to raise awareness among our employees of we do not have direct operational control over the companies in which carbon-reduction initiatives that they are able to adopt at home.
we invest, but nevertheless we do seek to influence their behaviour In addition, we seek to influence the relationships we have with and to ensure that their ethos, corporate structures and policies are other companies, including suppliers, financial partners and portfolio sustainable and in line with good corporate governance practice.
companies, by driving debate and responsible investing through ICG works closely with a number of financial partners, including a number of educational initiatives.
private equity firms, commercial banks and other financial institutions.
In Autumn 2008, we hosted a seminar ICG Climate Change: We seek partners who operate based on an ethical, responsible Investment Consequences Seminar at Oxford University, where approach to their business activities, and who are themselves following industry leaders were invited to discuss how best to take action sustainable business practices.
to stem the advance of climate change.
Over 50 people, including ICG seeks to be the partner of choice in all our business activities.
investors, employees and financial partners, participated in this event We recognise that we must offer a collaborative, solutions-based alongside leading climate change experts.
The seminar highlighted approach which allows us to serve our partners specific needs.
the value of a coordinated business response to developments in ICG actively promotes high ethical standards in all our business climate change policy.
relationships, and undertakes to be open, honest and consistent in Further on the theme of climate change, we are pleased to be every transaction.
We aim to be best in class when it comes to delivering continuing our sponsorship of the ERM Foundations Low Carbon the financing expertise and service necessary for our financial Enterprise Fund, a registered charity which supports low carbon partners to be successful.
enterprises across the developing world.
Our environment Community participation As a corporate citizen, we regard climate change as an enormously As a multi cultural organisation, with strong ties in the local communities important subject that will affect us individually and in the way we run in which we operate, we are keen to support the charitable interests our businesses.
As a financial services company with 130 employees, of our staff and the communities in which we live.
ICG operates a the majority of the environmental risks associated with our business are Corporate Give as You Earn scheme, and also manages a separate indirect.
Nonetheless, we believe it is our responsibility to manage and scheme for its staff.
In addition to our charitable initiatives addressing reduce our carbon footprint, while supporting charitable organisations Climate Change issues, such as our support for the charity Trees for that are promoting a low carbon economy.
Cities, we are equally supportive of a number of other charities in which We recently commissioned Environmental Resources our employees have direct involvement.
These include: Connection at Management ERM, the environmental consultancy, to measure the St Martins: The Childrens Society: Richard House Childrens Hospice: companys carbon footprint, and to provide transparency within our and Age Concern.
business and to others about our progress.
The report concluded that In addition, we are pleased to continue our support of the Private ICG was more carbon efficient, in terms of CO2 emissions per pound Equity Foundation, a foundation backed by the private equity industry revenue, than many other financial institutions in the UK, and that we which invests both money and expertise, to help charities achieve a are one of the first financial companies with under 1bn revenue to step change in their impact.
start reporting and disclosing our emissions through the Carbon The Company believes it is important for employees to not only give Disclosure Project.
financial support but also their time, and to this end allows each employee The carbon footprint study has enabled us to identify methods to take two paid days a year for direct charity involvement.
to further reduce emissions from our global network.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 28 Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 29 Funds and portfolio 30 Funds overview 32 Portfolio overview
