qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 25 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% streets, in 2009 we intend to expand our cycling activities to four other cities skills in the arts.
Outdoor Theatre is a series of performances at National Trust across the UK to encourage everyone of all levels of ability from local properties and we also work with the National Trust to enable people to explore communities to schools and clubs to get on their bikes through our Skyride their interest in other areas via a series of Lecture Lunches which allow visitors programme.
to nd out more about the history, art and wildlife of their local property.
Our Sky Sports Living for Sport initiative has been run since 2003, and in 2008 Media partnerships help us to provide an important platform for a diverse range was expanded to become freely accessible to all secondary and high schools in of arts organisations across the UK whilst also enabling us to create exclusive the UK.
The initiative uses sport to motivate and inspire 11-16 year olds who are content for Sky Arts viewers.
This year we created media partnerships called nding life hard at school.
Over 17,000 young people from more than 600 Sky Arts Ats with a variety of regional and national arts organisations schools have benefitted to date.
A team of past and present athletes have made including the Mostly Mozart Festival and the National Theatre.
A specially over 300 visits to schools around the UK in the last year as part of the project, commissioned documentary going behind the scenes of all of these events is encouraging, mentoring and inspiring the young people involved.
The initiative produced by Sky Arts and shown on the channels over the course of the year.
In has been very successful with evaluation revealing that 94% of participating addition to programming, we also run competitions and offers, both online and pupils showed improvements in their social skills and 85% of teachers feeling in our magazines.
the programme had benefited their young people.
Staff engagement in our arts partnerships is critical to the continued success of In October 2007, Sky Sports and the England & Wales Cricket Board ECB our sponsorships.
We have created a special programme of arts events, teamed up to launch the Sky Sports ECB Coach Education Programme.
The workshops and initiatives called Culture Connection, which enables staff to take scheme is designed to equip coaches with the necessary skills to deliver high part and join in.
Working in conjunction with all of our partners as well as quality coaching programmes at all levels of the game.
In its first two years over young artists, more than 1,800 Sky people have taken part in the programme 13,000 coaches have been trained, double the original target.
The sponsorship through a number of activities including dance and singing lessons, drawing was renewed at the end of 2008 for a further two years, enabling the ECB to workshops or joining the recently formed Sky Choir.
continue to invest in this crucial area of the game.
In 2009 10, we will continue to support UK arts by investing in initiatives and partnerships that will make the arts accessible.
Through our new two-year Arts sponsorship of Artichoke, launching in July 2009 with Antony Gormleys One & In October 2008, Sky doubled its arts programming with the launch of a second Other commission for the Fourth Plinth in Trafalgar Square, we will work to Sky Arts channel.
We now broadcast more cultural programming than any other bring the arts to as wide an audience as possible and enable people to be UK broadcaster, with 4 dedicated arts channels.
Sky Arts 1 broadcasts the best enriched by them in their daily lives.
of contemporary art and Sky Arts 2 focuses on the classics.
Both channels are also available in high denition on Sky Arts 1 HD and Sky Arts 2 HD.
Joining In At the same time as doubling our arts output, we also announced a new arts Our employee engagement programme, Joining In, supports Sky people to get sponsorship strategy, which will build on the significant success of our involved with our community projects in a number of ways, including: sponsorships of English National Opera, English National Ballet and the Hay Festival, and enable us to support arts companies from across the UK throughProviding individual and team volunteering opportunities linked to community regional media partnerships and also from this year champion public mass partners in Arts, Sport and Environment.
Providing 16 hours of paid volunteering time per employee, per year.
Having a generous matched funding policy in place for staff fundraising or In 2008, Sky Arts entered its final year as season sponsor of English National payroll giving to the charity of their choice.
Since 2003 we will have invested more than 5 million in the company, over six seasons.
As our fruitful partnership comes to a close English National The breadth and sustainability of Joining In and our community investment Opera announced in 2009 that it is in the best place it has ever been and can activities led to us being awarded Business in the Communitys Community Mark face the future with confidence.
We will hold this award for three years.
As the National Tour sponsor of English National Ballet, our support enables the We have made good progress against our volunteering and payroll giving company to tour towns and cities across the UK.
In summer 2008, we targets for all staff on Skys payroll over the last year with volunteering going introduced a new initiative creating adult ballet classes around the English from 1.28% to 3.64% in the period from November 2008 to May 2009 and National Ballet tour towns.
The classes are open to all, young and old and are payroll giving rising from 2.67% to 3.89% in the same period.
We are on intended to give everyone a avour of working and rehearsing with one of the schedule to reach our volunteering target of 7.6% by the end of September countrys great dance companies.
In May 2009, we entered our third year of broadcast sponsorship of The Hay We are aiming to have engaged 25% of our total employee base in volunteering Festival, one of the worlds foremost gatherings of authors, artists, musicians by the end of the 2010 calendar year and 5% of our staff in payroll giving in the and cultural commentators over ten days.
We broadcast daily from Hay and same time period.
festival visitors attend the lming.
We also commissioned young artists to create installations to which visitors can add their own artistic contribution.
More than People 8,000 visitors took part this year.
Organisation Our aim is to make Sky a great place to work, an organisation where the best The arts also form a core part of Skys sponsorship of the National Trusts people want to work, stay and build a career.
We believe in investing in our Discovery Programme, a series of projects and initiatives that promote lifelong people to help them perform at their best and reach their full potential.
learning at properties across England and Wales.
The Schools Arts Partnership programme offers opportunities for schools from different backgrounds to work together on curriculum based activities that encourage the sharing of ideas and British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 25 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 26 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued People In addition to this programme each business area looks at how they can best engage and recognise their people in a way that supports their local business continued plans and we operate a number of local recognition plans to support this.
Skys values are the foundation of our culture dening our products and services and the way we relate to each other and our customers.
They are: Health and Safety Health and Safety is a priority in our business.
We continually strive to improve Tuned-in Were in tune with our customers, our people and society.
every aspect of our employees safety.
In particular we have focused our Irrepressible Our energy and innovation is reected in everything we do.
attention on our installation engineers.
We have two Health and Safety Training Inviting We work together in an open way to engage customers and each Centres of Excellence and six regional training centres across the country to other.
ensure all our engineers have comprehensive Health and Safety training before Fun We love what we do and we think that shows through.
We are now developing a third centre of excellence and launching three new additional Health and Safety training The average number of full-time equivalent persons employed by the Group centres.
during the year was 14,922, an increase of 777 from the previous year.
This year we implemented Project Driver to target occupational road risk Talent management associated with the millions of miles engineers drive every year.
The output of Our people are fundamental to Skys success.
We regard all our people as talent the project has resulted in a decreasing trend in incident numbers and costs and therefore have invested in making training and development accessible to despite the marked increase in the size of the van eet in line with our growing everyone at every level.
In September 2008 we launched the Sky Development engineer population.
Accidents from January to June 2009 have decreased by Studio.
This is available to all employees 24 7 providing access to courses, e- 38% compared to the same period last year despite a 31% increase in the courses, books and DVDs.
Since its launch it has achieved 67,000 separate visits number of vans.
and 11,000 e-courses have been downloaded.
New management and leadership programs have been introduced for every employee level.
Well-being The Sky health and wellbeing initiative Keeping Karma is an on-site activity Future Talent programme which promotes a proactive approach to health.
The programme Attracting new talent and growing our own talent is important to us at Sky.
We gives our people the tools, information and understanding to lead a healthy offer formal graduate programmes in Technology, Finance, Marketing, Contact lifestyle.
We also have two school leaver programmes, an award winning Modern Apprenticeships Programme in our Contact Centre and We also provide our people with a condential Sky Support Service.
Employees Supply Chain and Sky Fast-forward in Entertainment and Creative.
We offer and their families can access a 24 7 employee advisory line as well as being placement schemes for journalist students in Sky News and Sky Sports News.
able to access an online support site.
The site provides useful health information and also offers: We have also signicantly improved our employer branding with a new online recruitment website.
Since its launch in January 2009 it has received direct access to counsellors approximately 85,000 visits.
debt management advice eldercare and childcare advice Employee Engagement & Involvementhealth risk assessments with individualised reports on completion We encourage the involvement of all of our people in our current business initiatives and future plans.
Specically we have an elected body of c70 Diversity employees, The Sky Forum which continues to play a key role in Our policies underpin our diversity objectives equal opportunity for all communication, representing the views and ideas of our employees, and irrespective of gender, race, disability, religion, age and sexual orientation.
This reviewing our health and safety status.
The CEO and other Senior Executives year a Senior Womens network has been established.
Sky has signed up to the attend every Forum meeting to discuss topics raised and get direct feedback on Cultural Diversity Network CDN pledge on diversity and has also chaired the business issues.
CDN Committee from January 2007 to December 2008 inclusive, A new diversity strategy has also been developed to be launched next year to further promote Each year the Sky People Survey collects the views and opinions of all our our diversity objectives.
Sky remains a member of the Broadcast and Creative people.
This year approximately 13,000 took part constituting 86% of our Industries Disability Network and a Gold Forum member of the Employers workforce our largest ever response.
This year there was a measurable Forum on Disability.
improvement in the survey scores.
Specically the response to Sky being a great place to work and how engaged people feel with the business continue to Reward and benets improve.
Sky offer a range of benets including the BSkyB Pension Plan, life cover and disability benets, the Sharesave scheme, a healthcare plan and free Sky for all Feedback we receive from the Forum and Survey is acted upon and as an employees.
Selected employees receive awards under the Long Term Incentive example, this year we launched new recognition schemes and a long service Plan share scheme and the Sharesave scheme is open to all permanent award programme.
Recognition To celebrate our 20th anniversary an award of 100 shares was made to every At Sky we believe in better.
Better products, better services, better teamwork, permanent employee.
Recipients can keep or sell their shares after 3 years better entertainment and a better world.
Our annual Team Sky awards allow provided that they are still in service.
This is the first time all employees our people to recognise and reward individuals and teams who put this belief received such an award and will provide the opportunity for employees to into everything they do.
This year we received more nominations than ever become shareholders of Sky.
Approximately 400 people received significant prizes.
26 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009
