Directors report: Business review Responsible lending Treating customers fairly and responsible lending are important issues for any financial services company.
As an important Providing the right product to the right provider of credit in emerging markets, we accept our customer is a key responsibility to set an example to others in the way we operate.
element of our Delivering robust transparency on customer performance is important to business customer principles.
decision making and external confidence.
This year we have voluntarily sought external assurance on selected KPIs for customers and agents.
Managements basis of reporting can be found at www.
The independent assurance report is on page 80.
Responsibility through the customer life cycle Overall customer satisfaction % 1.
Product design Providing the right products for the 72 right customers 5 1 2.
Seeking new business Advertising and marketing 3.
Managing new business Treating 18 Customer creditworthiness checks and 10 customers suitability tests fairly Satisfied Neutral Dis- 4.
Issuing the loan satisfied 4 2 Providing clear pre-contractual information 5.
Collections and the role of the agent Collecting repayments and monitoring changes in a customers financial and 3 personal circumstances 1.
Our approach to product design Providing the right product to the right customer is a key element of our customer principles.
Visiting customers in their homes every week means we are aware of their individual needs and circumstances.
We undertake customer insight programmes and use geodemographic tools to help us understand our customers at a local level.
We carry out external customer surveys every 12 to 18 months to research how our service is used and perceived.
This helps us ensure we are delivering the right product to the right customers and meeting expected levels of service.
Understanding our customers needs and knowing what motivates them is essential if we are to run our business profitably, treat customers fairly and further improve customer retention.
According to our latest customer research undertaken in 2009, overall customer satisfaction levels with the service across the Group are 72% up from 68% in 2008.
This demonstrates that despite economic conditions we have maintained our focus on providing good levels of service.
co. uk Directors report: Business review 31 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Chief Executive Officers review Responsible lending continued 2.
Our approach to seeking new business Customer retention Our customers continue to use us because home credit meets their needs and they value the high level of customer service they receive through their agent.
At the end of 2009 we had 2.06 million customers up from 2.03 million 73% customers in 2008 showing continued acceptance for our product.
Existing customers with proven repayment behaviour are invited to take out new loans at defined stages in the lifecycle of the loan.
Approximately 85% of new Customer numbers loans come from retaining existing customers.
Customer retention in 2009 was 73% 72% in 2008 which indicates a continuing level of customer satisfaction.
2.06m Through referrals from our call centres, local marketing and word of mouth recommendations, agents are able to expand their customer network.
National TV and local press, radio and internet advertising support agents in creating awareness of and interest in home credit.
Each of our businesses adheres to the guidelines and laws for marketing, as defined by European standards such as the Federation of European Direct and Interactive Marketing for direct mail and the Electronic Commerce Directive and Regulations for electronic communications.
Our approach to managing new business Once a customer shows interest in one of our loans, a series of checks and tests are carried out to assess their suitability.
Credit management systems Agents are supported by a suite of credit management systems: application scoring for new customers and behavioural scoring for repeat customers.
Generally, credit bureau data in emerging markets either does not exist or is limited.
Our bespoke in-house credit risk management systems, together with the local knowledge of the agents, give us a robust platform for deciding whether and how much to lend.
32 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review New customers The initial contact from a potential new customer is typically via one of our call Agents are supported centres or through an agent who will often live in the same community as the by a suite of credit customer.
The call centre performs initial credit vetting and potential leads are management systems: passed to an agent.
Approximately 30% of potential customers are turned down application scoring at this stage.
for new customers and behavioural scoring for The agent visits the potential customer in their home and helps them to complete repeat customers.
an income and expenditure assessment which evaluates the ability of the customer to repay the loan.
Customers are declined a loan by the agent if they fail this budget assessment.
These details are entered into our application scoring system, usually via text messaging, which generates a recommendation of the amount and term of a loan that might be offered.
Alternatively it will advise the agent that no loan can be offered.
The majority of the time the agent will be more cautious than the sales message generated by our system.
Credit exceptions Existing customers Each agents knowledge and judgement is central to the ongoing behavioural credit assessment and understanding of what their customers can afford 3.7% to borrow.
For all repeat loans the agent verifies basic income and expenditure information to re-establish the ability of the customer to repay a new loan.
Agents are supported in this process by a behavioural scoring system.
This system uses the same demographic information as the application scoring system, overlaid with the detailed payment performance on a customer-by-customer basis, which is updated weekly.
Credit exceptions We have a series of credit rules which support responsible lending.
For new and existing customers we monitor the number of times that agents do not comply with Group or local credit rules.
These are known as credit exceptions.
Identified cases where the local credit rules vary against the Group rules are discussed by the Group credit committee.
Exceptions are not reported as long as agents operate in line with the local credit rules.
Credit exceptions, for new and repeat loans combined, as a proportion of total agreements in 2009 was 3.7% down from 17.1% in 2008.
The reduction indicates that new policy controls have been effective.
co. uk Directors report: Business review 33 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Chief Executive Officers review Responsible lending continued 4.
Issuing the loan Before a loan is issued it is crucial for a customer to be able to make an informed We strive to avoid decision.
We strive to avoid potential misinterpretation of information by ensuring misinterpretation of our loan documentation is transparent and simple to understand, and the information by ensuring language used is clear and comprehensible.
This is subject to ongoing review our loan documentation as part of our treating customers fairly initiative, including the use of customer is transparent and simple focus groups to assess levels of financial literacy and seek input into improving to understand.
We ensure our agents are able to provide clear and correct information through a comprehensive induction and ongoing guidance and support from their development managers.
Our customer information sheets and agreements set out the necessary information in plain, appropriate language and we issue fact sheets to clarify further key points.
Welcome letters to customers outline all responsibilities Customers satisfied and, in some cases, we make a follow-up phone call.
loan agreements are Following loan issue, customers have a cooling-off period of between 7 and 14 days, easy to understand depending on the market, which acts as a time for reflection.
This is especially important given the speed and efficiency of loan issue.
87% According to our customer research in 2009, 87% of customers are satisfied that our loan agreements are easy to understand 86% in 2008.
We provide agents with materials and guidance so that they can answer customer queries in a straightforward, uncomplicated manner.
Based on the Customers satisfied with agents visiting their home 2009 customer survey, 81% of customers are satisfied with the agent visiting their home up from 78% in 2008.
Again, this indicates the impact of continued investment in improving communication and service levels.
Collections and the role of the agent Agents are central to the success of our home credit business model.
As the main contact point for customers, they represent the public face of our business, building long-lasting customer relationships through delivering a high-quality service.
They are also critical in the lending and repayment processes to avoid over-lending to customers and keeping impairment costs at an acceptable level.
Visiting customers every week gives agents an insight into household dynamics and a good understanding of the customers personal situation, enabling them to respond to changing circumstances which may lead to missed or reduced payments.
Agents are also well placed to identify whether there may be a larger, local impact resulting from economic problems in the community, such as redundancies from a local factory.
This allows us to quickly adapt our lending decisions at a branch level based on the latest local information.
34 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review According to our latest customer research in 2009, 84% of customers are satisfied with the professionalism and trustworthiness of their agent.
Agent remuneration is predominantly based Retaining agents is a key measure for our business in ensuring the conditions on the value of their are right for maintaining optimum levels of business performance and customer collections, which helps service.
As at the end of December 2009, there were 26,200 agents 28,900 support responsible in 2008 working across the six countries in which we operate.
Agent performance across all markets has been assessed during 2009 and in 2010 we intend to look more closely at our agent retention data.
Most agents are self-employed, although in Hungary local regulation requires that we employ agents.
Many agents were previously customers so they know our products well and Customers satisfied with understand our customers needs.
professionalism and Agent remuneration is predominantly based on the value of their collections, trustworthiness of their agent which helps support responsible lending.
Our approach to responsible debt recovery and debt cancellation 84% Responsible lending not only refers to applying due diligence in the selection of customers and the offer of suitable products but also encompasses the appropriate recovery of outstanding debt.
We explore all possible solutions e. g. lower instalments before cancelling Agent numbers a credit relationship.
The weekly agent visit and the fact that customers can reschedule repayments if they face temporary difficulties, help minimise arrears.
Where customers do fall behind with repayments, arrears are managed 26,200 through established systems which include a combination of visits, telephone calls and letters.
In-house activity to recoup the balance is our primary means of recovery.
Customers that persistently fail to pay are referred to the central Agent retention debt recovery department.
Once the decision is made to transfer to debt recovery, there are generally no additional costs incurred by the customer, unless the case goes to court.
43% We use the services of external collection agencies and thoroughly review their business ethics and practices to ensure that we are comfortable with their approach.
These KPIs have been externally assured by  LLP in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000.
The independent assurance report is on page 80. www.
