Chief Executive Officers review Business and society To ensure the long-term sustainable success of the business it is important to interact with wider stakeholder groups and To better manage emerging risks and manage the social issues that are important to them.
identify opportunities, we Some of the key issues include the role of micro loans in stimulating economic regularly engage with a activity, levels of consumer indebtedness, the way in which our customers with range of key stakeholders.
payment difficulties are dealt with and general misunderstanding of the home credit sector.
These issues can help or hinder the business and so it is important to identify and manage them, and proactively communicate the positive attributes of our business.
We will increasingly ask what sustainability means for our business and for the countries and communities in which we operate, what can we do and how we can work better with others in business and the wider society.
Looking at these issues, such as the economic opportunities our loans create, the social benefit in peoples quality of life and the wealth we create through taxation, will help highlight some of the positive aspects of our business.
Stakeholder activity To better manage emerging risks and identify opportunities, we regularly engage with a range of key stakeholders.
We do this through annual workshops with our main stakeholder groups, industry associations, business and wider corporate  memberships and one-to-one meetings.
Public policy We are proactively involved at an EU level in policy debates with Commission officials, Members of the European Parliament and think tanks on issues such as responsible lending, creditworthiness, financial inclusion, financial education, illegal lending and credit intermediaries.
We are involved in discussions on a national level with policy makers in all our markets.
We provided a detailed response to the European Commissions consultation on responsible lending in 2009.
We also provided a case study for the Study on Credit Intermediaries in the Internal Market commissioned by DG Internal Market and Services which was published in January 2009.
Furthermore, we are involved in the financial inclusion debate, through attendance at workshops and meetings with Ministers of the European Parliament, which is high on the agenda in Europe.
A key feature of our business model is a significantly higher level of financial inclusion than other mainstream lenders.
36 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review Investing in social issues Community investment by market 000 We run community investment programmes in all our markets supporting issues that are important to our customers, employees and agents.
In 2009, our overall 232 Group contribution to charities and community organisations was 750,000 192 460,000 excluding management costs representing 1.2% of profit before tax 138 up from 0.9% of profit before tax in 2008.
A further 200,000 was leveraged 87 79 through, for example, payroll giving and fundraising.
22 Social inclusion charities Poland Czech Hungary Mexico Romania UK Republic & Slovakia We support social inclusion and financial literacy programmes, including grant giving aimed at disadvantaged groups, to enable local regeneration and skills development.
We also carry out a significant amount of volunteering and in 2009, almost 1,700 employees volunteered over 7,400 working hours in support of local community causes.
This helps maintain high employee motivation, generates positive PR and adds value to the communities where our customers, agents Investment in community and employees live and work.
initiatives 750,000 Financial education 1.2% One key area of community activity involves promoting financial education.
Generally financial awareness in our markets remains low.
We believe it is important that of profit before tax consumers are able to make informed financial choices and budget effectively this supports responsible borrowing.
All our markets run financial educational programmes involving communication and media campaigns, the development and roll-out of workshops with partners and take part in collaborative working groups.
In Romania, the Family Budget Programme aims to promote financial education and supports non-governmental organisations in implementing dedicated programmes.
The programme is sponsored by the National Consumers Protection Authority, in partnership with the Consumers Protection Association and Junior Achievement Romania a not for profit educational organisation.
Our Polish business, through the Academy of Family Finance, has run 10 workshops and educational contests with regional radio stations and secured educational articles in the national media.
In the Czech Republic, we continue to support Read Before You Sign a long running media campaign which we have supported since 2005.
Directed at the general public, it aims to prevent problems associated with consumers being unaware of financial obligations when signing a contract.
The wide range of partners involved in the project includes the Czech Consumers Association and the British Chamber of Commerce.
In addition, we have initiated a new project Financial Compass which provides skills training and workshops on financial education topics to financial counsellors in local municipalities.
co. uk Directors report: Business review 37 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Chief Executive Officers review Business and society continued We have created financial literacy websites for the general public in Hungary, Carbon footprint per employee Romania and Poland which provide public access to educational materials and tools on basic level financial knowledge, practical tips, resources and 2.54 a budget calculator.
We run financial education workshops for people and organisations in the UK, tonnes CO 2 Slovakia, Hungary and Mexico.
In Mexico, over 1,500 people have benefited from workshops run with Impulsa, Amistad-British Mexican Foundation and the University of Puebla.
In Slovakia, 27 tutors have been trained and, in turn, have delivered workshops to nearly 2,000 participants through the School of Family CO emissions reduction 2 Finance.
In Hungary, we try to raise the capacity of other organisations and social workers to deliver financial education training.
In 2009, 11 local financial literacy projects were launched in institutions operated by local government.
5.5% Some of our businesses are starting to engage customers directly by including information within customer communications and magazines.
Environment As a consumer financial services business, our direct environmental impact is lower than that of some other organisations but we are committed to running the business in a way that minimises impacts where we can.
Our Group environmental policy and management system EMS is based on the international environmental standard ISO 14001 and audits are carried out against this standard annually.
All our businesses run environmental working groups, set annual targets and, in 2009, all met the ISO 14001 standard for the first time.
We recognise climate change is a significant global issue.
As a result of climate change impacts we are exposed to physical risks such as unpredictable weather events that could result in direct damage to property and disruption to our day-to-day business.
Due to the nature of our business model, severe weather events can affect our customers ability to repay loans and may result in a higher rate of write-off costs.
Our process for identifying and managing such risks forms part of our wider risk management framework.
Although we have a relatively low impact on climate change through business travel and electricity use, we play our part in managing our emissions and encouraging better practices in others.
Our businesses are engaged in a number of activities including energy efficiency awareness campaigns, promoting green travel, reducing the impact of the company car fleet, investing in teleconferencing and engaging our landlords to implement energy saving measures in the buildings we operate in.
In 2009, our carbon footprint was 2.54 tonnes CO per employee which represents 2 a 5.5% reduction compared to 2008 levels.
More details of our environmental 2009 performance are available on our website www.
John Harnett Chief Executive Officer 38 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7
