DiRectORS RePORt For the 52 weeks ended 27 September 2009 The directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries for the 52 weeks ended 27 September 2009.
PRInCIPaL aCTIvITIES The group trades principally as a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks.
BUSInESS REvIEW A detailed review of the groups activities and of future plans is contained within the Chairmans Statement on page 12 and the Chief Executives Review and Business Review on pages 13 to 29.
The information contained in those sections fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be treated as forming part of this report.
RESULTS anD DIvIDEnDS The groups profit for the 52 weeks ended 27 September 2009 before taxation attributable to the equity shareholders amounted to 66.2 million 2008: 51.8 million and the profit after taxation amounted to 46.8 million 2008: 31.8 million.
An interim dividend of 4.1p 2008: 3.8p per ordinary share was paid on 3 July 2009.
The directors are proposing a final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 27 September 2009 of 10.9p 2008: 8.8p per ordinary share.
This will be paid on 12 February 2010 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 4 December 2009, subject to shareholder approval.
DIRECTORS The following were directors of the company during the 52 weeks ended 27 September 2009: Gerald Corbett, Paul Moody, Joanne Averiss, John Gibney, Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow.
Subject to company law and the companys Articles of Association the Articles, the directors may exercise all of the powers of the company and may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the group.
The Articles give the directors power to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the board.
The Articles also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election to the first Annual General Meeting following appointment and to retire at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year after election or last re-election.
In accordance with Article 77 of the companys Articles, Joanne Averiss, Gerald Corbett, John Gibney, Bob Ivell, Paul Moody and Michael Shallow, will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Their biographical details are set out on pages 32 and 33 of this report.
DIRECTORS InTERESTS The directors interests in ordinary shares of the company are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 49.
No director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any group company.
Other than Joanne Averiss, who is a director of a number of PepsiCos subsidiaries, no director was or is materially interested in any contract other than his or her service contract, subsisting during or existing at the end of the 52 weeks ended 27 September 2009 which was significant in relation to the groups business.
Further details of Joanne Averiss appointment are set out on page 39 in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the company has agreed, to the extent permitted by law and the companys Articles of Association, to indemnify: The directors, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the company or any of its subsidiaries Directors of companies which are corporate trustees of the groups pension schemes against liability incurred in connection with those companies activities as trustees of such schemes DIRECTORS REMUnERaTIOn The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the directors needed to run the group successfully.
The Directors Remuneration Report is shown on pages 43 to 49. annUaL GEnERaL MEETInG Details of the companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in a separate circular which has been sent to all shareholders with this report.
EMPLOyEE InvOLvEMEnT The group uses a number of ways to engage employees on matters that impact them and the performance of the group.
These include annual roadshows at key sites by members of the Executive Committee, regular team meetings, the publication of a bi-monthly internal newsletter, The Mag, together with the b. link intranet site containing easy access to the latest company information as well as company policies and vacancies.
The company organises quarterly formal business performance updates for employees, which are cascaded by line managers.
An Employee Involvement Forum was established in 2004 through which nominated representatives ensure that employees views are taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
In addition, where the group has entered into a recognition agreement with a Trade Union, it fulfils its obligations to consult and negotiate accordingly.
The group approaches these relationships from a partnership perspective.
A robust employee opinion survey process is also in place to ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that the group can take action based on employee feedback.
This covers a variety of topics including leadership and line management, employee wellbeing, career development, training, communications and corporate responsibility commitments.
All eligible employees are able to participate in the Britvic Share Incentive Plan which gives them the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary, and to receive matching shares from the company, up to a maximum of 75 per four week pay period.
EqUaL OPPORTUnITIES The group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees without discrimination and applies fair and equitable employment policies which ensure entry into and progression within the group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria and competency.
