BuSineSS Review cORPORAte ReSPOnSiBility In May of this year, we published our second Corporate We are continuing to roll out the easy to understand Recycle Responsibility Report demonstrating our achievements Now across all our packs, to help consumers improve their in 2008 09 and highlighting our future plans for 2009 10. understanding of which packaging can be recycled and to We have continued to make good progress in the six encourage them to recycle more.
months that have passed: testimony to the commitment We were the first soft drinks company to sign up to WRAP and of the business as a whole and our individual employees our post-2010 targets will focus on carbon footprint, for which to drive forward on this important agenda.
rPET will have a significant impact.
OUR STRaTEGy InCREaSInG ThE EFFICIEnCy OF OUR OPERaTIOnS Our vision for CR progressive brands, responsible business, In the past year, we have strengthened our commitments to dedicated people reflects our values as a business and is the environment in a number of areas and our full environment underpinned by four strategic goals, that reflect the most policy is available via our corporate website.
pressing sustainability issues facing Britvic.
We have continued to deliver a strong performance against OPTIMISInG ThE EnvIROnMEnTaL PERFORManCE our targets, continually driving improvements.
OF OUR PaCKaGInG We work hard to reduce the environmental impact of our We are proud of these achievements and of the work that has packaging whilst maintaining stringent quality standards.
gone in at our sites to ensure their success, including power Our packaging strategy focuses on minimising waste, using factor correction at both our Rugby and Huddersfield sites, recycled materials and supporting recycling.
numerous lighting reduction projects, involving the removal of unnecessary lighting and installing movement sensors, and We have removed 11,000 tonnes per year from our total our drive on recycling found a solution for plastic cups meaning packaging waste.
This year we have already beaten our target a reduction of one landfill skip collection per week.
of reducing a further 5000 tonnes of packaging by December 2010, totaling 8000 tonnes reduced so far.
This was achieved We remain fully committed and on course to deliver our future through removing 4000 tonnes of glass from our J O bottle 2 goals, which include a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions by a 20g reduction in weight and the equivalent to 20 million bottles 2010 compared to 1990 by tonne of product and a 20% water of J O a year.
These reductions have also led to improvements 2 reduction by 2020 compared to 2007.
By January 2010 all our in filling line efficiencies, energy savings of around 10% and the single door chillers will be Hydrocarbon HCO and by mid-2010 lighter bottles require less fuel to transport too.
We will continue our double door and the rest of our range will follow.
We have our important work in this area further reducing our impacts on also been trialling EMS energy management system plugs in the environment.
pilot on-premise accounts and are expecting successful results.
In May, we announced plans to complete an rPET trial using SUPPORTInG OUR LOCaL anD GLOBaL COMMUnITIES UK-only recycled content.
Initial bottle-manufacturing trials We are committed to supporting the communities in which we have taken place and further refinement is required.
Our target operate and we do this locally via our community investment to achieve over 10% UK only rPET average content across all programme and globally by committing to high ethical standards our GB manufactured brands by December 2012 is well under throughout our supply chain.
Both our community investment way and could be delivered as early as December 2010. and our ethical trading policies are available via our website.
TaRGETS 2009 Target 2009 Result 2008 Result Energy kWh per tonne produced -2% -9.2% -1.5% 3 Effluent M per tonne produced -2% 2.5% -15.8% 3 Water M per tonne produced -2% -4.1% -3.6% Landfill solid waste Kg per tonne produced -7% -23.5% -19.5% accidents frequency rate Per 100,000 hours worked -10% -44.5% -23.2% Note: Since reporting last year we have discovered a calibration issue with our meter readings, which over stated our 2008 result.
These figures are in line with the Climate Change Levy.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2009 25 BuSineSS Review cORPORAte ReSPOnSiBility cOntinueD Our charitable giving has grown by 400% since 2006 when we Our employee policies are available via our website and are joined the London Benchmarking Group.
We are committed to designed to support and develop employees and promote increasing this investment over the next three years through flexibility for all.
Recognising that this is particularly important to relationships with a number of charitable partners as well those with parental and caring challenges this year we increased as supporting employee fundraising and volunteering.
In the both our paternity leave and the number of additional holidays past year we have donated the equivalent of 415,000 to available via our benefits programme.
charitable organisations, through a combination of funding Going forward we have started exploring a range of healthy and in-kind donations.
Many of our employees donate via lifestyle initiatives through Business4Life a coalition of industry volunteering, giving up their time to their local communities and partners supporting the governments Change4Life programme.
our IT department made a huge commitment recently at Shire We have already supported a Play4Life initiative with the Play Country Park in Solihull, constructing 286 metres of footpaths Providers Association and funded 30,000 frisbees encouraging and helping the Rangers get the park fit for winter.
Our brands children to get active via play.
We have also funded research into too have invested in community projects such as Robinsons Be MENDs Mind, Exercise, Nutrition Do-it, new 5-7s programme Natural support of the Woodland Trust offering a number of free working with families with children who have been identified as memberships to the Woodland Trust Nature Detective Club and overweight or obese.
raising much needed awareness of their cause.
This year, two of our factory sites were recognised for health In terms of our global commitments, since reporting in May and safety by certification and awards.
We beat our target to the percentage of direct suppliers those that supply either reduce accident frequency rates by 10% achieving a result of ingredients or packaging who have signed up to our ethical 44.5% accident reduction across the business.
Our Huddersfield trading policy, has increased from 95% to 97% and we remain site obtained certification to OHSAS 18000 and our Rugby site committed to achieving full compliance by December 2010. achieved a British Safety Council International Safety Award and We are also investigating and evaluating accreditation options RoSPA Gold Award for Safety.
for our fruit sourcing and conducting a number of audits in a STROnG PERFORManCE those countries we have identified as higher risk in order to We have made great strides in many areas of our Corporate make continuous improvements.
We have also started work Responsibility Programme, but acknowledge there is still more on our indirect supply chain all other suppliers in order to gain work to be done.
It was good to see our progress recognised compliance with our ethical trading policy.
in the FTSE4Good Index for the second time and we are SUPPORTInG hEaLThy LIFESTyLES committed to maintaining this momentum going forward.
anD EMPLOyEE WELLBEInG Health and wellbeing continues to be a significant public issue and we want to continue to support both our consumers and our employees to lead healthy, balanced lifestyles.
In the past year we have re-launched Fruit Shoot NAS as Low Sugar following consumer feedback and to help make the differences between the Fruit Shoot variants easier to understand.
We launched Robinsons Be Natural containing only naturally sourced ingredients and free from artificial colours, flavours, sweeteners and preservatives.
In addition we have promoted active and healthy lifestyle programmes through brand activity such as Gatorades support for the triathlon and Robinsons association with the Wimbledon Championships.
Fruit Shoot launched a campaign encouraging eight year olds to learn and practice fun mental and physical new skills and brought this to life via a new factual entertainment programme for kids called Skillicious.
Our in-house Nutritionist has worked with Robinsons and NetMums to provide regular on line information on healthy drinking for young children.
March 2008 April 2009 26 Britvic plc Annual Report 2009
