Corporate Social Responsibility The Board is committed to Corporate Responsibility and the need to take proper account of our impact on the environment, the morale and welfare of our employees and the satisfaction of our customers.
We will consider all social and environmental issues that could affect our business CR Priorities Standard Aims 2009 2010 Health and Safety Ensure we provide safe and productive working Proactive safety culture with emphasis on environments awareness and prevention Environment Compliance with legal requirements and continue to Continue improvement programmes and extend measure and assess carbon footprint ISO14000 Employees All employees are fairly rewarded and given Attract and retain the appropriate level of development opportunities employees Business Relationships Compliance with business conduct and ethical Further improve customer service and trading policies relationships with suppliers Community Continue raising money for charities through Group Further encourage employees to participate in and Divisional events as well as participation in community projects community projects The Group continues to be a member of Board member responsible for health and management systems and inspections safety matters including keeping the Board of our branch, warehouse and office FTSE4GOOD, which is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in informed at each meeting.
based activities companies that meet globally recognised Reviewed all audit, inspection and accident corporate responsibility standards.
Companies The department has four full time members report findings and produced action plans of staff, who provide advice and support to in the FTSE4GOOD index series have met to ensure continual improvement in our stringent social, ethical and environmental operational management and staff at all levels management of health and safety and who monitor the implementation of the criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the Investigated all reportable RIDDOR benefits of responsible business practice.
Health and Safety Policy and Procedures.
accidents notified to us and implemented changes to procedures where appropriate During 2008 the BSS Group also joined The policy document and branch manual has Responded positively to any findings recently been reviewed and rolled out to all Business in the Community BITC.
BITC observations by the HSE following supports and challenges companies to branches to ensure that it accurately reflects inspections our business.
integrate responsible business through their Continually assessed, maintained, monitored operations in order to have a positive impact and improved safety performance Over the past year we have: on society and therefore be of public benefit.
Rolled out driver training initiative.
The Maintained an ongoing training programme initiative resulted in a 30% vehicle accident for all levels of employees in line with health Health and Safety rate reduction in the pilot area Health and safety is a key issue for the Group.
and safety policy requirements Assessed commercial drivers and retrained We are committed to ensuring the health and Trained 1,310 employees in health and as required.
safety of our employees, customers and visitors safety and 619 in manual handling to our sites.
Our in house health and safety Across all employees provided 471 training department is led by the Central Services There have been no HSE prosecutions or days during the year Director, who is a member of the Executive enforcement actions in 2008.
Continued to undertake regular and Committee.
The Group Chief Executive is the extensive health and safety audits of our 18 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 We aim to maintain a progressive equal BSS, part of our Industrial Division, has Employee Involvement and Working Environment opportunities policy to ensure equal treatment successfully raised 110,000 for Rainbow Trust for all irrespective of race, creed, colour, over the last two years.
These funds have given The importance of good relations and communications with employees is fundamental nationality, ethnic origin, age, language, religion, 76 families with a terminally ill child a short stay to the continued success of our business.
The sexual orientation, gender or disability.
respite break at Rainbow House and Rainbow Group Chief Executive is the Board member Individuals are trained, developed, promoted Fernstone.
BSS Industrial will continue to responsible for human resources matters and and treated on the basis of their relevant support the Rainbow Trust during 2009 via ink updates the Board on a regular basis.
We recognise that cartridge and mobile phone recycling, raffles everyone is different and by valuing diversity we and sales conference donations.
We employ just under 5,000 people across the appreciate that people with different business and recognise the key contribution experiences, views, opinions and approaches We actively support the Princes Trust with they make to our ongoing growth and success.
can bring important skills to the business.
management time and financial contributions.
Our employees wellbeing and professional Founded in 1976 by The Prince of Wales to development is central to recruiting and The Company is committed to offering improve the lives of disadvantaged young retaining high performing individuals.
Over development and training to all its employees people in the UK, it has become the UKs the last couple of years product knowledge and offers a wide range of training techniques leading youth charity, giving practical and systems have been introduced across PTS to enable all individuals the ability to develop financial support to the young people who and BSS Industrial, with a number of and progress within the Group.
The Training need it most.
employees participating in apprenticeships team offer apprenticeships with over 50 and Builders Merchant Federation modules.
employees completing their apprenticeship In 2008 we joined BITC, an independent The organisation has a robust talent in the last two years, all employees have the membership charity with the purpose to management strategy in place which opportunity of gaining an NVQ level 2, and create a public benefit by inspiring companies incorporates annual performance reviews, individuals have the opportunity to gain a to improve the positive impact of business development plans and succession planning.
Divisional newsletters are published regularly BSS and the Community to employees to ensure they are kept well We conduct all our business with honesty informed.
Annual employee attitude surveys and integrity and are a responsible member are conducted to measure employee motivation of the community.
and provide an additional feedback facility for employees to communicate with the Company.
PTS, part of the Domestic Division, announced The Company makes various benefit schemes the NSPCC as their charity partner for the year available to all employees subject to eligibility with the aim of our employees raising money including a Save As You Earn scheme SAYE.
to provide help for vulnerable children.
By A benefits website is in operation with benefits March 2009 the total sum of money raised ranging from the Companys defined was 25,000.
This would not have been contribution pension scheme to concessions possible without the staff, suppliers and on gym membership.
Several events ranging from a charity walk, golf day, raffle and a school uniform day have helped to raise this amount.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate values and commitment are to be translated into mainstream management practice.
The Group has committed to: The Environment This year, following the development of our Inspire, innovate and lead We recognise the importance of responsible Environmental Management system, we have by sharing, learning and environmental management and the obligation achieved ISO14001 accreditation for our Group experience to protect the environment.
B & H part of the Specialist Division has held ISO14001 Impact on key social issues In particular we focus on: accreditation for several years.
through collaborative action Property: reducing the use of energy and water consumption During 2008 09 in excess of 350 sites have in areas of greatest need been engaged in our recycling programme.
Transport: minimising emissions from our Integrate, manage and Waste cardboard and plastic is backhauled to transport fleet the distribution centres where it is bailed and measure responsible Waste: seeking opportunities to minimise then sent to the recycling mills.
During the last waste produced in all sections of the business practice 12 months we have recycled 279 tons of business cardboard and 59 tons of plastic.
As a Complying with all relevant environmental The Groups Leicestershire based sites have consequence the number of bin collections has legislation, regulations, standards and other over 40 volunteers who participate in the Right been substantially reduced.
Our largest waste relevant codes to Read, Numeracy Skills and Interview collector, who services 347 sites, has collected Techniques via Leicestershire Cares.
The Providing, where possible, the most efficient 1.7 tons less per site per annum during Company also offers work experience solutions for heating and pipeline processes 2008 09 compared to 2007 08. placements for ex-offenders and those coming Working with our suppliers towards out of care.
ensuring effective environmental supply We had no prosecutions relating to chain management environmental matters during the year.
This The Groups employees also held Having technologies in place at B & H that reflects in part the fact that as a distributor our fund raising events for Great Ormond Street monitor the fuel consumption of each activities generally have a lower impact on the Hospitals Jeans for Genes Appeal and Breast commercial vehicle and this will be used to environment but also our proactive approach Cancer awareness which the Company promote more fuel efficient driving when planning and developing new branches.
Remote monitoring of electricity, gas and water consumption at all sites above a We recognise that waste and emission output are our most significant environmental impact certain size to focus on usage reductions and are able to report the following: Installation of intelligent heating systems in new branches wherever possible Planting 300 trees in the National Forest to th mark the opening of the 300 PTS branch 20 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PTS part of the Domestic Division exhibits 1 CO2 Direct Emissions Absolute tons 2008 09 renewable energy products at Green Energy 2 Business operations Fossil fuel use on site 16,135 Rooms in Nottingham and Newcastle as well as a Renewables branch in Aylesford.
The Owned transport Fuel used by vehicles 21,178 Green Energy showrooms offer advice to 1 CO2 Indirect Emissions Absolute tons 2008 09 make an informed choice about being socially Yearly consumption of directly purchased responsible and cutting household bills when Electricity 11,102 electricity in KWh considering heating and plumbing options.
Currently PTS and F & P offer a range of Recorded miles of third party provided energy efficient products and emergent Employee travel transport air and rail as well as 3,224 renewable technologies.
self-recorded miles road Total Emissions 51,639 Renewable energy solutions are considered 1 and installed at new branches subject to The Carbon Trust, carbon footprint calculator was used to convert usage into CO emissions.
Emissions disclosed 2 landlords consent and favourable physical cover circa 90% of the sites of the Group.
2 To convert gas figures an average calorific value of 36.4 was used.
In addition, we are now monitoring intelligent lighting systems in branches.
Intelligent lighting turns warehouse Supplied Water Use Absolute tons 2008 09 lights off automatically in areas which are not Supplied water Actual or estimated volume of water used 24,873 used for a period of time.
Hazardous Waste Absolute tons 2008 09 The FTSE Group confirmed that The BSS Group plc had been independently assessed Actual or estimated weight of waste Recycled treated 3 generated according to the FTSE4GOOD criteria, and continues to satisfy the requirements to be Non hazardous Waste Absolute tons 2008 09 a constituent of the FTSE4GOOD index series.
Actual or estimated weight of waste Created by the global index company FTSE Recycled 909 generated Group, the FTSE4GOOD is an equity index Actual or estimated weight of waste series that is designed to facilitate investment Landfill 3,972 generated in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies Total 29,757 in the FTSE4GOOD index series have met Because of the increase in volume of data gathered, the opening of 30 sites and the acquisition of Birchwood, stringent social, ethical and environmental comparison of this years results with those from 2008 do not provide a useful indication of performance or trends.
We criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on will continue to develop our data systems in order to present a basis for year-on-year comparison in future reports.
the benefits of responsible business practice.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21
