42 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Corporate Social Responsibility We are committed to maintaining The workplace Corporate Social standards of excellence across the Group JLT's goal is to create a stimulating, Responsibility CSR is and will continue to invest in our innovative and dynamic working employees.
environment where talented individuals are important to Jardine Lloyd rewarded and recognised for their Charity and the community Thompson.
We operate contribution to the success of the business, Our charity initiative JLT Making a both professionally and personally.
our business in line with Difference focuses JLTs efforts in three Our continuing aim is to attract and retain ways: industry best practice the best professionals, welcome new talent Firstly, all UK staff are able to take and encourage employees to look at striving to ensure that the advantage of a Charity Day, this career development opportunities within impact of our operations gives them one day every year when JLT.
We promote flexibility and encourage they can spend company time helping diversity amongst the workforce, both in has a positive impact on a charity or working in the local recruitment and across all areas of community.
As a Lloyd's Community the environment whilst employment, recognising the benefits that Programme partner, employees from this brings to the Group.
maintaining a strong our London offices are encouraged to Employee involvement is encouraged give up their lunch hours twice a week competitive edge.
through wide share ownership and to visit a school to help with IT training participation in share option schemes.
Employees are kept informed of the Secondly, JLT will match pound for performance of the Group and all matters pound any amount raised by our UK affecting them as employees by means of staff in fundraising activities they regular briefings and consultation.
undertake for charity up to a maximum Wherever possible, the Group regularly of 5,000.
Each year the Group communicates with its employees via the Charities Committee seeks to ensure JLT intranet both in the UK and overseas.
that a large proportion of its annual Most recently the Group's CEO was budget supports these employee interviewed for a staff video, the key fundraising activities.
In 2009 the theme of which was the Group's 2009 Group provided matching funds financial results.
In the UK, the Give-As-You-Earn scheme JLT continues to respond to the constant enables employees to make regular changes within the Group and the external charitable donations in a tax efficient economic environment.
Donations under this scheme development at all levels is fundamental to raised in excess of 30,000 for this and is embedded in the culture of JLT.
We continue to commit resources equally to technical training and personal Our total charitable donations in development in the firm belief that our 2009 in the UK amounted to employees are key to our future success.
We operate within a strong health and Thirdly, the Group Charities Committee safety culture, with trained health and will consider the many requests safety representatives being present at all received for donations from a wide our sites dealing with local issues.
variety of local and national charities.
We support a healthy work life balance All requests are considered carefully and promote good health and wellbeing.
on their merits, however, we do take a Very recently the Group introduced a new particular interest in charities flexible benefits scheme, initially in the UK, connected to communities local to our called BenPal, the online system has been offices.
developed by JLT's Employee Benefits group and has already been successfully implemented with several clients.
The system allows employees to tailor their benefits to best suit their lifestyle.
Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 43 The Charities Committee also seeks to act 1.
Reduce the amount of paper we use by setting our printers to default promptly and make significant donations printing, where possible, to double-sided when world events require.
UK paper consumption was reduced by over 10% in 2009 and this figure will The Charities Committee also supports improve as more sites remove their desktop and laser jet printers, replacing them various employee charitable fundraising with multi-functional devices, which print, scan and copy all in one, these devices events which are designed to raise funds are typically also more energy efficient.
and encourage greater staff engagement.
Positively encourage employees to think twice before printing emails Many of JLT's overseas offices are involved in local charity initiatives and active Promoting this by adding a short reminder to the end of emails.
Several of which have been supported by the Group Charities 3.
Print all future marketing materials and publications on recycled paper Committee.
wherever possible Our total charitable donations for 2009 All of the Group's standard copier paper across the UK comes from recycled sources amounted to 229,062. and from forests managed by the Forest Stewardship Council.
Encourage the use of teleconferencing as the preferred alternative to JLT remains committed to minimising any business travel where practicable adverse impact its businesses have on the environment.
This is also extended to training courses where e-learning is actively promoted and encouraged.
In support of this commitment the Group introduced a new environmental policy in 5.
The policy is annually reviewed to ensure that the set objectives and targets are In 2009 we have shown a reduction of 12% per person in electrical energy met.
consumption and 3% of gas use per person in the UK.
The recycling campaign in our London offices has been particularly successful 6.
Develop environmentally sound procurement practices incorporating improving recycling by over 500% in 2009 environmental criteria for supplier selection in comparison to our 2007 figures.
The supplier used for all stationery procurement in the UK is now a Carbon Neutral During 2009 we commenced recycling Company and has a sound Ethical and Environmental Policy.
waste paper in all our UK regional offices and are now monitoring progress.
Purchase, where practical, more products locally to reduce the now also working with our UK regional sites environmental impact related to transportation to address the different waste streams required by their local authorities.
This requirement is now incorporated into our purchasing process.
To encourage employee participation we have deliberately avoided producing 8.
Encourage employees to recycle rubbish lengthy policy documents and have instead By way of example, in the Groups London offices, employees recycled over 110 agreed ten key commitments, set out tonnes of rubbish in 2009 compared to just 20 tonnes in 2007. opposite.
These are also available on the JLT Groups intranet site where they have 9.
Identify and measure our greenhouse gas emissions and look to been endorsed by the Group's CEO.
introduce a targeting and monitoring scheme In addition to these Group commitments, An energy manager has been appointed to prepare environmental performance local business management is responsible reports of all the UK buildings where we have control of energy consumption.
for enforcing standards in line with legal JLT will be registering with The Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme in the UK in responsibilities and obligations and April 2010 and seeks to continue to reduce its Carbon Footprint.
managing risks associated with environmental matters.
Seek to raise awareness, encourage and enable our staff to make an effective contribution to environmental improvement, both at work and within the community In the UK this includes a separate staff environmental intranet site which sets out these commitments and progress against set targets.
The environmental performance targets that have been introduced within the Group are to help ensure that meaningful progress is made in reducing our impact on the environment.
