18 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Review of operations continued Employee Benefits Against a difficult economic backdrop, 2009 was a Financial highlights challenging year for Employee Benefits.
We delivered a creditable performance, with underlying revenue maintained Underlying and reported revenue increasing by 3% due to the Turnover m trading profit m contribution earned in the month of December from the 90.5 acquisition of HSBC Actuaries and Consultants at the 87.6 beginning of that month.
14.9 14.7 Trading profit was impacted by both the investment in our new technology, BenPal, and loss of interest related revenues from client banking services.
2009 saw a continuation, and indeed an acceleration, of recent trends in UK occupational pension schemes.
Sponsors continue to close and fide-risk defined benefit schemes.
This provides good consulting opportunities and leads to an increased focus on the success of defined contribution 08 09 08 09 schemes which increasingly need to demonstrate higher levels of member understanding and engagement.
We believe that technology will play a key part in meeting this challenge.
Trading margin The Pensions Regulator continues to make its influence felt on the market: both in the form of specific interventions in scheme 17% 16% funding debates as well as in raising standards of 2008 2009 governance.
Both of these are positive developments to our business and play to our market position.
We continued to grow our revenues in our pension consulting During the year we took a number of strategic division, securing new clients during the year.
Pension Capital steps to position ourselves for the ongoing Strategies enjoyed a further year of growth securing a number changes in our market, namely: of new appointments.
Our administration division also secured the launch of BenPal our integrated benefits new clients and we launched the pension module for BenPal management system allowing online access and in November the Flexible Benefits module.
BenPal to, and management of employee benefit secured ten new clients in 2009. programmes by employees and employers: Our independent trustee business made further progress, the acquisition of HSBC Actuaries and cementing its leading position in this segment of the market.
Consultants providing both scale to our We increased our utilisation of our Mumbai facilities which operations and further strength, particularly in now support a range of operations including administration, our investment and defined contribution actuarial, finance and investment research.
consulting practices: and the acquisition of iimia wealth management in January 2010 providing capability in discretionary portfolio management as well as additional resources in financial planning.
As a consequence of this activity, we have organised the business into distinct client service business groups.
