7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 36 36 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility We are committed to good practice and Family friendly employment policies BTGs maternity and paternity leave policies meet ethical behaviour, and we recognise that and in many aspects exceed the statutory minimum we have responsibilities to all stakeholders.
Flexible approaches to returning to work We regularly review our employee, ethical after maternity leave, including part-time and nonand environmental policies and improve standard hours of work, are adopted where viable.
Employee training and development Framework BTG considers continuous learning to be one An Ethics & Policy Guide, which is reviewed annually of its core Company values and training is a key and updated where appropriate, is made available constituent of the employee appraisal process.
The Company employs a dedicated training resource, Rolf Soderstrom is the Board member with which, together with the wider Human Resources specific responsibility for CSR matters.
The Board team, is responsible for sourcing appropriate receives regular updates on CSR policies and reviews employee training across sites.
an apprenticeship scheme operates in our UK BTG is a member of the FTSE4Good index manufacturing facility which enables specialist series, created to measure the performance of pharmaceutical manufacturing skill development, companies that meet globally recognised corporate benefiting the local community.
Summaries of key policies follow.
Employee communication and involvement Management acknowledges the importance of Equal opportunities policy internal communication, especially in a Company BTG is committed to achieving equal opportunities for with global operations.
Briefing and consultative all its employment policies, procedures and practices.
procedures exist throughout the Group to keep The Company respects employee human rights and employees informed of general business issues and dignity and recognises the advantages of a diverse other matters of interest.
BTG does not tolerate any harassment meetings, the intranet and email are used both to of, or discrimination against, employees or potential communicate Company matters to employees and employees, irrespective of their race, creed, colour, to elicit questions, feedback and requests.
Employee sexual orientation, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, Representative Committees have been formed disability, age, gender or marital status.
in both BTGs Welsh and Australian manufacturing facilities and meet regularly to discuss items Employment of people with disabilities of interest to employees and management alike.
BTG makes every effort to ensure that disabled employees are treated fairly and without prejudice.
Job applicants with disabilities have an equal opportunity to be selected for employment, and disabled employees have an equal opportunity to be selected for promotion and receive training to aid their career development.
7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 37 37 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate social responsibility Health and safety to set targets.
A car sharing initiative has been set up Health and Safety is a priority within the Groups at the Companys UK manufacturing site which helps work spaces.
All sites are compliant with the local to reduce local carbon emissions and increase the relevant legislation and regular Health and Safety efficiency of car travel to and from the site.
The Group audits are undertaken.
Risk assessments are used has installed and encourages the use of video and to review and improve workplaces and working telephone conferencing facilities in its UK and US practices.
The Group has an excellent safety record offices to reduce travel wherever possible.
and maintains strong local relationships with It is Company policy to adopt the best available government Health and Safety bodies.
Consultative techniques not entailing excessive costs BATNEEC processes are in place in both manufacturing sites and best practicable environmental option BPEO to allow employee involvement in Health and Safety approach at all times to prevent pollution of the air, issues.
The Companys Health and Safety Manual, land and water and to protect everyone from all Policies and Procedures are issued to all employees foreseeable hazards connected with the Companys on joining the Company.
activities, wherever necessary in consultation with the Environment Agency, local enforcing authorities Environment and other external bodies.
BTG offices occupy parts of large, managed office The Companys UK manufacturing operation buildings and therefore the Company has no control has been granted an Integrated Pollution and of overall building emissions, energy usage or Prevention Control IPPC permit from the Environment waste.
However, the Group seeks to reduce usage Agency and the site passed a recent audit without by encouraging employees to turn off equipment any concerns raised.
A Monitoring and Targeting and lights outside of normal office hours.
M&T system has been installed as part of the site Other initiatives in the UK, US and Australian energy management strategy.
The system is yielding sites include sourcing local materials, suppliers and savings in electrical energy and steam usage.
contractors, recycling of paper, and sourcing recycled Investment is also being made in a waste water consumables and energy-efficient IT equipment.
treatment plant that will use membrane bio-reactors During the past two years, recycling of wet waste MBR further reducing the sites impact on the including food waste, food containers and environment.
BTGs UK manufacturing site has contaminated paper and tissues, has been introduced been independently assessed to the Green Dragon in the UK office.
The Group encourages recycling Environmental Level Two, and good progress and makes this easy through strategic placement has been made toward achieving the higher Level of recycling facilities, but it does not consider Three standard.
Green Dragon is a recognised measurement of the percentage achieved viable.
UKAS Accredited and independently inspected In the UK, the Group also works with suppliers to Environmental Management System EMS.
source fair trade products where possible and similar initiatives have been implemented at the US office.
Regulation The Australian operation has been actively pursuing a There is a legal requirement to ensure medicines reduction in water usage, given the drought currently are tested in animals prior to exposure to human being experienced in South Australia.
Several rain volunteers and then patients.
All such research in the collection and storage systems have been installed UK is regulated by the Animals Scientific Procedures with more planned in the coming year.
Act 1986, which is administered by the Home Business travel is an essential component Office.
BTG supports the key principles of reduction, of BTGs activities and, as the amount will vary refinement and replacement and applies them as depending upon activity cycles, it is not appropriate part of the Groups standard operating procedures to each study before it is commissioned.
All studies are conducted through external contract research 7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 38 38 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate social responsibility organisations, and BTG works only with organisations registered charity from their monthly pay, and the that uphold the highest standards of welfare and, Company plans to relaunch this scheme by the end as a minimum, conform to local regulatory and legal of 2009.
In addition, BTG will top up other donations requirements and standards of care.
made by employees up to a fixed amount that is set annually, based on the previous years donations.
Ethical dealings BTG strives to work with charities and BTG has identified six values which it believes organisations that are either in some way local, best embody the Company culture: openness, or of interest to BTG employees.
In the UK, BTG accountability, teamwork, integrity, delivery and employees annually by ballot select charities continuous learning.
In 2008 09, BTGs first nominated charity communications, staff are encouraged to embrace was the Childrens Cancer and Leukaemia Group.
these values in their every-day work and the As the fundraising target was exceeded, a second values are being incorporated into the employee charity, Cancer Research UK was chosen and appraisal system over the course of the current good progress is already being made to meet the year.
BTG endeavours to be honest and fair in fundraising goal.
Employees are encouraged to its relationships and dealings with its suppliers, organise money-raising activities for the charity customers and other stakeholders and extends throughout the year: reasonable use of BTG time its own values to relationships with these parties, and facilities is allowed.
working only with companies that uphold high BTG promotes interaction with the local standards of ethical conduct and fair practices.
community including schools and has hosted The Company Code of Conduct details BTGs a number of open days at its UK manufacturing approach to these matters and includes policies facilities.
This year, the Company sponsored the on data protection, corrupt practices, and competition Top of the Bench Competition for the Mid-Wales and anti-trust matters.
A comprehensive section Local Section Trust of the Royal Society of Chemistry on whistle blowing encourages employees to report RSC.
In addition, computing equipment, surplus any concerns and provides means for them to do to requirements following the Protherics acquisition so with anonymity.
and London office consolidation, was donated to schools in mid Wales.
Political and charitable donations In Australia, the Company strives to be BTGs policy is that it does not donate money, a good corporate citizen in the local environment, services or facilities to political parties.
However, and, as a relatively large employer in two rural areas, BTG may campaign for, or against, proposed the Company aims to support the local community changes in legislation or regulations that might affect wherever possible.
The Company has supported its business or the environment in which it operates.
numerous local charity appeals during the last year, Officers or employees, with BTGs approval, most recently donating AU$8,860 to the Victorian participate in government advisory committees or Bushfire Appeal generated by local employee, non-governmental organisations that are relevant subsidiary and plc contributions.
No political contributions were Charitable contributions made by the Group made during the current or prior financial years.
BTG encourages employee involvement in charitable causes in a number of ways.
Following the acquisition of Protherics, BTG is consolidating and updating its Give As You Earn Scheme, whereby employees can make a regular donation to any 7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 39 39 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Contents Directors and governance Financials Directors and governance The report from the directors, our governance and remuneration reports, and the independent auditors report.
40 Directors 42 Directors report 44 Corporate governance 50 Audit Committee report 51 Nomination Committee report 52 Remuneration report 65 Statement of directors responsibilities for the financial statements 66 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc Financials Statements presenting the essential numbers.
68 Consolidated income statement 69 Consolidated balance sheet 70 Consolidated cash flow statement 71 Statement of consolidated recognised income and expense 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 118 Company balance sheet 119 Company cash flow statement 120 Notes to the Company financial statements 125 Unaudited pro forma consolidated income statement 126 Five-year financial record 128 Shareholder information
