CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Company takes the area of social One of the tools used by the Committee is the areas are continuing which have a positive responsibility seriously and has for many integrated, web-based Bunzl Risk Management environmental benefit.
Balers, used to years had policies with respect to business System, which is universally applicable and compress waste paper, cardboard and plastic standards, health, safety and the environment.
adds value to the environmental, health and shrink wrap for disposal, and waste segregation The Board believes that positive actions with safety and insurance risk management programmes continue to be introduced at more respect to social responsibility are not only programmes both at subsidiary and Group level.
Where appropriate discussions continue to desirable in their own right but are also of The following objectives were set for 2009 to be held with suppliers to eliminate unnecessary potential economic and commercial benefit to improve further the Groups performance: transit packaging and wherever possible the Group and considers environmental, social reusable packaging is used.
In the UK the and governance matters for identifying, provide focus and co-ordination of Group risk Group is a member of Valpak who discharge evaluating and managing risks to the Group.
management to ensure a consistent message the relevant obligations under the Producer Bunzl is a member of the FTSE4Good index.
is provided to all stakeholders: Responsibility Packaging Waste and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment regulations.
Bunzls corporate social responsibility achieve an overall reduction in accident In Germany the Group is a member of Duales policy provides a reference point to guide incidence and severity rates, fuel usage System Deutschland who operate the Green stakeholders, including all employees, on the and waste to landfill and an increase in Dot recycling system.
elements that drive the conduct of the business waste recycling: and relationships with the world in which the The Group continued to improve the fuel Group operates.
The overall policy is made fully understand Bunzls carbon footprint efficiency of the commercial fleet compared to up of the following underlying elements: measurement and, if appropriate, seek 2008, measured as the consumption of diesel Standards of business conduct Code of ethics, external verification of the measurement: and against revenue, for the businesses based in Environment including climate change, Health the US, the UK & Ireland and France.
There & Safety, Employees, Customers, Suppliers continue to focus on high impact issues to continues to be a focus on the efficient use and Community.
Further details are available improve EHS performance across the Group of fuel by better transport management.
on the Companys website, www.
and secure greater ownership from line management and employees to understand During 2009 there has been continuing focus Standards of business conduct Code of ethics and address issues.
on high impact issues to improve environmental The Group has standards of business conduct performance across the Group and secure which set out the behaviour expected of each Environment greater ownership from line management and Bunzl employee and cover the areas of conflicts Through a diverse range of initiatives, from employees to understand and address issues.
of interest, compliance with laws, rules and improving our paper and plastic recycling to The UK Green Team undertook training on regulations, dealing in Bunzl shares, protection fitting energy saving lights in our warehouses sustainable procurement practices and a of confidential information and company assets and reducing our fuel consumption, we are working group looking into the reduction of and relationships with stakeholders.
The Code committed to reducing the environmental diesel consumption by the fleet has implemented sets out requirements for reporting unethical impact of our operations.
We are also aerodynamic teardrop shaped, double deck behaviour, including any issues relating to continually developing further ideas on green trailers which increase fuel efficiency by some accounting, internal controls and auditing products as well as providing staff education 15% as well as increasing load capacity.
To raise employee awareness further, and customer information.
France, an eco-responsibility policy was signed notices have been posted across the Group and circulated to all sites and messages encouraging employees to Speak Out regarding The major environmental impacts of the Group regarding eco-responsibility are from time to any business related concerns.
The notices are associated with the management of waste, time included on employee payslips.
Further include details of confidential contacts should which is predominantly the packaging that additions have been made to the green product they feel unable to discuss such issues with suppliers use for delivering their products to range, including the launch in North America of their line managers.
Business area heads are Bunzl, and the consumption of fuel to transport Green Source towel tissue and napkins which responsible for implementation of the standards products to our customers.
These two areas are EcoLogo certified.
and compliance is monitored annually.
During are Bunzls key performance indicators relating 2009 no incidents of non-compliance have to environmental impact and during the year Central to Bunzls environmental programme been recorded.
the Group has continued to focus on its has been a drive across the business to environmental performance in these areas gain ISO 14001 accreditation.
During 2009, Environment including climate change as shown in the bar charts on page 23. accreditation has been attained by Healthcare and Health & Safety EHS and A&E Russell in the UK as well as the first The Group has a long standing commitment We are for the first time reporting on the of four Bunzl Catering Supplies sites in Australia.
to achieving continual improvement in performance relating to waste to landfill and In addition, following its move to new warehouse environment, health & safety performance.
waste to recycling of not just UK & Ireland but facilities, MultiLine in Denmark gained The Group Environment, Health & Safety also that of Australasia and the businesses in accreditation at the end of 2009.
To date, all Committee comprises representatives from Continental Europe excluding central Europe of the UK & Ireland businesses have gained each business area and is responsible to the and Spain.
The proportion of waste per month accreditation with the exception of some recent Board for reviewing the Groups policy and being taken to landfill has fallen between 2008 small acquisitions.
Within Continental Europe, agreeing standards and objectives for the Group and 2009, while the proportion of waste being Bunzl Netherlands, Denmark and Germany worldwide as well as auditing performance recycled has increased over the same period.
King Netherlands is currently against those objectives.
At the start of 2009, A number of initiatives in each of the business working towards accreditation and hopes to this Committee took on additional responsibility have this in place during 2010. for monitoring insurance risk and business continuity planning and was renamed the Risk Management Committee.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued In France, Groupe Pierre Le Goff is reviewing the increasing the accuracy of our data collection supplied, providing appropriate equipment and accreditation requirements and during 2010 will relating to Scope 1 and 2 CO emissions and raising personal awareness of safe working 2 begin planning the work to gain accreditation until we are comfortable with this we will not practices.
A key theme for 2009 was accident sequentially over the following three to five prioritise the collection of Scope 3 data.
In Bunzl Australasia all businesses are plans have been developed for each of the accredited with the exception of some of the Health & safety regions within North America including common smaller recently acquired businesses.
North The Company continuously seeks to improve initiatives such as supervisors riding with drivers America has a programme for recycling plastic the quality and the reliability of data collection during daily deliveries, warehouse safety and installing energy efficient lighting systems to support the key metrics used to measure the observations, safety suggestion systems, near as well as continuing to provide information on Groups EHS performance.
Group health and miss reporting and safe lifting manual handling truck fleet fuel usage.
safety performance is assessed by two indices: training.
In the UK, 640 safety related training incidence rate, reflecting the total number of courses were delivered via the safety media During 2009 Bunzl has continued to collect accidents incidents which involve lost time, system which allows training to be carried out data to measure its CO emissions and identify and severity rate, reflecting the number of days cost effectively at branch level.
In Australasia, 2 its carbon footprint, thereby enabling the Group lost as the result of accidents or work related ill safety risk assessment programmes were to reduce its environmental impact, and we health.
Trends against these two measures are conducted which highlighted key areas requiring publically reported data to the Carbon tracked using monthly averages.
The Greenhouse Gas GHG the central European businesses have been Protocols classification of emissions has been included for 2008 and 2009 only.
Employees adopted and we continue to use the GHG Bunzl remains committed to the recruitment conversion factors developed by the UK Since the severity of accidents which occur of high quality staff and developing them Department for Food and Rural Affairs.
We have towards the end of a particular year is often within the businesses to maximise personal endeavoured to capture and collate data for the not known for several months afterwards, the performance and progression.
This is achieved whole Group in Scope 1 and Scope 2 of the Company reports the severity rate one year in by a combination of structured Group GHG Protocol and have data for some 90% arrears.
Regretfully during the year there have development programmes, specific skills training of the Group.
We recognise there is still a been two fatalities: an employee, involved in a within respective businesses, performance considerable amount of work to do if we are to road accident in Belgium, and a member of the management processes and the provision develop a full and accurate footprint of Bunzls public who died in a road traffic accident in of challenging and responsible roles.
We currently are endeavouring to gain North America.
A variety of actions have been UK & Ireland the WoW!
customer care consistent and timely provision of the required taken to raise awareness of health and safety programmes continue to be run and refreshed data from across the Group.
External issues and provide managers with information to build outstanding customer care across the consultants worked with us in early 2009 to to enable them to identify areas of poor business.
In addition a number of National assist us in verifying the data collected in performance and to improve accident rates Vocational Qualification NVQ programmes 2008, ensuring consistency and accuracy.
including publication of business area statistics have been launched and financial planning A questionnaire was developed to verify and on a quarterly basis and, within some business sessions have been provided by the Financial further understand the data and also to capture areas, the publication of accident statistic Services Authority to employees in selected other data such as square metres of facilities, league tables.
The Group aims to provide fleet sizes and hours of operation.
We have development opportunities to employees also reviewed the best index for benchmarking Manual handling and slipping and tripping and strives to promote from within whenever emissions performance internally.
We are remain the highest cause of incidents but the appropriate.
Graduates continue to be recruited currently assessing the indexing of carbon level of severity is variable.
The Group remains into the businesses in the US and the UK and emissions from electricity and gas usage against focused on reducing these risks as far as have structured training programmes to the square metres of the facilities and hours of reasonably practicable by ensuring good enhance their development.
During 2009 we have focused on housekeeping, reviewing weights of products INCIDENCE RATE SEVERITY RATE Average number Average number of incidents per of days lost per month per month per 268 8,963 100,000 265 100,000 employees.
7,595 212 189 5,877 06 07 08 09 06 07 08 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 Appropriate and well-timed communication running Food Services of America honoured an Outpatient Cardiac Review Station.
Bunzl to and from employees is essential to ensure R3 Seattle with its Supplier Excellence award continued to support Leonard Cheshire, this the continued effectiveness of the business.
in recognition of its high performance in the year to support the formation of a Media Club The European Information and Consultation areas of customer service, marketing support, to assist disabled people to achieve a route Forum continues to meet to provide information operational efficiency and innovation.
In the to employment in the media by developing to, and to consult with, elected employee UK, Bunzl Lockhart was once again awarded their curriculum vitae and interview skills with representatives on Group and business area a Royal Warrant from the Royal Household and the help of a mentor.
Further support was policies, strategy and performance.
Some UK won the Catering Utensils Group Distributor of provided to the Royal London School for the businesses have formalised information and the Year Award from the Catering Equipment Blind to assist them in establishing a skills for consultation arrangements to ensure better Suppliers Association and Bunzl Cleaning & employment programme.
employee involvement and feedback locally.
Hygiene was awarded Supplier of the Year A magazine, The Source, continues to be by Interserve and ISS London.
In Australasia, We continued to provide support to produced and distributed around the Group, for the third year running, based on service environmental projects which included funding notifying employees of major business successes, excellence Bunzl Food Processors was named the London Remade Local Authority Network acquisitions and appointments.
A variety of Gold Supplier by Australian Country Choice.
Meetings which discuss recycling activities as locally produced newsletters, briefings and well as providing funding to Groundwork to intranet communications give more specific Suppliers purchase an electrical vehicle for the Green information related to the business or site Bunzl regards suppliers as partners and works Doctor programme which is a door-to-door where employees are based.
with them to help achieve policy aspirations service aimed at helping the elderly and in the delivery of products and services.
disadvantaged families in the UK to reduce their Customers Specifically the Group is committed to working carbon footprint, change their behaviour and The Groups business and livelihood depends with its suppliers to ensure that the welfare of save on their bills.
Every employee is workers and labour conditions within the supply responsible for ensuring that any contact with chain meet or exceed recognised standards.
Donations were also made to three UK customers and the public at large reflects Management regularly meets with suppliers to benevolent associations, Hospitality Action, professionalism, efficiency and honesty.
During ensure mutual understanding and to give and The Lighthouse Club and Retail Trust who 2009, as has been the practice for some years, receive feedback on services and goods received.
support workers from three of the key industry a number of businesses undertook formal sectors that Bunzl serves.
In addition, Group customer surveys to measure their customer Community companies and individual employees worldwide service performance and rectify any issues Bunzl at Group level has continued to support continue to support local charitable initiatives.
In addition, senior management a cross section of projects with registered North America has sponsored a variety of meets key customers on an ad hoc basis charities in the fields of healthcare, disability organisations and events such as the annual to ensure an understanding of their service and the environment.
In 2009 Bunzl and its national Multiple Sclerosis Society Gateway requirements and gain their perceptions on employees across the world made significant Area Chapter Walk, the Salvation Army how these requirements are being met.
The donations to various cancer research and Northland Corps Adopt-a-Family scheme and quality of the operations and service is key cancer care charities including sponsorship the Queen of Peace Center.
In the UK, fund and many sites have attained ISO 9001:2000 of projects relating to leukaemia research raising activities took place for Children with accreditation.
A number of customers have undertaken by the Leukaemia Research Fund Leukaemia, Help For Heroes and for the charity recognised the quality of service provided by and donations and local fund raising for Glasgow, the Caring City.
Australasia raised Bunzl businesses during 2009 and a variety Macmillan Cancer Support.
For the first time, funds for a number of charities including the of awards have been received.
These include a donation was given to BRACE which funds Red Cross Victorian Bushfire Appeal, the Pacific in North America, CriticalTool, a leading online research into Alzheimers disease to buy Tsunami and Indonesian Earthquake Appeals, specialty distributor of industrial safety equipment for scientists based in a number Cancer Research Institute and North equipment named Bunzls R3 as Safety Supplier of hospitals in Bristol.
A donation was also Queensland Disaster Relief Appeal.
of the Year for 2009 and for the second year made to the London Hospital to purchase WASTE TO LANDFILL RECYCLED WASTE DIESEL FUEL USAGE % % Litres per 000 revenue Proportion of waste Proportion of waste Quarterly average volume materials sent to materials sent to of diesel used in the US, landfill from businesses landfill from businesses the UK & Ireland and 7.4 35 68 in UK & Ireland, in UK & Ireland, France for transporting 7.2 65 32 Continental Europe Continental Europe the Companys products.
Excluding Spain and Excluding Spain and central Europe 08 09 central Europe 08 09 08 09 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 23
