CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY One of Burberrys five key strategies is pursuing Highlights of the year operational excellence.
Operational excellence has five important areas of focus: Reduced CO2 emissions from the Groups buildings by 13% per 1,000 of turnover Healthy business partnerships: based on shared values and high ethical standards Conducted 487 factory visits during the past year Environmental excellence: operating efficiently with Launched the Burberry Foundation minimum waste and maximum control Established an intern programme Excellence in people management: attracting and Reduced air travel for UK employees by 17% retaining talented employees per 1,000 of turnover Excellent products and service: quality, craftsmanship, Moved to new headquarters at Horseferry House, heritage and service standards reducing environmental footprint Contributing to society: investing and engaging in the Founding member of Luxury Brands communities Burberry serves Sustainability Group For more information on Burberry Corporate Responsibility CR policies, performance and case studies, please visit the corporate responsibility section of www.
com Clear management Michael Mahony, Senior Vice President Commercial Affairs & General Counsel is accountable for CR matters on behalf of Burberry and the Board.
He chairs the CR Committee which formally reports to the Group Risk Committee.
The CR Committee held three meetings during the year.
Two supplementary committees, the Environment and Supply Chain Risk sub-committees, are responsible for these two more detailed topics.
Both sub-committees make formal reports to the CR Committee.
The Group employs a CR team of nine people.
The team is active in the areas of supply chain, environmental and community management and draws on external independent advice.
Key policies, such as those on Environment, Ethical Trading, Employee Volunteering and Exotic Materials are reviewed and approved by executive management.
com 48 Healthy business partnerships: supply chain Environment Burberrys goal is to be as recognised for the excellence Burberrys largest environmental impact areas include of its supply chain as it is for its luxury products.
carbon emissions linked to energy use, travel and distribution network, solid waste and the use of bulk Burberry believes that its products should only be made in materials such as packaging.
factories that comply with local labour and environmental laws and by workers who are paid a living wage, work fair The Environment Committee reviews all key impacts but not excessive hours and are provided with a safe and quarterly, tracking reductions and initiating new projects.
All active Burberry suppliers 2008 09 Results are governed by its ethical trading policy.
This policy is Packaging: Burberry launched a packaging project based upon internationally accepted codes and published to reduce the amount of transit packaging used.
The in full on our website at www.
com under the re-use of boxes, a switch from plastic to paper tape to Corporate Responsibility section.
seal boxes and reduced thickness of plastic on security bags by 25% saved costs and environmental impacts.
The majority of Burberrys products are manufactured in Europe through third-party suppliers.
Burberrys internal Corporate headquarters: During 2008, Burberry team and third-party experts monitor and audit suppliers relocated to new Corporate headquarters at Horseferry to assure compliance with its standards.
The building was designed with many suppliers are taking part in capacity building programmes energy-saving features, such as ambient light sensors, to improve their businesses and in turn compliance with efficient cooling, light timers and video conferencing Burberrys policy.
Burberry engages in many industry facilities.
The chemicals used for cleaning have been initiatives and is a member of Business for Social reduced, the recycled content of stationery improved Responsibility BSR.
This Group works collectively and binless ofces have improved recycling.
to address industry issues and improve standards.
Horseferry House and its operational efficiencies are 2008 09 Results the standard for all Burberry ofces globally.
Factory visits: 487 factory visits to assure compliance Energy: Energy audits were comissioned at UK with the Burberry ethical trading policy.
manufacturing and warehousing sites and followed up Stakeholder engagement: Active member of three with an energy-saving programme which included the BSR working groups: Mills and Sundry Suppliers: installation of energy-saving compressors.
Luxury Brands: and Beyond Monitoring.
Waste reduction: Renewed focus on increasing recycling Capacity building: 25 key suppliers took part in long globally.
In the UK, recycled waste has increased its term capacity building programmes focused on training share of total waste to 42%.
This was achieved against a for productivity, human resource management systems back drop of increased waste overall due to a number of and smarter communication.
site re-organisations and centralising the London ofce.
Worker hotline: Roll out of the Burberry condential Transport emissions: Burberry launched a sea vs air worker hotline in its suppliers factories, which act both shipping initiative which resulted in significant savings as a whistleblowing mechanism and counselling line.
New video conferencing facilities at Horseferry House and key Pre-approval process: New suppliers are approved regional ofces in New York, Hong Kong and Barcelona by the CR team prior to working with Burberry.
have enabled the reduction of business travel.
As a result monthly growth in air travel has reversed reducing CO2 emissions.
Number of CR visits audits 2009 487 2008 314 2007 100 Y2006 ear to March 2004 49 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Working environment: Burberrys new global Global building energy CO 2 headquarters, Horseferry House, provides a safe, efficient and responsible working environment for employees and visitors: high quality meeting space, comfortable and well-designed workspace and state-of-the-art videoconferencing, all contribute 2009 19.6 to improved safety, improved communication and 2008 22.6 a reduction in the need for international travel.
2007 22.7 The Burberry Experience: During the year, Burberry Year to March CO kg per 1,000 of turnover 2 piloted a global education and training programme designed for and delivered to all retail staff to ensure Air travel CO 2 that the customer experience is in line with Burberrys brand standards and Burberrys luxury positioning.
The pilot has been highly motivational for staff and results have been promising.
The plan is to continue to roll-out the programme not only to all retail stores, but to wholesale customers and all franchisees.
2009 1.5 2008 1.8 Organisational effectiveness: 2007 1.7 In January 2009, Burberry announced a Year to March CO kg per 1,000 of turnover UK based employees 2 global 50m cost efficiency programme across all regions and corporate, aiming to deliver The data in these graphs comes from a combination of streamlined operations in line with overall automated and manual internal processes.
The majority demand, the most efficient organisation through is based on actual data, supplemented where necessary tighter and more focused and exible teams, by some approximations.
and removing duplication of effort and inefficient processes.
A significant proportion of this included restructuring of Spanish operations Organisational development: attracting and retaining and consolidation of UK manufacturing.
talented employees and customers Due to the number of employees impacted it was The corporate resources team supports the organisational necessary to enter into collective consultations in strategies to deliver the business results for the a number of regions.
Business, employee and HR organisation.
A key focus is on attracting, retaining representatives worked closely to agree roles and and developing talent.
terms and conditions beyond legal requirement.
2008 09 Results Employees were fully and proactively supported Recruitment: throughout with outplacement support, individual An e-recruitment website was launched to more consultation, and redeployment opportunities efficiently and effectively source global talent.
A corporate intern programme was launched for Health and safety recent graduates and undergraduate students.
In addition to attracting and retaining talented employees Burberry also ensures a healthy and safe environment for Organisational development: all employees.
Burberry has a formal health and safety Talent review a global assessment of capability audit process and programme that ensures all UK at senior levels and high potential individuals was manufacturing sites and distribution centres are audited at conducted throughout the organisation.
least annually with major ofces and retail locations audited Development programme management at least once every three years.
Overall UK audit scores development skills workshops were designed, continued to improve as a result of the thorough developed and delivered.
implementation of audit recommendations prioritised on the basis of risk and improved overall processes.
Evolving the organisation the organisation continued to develop in line with Burberrys key The auditing programme has been extended to include strategic themes, which included evolving the some major European retail stores and reviews were supply chain and adding a new global undertaken by a third-party consultant in the United States planning function.
In addition, Burberry continues to enhance accident reporting and assurance framework for major operations.
50 Product and supply chain standards Contributing to society Since 1856 Burberry has strived to achieve the highest In 2008 Burberry continued its practice of corporate quality standards in all components and stages of its sponsorship worldwide by making targeted contributions supply chain process.
to local charities in the communities where Burberry employees live and work.
Charitable causes supported 2008 09 Results by Burberry corporate sponsorship fall across a range of Raw materials: During the past year, Burberry has been needs, with special attention to the arts, education and more efficient with the use of raw materials, reducing womens and childrens health and well-being.
Burberrys sampling and production wastage.
Excess and out more than 200 instances of corporate giving include cash of season raw materials were recycled into carpet donations and, where appropriate, product donation to underlay or insulation.
assist charity development through raising awareness.
Fur: There has been and will continue to be occasions To complement this wide base of giving, in 2008 Burberry where consumer tastes demand Burberrys use of took steps to leverage its community impact by increasing natural hides.
The Group believes that any materials and focusing charitable activity through the new Burberry derived from animals should be produced without Foundation.
A registered charity in England and Wales, the inicting cruelty or threatening the environment and will Burberry Foundation works to help young people realise not use natural hides if there is any concern that they their dreams and potential through the power of their have been produced by the unacceptable treatment of creativity.
The Foundation seeks to advance three key the animals.
For this reason the Group does not source goals for young peopleto enable them to build such materials from China.
Natural hides are carefully confidence, make connections in their communities, and sourced, safeguarding the correct ethical standards grasp opportunities to succeedby empowering them to and traceability.
Fur is principally sourced from SAGA use their own intellectual creativity to imagine and achieve furs in Finland who are known for upholding high their life goals.
standards of ethical treatment of animals and share the Groups concerns about animal welfare.
The farms The Burberry Foundation benets from the alignment which supply fur are open to third-party inspections between the Burberry brand and its philanthropic strategy: at any time and have been visited this year by innovative, creative, and seeking programmes with broad Burberrys team.
appeal, democratic values and vibrant futures.
Restricted substances: To ensure no harmful chemicals The Burberry Foundation uses donations received from are used or contained within Burberry products, the Burberry and other benefactors to make strategic grants Group issues all licensees, vendors and manufacturers and targeted donations of in-kind gifts and goods.
with a restricted substance list that prohibits the use of Burberry supports the work of the Foundation through a certain substances.
The list has been amended to comprehensive employee engagement programme that include the first list of chemicals proposed for action enables and underwrites employee volunteering.
Burberry supports this 2008 09 Results action with a programme of vendor self-certication Grantmaking: The Burberry Foundation focused backed up with our own compliance testing.
this year on three cities: London, New York City and Hong Kong.
The funding strategy for each city identies unique local challenges to successful youth development and supports charities with proven programmes to address them.
Wherever possible, the Foundation partners with charities and social support organisations to leverage grantmaking.
Examples of this include: support in London for Tower Hamlets Summer University, Envision and IntoUniversity: in New York for the Robin Hood Foundation and New Yorkers for Children: and in Hong Kong for the KELY Support Group, Junior Achievement Hong Kong and the Changing Young Lives Foundation.
51 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Employee engagement: In partnership with Foundation Community donations supported charities, Burberrys employees serve as mentors to young people and volunteer for a range of programmes.
In addition to time served, employee volunteers draw upon corporate resources to help young people expand their horizons or gain 2009 1.2 opportunity.
For example, Burberry is the corporate 2008 0.6 partner for job training courses that bring students 2007 0.2 to Horseferry House for tours of the corporate Indirect donations Direct donations environment, mock interviews and shadow job placements.
Burberry designers host young people Year to March million Indirect donations are donations from third parties that have been for art and design courses in their studios and on the facilitated by Burberry showroom oor.
Burberry stores serve as excellent places to give young people exposure to retail environments in preparation for entry-level jobs in the sector.
At holiday and school breaks, the Burberry ofces welcome young people from various charity programmes and courses for celebration and congratulations.
In 2008 09, the Employee Volunteering Programmes first year, Burberry staff have volunteered a total of 350 hours to Foundation supported charities.
In-kind donations: The Burberry Foundation seeks to channel products donated by Burberry to Foundation supported charities.
Donations are designed to be both generous and strategic and range from smaller, utilitarian products such as materials for an art or design course, or a luxury piece for a charity fundraising auction to large-scale programmes of donation such as tailored clothing donations to outt job training students so they can interview smartly and arrive prepared for their first weeks of work.
The 2008 Christmas Coat Donation saw more than 500 coats distributed in London, New York City, Hong Kong, and Seoul across 12 different charities, ensuring that the coats went to job training students in time to help them begin their job search with confidence.
Ofce equipment donations: Redundant ofce furniture and equipment from Burberrys old ofces were made available to the Foundation supported charities for their ofces and programmes.
Corporate donations: An ongoing part of doing business is to selectively support customer-related events and charitable causes.
Each regional ofce has a discretionary budget which is approved and tracked quarterly.
For a list of charities supported by the Burberry Foundation, or for further information, please see www.
