8 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 our grouP market environment.
the economic crisis started industry and markets In 2009 the UK entered one of the sharpest, deepest as an issue oF bank liquidity, recessions on record.
Throughout the course of the year then became an issue oF bank policy makers undertook extraordinary measures to solvency, and ended as a crisis rebuild confidence in the financial system and stimulate oF conFidence From which we economic activity.
restoring In the first quarter of 2010 economic data has begun conFidence is crucial to the to improve and financial markets have started to success oF the industry respond.
The UK economy continues to lag behind going Forward.
other major developed economies, although officially exiting recession at the end of 2009.
However, signs of confidence returning to the housing market and tim breedon improvement in the manufacturing sector should help grouP chieF eXecutive restore moderate economic growth during 2010.
From debt to savings After a decade of debt accumulation amongst consumers, what we are seeing, post-crash, are the beginnings of a welcome and necessary rebuilding of savings.
At present, the new money being saved largely reflects short-term, precautionary savings.
As the economy slowly stabilises, though, a proportion of precautionary saving should transform into long-term investments designed to meet the costs of specific future events or to give a planned income in retirement.
For this to happen, confidence in financial services and financial products needs to return.
One important aspect of this will be stability of regulatory and tax treatment.
Savers need to know that they can plan, and that taxation of savings products will not be subject to unexpected changes.
The further erosion of this principle in Decembers pre-budget report PBR was therefore disappointing.
Importantly, savings product manufacturers need to be confident that they will not also be the victims of retrospective policy changes.
our grouP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 9 bulk annuity market increase in Funds under growth in uk liFe market management in 2009 over 10 119bn 120% New firms entering market since 2006 2008: IMA FUM fell by 107bn ABI Life and pensions APE since 1995 Savers and investors also need to know that, while the outlook regulatory system protects consumers interests, it is the customers themselves who ultimately bear the costs Consolidation across both the insurance and of compliance.
This must remain at a reasonable level, banking sectors has impacted the distribution ensuring protection of the consumer, but not reducing landscape, reducing the number of brands the value of the investment from day one as a result of available to consumers both on the high street excessive and unnecessary bureaucratic processes.
We expect the FSAs Retail Distribution Review to further impact the regulation and Political environment market, particularly the availability of advice There is a risk that the EUs Solvency II proposals, from independent financial advisers.
if implemented in the wrong way, may increase the volatility of insurance companies balance sheets We anticipate a relatively subdued period of and force them to raise capital levels.
As a result, central banks are likely to keep official interest rates on hold, potentially material used in the manufacture of our products.
If more is needed, prices go up, and value for the customer until 2011.
Given the anaemic outlook for is eroded.
The value of UK pension savings could be cut economic growth and the labour market we do not see any significant underlying inflationary substantially and the price of insurance products rise as companies pass on the costs of carrying extra capital.
pressures building or any need for the Bank Capital hording also reduces available investment in the of England to increase official interest rates.
However there is a need to remain watchful broader economy.
given the extraordinary monetary stimulus We are at the vanguard of seeking changes to the injected into the economy through low interest rates and quantitative easing.
proposed prudential regulatory regime in order to secure the best possible outcome for UK pension savers.
Another key area for focus is Conduct of Business regulation in UK financial services.
A clear regulatory approach which does not rely on hindsight judgements is required.
It should also provide single accountability for regulation, ensuring consumer access, experience and outcomes are at the heart of regulation.
In turn this will enable the Financial Ombudsman Service FOS to focus on its role as an arbitration service, providing a fast and high quality service to consumers and a fairer framework for consumer protection, without excessive regulatory costs.
