50 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 OUR PEOPLE response rates achieved by Lloyds TSB between 2005 and 2008.
This is BUILDING LONG LASTING RELATIONSHIPS regarded as best in class, particularly given the frequency and scope of THROUGH PEOPLE the Group survey.
We are a business based on building deep and lasting relationships 1 The overall Engagement Index for the newly formed with our customers through the efforts of our people.
Colleagues Lloyds Banking Group finished the year at 72 index points for 2009, are our most valuable resource, as it is our colleagues who will build 2 points above the target.
Outputs from the survey are used to inform these relationships.
Managing our colleagues effectively is therefore local action planning activities across the Group.
fundamental to the success of the business and achieving our vision of being the best financial services organisation.
TALENT, RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION Creating a great place to work is a core priority to enable the Group to be recognised, both within the financial services sector, but also more Recruiting, retaining and developing talented people continues to generally in the UK employment market, as the best organisation to be a high priority for the Group.
Top performers are attracted to the work for.
Group because of our strong brand and values: together with top class development and career opportunities.
In creating a great place to work, we believe we will attract and retain talented and high performing people.
We offer excellent learning and Developing colleagues and having depth in our leadership succession development opportunities so that our colleagues can build fulfilling plans is vital in supporting our growth strategy.
In autumn 2009, an careers within the organisation.
Organisational Capability Review was completed to review the We are building a high commitment, high performance organisation.
succession pipeline, identify top talent and review capability gaps We are clear about what we expect from our colleagues and what and development plans.
As a result, we have strong succession and they can expect from us.
Our values guide us in all our relationships development plans for all our senior leaders across the Group and have whether they be with colleagues, customers or the wider community.
In collected qualitative data on our top 500 colleagues.
We are retaining Lloyds Banking Group, our values are that we: take ownership: act wisely: people for an average tenure across our business of 12 years.
make it simple: stretch ourselves: and succeed together.
In 2009 we recruited 141 people into our Graduate Leadership Programme, offered 42 internships and 10 industrial placements under INTEGRATION the five generalist and specialist streams.
Following the launch of the new Lloyds Banking Group Graduate Programme in 2009, our focus has been 2009 was significant in relation to people integration.
We have on attracting top talent into the organisation who have the potential to successfully managed the initial stages, working at pace to establish become senior business leaders of the future.
We have also introduced controls and embed risk management practices, by defining and a customer facing element to the main programme so that all our implementing the new organisational structure and selecting for it.
graduates gain core banking front-line experience.
The top 400 leaders were in place by month three and over 35,000 colleagues went through selection in 2009.
Inevitably in bringing the Looking forward to 2010 we will be expanding the foundation element two organisations together, there has been an opportunity to rationalise to include a Risk placement so that our graduates get first hand and this has led to a reduction in roles.
Where possible we have either experience in financial services control processes.
We are consistently redeployed colleagues to other areas of the Group or reduced numbers identified in The Times Top 100 organisations for graduate recruitment through natural attrition.
Where it has been necessary for colleagues and in 2009 the Lloyds TSB heritage climbed to 39th.
to leave the company, this has been achieved by offering voluntary We actively track and manage retention of our highest performers, severance and by making less use of contractors and agency colleagues.
retaining 95 per cent of top performers in 2009.
Compulsory redundancies are always a last resort.
The focus has been on enabling the business to integrate, while also PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT building foundations for the future to ensure the organisation can attract, retain and develop the best talent.
People have been at the heart of the Our business strategy is translated into the Groups balanced scorecard change programme, and a robust communications process has been and this is aligned at each level of the organisation.
This ensures followed to ensure that colleagues are aware of the changes before they colleagues understand how their personal objectives relate to the strategy.
We have four recognised Unions who have been consulted Contribution is measured against five factors: building the business: about all proposed changes.
customer service: risk management: personal development and financial control.
In addition, colleagues are also measured on how they achieve COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT their goals against the core values of the company.
We believe that to create a high commitment, high performance Through twice yearly formal reviews and regular feedback, all our people organisation, we need high levels of colleague engagement.
The Group understand how their performance impacts on colleagues, customers uses a comprehensive, confidential online engagement survey that all and our overall business success.
Together, these act as effective colleagues can access, to help us measure and assess current levels of processes for differentiating high performance and addressing and colleague engagement across the organisation.
The results are reviewed managing underperformance.
on a quarterly basis so the outcomes can be analysed and action plans developed.
1 In 2009, we extended the scope of the Colleague Survey to include The Engagement Index is based on the result of a survey conducted quarterly, asking Lloyds Banking Group colleagues the same 13 questions used by Lloyds TSB since 2005 which all UK and International colleagues across both Lloyds TSB and HBOS re ect both the drivers and outcome of engagement.
The data captures the percentage of total legacy organisations.
We achieved a record response rate of 81 per cent responses received which were favourable for each question, combined into a simple average in 2009 which represents a significant improvement on previous overall score.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 51 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 2563 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 In 2009 we have begun to build a leading edge diversity and inclusion LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT strategy for Lloyds Banking Group, consulting with colleagues across We are committed to ensuring that all colleagues have the technical, the group and using the best elements of the respective Lloyds TSB and management and leadership skills that will enable Lloyds Banking Group HBOS diversity programmes.
to deliver the high performance needed to be recognised as the best Our executive management team has one of the highest female financial services company.
representations in the FTSE 100, with three female directors.
Elsewhere we have continued our focus on race, disability and sexual TECHNICAL CAPABILITIES orientation.
To deliver great service and results we ensure that we equip our In 2009 we sponsored Doing Seniority Differently, a groundbreaking colleagues with a range of appropriate technical capabilities to enable 2 piece of research by RADAR into the career experiences of senior them to support our customers effectively.
Our business-focused managers with a disability or long-term health condition.
We will learning programmes cover critical business skills such as risk, sponsor a new network of senior disabled professionals in 2010. relationship and financial management.
We continue to make progress on sexual orientation.
Lloyds TSB won As part of this we support a range of programmes linked to professional 3 first place in Stonewalls 2009 Index of the best UK employers for qualifications or relevant external certification: these provide colleagues lesbian, gay and bisexual LGB people.
Following consultation with LGB with relevant performance benchmarks and professional qualifications.
colleagues we will refresh our sexual orientation programme for 2010.
Such programmes enable us to develop our colleagues in line with We continue to work closely with Stonewall, and in 2009 colleagues from recognised industry standards and provide confidence to customers and Lloyds Banking Group attended their leadership programme.
In 2009 Lloyds TSB was named by the charity Working Families as one of This year the quality of our programmes has been recognised with two the UKs Top 20 Employers for working parents, and we will continue to external awards: Best use of synchronous e-learning at the annual focus on ensuring all colleagues can achieve a good balance between E-Learning Age Awards and the 2009 Security Training Initiative of the their work and their lives outside.
Year Award at the Security Excellence Awards.
REWARD LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT CAPABILITY Ensuring that we offer a Total Reward package that is market competitive Line managers have a vital role in helping bring our values to life for and supports our strategy to attract and retain talented people to colleagues and a key focus remains the development and strengthening the business, continues to be a key driver for our reward framework.
of management and leadership skills.
In 2009 we have placed particular Throughout 2009, we have been developing and consulting with our unions emphasis on performance management and leading during a period of about proposals for harmonised Terms and Conditions of employment.
will provide our colleagues with a market competitive Total Reward package while also supporting choice for our people, enabling us to support the diverse nature of our workforce.
LEARNING @ LLOYDS BANKING GROUP Our harmonised reward package will support our One Bank approach During 2009 we have developed and launched our new group wide and reflect the importance of linking individual and Group performance learning portal, Learning @ Lloyds Banking Group.
This website, which to rewards within a strong risk framework.
Reward is a key element is accessible from both the corporate intranet and Internet, provides all of how Lloyds Banking Group sets out what it means to work for the colleagues with access to a range of learning and development resources.
Company and reflects the relationship we have with our people and the culture of the organisation.
In addition to our successful internally developed content our learning and development teams work with best-practice suppliers to develop There has been a renewed focus in the regulatory environment, and deliver learning.
We continue to use a range of delivery media specifically relating to the link between business risk and the reward including award winning on-line modules and face-to-face workshops arrangements for individuals.
In compliance with these requirements we to support skills development.
have reviewed our governance arrangements to ensure they are best practice and comply with the FSA and G20 positions.
They also ensure In 2009 the number of on-line assessments totalled over 899,000.
We that our rewards are managed fairly and consistently, in line with our delivered an average of 2.9 days formal learning per full time equivalent Group values.
FTE, which is commensurate with the continued investment in colleague development.
This has been a challenge for the industry as a whole and has required us to operate within a framework of interest from an increasing number of stakeholders, including organisations such as the FSA and UKFI.
TRAINING DAYS In 2009 we won two Industry awards for our benefits provision, including 2009 2008 2007 Most Effective Use of a Voluntary Benefits Plan and Most Effective All Number of days formal learning per FTE 2.9 2.9 2.3 Employee Share Scheme Strategy.
This has set the standard to achieve for the reward package moving forward.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Diversity and Inclusion remains a high priority for Lloyds Banking Group.
In a challenging economic climate we believe more than ever that our success depends on building strong and enduring relationships with 2 RADAR is the UKs leading pan disability charity.
3 diverse groups colleagues, customers and suppliers.
Stonewall is the UKs leading sexual orientation campaigning organisation.
