52 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR STAKEHOLDERS SUPPORTING OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our key stakeholders are those who are impacted significantly by the Our objective is to be recognised as the best financial services company business or who might impact on it.
These include our shareholders, in the UK by customers, colleagues and shareholders.
We will do this by customers, colleagues, suppliers and wider society and the environment.
building deep, lasting customer relationships which help our customers Our commitment to our shareholders is covered in the chairmans achieve what is important to them.
We want to be recognised and statement, the group chief executives review and throughout this annual recommended as a trusted brand by customers, a good employer by report and accounts.
In the following pages we cover our approach to colleagues and a valued contributor in the community.
customers, communities and climate change.
Our corporate responsibility strategy is helping us to deliver this vision.
That means: OUR PEOPLE Demonstrating financial strength and stability Our approach to colleagues is covered separately on pages 50 and 51.
Building deep, lasting customer relationships: exceeding their Issues covered in this section include diversity, colleague engagement, expectations whenever they touch one of our brands reward and learning and development.
Our philosophy is based on the Being an employer of choice and maximising our colleagues potential premise that our people are a great asset for the Group and important Understanding, engaging, and investing in the communities in which advocates of our strategy and contribution to society.
We are focused on our business is based: bringing our corporate responsibility strategy to life with our colleagues through a range of internal communications throughout the year.
Being committed to environmental protection and better managing our impacts.
We assess our progress against these objectives on an ongoing basis.
OUR CUSTOMERS Our active approach to corporate responsibility ensures that the Group We are dedicated to building deep, lasting customer relationships makes a positive contribution to communities all over the UK.
This that distinguish us as the best bank in the UK.
We want to build a great helps us achieve a competitive advantage and deliver business success, organisation, which is recognised for operating to high standards and is despite a difficult economic environment.
The Group contributed more built on strong customer relationships.
We lent nearly 70 billion in new than 29 million in 2009 to local charities and community organisations lending to homeowners and businesses in 2009.
Lloyds TSB was voted the through our charitable Foundations.
most trusted brand by Readers Digest readers in 2009, for the 9th year running, and came 1st in the Superbrands Retail Banks Sector survey.
EMBEDDDING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER ADVOCACY ACROSS THE GROUP During 2009, we implemented consistent customer advocacy metrics The board considers individual corporate responsibility issues across the new Group.
The Net Promoter Score was introduced as a throughout the year, and reviews our performance at the end of it.
In measure of customer advocacy in Lloyds TSB in 2008.
It was then rolled 2009, we established a new corporate responsibility steering group, out in our Halifax and Bank of Scotland brands in the second half of comprising senior executives from across the Group.
This metric measures customer recommendation of our products Angie Risley, Group HR Director, and reporting to the group chief and services, rather than customer satisfaction, and, as a result, will give executive, the steering group meets on a regular basis to review us a better insight into the service we deliver.
strategy, monitor progress and make sure we achieve our objectives.
Four thousand customers across the three brands are interviewed Most of our corporate responsibility activity takes place in the business each month, in addition to surveys conducted with customers through divisions.
It is driven by a network of senior managers, who act as specific channels or products, to establish the likelihood that they would corporate responsibility champions.
They ensure that we conduct our recommend one of our brands to friends or colleagues.
This gives us business in a responsible way and inform our corporate responsibility good insight on how we are doing.
It also informs what we need to strategy.
address to improve customer advocacy.
In 2009, the former Lloyds TSB Group Code of Conduct was adopted Our vision is to be the best financial services company in the UK.
We across all of our operations.
The Code of Conduct sets out the core will know we have achieved this when our customers tell us so by values and standards that govern the way we conduct our business.
recommending us more than any other bank.
So we have put in place The Code is underpinned by individual corporate responsibility policies several initiatives to improve customer advocacy.
These include Net which set minimum requirements for all our business activities.
A Promoter Score targets for each of our main brands, and linking these rolling review process is also underway, benchmarking our corporate targets to retail colleagues performance particularly those colleagues responsibility policies against best practice.
In 2009, for example, we in customer-facing roles.
PLAYING OUR PART IN THE UKS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN INDEPENDENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY BENCHMARKS RECOVERY We are included in the FTSE4Good Ethical Index: the Dow Jones Lloyds Banking Group is UKs largest retail bank.
We have over 30 million Sustainability Index: the Carbon Disclosure Projects Leadership Index individual and corporate customers.
We play a very active part in the and we are ranked Platinum in Business in the Communitys Corporate UK economy and its recovery.
We take part in 12 of the Governments Responsibility Index.
various financial initiatives aimed at: helping customers enter the housing market: helping small businesses start up: and helping customers in financial difficulty.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 53 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 2563 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 HELPING HOUSEHOLDS RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND ADVICE Lloyds Banking Group is the UKs largest mortgage lender.
In 2009, We have a responsible lending programme with internal management we wrote 34.7 billion of new mortgages.
Our customer-facing employees are trained We are the largest provider of finance to first time home buyers.
In 2009, to offer the necessary advice and support to help customers manage through our Lloyds TSB brand, we launched the market leading Lend their borrowing.
This three year mortgage offers first time buyers a 95 per cent loan-to-value mortgage at 4.39 per cent by taking a legal PROVIDING CONSUMER CREDIT charge on a savings account belonging to their parents.
The legal As a responsible lender, we wish to ensure customers only borrow what charge means the parents retain ownership of their savings while earning they can afford to repay.
Each customers circumstances are different and a competitive fixed interest rate of 3.5 per cent.
we use an affordability model, to better assess a customers ability to repay, in order to achieve this.
We are the biggest provider of finance to the social housing sector.
We are committed to funding housing associations to improve existing We will only offer a loan facility after carefully assessing customers housing stock and build new affordable housing, both for rental and financial circumstances and believe that a loan would be appropriate.
By the end of 2009 we had committed 14 billion to We take into account customers current and past management of social housing and had a market share of around 23 per cent.
financial products to ensure we make the most informed decision possible.
We worked with the Council of Mortgage Lenders, Department of Communities and Local Government, Ministry of Justice, the We have robust systems in place to ensure that our credit card lending Civil Justice Council and the financial advice sector throughout the is suitable to the financial circumstances of our customers.
We check year on the development of Government initiatives for customers customers ability to make repayments at the time at which the account facing difficulty.
We are now participating in the Homeowner Mortgage is opened, and then on a regular monthly basis to ensure that the Support Scheme, the Mortgage Rescue Scheme and the Support for borrowing remains suitable to their circumstances.
We proactively Mortgage Interest scheme.
We are fully committed to doing everything contact customers showing signs of financial distress to discuss a range reasonably possible to support customers in financial difficulties and to solutions to help them manage short term difficulties.
Through this focus, the level of Lloyds Banking Group repossessions has remained well below the Council of Mortgage Lenders industry average.
HELPING CUSTOMERS MANAGE THEIR BORROWING Lloyds TSB, Halifax and Bank of Scotland have dedicated Customer WORKING WITH SMALL AND MEDIUM SIZED ENTERPRISES Support and Money Management units to provide specialist help to We are committed to helping small to medium sized enterprises SMEs customers who are worried about their financial situation.
We have an in the difficult current economic climate.
We grew our market share in ongoing programme to train customer-facing colleagues to provide lending to SMEs in 2009.
Bank of Scotland has returned to lending and advice and support to customers on managing their borrowing.
We approved over 59,000 overdrafts and over proactively contact customers that are showing signs of pressure on 47,000 loans for small businesses with a turnover of less than 1 million.
We help them find an appropriate solution, either through During the year we opened in excess of 100,000 new accounts for SMEs, more effective budgeting, or by rescheduling their borrowing with us.
including a 23 per cent share of the start-up market.
In 2009 we handled over a million calls with customers in difficulty.
We In November 2009, we further underlined our support for UK businesses also support independent money advice networks, including the Money with the launch of a new 2012 SME Charter, setting out a series of Advice Trust and the Consumer Credit Counselling Service.
In 2009 we commitments that form a three year programme of support for SMEs contributed more than 6 million to the financial advice sector.
to help them grow as the recovery gains momentum.
The Charter aims to encourage enterprise, boost access to finance and provide clear and HELPING THE FINANCIALLY EXCLUDED fairer pricing for customers, as well as help 300,000 new start-ups across the country by 2012.
Our financial inclusion strategy is aligned with the Governments aims to increase access to banking and credit while, at the same time, We will be running 200 nationwide seminars every year for the next three developing consumers financial capability.
years, providing expert guidance and support for up to 90,000 SMEs on starting up, employment, exporting, bidding for London 2012 contracts, We have a 40 per cent market share of customers belonging to the sustainability and finance.
With over 4 million accounts, the Group is the largest provider of social banking accounts in the UK.
These accounts We are using our Partnership of London 2012 to promote the Olympic offer facilities such as direct debits but do not provide overdrafts.
and Paralympic Games benefits to British businesses, many of them our Through these accounts, customers are able to pay household bills by customers.
The Lloyds TSB Official Business Guide for London 2012 is direct debit, saving them money when compared with other methods of helping companies of all sizes across the country seize the commercial payment.
We also work with credit unions throughout the UK, managing opportunities.
It offers practical financial advice and lists useful sources their accounts and offering practical advice and support to help them of support.
More than 2,000 business guides have been downloaded improve and extend their service to communities.
The Group has also extended the opportunity for customers without We have committed 4 million to a new further education financial adequate capital to borrow under the Governments Enterprise Finance capability project, working with The Treasury, the Department for Guarantee Scheme.
We are one of the most active participants in Business, Innovation and Skills and the FSA, to improve the range of web the Scheme, offering almost a third of the total loans made under based resources available to financial capability bodies across the further the Scheme.
education and skills sector in the UK.
The programme aims to develop 54 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued the capacity of further education colleges, providers of publicly funded and support young people, communities and businesses all over Britain training for apprenticeships, providers of local authority adult and prison on their journey to London 2012 and beyond.
London 2012 will touch education to improve the financial skills of the 10 million adults and every person in Britain and our employees and branches have a vital role young people which they serve.
We plan to launch the programme to play in this.
We support the next generation of sporting talent through our Much of the Groups charitable giving is channelled through Lloyds TSB Local Heroes Programme, providing funding to more than the Lloyds TSB Foundations, which cover England and Wales, 250 emerging young athletes each year across Britain, at a time when Scotland, Northern Ireland and the Channel Islands.
Lloyds TSB Foundations received 29 million in grants from the Group to Lloyds TSB National School Sport week is the biggest community sport support their work in some of the most vulnerable communities in the UK.
programme in the UK and uses the power of the London 2012 Games to The Foundations currently fund a number of financial inclusion inspire young people to understand the benefits of sport and take part and financial capability projects, including grants for Citizens Advice in more sporting activity.
The programme is delivered in partnership with the charity Youth Sport Trust.
Bureaux CAB in England, Wales, Scotland and the Channel Islands, to support their work in providing advice and information to disadvantaged Working with teachers, schools and young ambassadors nationwide, it people.
The Lloyds TSB Foundation for England and Wales recently aims to support the Governments objective of offering young people announced a grant for Calderdales Citizens Advice Bureau worth the opportunity to participate in five hours of sport and physical activity a 50,000 to support the salary of a volunteer co-ordinator to enable week, as well as encourage links to sports clubs in the wider community.
the recruitment and support of an additional 30 volunteer advisors to Young people are encouraged to try a new Olympic or Paralympic respond to the increasing demand for its services.
sport and live the Olympic and Paralympic values.
Sporting and PE achievements are celebrated and profiled as part of the programme to help maximise its impact and value for children, teachers and parents.
PROTECTING OUR CUSTOMERS AGAINST FINANCIAL CRIME Over 10,500 schools and three million young people across England and Wales took part in the programme in 2009.
71 per cent of pupils tried a new We take protecting our customers and their assets extremely seriously.
sport and 91 per cent of teachers said the week inspired young people to We continue to invest in activities to deter, detect and prevent fraud and do more sport.
In 2010 the programme will be launched in Scotland in we operate systems designed to ensure that our products and services partnership with sportscotland, under our Bank of Scotland brand.
are not abused for the purposes of laundering the proceeds of crime or for facilitating terrorism.
These include transaction monitoring tools to In 2009 Bank of Scotland partnered with the Scottish Football Association, identify and analyse suspicious account activity: and processes to verify the Scottish Governments cashback for communities scheme and customers and check the transactions that they make.
the Scottish Sun newspaper to launch Coaches for Communities: an initiative which aims to get more people involved in youth football in We also work to ensure our customers are aware of how to protect Scotland by providing free football coaching.
Coaches for Communities themselves from financial crime.
Our various brand websites contain provided training to 1,250 people, including 30 of our employees, leading information to assist customers in understanding how to mitigate to a Level One Early Touches qualification.
Once qualified, the Scottish the risks of common types of internet fraud.
We run regular financial FA and the Scottish Schools Football Association will link participants up crime awareness campaigns, support industry education initiatives and with a local community group or team in their area.
The initiative builds on Bank of Scotlands on-going support for grassroots football in Scotland.
Through a partnership with the Scottish OUR COMMUNITIES FA, the bank supports programmes which operate in all 32 local authorities across Scotland to deliver football training and leagues Our main contribution to society is as a major employer and purchaser involving over 300 schools and 10,000 young people.
We are one of the UKs biggest private sector employers and have a presence in almost every community.
Our economic contribution to society is supported by our active investment WORKING WITH OUR SUPPLIERS in these communities and our community giving programme.
Our suppliers are important to us.
We want to ensure we treat them OUR COLLEAGUES IN THE COMMUNITY fairly and pay them on time.
In 2009, we became signatories to the new Our Charity of the Year relationship with the British Heart Foundation Prompt Payment Code.
We commit to pay suppliers on time and not BHF went from strength to strength in 2009.
Over 2 million has been change the payment terms agreed at the outset of the contract.
The raised between June 2008 and December 2009 through a variety of Code requires that we provide clear guidance on payment procedures, colleague, customer and shareholder fundraising initiatives.
The funds including redress for any disputes, and encourage similar good practice are already being used to fund 15 specialist BHF Heart Nurses in amongst our suppliers and other businesses.
communities across the UK, supporting over 8,400 heart patients.
We consider a range of factors when selecting suppliers, including their Recognising the value of longer-term relationships, we have extended social, ethical and environmental credentials.
In 2009, we launched a our partnership with the BHF for a further 6 months to conclude at the dedicated intranet site across the Group which provides colleagues with end of 2010.
During this time we will continue to engage our colleagues information, guidance and tools on incorporating social, environmental in fundraising activities and raise additional funds for the BHF.
and ethical criteria in all of our sourcing activities: in the selection of suppliers and as part of supplier audits.
We have collaborative OUR COMMUNITY PROJECTS relationships with suppliers, facilitating continuous improvement and As the Official Banking and Insurance Partner of the London 2012 implementing joint improvement plans.
This ensures consistency across Olympic and Paralympic Games, we have a compelling vision: To inspire the Group in our approach to corporate responsibility in the supply chain.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 55 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 2563 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT 1 2009 2008 2007 2006 We have introduced policies and procedures to reduce the environmental impact of our lending activities.
We aim to reduce Number of payments 763,917 335,713 320,579 344,422 environmental impacts through effective risk management.
In 2009 we Value bn 5.22 2.67 2.20 2.29 implemented an integrated Groupwide Environmental Risk Policy to Average time to pay days 28.33 26.03 28.78 29.72 manage these risks.
The Policy requires transactions to be assessed for material risks as part of the credit sanctioning process.
Number amount of compensation payments for No No No No EQUATOR PRINCIPLES late settlement payments payments payments payments Lloyds Banking Group is a signatory to the Equator Principles.
The 1 Equator Principles are voluntary guidelines for the financial industry to 2009 data represents the combined new Group.
Historical data is Lloyds TSB only.
manage social and environmental issues in project financing.
During 2009 we implemented a harmonised groupwide approach to OUR ENVIRONMENTAL AGENDA monitoring and reporting Equator Principles transactions, and training colleagues on the Equator Principles.
An Equator Principles Review Group We have a long-standing commitment to managing our environmental has been formed, comprising experts from both Risk and Project Finance impacts.
We first introduced an environmental policy in 1996.
In 2009, teams, and supported by external environmental consultants.
This Group we reviewed the policy against best practice to ensure that it is fit for is responsible for reviewing all new Equator Principle transactions, to purpose across the whole of the Group.
Further work will be undertaken ensure that each transaction is compliant and is consistent with the Group during 2010 to produce and embed an enhanced and integrated Environmental Risk Policy, prior to being sanctioned.
Equator Principles reporting January to December 2009: DEALS CLIMATE CHANGE Equator Principle risk category The UK Government is committed to reducing the countrys carbon Category A Category B Category C emissions by 80 per cent from 1990 levels by 2050.
A central part of its higher risk medium risk lower risk Total strategy is the introduction of a mandatory climate change and energy Completed 7 7 14 savings scheme, the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency In Progress 415 Scheme, due to start in April 2010.
We qualify as a participant in this Not Completed 101 scheme, which requires a collective 22 per cent emissions reduction from participants by 2012.
We fully understand our obligations and 012 820 are committed to driving down CO emissions.
We are developing a 2 GEOGRAPHY OF COMPLETED TRANSACTIONS carbon management policy and strategy to deliver a single approach for Category A Category B Category C the new combined Group, and continue to invest significant capital in higher risk medium risk lower risk Total carbon reduction projects across the Groups estate.
US 224 In 2009 we chaired an initiative with Business in the Community and the Europe 459 Cambridge Programme for Sustainability Leadership to create a Guide Middle East 101 for Carbon Management in the Supply Chain.
The guide has helped inform our approach and, as a freely downloadable resource, we are 077 14 also encouraging our suppliers and customers to use it to help manage INDUSTRY OF COMPLETED TRANSACTIONS carbon risks in the supply chain.
Number m Lloyds Banking Group is represented by Group Executive Director Renewables 4 89 Truett Tate on the Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change.
This Infrastructure 7 376 group of leading businesses released the Copenhagen Communiqu, widely viewed as the progressive voice of business, for the Copenhagen Energy and utilities 3 72 Climate Change talks in December 2009.
14 537 BUSINESS TRAVEL SUMMARY In 2009 we introduced a common travel policy across the organisation.
Our approach to our key stakeholders underpins our vision to be It supports a focus on sustainable travel and helped us deliver a recognised as the best financial services company in the UK.
We 13 per cent reduction in the costs of travel.
proactively manage our relationships with all of them.
The Groups Sustainability Network holds events and runs awareness Understanding what the customer wants is at the heart of our business.
campaigns to encourage colleagues to play their part.
Travel reduction Our new approach to measuring customer advocacy helps provide more was one of the Networks key themes in 2009, inspiring colleagues to insight into the service we deliver.
take steps to reduce their travel footprints.
We regularly communicate with employees on corporate responsibility issues.
Indeed, engaging colleagues in our corporate responsibility We achieved a reduction of 143,000 journeys in 2009 compared with agenda is central to its success and we will focus on this throughout 2008.
Across the combined Group, the volume of teleconferences 2010. increased by over 40 per cent to over 1.1 million.
We will continue to promote virtual conferencing technologies to colleagues as an We have a crucial role to play in the recovery of the UK economy.
Our support for households and small businesses was further underlined in environmentally friendly, cost efficient alternative to travelling.
2009 by our participation in twelve Government schemes designed to help them.
