Man Group plc 44 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Our Corporate Responsibility programmes continue to be grounded in research, are risk based and strive to evidence quantifiable added value to our franchises.
They focus on key non-financial risks which, if crystallised, could have a negative impact on the financial performance and health of our company.
The discipline of corporate responsibility is firmly embedded within our risk management agenda.
Five key areas of non-financial risk Group as well as to the public through our focus on work and life balance, employee and Whilst the key areas of non-financial risk internal and external web architecture.
addressed by our Corporate Responsibility programme remain constant, the degree of Our Corporate Responsibility programmes, So far this year over 400 of our people have attention we give each area in terms of reports, web content and our climate change attended these seminars which have a enjoyed analysis, mitigation and reporting very much and related carbon neutrality initiatives a 98% positive rating in the formal post depends on the overall market and economic continue to be externally accredited by The workshop evaluations.
contexts and the acuteness of the risks arising.
Virtuous Circle Limited and the results of their findings are made public.
3 Our marketplace Our focus over the past year has therefore Our marketplace is a term encompassing all shifted more towards leadership and 2 Our people interactions with those of our stakeholders with governance, our people and our marketplace Our ability to continue to attract and retain whom we engage as investors in our company key areas in terms of reputational impact.
the most talented people represents our key and our products.
non-financial risk and is fundamental to the We remain committed to environmental ongoing sustainability of our company.
Man Group considers the main areas in which matters, the communities in which our people it can apply its Corporate Responsibility live and work and our charitable activities.
Understanding our peoples expectations of us principles of marketplace good governance We will continue to invest appropriately in and being able to continue to deliver to those and ethical conduct to be: these areas because it is the right thing to do expectations are important in maintaining their and to evidence good corporate citizenship to loyalty and commitment.
Man Groups own investment practices.
the extent that this aligns with the expectations Due diligence and ongoing monitoring and interests of our stakeholders and in We know from regular engagement with of third party fund managers and other particular our people.
our people at all levels that achieving an third parties.
appropriate work and life balance, particularly Transparent dialogue with shareholders and 1 Leadership and governance against the current market background, investors in our products.
Our Corporate Responsibility programmes is particularly important.
have become further embedded into the fabric Ongoing compliance with: of our businesses and processes in as much Our training and leadership development as they are now, to a high degree, a key programmes, regular personal performance All relevant external i. e. legislative and or element of business as usual.
For example, appraisals and the refinement of our employee regulatory requirements, including those Corporate Responsibility is represented on the share participation schemes are important relating to anti-money laundering and the Risk Assurance Committee which has direct outcomes of this engagement.
oversight of all aspects of the risk management The investment guidelines including of the Group.
The Corporate Responsibility team has investment strategies, restricted investments structured a series of regular workshops held and other relevant terms set out in the Our Corporate Responsibility policies, reports, both in person and through the use of our relevant fund prospectus or individual and data are available to all employees of the enhanced video conferencing facilities which customer investor instructions or mandate.
Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 45 please visit our dedicated Corporate Responsibility website for more information www.
com cr For the past two years Group donations to We continue to adopt a thought leadership the Man Group plc Charitable Trust have position regarding climate related matters.
been based on a formula which guarantees donations of no less than 0.5% of Group Our Corporate Responsibility team has pre-tax profits.
presented at a number of influential climate related conferences where we have shared During this year we have appointed a director our programmes in a transparent manner.
of the Man Group plc Charitable Trust who brings a wealth of experience to the A schools climate engagement programme management of this important resource.
has been piloted very successfully to over 100 young people.
We know from recent research that our continued support of communities is a key We have significantly improved our waste differentiator in attracting the most talented recycling rates and have replaced all plastic people and remains of great interest to our bottled and canned water in our offices with own staff.
Our nonrecycled waste reduced by 27% and our This is reflected in the encouraging 8% recycled waste increased by 23% year on year.
increase year on year in the number of our staff 225th Anniversary participating in our Give As You Earn GAYE We increased the number of videoconferencing employee celebration schemes where the Trust matches up to facilities by 65% year on year.
at the Tower of London $172.00 per employee per month.
We are also encouraged that our carbon The Trust will continue to fund opportunities for footprint per employee reduced year on year positive change in society by identifying where and by over 44% since 2005.
Adherence to the Group principles relating and how to make the greatest impact on to due care towards all those who have an peoples lives.
interest in our Group, be it financial or Our Corporate Responsibility focus in the broader society.
We are also introducing a volunteering coming year will continue to be on those areas programme which will provide our people which present the most significant potential Key elements of our progress in refining and initially in the UK with paid leave to support risk to our Group and our franchise.
improving our compliance architecture and those charities to which they are individually processes year-on-year include: committed.
The Trust will also provide volunteering opportunities through its Annual application globally of screen based supported charities.
anti-money laundering training and testing.
Introduction of a new module of screen Volunteering will also form a key element Move to web-based Corporate based testing Market Abuse rolled out of our integrated approach to management Responsibility reporting to relevant areas.
This volunteering For this and future years our main Corporate Continued refinement of compliance key will focus primarily on mentoring vulnerable Responsibility reporting will be web-based, risk indicators for risk reporting.
Our senior executive supported by a short printed summary.
MiFID implementation concluded and new volunteering programme will focus on procedures embedded in the business.
addressing key societal challenges and We believe that this will facilitate direct Key focus and follow up of any expression peer influence.
access by our stakeholders to information of of dissatisfaction globally from investors specific interest to them.
This approach is in our products.
5 Environment also in line with our commitment to the Rollout of key risk indicators and initiatives Whilst our global carbon footprint is relatively continued reduction of our carbon footprint.
to meet the Financial Services Authoritys small, we believe we have a responsibility to Treating Customers Fairly requirements.
take account of our environmental impact and We have therefore developed a dedicated also to influence others through programmes Corporate Responsibility website, complete During this financial year Man Investments which are appropriate to the scale and nature with a dashboard of data, which can be had no material regulatory breaches leading of our business and reflect our wider duties accessed at www.
to enforcement action by a regulator.
4 Community We remain a carbon neutral company through Continued support to the communities the acquisition of Gold Standard Certified in which our stakeholders live and work Emission Reduction credits which have offset We are particularly encouraged by our global remains a key element of our Corporate our prior years emissions.
leadership position in the index in the areas of Responsibility strategy.
risk management, compliance and corporate social responsibility reporting.
