18 CWI Corporate responsibility Making a positive contribution locally This report demonstrates our progress against the four corporate Our corporate responsibility principles we agreed in 2007 08 and highlights just a responsibility activities few examples of how these principles were implemented at a local level across our various markets.
generally take place 1 Contribute positively to the social and economic development of the at a local level, based communities in which we operate As one of the largest businesses in many of the countries in which we operate, on the needs of our we play an important role in the local economy as a whole.
So whilst our individual markets services directly contribute to the economic conditions of these countries, we also invest in social development, such as health, education, sport and culture.
In the past 12 months, we have given US$3.5 million to community initiatives through an array of different activities, for example: Health In 2008 09 our Panama operation contributed specialised telemedicine equipment, this time to the Chicho Fbrega Hospital in the province of Veraguas.
This equipment is used by neonatal units at hospitals in the interior of Panama.
Telemedicine uses telecommunication networks to transfer medical information and to examine patients remote from the main hospital.
Education This year we gave scholarships to 15 students at the Macau University of Science and Technology, the Macau Polytechnic Institute and the University of Macau in recognition of the students outstanding performance.
Sport Continuing our three year sponsorship, LIME has given almost J$7 million to the Inter-schools Secondary Schools Association Athletic Championships.
2 Seek continuous improvement in our environmental performance As a major energy consumer in our markets, were conscious of our use of this vital resource.
Across our business, our annual carbon footprint is estimated to be 122,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions scope one and two.
And in calendar year 2008 we used approximately 200 million kWh of electricity, 5.4 million litres of fuel and 95 million litres of water.
Alternative energy In more remote areas of our business such as the Maldives, we use self-powering energy units to extend our network coverage.
During the year, weve conducted further alternative energy studies in the Caribbean and identified suitable sites for wind turbines with payback periods of up to three years for 500kW wind turbines and up to five years for smaller 5kW remote wind powered units.
All of which will help us work towards reducing our power consumption.
19 Recycling In the Caribbean weve introduced targets to reduce paper wastage by 15%, improve our recycling volumes each year and we are Our focus raising environmental awareness through our LIME Go Green programme.
Were encouraging our customers to switch to online billing and to recycle their old mobile phones and telephone directories.
for 2009 10 Reducing travel We have a programme underway to look at the travel patterns of our employees across CWI.
Last year our short-haul flights Improving our contributed 700 tonnes of CO and our long-haul flights a further 2,500 2e environmental tonnes.
Our aim is to reduce travel during 2009 10 by introducing high definition video conferencing and encouraging our colleagues to change performance their travel patterns.
and enhancing The paperless office In Macau we are extending our paperless office our community programme, providing customers with direct access to their accounts with nearly 20,000 customers opting to receive electronic bills.
involvement 3 Respect cultures, values and human rights throughout our operations We aim to conduct our operations with honesty, integrity and openness, and with respect for the human rights and interests of our employees and the communities in which we operate.
Integrity award In 2008 we received The Hong Kong and Macau Merchants of Integrity Award for the ongoing charitable work of our Macau business.
The activities of our community volunteer team include collecting and recycling clothes for distribution to the poor in China and providing Christmas gift packs to local children and the underprivileged.
Internet safety Cable & Wireless Panama Foundation, ASSA, Microsoft and the Ricky Martin Foundation launched a Surf the web safely campaign in Panama in October 2008.
This campaign is especially designed for children and their parents and focuses on three major areas of internet safety basic security, personal security and family security.
Membership of the UN Global Compact In Panama we continue to be members of the UN Global Compact, a worldwide voluntary policy initiative for businesses committed to upholding principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
We are also on the Board of Directors of the UN Global Compact Panama Network.
4 Nurture best practice in our activities CWI operates telecoms businesses around the world.
A key role of the London headquarters is to ensure that we share best practice around the businesses, developing further what is good and removing what isnt.
This principle applies to all aspects of our business, for example: Colleague engagement Our annual Gallup poll of all CWI employees has shown substantial improvement.
In particular our colleague engagement ratio has increased to 44%, up from 33% last year.
Improving colleague engagement further is a key element of our One Caribbean transformation programme.
Supply chain resilience In 2007 08, we introduced a comprehensive supply chain audit process of our Tier One and Tier Two suppliers using international standards.
More recently, we have introduced a risk assessment process of our strategic suppliers to extend our understanding of their operations and measure solvency and financial health in the light of the current economic downturn.
RIDDOR Our 2008 RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations total for colleagues taking three days off for minor work related injuries was 19.
There were no serious injuries or fatalities.
Business review 20 WORLDWIDE WORLDWIDE PROVIDES GREAT CUSTOMER SERVICE AND TAILORED SOLUTIONS TO MANY OF THE WORLDS LARGEST ORGANISATIONS
