30 Worldwide Corporate responsibility FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY THIS YEAR WE HAVE CONTINUED TO INVEST IN A RANGE OF SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PROGRAMMES DIRECTED BY OUR FOUR PRINCIPLES INTRODUCED LAST YEAR.
WE HIGHLIGHT OUR PROGRESS AGAINST EACH PRINCIPLE.
1 Seek continual improvement of our environmental performance KEY HIGHLIGHTS We continue to focus on reducing the effects of our operations on the environment.
Our calendar year 2007 carbon footprint was 190,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide scope one and two and some scope three greenhouse gas emissions as externally verified by The Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management.
For 2008 09, we are preparing for the UK Governments 384 Carbon Reduction Commitment Reporting process and will continue to TONNES OF OFFICE disclose our footprint through the Carbon Disclosure Project once the assessment is complete.
WASTE REUSED OR RECYCLED In calendar year 2008 we used approximately 331 million kWh of electricity and 18 million kWh of natural gas, compared with 310 million kWh and 15 million kWh respectively in calendar year 2007.
This increase primarily reflects the growth of our business, particularly in hosting and managed services.
We have recently engaged Waterscan to monitor our water use.
90% Major energy efficiency programmes Our continuing programme to introduce more energy efficient equipment into our operating infrastructure should yield OF COLLEAGUES energy savings of 23 million kWh by 2009 10.
ACCESSED OUR Travel Last year we worked with the Energy Saving Trust to review our AWARD-WINNING fleet including company owned vehicles, grey fleet business miles driven E-LEARNING FACILITY in colleague-owned cars and hire vehicles.
We identified that we used approximately 420,000 litres of fuel for business travel in 2008.
Using the results of this review, a task force has been set up to help reduce our travel emissions.
We now encourage car sharing via our Lift Share scheme with guaranteed car parking spaces.
We estimate that during calendar year 2008 our short-haul business flights contributed 100 tonnes of CO and our long-haul business flights 2e contributed a further 1,250 tonnes.
Reuse and recycling Last year we introduced a new process to assess all recovered equipment for reuse or resale through an approved partner 96% of the 33.5 tonnes of electrical waste were recycled.
This cuts down our waste and generates an income from the resale market.
In calendar year 2008 we recycled or reused 384 tonnes of office waste which equates to about 15% of our total 2,600 tonnes of office waste.
The data in this section refers primarily to the UK and Ireland.
31 2 Facilitate and encourage responsible and innovative product and service design We are a leading provider of innovative new capabilities which aim to improve business performance, reduce carbon emissions and lower costs for our customers.
Helping to reduce our customers carbon footprint Increasingly, customers want to reduce their costs as well as their carbon emissions.
Our high definition video conferencing services are a very effective way to communicate without travelling, lowering both cost and emissions.
Similarly, fixed mobile convergence eliminates duplication from needing to manufacture both mobile and fixed line equipment while digital signage for retailers does away with the traditional paper approach.
3 Contribute to the positive social and economic development of the communities in which we operate Our community agenda is primarily driven by our colleagues.
This creates a positive relationship with our local communities and means that many of these activities are led by colleague volunteers.
A few examples are described below.
Community support Children in Need is a regular event for us, when we provide not only our telephone services but also volunteers to man the phones throughout the event.
During our Christmas charitable appeal, colleagues voted to support Crisis, Great Ormond Street Childrens Hospital, The Muscular Dystrophy Campaign and World Vision.
A particularly successful community programme was delivered by field engineering colleagues who gave six weeks of computer training to women from the Westminster Childrens Society nurseries.
We continue to support Tlcoms Sans Frontires, a partnership now in its seventh year.
And this is our third year working with Christel House, a learning centre for underprivileged children in Bangalore, India, where we provide funding for their computer laboratory and the students IT education.
Internet safety Our contribution to the Get Safe Online programme supports a UK Government initiative promoting online safety awareness to children and their parents.
We also continue to donate to the Internet Watch Foundation, a specialist charity helping to police the internet against abusive content.
4 Uphold fundamental human rights and respect cultures, customs and values in dealing with colleagues and others who are affected by our activities We aim to conduct our operations with honesty, integrity and openness, and with respect for the human rights and interests of our colleagues and the communities in which we operate.
Suppliers Sustainable procurement is now integral to our supplier tendering process and our procurement policy has been updated to reflect this.
Our procurement questionnaire reflects international standards and covers a range of important issues such as human rights, climate change and integrity.
Education This year we launched our Advanced Apprenticeship scheme and were pleased with the high level of skills demonstrated by applicants.
Each apprentice will spend two years with us, receive a nationally recognised qualification and be offered a permanent position.
Our apprenticeship scheme is supported and recognised by the Learning and Skills Council.
In 2008 09, 5,300 colleagues accessed our online learning facility, gaining us awards from E-Learning Age and World of Learning.
RIDDOR Under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations we can report a figure of zero for calendar Photograph taken by Lee Thorne, as part year 2008. of a colleague involvement initiative.
