34 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 1.
Collecting water in Rajasthan CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY During 2009, Cairn concentrated on eight key areas of business practice identified as having high significance through our business risk management and stakeholder engagement processes.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY t Exploration seismic and survey activities in Arctic waters offshore Greenland completed without safety Responsible behaviour is integral to Cairns operations.
As or environmental incidents an oil and gas exploration and production company that aims t Cairns Group CR Policies, Guiding Principles and to create value for all its stakeholders, we are committed to Human Rights Handbook updated and new Biodiversity improving the lives of the people in the communities in which Guidelines prepared.
we operate through the integration of economic prosperity, social development and environmental protection.
OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Cairns approach to CR management and 2009 performance The complexity and scale of our business raises a variety of CR is summarised in the following section.
In previous years Cairn issues at local, national and international level.
Cairn is conscious also issued a separate Group CR Report with more detailed that its operations, especially in regions of economic, social descriptions and performance data: for 2009 this is provided or environmental sensitivity, may have impacts on staff, on the Cairn website at www.
Environmental contractors, local communities and the environment.
Resource Management ERM has also provided limited assurance of the contents of the 2009 CR Report and a Consequently, Cairn is committed to developing and statement of their findings is available on the website.
maintaining a sustainable approach to its business strategy by conducting all its activities in a responsible manner.
2009 CR HIGHLIGHTS Our CR strategy is based on our core values of Respect, t Production from the Mangala Field in Rajasthan commenced Relationships and Responsibility.
These are at the heart of all in August 2009, beginning the generation of substantial we do in the conduct of our business and we believe that it is predicted revenues for both local and national economies only through responsible business practices that we will ensure t A three fold increase in total people employed in Cairn a sustainable business.
Groups activities to 72 million man-hours 2008: 24 million man-hours due primarily to construction activities in Rajasthan Our Group CR Policies and Guiding Principles, both reviewed t Despite significant effort invested in site HSE supervision, and updated in 2009, lie at the heart of all we do in the conduct safety training and providing protective equipment, of our business.
The Group CR Guiding Principles are consistent regrettably there were three fatalities among contractors with the United Nations UN Global Compact Guiding Principles working in the Rajasthan construction and production and are available to download at www.
They are operations promoted to staff, partners, suppliers and contractors to help t Cairn Groups 2009 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR ensure a sustainable business culture.
was 0.26 2008: 0.25 a small increase over 2008 and lower than in the wider upstream oil and gas industry as reported Our Group CR Guiding Principles are based on the value by OGP 2008: 0.55 of responsible behaviour across our different stakeholder t Good progress made in the acquisition of permanent and groups, namely: right of use land for the Mangala pipeline in India, while t Behaving responsibly in all our business relationships protecting the rights and livelihoods of local landowners t Behaving responsibly to our people t Continuing initiatives to stimulate local development and t Behaving responsibly towards the environment support local communities in Rajasthan via our Enterprise t Behaving responsibly to society Centre and rural dairy development projects in Barmer OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 35 1 Find out more at www.
com CRR2009 36 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 1.
Development drilling in Rajasthan CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2.
Cairn-supported mobile Continued medical service in Rajasthan To support the delivery of the commitments made in these Cairn excluding Cairn India CR Policies and Guiding Principles, we implement a Group CR The exploration activities in the waters off Greenland involve Management System CRMS, which is supported by detailed significant CR challenges.
These range from health and safety procedures and guidelines.
Applying the Group CRMS to all issues resulting from operating in harsh climatic conditions, our business activities is essential in maintaining our licence to meeting the expectations of local people, through to to operate and building our business reputation.
minimising potential environmental and biodiversity impacts.
Our Group CRMS is consistent with the international In the Mediterranean and South Asia assets, CR activities in environmental management standard ISO 14001, and we 2009 included EIAs in Albania and Bangladesh prior to seismic have successfully retained certification to this standard at surveys and preparing for drilling operations in Tunisia.
our production sites at Sangu in Bangladesh and Ravva and Suvali in India.
During 2009, we concentrated CR activities across the Group on eight priority areas: OUR PROGRESS IN 2009 t Stakeholder Engagement t Business Ethics Cairns activities in India and the associated CR strategy are t Environmental Impact managed by Cairn India, a majority-owned subsidiary of Cairn t Climate Change listed in India and based in Gurgaon.
Outside of Cairn India, t Employee Development the Group manages CR impacts of its operations in Greenland, t Occupational Health and Safety the Mediterranean and South Asia through its unlisted whollyt Community and Suppliers owned subsidiary Capricorn, which is delivered by an asset-led t Human Rights matrix organisation based in Edinburgh.
The following sections discuss the steps taken during 2009 Cairn India in each of these priority areas.
Cairn India is a key player in oil and gas exploration and production in the region and is expected to operate over STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 20% of Indias domestic oil production by 2011.
In 2009, production began at the Mangala oilfield, which will contribute We strive to develop mutually beneficial relationships with significantly to local and national economies over the course of all stakeholder groups as one of our CR Guiding Principles.
Key CR challenges in Cairn India include community Our activities are influenced by, and can impact, many different development, land acquisition, access to water and security stakeholders at local, national and international levels.
Our Group CRMS provides guidelines for country, asset and Cairn India takes a proactive approach to managing CR issues, project managers to identify stakeholder groups and to develop working closely with local communities to ensure they are effective stakeholder engagement strategies.
For every project active partners in its activities and that it balances social we undertake, stakeholder engagement strategies are outlined and environmental needs.
within Public Consultation and Disclosure Plans PCDP.
A key element of each PCDP is the defining of a clear stakeholder issues procedure through which concerns can be voiced and addressed.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 37 1 2 3 In 2009, a new PCDP and a CR Plan were developed for the BUSINESS ETHICS 3D seismic programme in Bangladesh.
Cairn India, Greenland We are committed to behaving with honesty and integrity and Albania also have PCDPs in place, while in Tunisia the in all our business activities wherever we operate.
We are PCDP was updated in January 2010 to reflect our drilling aware of the potentially damaging impact of corruption on our programme commencing in March 2010. business, in particular because we operate in some countries with a relatively low ranking on the Transparency International In Greenland, we are committed to an ongoing process 2008 Corruption Perceptions Index.
As a result, we need of stakeholder engagement.
In consultation with the Bureau to be particularly vigilant that we operate with the highest of Minerals and Petroleum BMP, we are currently undertaking standards of integrity at all times.
a detailed EIA and SIAs of the offshore drilling exploration programme planned for summer 2010.
Through this we aim In May 2009, a revised Group Code of Business Ethics and to agree mutually beneficial solutions and provide a forum a Whistleblowing Policy was approved and implemented across through which stakeholders can share their views and air our business, supported by a comprehensive communications any possible issues.
campaign to make all employees aware of their responsibilities as representatives of Cairn.
All employees are provided with In 2009, Cairn India continued to pioneer a proactive approach their own copy of the Code prior to joining the Company to stakeholder engagement in the region.
We continue to and are required to formally agree to it as a condition of interact positively with communities in the Barmer region employment.
Breaches of the Code are reported to the Chief of Rajasthan through initiatives run by the Enterprise Centre, Executives Committee.
Further steps are planned in 2010 established and funded by Cairn India in partnership with towards addressing potential risks of bribery and corruption the World Banks International Finance Corporation IFC in our business activities.
and the Government of Rajasthan.
Given the significance of the revenues paid to government and The creation of the Mangala Development Pipeline, which the value of contracts awarded as a result of our operations, runs from the Rajasthan oilfield to the Gujarat coast at Bhogat we strive to act with integrity, honesty and transparency at through two Indian states and approximately 250 villages, all times.
We publish details of the tax and royalty payments raises important issues with regards to land acquisition.
made to governments around the world by the Group in the 2009 CR Report.
In 2009, we continued to secure mutually beneficial agreements with landowners for both Right of Use and permanent land acquisition through a cooperative and transparent approach which goes beyond statutory requirements.
The careful consideration of landowner rights and issues in this process means that the successful and peaceful conclusion of Right of Use acquisition involving more than 25,000 land users should be achieved by the end of 2010.
38 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Continued 1 2 3 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 39 1.
Trucking at the MPT, Rajasthan ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CLIMATE CHANGE Our business operations can have an impact on the environment, Cairn acknowledges the potential adverse effects of climate and we place a high priority on mitigating this risk, especially as change on a global scale and the role we have as a responsible some of our exploration and production acreage lie in areas of business in responding to this complex issue.
Behaving responsibly towards the change strategy is one of our CR Guiding Principles and environment forms an integral part of our CR Guiding Principles, we continue to focus on four key elements: measurement, which include seeking to avoid negative impacts on the verification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions: environment, striving to prevent pollution and working to maintaining energy and emissions efficiency: demonstrating ensure no net loss of biodiversity.
informed and transparent action on climate change: and contributing to programmes that address the environmental In 2009, we completed our seismic and survey activities and social impacts of climate change.
in preparation for drilling in 2010 in Greenland without environmental incident.
The surveys acquired significant EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT information on the particular environmental challenges People are at the heart of everything we do, and this focus is of working in this unique and harsh environment.
strongly reflected in our CR approach.
Our priorities include protecting our peoples health, safety and security, providing In 2009, we also began the process of developing a detailed them with a supportive workplace in which diversity and EIA in consultation with key local stakeholders in Greenland, equality are respected and valued, and in which they are given which is due to be completed in 2010 prior to any drilling support and opportunities to develop to their full potential.
EIA and SIAs were also conducted for the trucking operation in Rajasthan and Gujarat and for the At a Group level, the key focus areas in 2009 were the review offshore 3D seismic survey in Sri Lanka.
of the HR policies, which led to enhancements covering such issues as flexible working hours, maternity leave, childcare Across Cairn Group, we continued to monitor, manage and report vouchers policy and employee volunteering, engagement air emissions of greenhouse gases and energy usage, achieving with our staff in our Edinburgh Head Office and developing reduced emissions from the production plant in Sangu due to the the organisation to support the 2010 work programme.
The implementation of third stage gas compression.
Emissions across Employee Opinion Survey in late 2008 identified areas requiring our production activities in Cairn India have increased by 5% over attention and a number of initiatives have been implemented last years levels with the start of production in Rajasthan.
A follow-up survey carried out in the first quarter of 2010 will determine the progress that we Comprehensive spill prevention measures are implemented have made in the relationship with our employees.
to mitigate potential environmental risks resulting from our activities, and detailed spill contingency plans are in place OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY should any incident occur.
These are supported by dedicated We recognise the inherent potential risks associated with resources, equipment and training activities.
the exploration for and production of hydrocarbons and our responsibility to protect our employees and contractors from There were two minor spills totalling 0.07 bbls 12 litres all work-related injuries and illnesses.
The assessment of health reported from our 2009 operations at Sangu, and in Cairn India, and safety risks associated with our activities, and the design there were three minor oil spills totalling 12 bbls 1,900 litres and and implementation of robust measures to mitigate such one chemical spill of 2 bbls 318 litres.
To reduce the risk of spills risks, are key elements of our CRMS.
from road transportation in India, Cairn India set up a safety management system in 2009 which includes a road risk survey, During 2009, in Cairn India there was a threefold increase in detailed tanker specifications and driver competency testing.
the number of people working on the construction activities 2 on the MPT facility covering 1.6 km and 600 km long pipeline to Salaya.
At their peak, there were up to 16,000 workers involved in these projects and approximately 63 million man-hours were recorded.
40 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 1.
Local resident, Rajasthan CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Continued LOST TIME INJURY TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY Tonnes CO E per 1,000 tonnes 2 FREQUENCY RATE LTIFR FREQUENCY RATE TRIFR Number per million man-hours Number per million man-hours 2006 2007 2008 2009 2006 2007 2008 2009 2006 2007 2008 2009 Cairn excluding Cairn India Cairn excluding Cairn India Sangu production site, Bangladesh Cairn India Cairn India Cairn India production sites OGP Benchmark OGP Benchmark OGP Benchmark OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2009 Despite significant effort invested in site supervision, safety SIAs are undertaken prior to major projects commencing and training and providing protective equipment, regrettably there seek to engage with local communities and to provide a forum were three fatalities among contractors and vendors associated in which concerns can be addressed and mutually beneficial with our Rajasthan construction and production operations.
One of the fatalities occurred during welding operations within the MPT facility and the other two occurred outside of the In 2009, we continued to support community development in Cairn sites through a crane accident at the pipeline contractors Rajasthan, through initiatives run by the Enterprise Centre in the maintenance yard and as a result of a contractor road tanker Barmer region, which is funded by Cairn in partnership with the accident on the open highway in Gujarat.
All incidents were IFC and Government of Rajasthan.
These have included a rural fully investigated and recommendations to minimise the development project, mobile health van, and child and maternal chance of a re-occurrence implemented.
The seismic and survey activities in Greenland and Albania were Cairn, like other oil and gas exploration companies, outsources completed without injuries.
There was however a lost time injury much of its activities to its supply chain.
The majority of at the Sangu plant in Bangladesh in early 2009: our first in the operational man-hours worked on behalf of Cairn are therefore Sangu plant in 10 years.
completed by contractors, so their performance is vital to our overall performance.
Cairn Groups 2009 LTIFR of 0.26 2008: 0.25 and Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate TRIFR of 0.64 2008: 0.68 In recent years, we have strengthened our relationships were similar to performance in 2008 and remain lower than in with existing suppliers and contractors, encouraging them the wider upstream oil and gas industry as reported by OGP, to meet the standards required by our CR Policies and Guiding where the most recent available figures 2008 for LTIFR and Principles.
Major contractors in all locations are evaluated TRIFR were 0.55 and 2.02. against these CR criteria prior to any contract being awarded.
We also plan to implement a process in 2010 to monitor our In India, we continue to work extensively with contractors to contractors performance against the criteria following contract address the management of health and safety issues and we award to ensure that they deliver on their commitments.
have invested in road safety training for contractors engaged in the transport of crude oil from the Mangala oilfield.
HUMAN RIGHTS At Cairn, we recognise human rights as fundamental and work COMMUNITY AND SUPPLIERS continually to preserve the rights and conditions of all our In the areas in which we operate, we aim to contribute to stakeholders, including employees, suppliers and those affected community and social development by behaving responsibly by our activities.
In Rajasthan, for example, we apply a Rights in all our business relationships and towards society.
In addition Aware approach to safeguard the local communitys right to to our business activities, which provide energy, infrastructure, water in an area with limited water resources while accessing employment and trade with local enterprises, we seek to the water required to support our operations.
add value to communities through focused social investment.
Respect for human rights is one of our CR Guiding Principles and we have recently updated our Human Rights Handbook to encourage best practice across our operations in this area.
