RISK and RESPOnSIBILITY SOCIETY Increasing the national knowledge base, Our impacts reach beyond our customers, focusing specifically on equipping learners with suppliers and employees to the wider more sophisticated mathematical and scientific skills.
communities in which we operate.
Managing all Our investment decisions have an impact on society of our impacts, including those that affect society through the projects we finance and the companies at large, is important in creating a sustainable in which we invest.
These activities generate wealth for our customers and shareholders and we work to business that delivers longterm success for all minimise, as far as possible, any potential negative those it affects.
impacts they may have on society.
So what did we do in 2009 to manage and build on RESPOnSIBLE BuSInESS POLICY: our positive impact on society?
SOCIETY Promoting financial education and inclusion Good relations and longterm partnerships with local communities As a financial service provider we believe we have are synonymous with success.
Wherever they operate, business a commitment not only to our customers but units must: also to society as a whole, helping people better Promote in the communities they serve: understand the financial marketplace and the choices they make in spending and saving.
This Financial education and other appropriate education ensures that they understand, and can benefit from, programmes: the products and services we provide.
We use our Financial inclusion: financial knowledge and skills to support financial education in the countries where we operate.
Economic development: and Across the Group we run many financial inclusion Health where appropriate.
Where possible, we encourage our Consider social impacts as part of our investment decision employees to pass on their own skills and process where practical.
knowledge: for example, Old Mutual plc has entered into partnership with Young Enterprise London to deliver a Personal Economics Programme targeting young people in London, making us the key private We work hard to maintain good relationships with sector supporter for financial literacy education in all our stakeholders and the communities in which Southwark schools and providing opportunities for we operate, protecting our corporate reputation and Old Mutual employees to deliver financial literacy helping us achieve longterm success.
As financial institutions have come under greater In South Africa we see financial education as a core scrutiny than ever before, it has been more part of our responsibility to help the nation break the important than ever to maintain our support for the cycle of generational poverty and the debt trap that communities in which we operate.
Our broader role so many find themselves in.
We continue to deliver in society is of particular importance to us because, our On The Money programme through OMSA, as one of the leading financial services providers in a financial education initiative that has benefited Southern Africa, we are a significant participant in over 50,000 South Africans since it was launched.
these countries economies and societies.
In South In addition, in 2009 we introduced our Financial Africa we are committed to playing a leading role Wellbeing Programme to help retirement fund in the countrys economic transformation and at members plan for retirement.
Old Mutual South Africa OMSA the initiatives we Supporting development in run are underpinned by four main themes which our communities form our strategy for helping to transform the We provide a wide range of opportunities for our national economy: employees to donate their time and effort to help Poverty eradication through job creation: support their local communities through activities including mentoring, participation in environmental Capacity building and addressing skills projects, fundraising for good causes, and health shortages in national, provincial and local and welfare projects.
government departments: Property and infrastructure development: 138 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 These activities are usually tailored to the needs of SOCIETY the communities in which we operate.
We recognise BIG BEaSTS GET SOuTH aFRICa the importance of continuing our support at a time On THE mOnEY when communities are most likely to need our help.
This is evident in the fact that Skandia UK broke its annual fundraising record in 2009.
Skandia UK At Old Mutual South Africa we employees have joined over 20 different types of are working with the government volunteering activities and have given nearly 600 and other stakeholders on a well hours to the local community through teambuilding coordinated and coherent financial events.
education programme to help consumers manage their finances The Old Mutual South Africa Foundation better.
These efforts include the enhanced its working relationship with the Nedbank On The Money programme, a Foundation by jointly hosting the Old Mutual financial education initiative we Nedbank Community Builder of the Year for the created to teach South Africans how best to manage their finances.
second year running, to honour and recognise our The programme is based on the behaviours of South Africas Staff Community Builders.
We also joined forces Big Five wild animals.
It uses the unique characteristics of the in support of Do It Day, the national volunteer lion, leopard, elephant, rhino and buffalo to help build a positive campaign spearheaded by Greater Good South and productive attitude towards money and the management of Africa, further entrenching our position as leaders in personal and family finances.
Old Mutual South Africa is at the forefront of efforts to grow the Across the Group we also support our local nations savings.
Playing our role through financial education is key communities through financial assistance for charity to that growth.
and philanthropic donations: we donated a total of 10.1 million in 2009 to support community Crispin Sonn, Director of Corporate Affairs, Old Mutual South Africa development projects.
These included education, community development and socioeconomic development projects which are most relevant to the local communities in which we operate.
SOCIETY Making responsible investment EnCOuRaGInG SuSTaInaBLE decisions Our Group Investment Statement outlines our VaLuE CREaTIOn approach to social and environmental issues in investment decisions for both our own capital We want to improve investments and those we make on behalf of our the transparency of the customers.
So Skandia joined 12 of An important element of our investment approach Swedens largest institutional is to give our customers ethical investment choices investors in 2009 to launch where possible.
For example, in the UK over a Sustainable Value Creation Initiative.
As part of this we published 30 funds we offer our customers are ethical and surveys of governance and policies for sustainable value creation in environmental funds.
In Sweden, customers are the 100 largest corporations on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and the able to invest in the Ideas for Life Mutual Fund which 74 companies in the Oslo Brs Benchmark Index.
donates 2% of its profits to charity: this amounted to 300,000 in 2009 and funded 216 different projects This index encourages companies to develop sustainably while supporting young people in the Nordic region.
at the same time creating longterm economic value for their In South Africa, the Infrastructural, Developmental & shareholders.
Environmental Assets IDEAS Managed Fund is a Hans Svensson, Head of Public Affairs and CR, Skandia Nordic socially responsible investment vehicle marketed and managed jointly by Unity Incorporation representing a group of seven trade unions and Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa: it invests in assets that contribute to the sustainable economic and social development of disadvantaged communities.
Old Mutual plc 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
