RISK and RESPOnSIBILITY EnVIROnmEnT We work hard to improve the way we manage We aim to achieve longterm sustainable growth.
This is important, not Understanding the impact we have on the only because it reduces our reputational and regulatory risk and allows us to use resources more environment, and the risks and opportunities that efficiently, but also because it is part of our broader this presents, is central to achieving this goal.
We manage both the direct impacts we have as a business RESPOnSIBLE BuSInESS POLICY: through our operations for example, running our offices, employees travel and the production of EnVIROnmEnT materials related to our work and also the indirect During 2009 we revisited our commitment to minimising our impact impact we have through our investment decisions, on the environment through our new Responsible Business Policy.
We also recognise that there are opportunities across the Group to As a financial services provider, the Group recognise that it has two take proactive action on the environment, such types of environmental impact: direct impacts that arise from the as reducing costs through efficiencies, using running of our offices and branches, and indirect impacts through the environmental positioning to win new customers, procurement of services and products and the investment decisions or developing new products to meet customer that we make and products we sell.
Across the Group in 2009 we shared environmental best practice in terms of both risks To minimise environmental impacts where practical, business and opportunities.
units must: As part of our broader role in helping to tackle Set targets and monitor measures to reduce their energy and the challenges that climate change presents, we water use and the waste they generate in each of their locations.
continued to support the UNs work in this area and This is to aid the Group with reducing its carbon footprint: signed the Copenhagen Communiqu as part of the UN Climate Change Conference in December 2009.
Create awareness to aid employees in understanding their We also committed funding for a research project at impacts and their role in minimising these: Imperial College London, looking into the effect of Consider environmental impacts as part of their investment decision climate change on biodiversity.
During 2009 we made progress towards our environmental policy commitments.
However, we recognise that there is still much to be done.
Our goals for 2010 are based on reducing the direct impact of our operations, managing the impact of our investment decisions, and engaging our employees in our environmental effort.
The increase in total is due to the inclusion of Old Mutual South Africa data for the first time.
136 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 So what did we do to meet our environmental EnVIROnmEnT commitments in 2009?
GREEn BanKInG PROVES a WInnER Minimising the direct impact of In South Africa, Nedbank has gained an unexpected benefit from our operations initiatives aimed at lowering its carbon footprint.
Its growing reputation Our biggest direct sources of carbon emissions as the green bank is attracting not only customers but also skills to the are our offices and travel.
As part of our continued company.
In September 2009, Nedbank announced its commitment to go commitment to developing a better understanding of carbon neutral.
our own environmental impact, and in particular our carbon footprint, we completed our second public Nedbank is the first South African bank, in fact the first large corporation submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP in the country, to take this step.
This saw us included in the CDPs Carbon Tom Boardman, Former Chief Executive, Nedbank Disclosure Leadership Index for the first time, ranking in the top 10% of the FTSE350 companies that responded.
In our submission we made a customers and by developing communication commitment to reduce our overall carbon emissions methods that are specifically designed to minimise by 2% during 2009, and we have met this target.
For example, during As part of this commitment each business unit has 2009 Nedbank ran a series of outdoor, radio and developed, or started to develop, carbon reduction print advertisements designed to increase takeup initiatives.
of our range of Green Affinity banking, investment and insurance products, encouraging customers In addition to our Group submission, Nedbank also to choose products designed to benefit the made its own CDP submission.
as the overall winner in the South African Carbon Disclosure Project Report 2009 Leadership Index.
Percentage of business units reporting Nedbank followed this achievement by making a environmental data commitment to carbon neutrality, making it the first Electricity South African bank and the first listed company in South Africa to do so.
89% % In 2010 we plan to finalise carbon reduction 09 89 strategies across the Group, monitor our reduction 08 73 targets and submit our third public Group CDP submission.
Waste Managing our indirect impact 59% % through our investment decisions, 09 59 communications, and products In 2008 we developed our first Group Investment 08 57 Statement.
Following on from this, in 2009 we Water worked with different parts of the business, including the Group Executive Committee, to establish how 74% % we can refine the statement to reflect the structure 09 74 and priorities of the Group for 2009 and beyond.
In 2010 we will continue to review the Group 08 67 Investment Statement and investment statements from the business units across the Group.
Engaging our employees Engaging our employees in our environmental efforts As part of Nedbank Groups commitment to managing has been an important part of delivering change the indirect impact of its investment decisions it across the Group in 2009.
Throughout the year and continued to apply the Equator Principles to project across the Group we have continued to promote the finance initiatives.
These provide an enhanced risk three Rs Reduce, Reuse and Recycle.
Much of management framework to assess projects possible this work has been conducted at individual business environmental and social impacts.
Using the Equator unit level.
However, we also worked to share best Principles has significantly increased our awareness, practice across the Group through meetings, Useful links: knowledge and experience in managing environmental workshops, and our Group ezine, In Touch.
As well and social risk for all transactions.
For more information as promoting behaviour change at work, we have on how we engage We also help manage our indirect environmental also run programmes throughout the Group to help our employees please see www.
com impacts through the products we offer to our employees take action at home.
Old Mutual plc 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
