RISK and RESPOnSIBILITY EmPLOYEES contribution, through a focus on fostering talent, Through 2009 we worked hard to continue to listening to what they want to tell us, promoting attract, engage and develop the best people in health and wellbeing, and rewarding their ideas and contributions.
Our success in achieving this in many a very challenging year for the financial services parts of our business is reflected in the external sector.
Continuing to invest in our people will awards we won in 2009, including: position us well for future growth.
Skandia:BSAM was named Best Employer by Fortune Magazine in China: RESPOnSIBLE BuSInESS POLICY: Fairbairn Private Bank ranked 15th out of 1,000 companies in the Sunday Times 100 Best Small EmPLOYEES Companies to Work for 2009: Our Responsible Business Policy provides an overview of the Skandia UK has been recognised as One approach we take to our relationship with our employees, while our to Watch for two years running in the Best Group HR Policy sets out in more detail the standards we expect from Companies to Work for survey.
So what did we do to deliver our commitments to To attract and retain the best people, the Group works hard to create employees in 2009?
an environment where employees can flourish and where people are Recognising and developing talent proud to work.
Wherever the Groups employees are based, business We continued to provide highquality training for units must: our employees across the Group and our Career Recruit and reward employees fairly and according to merit.
Choices Model increased the access to, and quality This is balanced with the need to ensure that the Group assists of, career advice available to all our employees.
with advancing transformation in the unique context of African For example, the Skandia UK business completed operations: its Employer of Choice programme, which has successfully implemented a wide variety of new Promote the health and wellbeing of employees in the work development and employee engagement initiatives.
environment: Employees now have dedicated resources to Provide opportunities for employee dialogue: listen actively and support, motivate and work with them to develop encourage participation in the resolution of issues: their careers and specialist support to provide professional development and technical mentoring.
Invest in employee development and provide opportunities for career and personal advancement, including involvement in At a time when leaders must be able to deal community activities: with ambiguity and uncertainty, while confidently managing risk and leading change across their Safeguard employee rights, including but not limited to, rights to business, we have increased the scope of our freedom of association and collective bargaining: development programmes for senior management.
Embrace and encourage the diversity that exists amongst The Global Business Managers Programme and our employees, whilst treating individuals with respect.
new Global Strategic Management Development Programme have both been developed to facilitate strategic and leadership learning, networking and sharing best practice.
We employ over 53,500 people in 34 countries.
We take a proactive approach to succession Our employees are the foundation of our planning, to mitigate risks and focus our relationships with our stakeholders: by creating an development programmes where they are most environment where they feel supported, rewarded needed.
Our objective is to improve our ability to and encouraged to develop, we are able to help fill key roles internally thereby enabling continuity them reach their potential.
and providing career opportunities for the talent that During 2009 we continued to maintain and develop we have throughout the Group.
One initiative driven our positive relationship with our employees.
It was by our understanding of current succession plans a challenging year for our business, and we are was the creation of a Global Leadership Potential proud of the way they have responded.
This provides individual action plans devoted considerable efforts to recognising their for people who show particular promise, to prepare them for appropriate future roles at more senior levels within the Group.
READ MORE ABOUT RISK p102 134 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 During 2009, over 11% of Old Mutual South Listening to, and engaging with, Africa employees accessed the health and our people wellbeing services and support offered to Maintaining high levels of commitment is important them by our Employee Wellbeing Programme, to both short and longterm business performance.
including over 800 who received facetoface We gauge employees commitment, involvement advice: and enthusiasm for their work and Old Mutual in terms of employee engagement.
Nedbank established a network of 80 Wellness Champions in the latter part of 2009 who have Every year we survey our employees confidentially, volunteered to communicate health and wellness to ask them about their experiences of working initiatives to colleagues.
at Old Mutual: and we use the results to inform changes within the business.
Surveys of this type Transformation in 2009 indicate that, due to the recession, across Transformation remains a key priority in our African all industries, levels of employee engagement operations and in 2009 we continued to focus have fallen.
Our 2009 survey showed we were no effort on making the profile of our employees more exception.
However, despite the slight decrease representative of the demographics of the people we in scores we continued to rank in the top quartile serve across South Africa.
of companies surveyed and engagement levels For example, at Nedbank, our retail division has remain high across the Group relative to other 1 made good progress in advancing black and black organisations.
female employees at senior, middle and junior Our employees recognised our ability to adapt management levels.
This helped earn us third to change and rate our managers highly in their place out of 200 in the 2009 Financial Mail Top levels of honesty and integrity.
This organisational Empowered Companies Survey.
The challenge resilience and trust in managers place us in a good remains to achieve our targets at all levels, and in position to remain competitive, continue building our 2010 we will continue to place a strong emphasis on performance score and retain valuable employees as achieving our goals.
the market begins to recover.
We place a premium on a strong internal communications process, both across the Group and within our business units, and we believe that this has been an important contributor to motivating EmPLOYEES our employees.
For the first time in the Groups HELPInG EmPLOYEES WITH history we launched a Groupwide ezine, In Touch.
This has been supported by our intranet and other mOnEY maTTERS internal magazines to share information between business units and keep employees up to date.
In Skandia UK we ran a In particular, it was important in 2009 to increase twoday Money Matters our communications about the financial crisis to programme.
This involved inform our employees of the latest developments in a range of activities to help the business and the sector.
Employees responded employees from across the positively, and this prompted many suggestions business learn more about that have led directly to numerous improvements the products and services benefiting our customers and the efficiency of the offered by Skandia, as well business.
as about their own personal finances.
As part of the initiative we launched a Money Matters Wellness at Work intranet site to give employees easy access to financerelated tips, We want Old Mutual to be a safe, positive and tools and information.
rewarding place for our employees to work, so we take their health and wellbeing at work seriously.
At Skandia we are always looking to provide training that helps our Across the Group individual business units have employees not only in their daytoday job but also in their personal a variety of approaches for promoting wellness at life.
This helps us ensure we deliver both for our customers and for work.
These are just a few examples: our people.
1 Benchmarked against members of the Corporate Leadership Council.
Old Mutual plc 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
