RISK and RESPOnSIBILITY RESPOnSIBLE BUSInESS InTROdUcTIOn Sustainable growth through responsible business The management of our social and environmental impacts is a central part of what it means for us to be a responsible business and deliver longterm sustainable success.
Don Schneider Group Human Resources Director Group Executive Responsible for Corporate Responsibility n The year in brief Completed our second public submission for the Carbon Disclosure Project Won five customer service awards Invested 10.1 million in local community programmes Set up the Group Responsible Business Committee Formalised our Responsible Business Policy Retained our membership of FTSE4Good Index and JSEs Socially Responsible Investment Index 1 Helen Wilson 3 Patrick Bowes 5 Martin Murray 7 Steve Lock Head of Corporate Head of Investor Relations Group Company Secretary Head of Financial Crime Responsibility Prevention and Security 4 Sam Brown 6 Don Schneider 2 Helen Casey Head of Risk, USA, Nordic Group Human Resources Head of Marketing and Retail Europe Director 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc 12 129 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read RISK and RESPOnSIBILITY RESPOnSIBLE BUSInESS InTROdUcTIOn cOnTInUEd nEnsuring sustainable growth nBroader commitment to Without doubt, 2008 and 2009 have been two responsible business of the most challenging years that many of us in In parallel with the changes to our governance and the financial services industry have experienced.
risk structures we have continued to look at the But a sharp shock can provide necessary focus.
bigger picture and deliver on the commitments We have used this experience to reevaluate the we have made as a Group.
This has included our drivers behind our vision of delivering longterm ongoing public commitment to addressing climate sustainable success.
change through our support for the work of the UN as a signatory to the Copenhagen Communiqu.
In the past year we have taken time to reexamine By better understanding our own impacts through in particular what it means to be a responsible our second public submission to the Carbon business and how we go about operating as one.
Disclosure Project we have been able to implement We have not only developed new governance and carbon reduction strategies across the Group.
management structures to deliver consistency across the Group: we have also considered We have also continued to pursue the principles how to build greater trust with our stakeholders.
outlined by the UN Global Compact on human Our progress so far is evidenced by the fact rights, labour, environment and anticorruption.
that in 2009 Old Mutual South Africa was voted During 2009, despite the global recession, we also number one for Corporate Reputation by Global maintained our investment in the communities and Reputation Pulse and Nedbank was voted Socially societies in which we operate particularly in South Responsible Bank of the Year at the African Banker Africa, where we continue to play a vital role in the Awards.
As we move forward, I firmly believe nations economic transformation.
that it is not enough to manage the risks we face nStronger stakeholder engagement related to our social and environmental impacts: Talking to our stakeholders, and understanding our future success depends on how we can create what matters to them, is always important: and it opportunities by taking a more proactive approach.
has never been more important to maintain ongoing nStrengthening governance dialogue and effective engagement than it was in and risk management 2009.
We spent a lot of time and effort making sure During 2009, strengthening our governance and risk that all our stakeholders, particularly customers processes across the Group has been one of our and employees, had the information they needed.
The details of this are explained In 2010 we will be expanding the number and in the risk section of the report but integrating range of stakeholder dialogues, and formalising the management of our social and environmental this process to ensure we focus on the issues and impacts into our approach was a central part of this impact areas that drive sustainable growth.
process and will continue to be a focus for 2010. nThe future In 2008 we made a commitment to set up a new Getting the right governance and risk management forum to focus on these issues: in 2009 we set up structures in place has been an important step our Responsible Business Committee, which I chair.
But we know there is still Through me, this new governance structure reports much for us to do.
This year promises to be an directly into the Group Executive Committee and exciting one, and we believe we are well positioned gives the Group leadership and direction on being a to continue achieving our aim of sustainable growth truly responsible business.
In addition to our new governance structure for responsible business, we have also developed Don Schneider our Responsible Business Principles into a Group Human Resources Director Groupwide policy: further details can be found in the sections that follow.
This policy is now effective for all business units, driving greater consistency across the Group.
For the first time, it includes a procurement policy defining what we expect of our suppliers and what our suppliers can expect from us, now and in the future.
As we move forward we plan to revisit the policy regularly to ensure it meets both our, and our stakeholders, rising expectations.
13 130 0 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK and RESPOnSIBILITY OUR aPPROacH TO RESPOnSIBLE BUSInESS Being a responsible business means pursing commercial success in ways that honour ethical values and respect people, communities and the natural environment.
It includes making decisions that fairly balance the claims of relevant stakeholders.
Our Responsible Business Policy sets out our top level commitment to operating responsibly and is structured around five key areas which we have determined are most material to our business, namely the customers, employees, environment, society and suppliers.
Details of the policy and our activities in these key impact areas in 2009 can be found in the sections that follow.
OUR STaKEHOLdERS and aPPROacH TO RESPOnSIBLE BUSInESS Customers provide high level of service provide appropriate advice prevent financial crime Suppliers Employees develop strong develop employee relationships potential factor in environmental safeguard employee and social impacts rights act fairly and honestly provide safe and Our healthy environment Stakeholders Society Environment support development minimise environmental in local communities impact promote financial engage employees education and inclusion manage impact manage impact of investments of investments Customers, shareholders, employees, local communities, regulators, suppliers, NGOs.
Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc 13 131 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
