GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:02 Page 19 Corporate Social Responsibility The Group believes that the long-term interests of shareholders, Composition of the workforce is reviewed on an annual basis and employees and customers are best served by acting in a socially employee satisfaction with equality of opportunity is monitored as responsible manner.
As such, the Group ensures that a high part of the regular employee feedback surveys.
Human standard of corporate governance is maintained.
Resources policies are reviewed regularly to ensure that they are non-discriminatory and promote equality of opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, selection, promotion, training and Commitment to our customers development policies and practices are monitored to ensure that all employees have the opportunity to train and develop The Group places the needs of customers at the heart of its according to their abilities.
With a commitment from the Board, fairness to customers is a key consideration and objective at all Information on the composition of the workforce at the year end stages of the lifetime of a loan.
is summarised below: Training and development 2009 2008 The Group has been accredited under the Investors in People Female employees 59.5% 62.5% scheme since 1997.
This demonstrates the Groups commitment Female management to the training and development of employees.
The staff appraisal grade employees 40.7% 38.3% system is designed to assist employees in developing their careers and to identify and provide appropriate training Ethnic minority employees 8.7% 8.7% opportunities, with all employees receiving a review at Ethnic minority management least annually.
grade employees 1.9% 2.0% The corporate training and development strategy focuses on providing opportunities to develop all staff and is central to the achievement of the Groups business objectives.
On average Employees involvement employees received 8.1 days training in the year 2008: 6.8 days.
The directors recognise the benefit of keeping employees Equality and diversity informed of the progress of the business.
The Group sponsors a Staff Forum, attended by elected staff representatives from each The Group is committed to providing a working environment in area of the business, which exists primarily to facilitate which employees feel valued and respected and are able to communication and dissemination of information throughout the contribute to the success of the business, and to employing a Group and provides a means by which employees can be workforce that recognises the diversity of customers.
Employees consulted on matters affecting them.
are requested to co-operate with the Groups efforts to ensure the policy is fully implemented.
Employees are provided with regular information on the performance and plans of the Group, and the financial and The Groups aim is that its employees should be able to work in an economic factors affecting it, through information circulars environment free from discrimination, harassment and bullying, and presentations.
and that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: The Company operates a Sharesave share option scheme and a race, colour, nationality including citizenship, ethnic or profit sharing scheme, both of which enable eligible employees to national origins benefit from the performance of the business.
gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status The directors encourage employee involvement at all levels religious or political beliefs or affiliations through the staff appraisal process and communication between disability, impairment or age directors, managers, teams and individual employees.
real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS membership of a trade union and that they should not be disadvantaged by unjust or unfair conditions or requirements.
When responding to changes in its business, the Group seeks to minimise the requirement for compulsory redundancy, retraining and redeploying staff wherever possible.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 19 GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:02 Page 20 C Environmental policy The Group is engaged in mortgage and consumer finance and therefore its overall environmental impact is considered to be low.
The main environmental impacts for the Group are limited to universal environmental issues such as resource use, procurement in offices and staff and business travel.
The Group complies with all applicable laws and regulations relating to the environment and operates a Green Charter, which: ensures all buildings occupied by the Group are managed efficiently by its Facilities Team and Building Surveyor encourages staff to conserve energy provides facilities to enable employees to re-cycle used products controls business travel and provides opportunities for employees to travel to work in various ways: i. e. providing cycle racks and showers where possible displays a Paragon Green Charter at all sites to encourage employees to be environmentally friendly at all times ensures liaison with the local community ensures that redundant IT equipment is disposed of within current directives regulations WEEE - Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, recycling 98% of such equipment ensures that all fluorescent light tubes are disposed of in a safe manner, compliant with appropriate regulations The Green Charter is kept under continuous review by the Facilities team.
All of the Groups paper based stationary is procured from FSC certified suppliers.
The Group has been involved in no prosecutions, accidents or similar non-compliances in respect of environmental matters.
The environmental key performance indicators for the Group, determined in accordance with the Reporting Guidelines published by the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA in 2006 are set out below.
Direct inputs operational GreenhouseDefinition Absolute tonnes Normalised tonnes CO 2 gases CO per m income 2 2009 2008 2009 2008 Gas Emissions from utility boilers 375 483 2.5 2.9 Vehicle fuel Petrol and diesel used by staff and company cars 285 304 1.9 1.8 Waste Definition Absolute tonnes Normalised tonnes per m income 2009 2008 2009 2008 Landfill General office waste, which includes a mixture of 101 159 0.7 1.0 paper, card, wood, plastics and metal Recycled General office waste recycled, primarily 82 55 0.5 0.3 paper and cardboard 20 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:02 Page 21 C Indirect inputs supply chain GreenhouseDefinition Absolute tonnes Normalised tonnes CO 2 gases CO per m income 2 2009 2008 2009 2008 Energy use Directly purchased electricity, which generates 1,255 1,866 8.3 11.2 greenhouse gas emissions Water Definition Absolute cubic metres Normalised cubic metres per m income 2009 2008 2009 2008 Supplied Consumption of piped water.
No water is 6,374 6,583 42.3 39.4 extracted directly by the Group water Gas, electricity and water usage is based on consumption recorded on purchase invoices.
Vehicle fuel usage is based on expense claims and recorded mileage and waste generation is based on volumes reported on disposal invoices.
CO values above are calculated based on the DEFRA guidelines published in September 2009 2008: June 2008.
Normalised data is 2 based on total operating income of 150.8m 2008: 166.9m.
All employees are provided with such equipment, information, Health and Safety policy training and supervision as is necessary to implement the policy in It is the Groups policy to comply with the terms of the Health and order to achieve the above stated objective.
The Group makes Safety at Work Act 1974, and subsequent legislation, and to available such finances and resources deemed reasonable to provide and maintain a healthy and safe working environment.
The health and safety objective of the Group is to minimise the All injuries, however small, sustained by a person at work must be number of instances of occupational accidents and illnesses and reported.
Accident records are crucial to the effective monitoring ultimately achieve an accident-free workplace.
and revision of the policy and must therefore be accurate The Group recognises and accepts its duty to protect the health and comprehensive.
and safety of all visitors to its premises, including contractors and The Group recognises the civil and moral need to ensure that all temporary workers, as well as any members of the public who employees adhere to this health and safety policy and is prepared might be affected by our operations.
to invoke the disciplinary procedure in case of any deliberate While the management of the Group will do all within its power to disregard for the health and safety policy.
ensure the health and safety of its employees, it is recognised that The Groups health and safety policy is continually monitored health and safety at work is the responsibility of each and every and updated, particularly when changes in the scale or nature individual associated with the Group.
It is the duty of each of our operations occur.
The policy is updated at least every employee to take reasonable care of their own and other peoples twelve months.
welfare and to report any situation which may pose a threat to the well-being of any other person.
A six monthly health and safety report is produced by Head of Group Services for the Senior Management Group.
Consultants Health and safety policies and procedures are managed by the are employed to present annually at the Senior Management Group Services Division who liaise with senior management and Group meeting to discuss any health and safety issues or Human Resources as necessary.
External consultants are concerns and to summarise the Groups current status.
employed and regular meetings are held with Group Property Services.
The consultants also attend senior management meetings twice a year.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 21 GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:02 Page 22 C Charitable contributions The Group contributes to registered charities relating to financial services or serving the local communities in which it operates.
Included in the charitable contributions shown in the Directors Report are contributions of 36,792 2008: 49,806 made by the Group to the work of the Foundation for Credit Counselling which operates the Consumer Credit Counselling Service.
The Group has also contributed to charities throughout the year by way of single donations.
The Groups main objective is to support childrens and local charities although no charity request is overlooked.
During the last year the Group has helped many and varied charities and causes such as: Youth Speaks, Light Hall School, Transplant Active, Pathway Project, Downs Syndrome Swimming, Second Chance, Samantha Dickson Brain Tumour Trust, Happy Days, Stroke Association, Mencap, Action for Sick Children, British Blind Sport, Childrens Cancer Care, Disability Challenge, Brainwaive, Make a Wish Foundation, The Jennifer Trust, Reality Adventure Works in Scotland, Shirley Lions Club, Lupus and Playbox.
The Group also supports Paragons Charity Committee, consisting of volunteer employees, which organises a variety of fundraising activities throughout the year, raising in the region of 10,000 for the employees chosen charity.
All employees are given the opportunity to nominate a charity and a vote is carried out to select the beneficiary of the years fundraising.
22 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
