Directors report: Business review 40 Corporate responsibility Our approach to CR management has In a year which has seen the wider financial developed over the past nine years and is at the heart of our mission to be the services sector experience continued turbulence leading non-standard lender in the UK, and uncertainty, corporate responsibility CR acting responsibly in all our relationships and playing a positive role in the remains a fundamental part of our business strategy communities we serve.
and will play a key role in our long-term success.
Through our CR programme we are able to By ensuring that we continue to manage material, manage effectively and understand the social, environmental and economic environmental and societal impacts, we will be able impacts of our operations, as well as to demonstrate to our stakeholders that we are a maintain our relationships with the people that matter to the business whether they responsible, well managed provider of credit are customers, employees, suppliers, local communities or investors.
By proactively managing our CR impacts, we are able to differentiate ourselves from other companies in our sector, secure business advantage, deliver long-term value to our shareholders, and contribute to the sustainability of our businesses.
Our CR strategy We recognise that by conducting our business in a sustainable and socially responsible manner, we can grow the long-term value of the company.
To ensure that we focus on the social, environmental and economic issues that are material to our activities, our approach to CR management is guided by the feedback we receive from both internal and external stakeholders.
We do this by making regular use of employee opinion surveys, focus groups and customer satisfaction surveys, and by convening annual roundtable sessions with representatives from key stakeholder groups.
Peter Crook Rob Lawson This approach has enabled us to develop a Chief Executive Corporate Responsibility CR management strategy which is Manager organised around six key themes: governance and management, our customers, our people, our supply chain, community involvement, and the environment.
Through the ongoing management of our CR programme we are able to work towards our mission to be the leading non-standard lender in the UK and Ireland, while ensuring that we continue to deliver high levels of customer satisfaction, reduce the impact that our activities have on the environment, act responsibly in all our relationships, and play a positive role in Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review Corporate responsibility 41 continued the communities we serve.
Our CR involvement programme to ensure that programme in turn underlines the employees from across our business importance of our company values of initiate projects within the many Throughout 2009, we acting in a fair manner, conducting our communities we serve throughout business dealings responsibly, delivering the UK and Ireland.
continued to be represented accessible products to our customers, on the main global operating in a straightforward way and In addition to the management being progressive.
committee, there are three key working sustainability indices.
groups which have been established to Embedding CR within our business ensure that CR is a core part of our Comprehensive governance and business and to address the social, management structures have been put in environmental and economic issues that place across the group to ensure that CR are material to our activities.
The working remains a core part of our strategy.
The groups, which feed into the board either Chief Executive has responsibility for our directly, or via the management overall, group-wide CR programme, and committee, are set out in the table below.
chairs the groups management committee which provides oversight to the CR Scrutiny of our CR performance programme on behalf of the Provident Throughout 2009, we continued to Financial board.
In addition to the Chief be represented on the main global Executive, this committee comprises the sustainability indices and responded to Finance Director and Managing Director requests from investors and analysts to of the Consumer Credit Division, the share information on our CR programme.
Managing Director of Vanquis Bank, the This is an important aspect of our Directors of Corporate Affairs and approach to CR management as it Corporate Strategy, and the Company provides investors and other stakeholders Secretary and General Counsel.
with demonstrable evidence of our commitment to operating our business During 2009, the groups management in a responsible manner, and how we committee made significant contributions manage the social, environmental and to the way that we manage our CR ethical impacts that are material to performance.
This included approving the our operations.
newest strand of our community Working group Chair Membership Role Responsible Chris Gillespie, Representatives from the Establish a framework to manage the issue of lending group Managing Director of Consumer Credit Division, responsible lending for both the Consumer Credit the Consumer Credit Vanquis Bank and Provident Division and Vanquis Bank.
Division and Financial corporate office.
Ensure that the Consumer Credit Division and Vanquis Provident Financial Bank operate at, or above, the standards expected of Executive Director.
financial services organisations in relation to the responsible lending agenda.
Contribute to the strategic direction of Provident Corporate David Stevenson, Groups have been established within both the Financials CR programme, in particular ensuring that responsibility Head of Consumer Credit Division elements of our approach to HR and supply chain working groups Communications, Provident Financial.
and Vanquis Bank and management are factored into the group-wide CR include representation from programme.
HR, procurement and Generate CR management performance information communications functions.
to include in Provident Financials CR Reports and submissions to sustainability indices.
Provide support to help co-ordinate the delivery of Provident Financials CR management programme.
Environmental Rob Lawson, CR Groups have been Contribute to the strategic direction of Provident working groups Manager, Provident established within both the Financials environmental management programme.
Consumer Credit Division Generate environmental management performance and Vanquis Bank and information to include in CR reports and submissions include representation to sustainability indices.
from facilities management, Provide support to help co-ordinate the delivery of HR and IT functions.
Provident Financials environmental management programme.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review 42 Corporate responsibility continued CR working group During 2009, the CR working group discussed a range of measures that could be implemented across our business to reinforce our commitment to improve workplace diversity.
There are three working groups which have been established to ensure that CR is a core part of our business.
principles of inclusivity, materiality During the year we were included in the and responsiveness.
The report was FTSE4Good index, the Dow Jones 1 30 also checked to determine whether Sustainability indices for the World DJSI World and Europe DJSI STOXX and the it was aligned with the Global Number of years of experience Ethibel Pioneer and Ethibel Excellence Reporting Initiatives G3 sustainability serving the non-standard Investment Registers.
We continued to reporting guidelines.
credit market make annual submissions to the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Further information on our CR reports can Index and the Carbon Disclosure Project be found at www.
We were also awarded a Prime CR rating by Oekom research.
This Responsible delivery of products 1 880 recognises our status as a leading and services organisation within our sector, and our At the centre of our business and our Year home credit business success in meeting Oekoms sustainability CR programme are our customers: in established criteria, which cover a range of social, particular our commitment to lend ethical and environmental issues.
The responsibly and provide products which rating means that our shares will qualify meet their needs.
In practice this means for ecologically and socially based providing straightforward and clear investment by Oekoms clients.
information on our products and charges, and not lending more than our customers CR reporting can afford.
This allows them to make In addition to including information on our informed choices and ensure that they are CR programme in our Annual Report, we not overstretched with their repayments.
remain committed to producing an annual CR report.
This report enables us to With 130 years of experience in the provide our stakeholders with a written non-standard credit market, we have account of our CR performance and how it acquired a huge amount of knowledge relates to our values, overall business about our customers.
This has enabled us strategy and stated objectives and targets.
to develop home-collected credit and It also enables us to subject the credit card products which are tailored to management systems, processes and meet the needs of our customers, along procedures which underpin our CR report with high levels of personal customer to a process of independent assurance.
During 2009, the commentary and data in our 2008 CR report was independently Responsible lending assured by the specialist management The concept of responsible lending is built consultancy Corporate Citizenship.
In into the products and services we offer our undertaking this work, Corporate customers.
To make sure we are lending Citizenship evaluated the nature and responsibly, it is imperative that we help extent of our reports adherence to the our employees and the self-employed AccountAbility 1000 assurance standard agent force to make the right lending Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review Corporate responsibility 43 continued decisions.
The business has continued to Affordable repayments refine and use its credit scoring systems Our approach to collecting repayments to help decide whether to accept new from customers is both practical for us and We know that those on customers or extend further credit to helpful for them.
From our experience of existing ones.
There are two systems we lending to customers in the non-standard modest incomes have use in home credit to do this: the System credit market, we know that those on particular needs and our Enhanced Lending system and the Single modest incomes have particular needs and View of Customer system.
our approach to collecting repayments approach to collecting addresses those needs.
repayments addresses The System Enhanced Lending SEL system is used to assess the loan applications The home credit business includes a those needs.
made by existing customers on the basis of weekly visit from a local agent to their previous payment history.
Following customers homes to collect repayments.
this assessment, a credit score is assigned This weekly routine helps customers to to the customer, which is in turn used to keep their account in order and means inform the lending decision.
If an they do not need to worry about having unacceptable credit score or do not issue the money in their bank account on a message is generated as a result of the particular date with the consequent assessment, the customer will not be danger if they do not of incurring default offered an additional loan.
There are occasions when our enables us to issue loans to existing or home credit customers miss repayments or previous customers of the right size and at make reduced repayments: they incur no the right time.
The SEL status for each extra charges whatsoever for this.
customer is updated each week whether an application is made or not.
This Vanquis Bank customers who sign up for information is available to agents to assist our Repayment Option Plan can also them in dealing with customer requests.
choose to miss one repayment every six As well as filtering out higher credit risks, months.
We find that allowing customers the system can also help agents to spot to miss occasional repayments within the good payers earlier in their relationship, terms and conditions of their credit providing opportunities to offer more agreement helps them remain good Accreditations credit sooner, when that is appropriate customers in the longer term and fits with for the customer.
The Single View of Customer SVC system Vanquis Bank sets a high minimum monthly is applied to customers that come to us repayment level of 5% for customers with directly, via our website or contact centre, lower credit limits compared with most or are introduced to us by agents.
SVC other credit card providers who set is used to create a risk profile of new minimum repayments at 2% to 3%.
This customers using a bespoke risk index enables customers to stay in control of scorecard.
The system is used to inform their finances.
To make repayments as lending decisions and ensures we lend flexible as possible, Vanquis Bank customers the right amount at the customers can choose to make payments right time.
fortnightly or monthly and pay by a variety of means.
In addition, all new Vanquis Bank customers undergo a credit bureau Our ongoing dialogue with customers check prior to being taken on.
Bureau means that difficulties can be identified data is then used to inform our decisions early, discussed with the customer, and whether to accept or reject customers, actions agreed.
and how much to advance at any particular time.
Vanquis Bank also uses internal Customer satisfaction behavioural data along with external By developing and delivering products and bureau data to re-score every account services that are tailored to meet the every month to inform credit line, price needs of our customers, we are able to and contact decisions.
achieve customer satisfaction rates that are consistently high.
The approach to lending we have developed over the past 130 years means The table below shows overall customer we are well placed to decide to whom we satisfaction with our main services for the will lend, and to whom we will not.
We period 2005-2009. currently turn down around 50% of home % of Vanquis Bank credit applicants and around 80% of % of home credit customers rating applications to Vanquis Bank.
customers very their overall or quite satisfied experience as good with the service or excellent 2005 94 n a 2006 93 n a 2007 94 84 2008 95 88 2009 94 86 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review 44 Corporate responsibility continued A great place to work Both the Consumer Credit Division and In order to continue to operate a Vanquis Bank continue to use learning sustainable business, Provident aims to management systems in order to deliver attract, develop and retain the best people a range of role-related computer-based by providing a working environment that is training CBT courses that can be accessed safe, inclusive and meritocratic, and where by employees via our intranets.
behaviours that are aligned with our Throughout 2009, CBT courses were core values are recognised and rewarded.
delivered to staff on a range of topics, including the Consumer Credit Act 2006, As such, we are committed to investing in the Treating Customers Fairly regulatory the 3,700 people we employ across the regime, the Data Protection Act, complaint UK and Ireland to help them reach their handling processes, and personal safety.
full potential and help our businesses to flourish.
During 2009, the Consumer Credit Division received accreditation from the Chartered O Ou ur p r pe eo op pl le e Developing talent, leadership skills and Management Institute CMI to develop capabilities of our people O Ou ur p r pe eo op plle a e ar re v e viit ta al t l to P o Pr ro ov viid fide en nt ts s and deliver two courses for the leaders of Our people are at the heart of what we do s su ucc cce es ss a s an nd i d in nv five es st tiin ng i g in t n th he em w m wiilll h l he ellp p tomorrow.
The leadership management as a business.
It is therefore incumbent o ou ur b r bu us siin ne es ss t s to fl o flo ou ur riis sh h.. programme, which is for area and head upon us to continue to train and develop office managers, meets the CMIs Level 3 them to ensure that they maximise their Diploma in First Line Management career potential and contribute to the standard, and the senior leadership and long-term success of our business.
We management programme, which is for aspire to create a culture where everyone senior managers from across the business, is supported, developed and encouraged meets the Level 5 Diploma in Leadership at all levels and where everyone strives to and Management standard.
achieve the highest quality standards in meeting our business objectives and their 3 3, 7 70 00 0 Managing workplace diversity personal goals.
Provident Financial is committed to T To ot ta al l n nu um mb be er r o of f g gr ro ou up p e em mp pl lo oy ye ee es s providing a working culture that is Throughout 2008 and 2009, both our inclusive to all and ensuring that equal businesses introduced a range of training opportunities underpin our recruitment, and development programmes to improve employment, training and remuneration the way in which training is delivered to practices.
Our corporate policy states that staff and subsequently recorded.
we will ensure that individuals are selected, promoted and treated on the Within the Consumer Credit Division, the basis of their relevant merits and abilities career development programme is the and that no job applicant, employee or Effective Performance Management EPM third party acting on behalf of the process.
The purpose of the EPM process is company will receive less favourable Provident aims to attract, to identify development opportunities to treatment because of race, colour, improve individual performance in line develop and retain the best nationality, ethnic or other national origin, with the individuals current role, future gender, sexual orientation, marital status, roles and future business requirements.
people by providing a age, disability, religion or belief.
The process includes quarterly working environment that performance reviews and annual career Both the Consumer Credit Division and reviews.
These reviews are used to is safe, inclusive and Vanquis Bank undertook a range of highlight an individuals development meritocratic.
activities during 2009 to reinforce our needs, which are in turn documented and corporate commitment to manage monitored using a Personal Development diversity-related issues.
PDPs are updated each time a Consumer Credit Division developed an formal review takes place, with newly action plan that was approved by the identified development needs and divisional board to improve diversity progress reviewed against existing management performance across the development needs.
In addition, we worked with the Employers Forum on Disability to develop Within Vanquis Bank, two different career an interactive line manager guide on development programmes are in place.
Annual performance reviews are used for During 2010, this guide will be made all non contact centre staff and all available to line managers via the learning managers.
Six-monthly performance management systems on Provident reviews are used for all contact centre staff Financials intranet sites.
PDPs are used to complement and link to the annual performance reviews and the objective setting process.
In addition, an annual process is in place to identify and support employees with high potential or who are rising stars.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review Corporate responsibility 45 continued Engaging and inspiring our people sustainable community-based partnerships In January 2009, we carried out the third between commerce, schools, arts venues, 88% employee engagement survey across the artists, parents and local education Consumer Credit Division and corporate authorities.
It also provided employment Percentage of children who said office.
The survey measured the level of for local professional artists and is aligned taking part in Spark made them engagement based on employees with key Government education and feel proud willingness to say i. e. to speak positively cultural agendas.
The classroom-based about Provident to colleagues, potential workshops and integral celebration events enabled thousands of children to learn new employees and customers, stay i. e. to creative arts skills, increase their show desire to be part of the company confidence, and experience a sense of and strive i. e. to volunteer extra effort 1 0,000 pride and achievement.
Spark has enriched and engage in behaviour that contributes team and group working skills, respect and to the companys success.
The overall Number of children who took part co-operation, speaking and listening skills, engagement score within the Consumer in Spark language development and creativity.
Credit Division and corporate office rose to 60% compared with 42% in 2007.
Over the last four years, we have worked The feedback obtained through the closely with all our project partners to engagement surveys has been used to ensure that the Spark project leaves a develop a number of work streams that robust legacy of improvement in the will be introduced across our business provision of arts education.
It is important to improve employee engagement levels.
to us that our funding achieves a sustainable platform for development and Playing an active role in our growth.
Through Spark, theatre venue communities partners have been able to build close Provident Financials mission is to be the working relationships with primary schools leading non-standard lender in the UK in their regions schools that in many and Ireland, acting responsibly in all our cases had never previously visited the relationships and playing a positive role theatre or had an arts education agenda.
in the communities we serve.
With this Arts centres learned what schools need, mission statement it is imperative that and teachers learned how creative we conduct our business dealings techniques reach and inspire young responsibly and ensure that we have children.
Since Spark, many theatres a positive impact on the communities and schools have continued to in which our customers, agents and collaborate independently on other employees live and work.
Our approach arts education projects.
to community involvement has two main strands: helping to address the education Being a good neighbour and social inclusion needs of young Following stakeholder research that was people who live in less privileged carried out during 2008, a major new communities, and working with the strand of our community programme money advice sector on issues such called Good Neighbour was launched in as financial education.
It will replace Spark as Providents flagship community programme and 2009 was a significant year for our support our ambition to play a positive community involvement programme and role in the communities we serve.
Good saw the launch of a major new strand of Neighbour has the following three our programme and the last year of components: funding for our Spark project.
1 Supporting local projects: Working in Spark partnerships with local community For the past four years, Spark has been our organisations, Good Neighbour will flagship community involvement project.
It deliver projects which are tailored to has been an ambitious and exciting arts meet the needs of local residents.
Major education project which has brought Spark projects will be run over a three-year creative arts education into hundreds of Spark gave thousands of primary school period, and there will be opportunities classrooms in schools from disadvantaged children the opportunity to experience to deliver smaller, one-off projects too.
areas of the UK and Ireland.
Spark was a host of creative activities including managed throughout the UK and Ireland rap writing, street dance, poetry and 2 Employee volunteering: Good Neighbour by the West Yorkshire Playhouse in ethnic drumming.
It gave children of all will support employees participating in partnership with seven other theatres in academic abilities the chance to express company-led volunteering projects, Battersea, Birmingham, Bolton, Dublin, themselves and discover new talents, including one-to-one mentoring Dundee, Edinburgh and Newport.
projects, the Provident Financial Reading Scheme, and Team Challenges.
Between 2006 and 2009, Spark has provided more than 10,000 children and 3 Employee matched-giving: Employees 260 teachers with opportunities to taking part in fundraising activities or participate, learn, and develop through volunteering in their local communities experiencing creative art forms in school.
can apply for matched giving and Developed as a partnership initiative from volunteering grants to make their the outset, Spark has forged a network of contribution go even further.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review 46 Corporate responsibility continued Since the launch of Good Neighbour Money advice and financial earlier this year, Provident Financial has education projects 604 established nine long-term projects with We support, through financial a range of community partners.
contributions and other means, Employees volunteered in 2009 These include: a programme to provide debt advice and financial education across the UK.
Sedbergh Youth and Community Centre: During 2009, we continued to work with This centre serves the areas of Odsal, a number of organisations in this sector, Buttershaw, Woodside and Wyke including Advice UK, Citizens Advice, 9 in Bradford.
Provident Financial has Consumer Credit Counselling Service, provided funding for a new, part-time Institute of Money Advisers, Money Advice Long-term Good Neighbour project co-ordinator, plus funding for Liaison Group, Money Advice Scotland, projects started Money Advice Trust, and National Debtline.
a range of new daytime and evening We also worked with the following more activities, including: the young at heart specialised providers: Credit Action, pensioner group, a parent and toddler DebtCred, and Christians Against Poverty.
group, a youth club, mini tennis coaching and a school holiday project.
Responsible procurement Ensuring that we purchase products and Sefton Enterprises Limited: This services that have minimal impacts on the organisation is a registered charity that environment and are socially responsible has been serving the needs of people and ethical is a key component of our CR within Sefton, Liverpool, for over 30 programme.
Funding has been provided to procurement spend of the Provident allow two new part-time posts to be Financial group was 87.7m, making our created for local people to support and supply chain a significant part of our CR expand the work of the charity.
This means it is vital that we will be provided for a community project work to ensure our suppliers are aware of which will allow adults and younger our commitments to manage the social, learners to work together, encouraging environmental and economic impact of our unemployed residents to improve their operations.
Furthermore, it is important skills and gain employment by taking that we seek to improve the sustainability part in projects which will improve the credentials of the products and services physical environment of the area.
we procure for our businesses.
Support has also been given for a summer camp to allow 20 local, young Prompt payment people to take part in team-building We remain committed to ensuring that we and improving self-confidence sessions treat our suppliers in a fair and reasonable in Snowdonia.
This means paying our suppliers in accordance with their agreed terms and Boomerang: This is a community conditions.
This is particularly important to organisation based in the Stobswell area small and medium sized enterprises SMEs of Dundee.
The organisation provides as late payment can severely affect an services and activities for over 300 SMEs cash flow.
members of the local community.
Funding will be used to provide an IT Sustainability assessments worker to work in their Learning Centre During 2008 and 2009, we started supporting the long-term unemployed, undertaking site audits to verify the those recently made redundant and compliance of suppliers with our those in low paid occupations.
Funding environmental, health and safety, and data has also been provided for a Friday and protection policies.
For example, work was Saturday evening Youth Caf to help Good Neighbour carried out to implement new waste prevent antisocial behaviour in the area.
Team challenges are an important management and recycling facilities within component of our Good Neighbour the Consumer Credit Divisions network of In addition to the above, a number of programme, They give our employees branch offices.
This involved using a CR one-off projects across the country have the opportunity to spend time out questionnaire at the pre-qualification and been funded to date, including: equipment of the office helping their local invitation to tender stages to elicit social, for a sensory garden at a special needs community while also developing environmental and ethical information school in Ayr: an after-school project in their own skills.
from prospective suppliers, and Halifax: and a support programme in undertaking visits to sites managed by a Stoke-on-Trent for families affected by range of organisations.
On the basis of the drugs or alcohol.
information generated by this work, we were able to select a supplier who would In terms of employee matched funding be able to increase our recycling rates and 16 and the volunteering component of Good minimise the waste generated by our Neighbour, 604 employees took part in branch offices.
Number of team challenges in 2009 16 team challenges and other volunteering initiatives during 2009.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review Corporate responsibility 47 continued Minimising our impact on the Green office environment Throughout 2009, we made progress with Our values state that we will conduct our our plans to relocate our head office to a business in a responsible manner and this new site in Bradford city centre.
The move, includes ensuring that we manage our which is scheduled to take place in 2010, impacts on the environment.
As a business will give us the opportunity to implement with operations spread across many towns measures to reduce our impact on the and cities in the UK and Ireland, Provident environment at the design and Financial has a number of impacts on the procurement stages of this development.
These impacts relate to a To this end, we will use the Building wide range of issues, including energy use Research Establishment Environmental and transport, water consumption, waste Assessment Methodology BREEAM for management, and the use of materials Offices in the development of the new such as paper.
This methodology is the worlds Green fleet most widely used means of reviewing and While our impacts on the environment are improving the environmental performance Weve taken steps to make our company small compared to businesses in some of office buildings.
Buildings are assessed car fleet more environmentally friendly other sectors, we recognise that by and awarded credits according to their and increase our contribution to actively managing our environmental level of performance within a range of reducing climate change.
We now offer impacts we can contribute to the longenvironmental categories including energy more fuel-efficient cars, including those term sustainability of our business.
This use, health and well being, transport, that use hybrid technology, to reduce means ensuring that we identify materials and water.
The credits are then carbon dioxide emissions.
opportunities to reduce levels of energy added together using a set of environmental weightings to produce a and resource use, and being accountable single overall score.
The building is then for our impact on global environmental rated as either Outstanding, Excellent, issues such climate change.
It is anticipated that Providents new offices will achieve a Operating in a low carbon economy rating of Very Good.
We recognise that climate change represents one of the most significant environmental challenges facing society.
To address this issue, we published our low carbon strategy in 2007 which underlines our commitment to reduce the carbon intensity of our operations.
Throughout 2009, we undertook a range of activities which helped deliver our low carbon strategy.
This included: We recognise that by Continuing to measure, report and actively managing our benchmark the carbon dioxide emissions environmental impacts associated with our business activities.
we can contribute to the Engaging with our customers on long-term sustainability money-saving tips, including those which relate to energy efficiency.
Purchasing a significant proportion of electricity from the Good Quality Combined Heat and Power scheme which reduces the carbon intensity of the power we use.
Offsetting the carbon dioxide emissions associated with the business-related journeys made by employees using their own vehicles, train journeys and flights by making an investment in a small-scale renewable energy project.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
