BUSINESS REVIEW Business review Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review Harvey McGrath, Chairman, Prudential plc is the Board While the Group sets the overall strategy for CR, our framework sponsor for corporate responsibility CR.
gives our businesses the flexibility to implement programmes that best meet their local markets.
This recognises that our people on CR is a philosophy that is firmly embedded in Prudentials the ground are closest to their customers, and their communities, operations around the world as an integral part of the way we and know best how to meet their needs and expectations.
We strive to minimise the social, ethical and environmental impact Fair and transparent products meeting customer needs of our activities and to maximise the opportunities.
We recognise Understanding and responding to our customers needs is at the the importance of engaging with our stakeholders and responding heart of our business.
It is something we have been doing for over to their concerns.
To do this we maintain a regular dialogue and 160 years.
conduct periodic research on the issues that matter most to them.
Today, we have significant operations in Asia, the US and the UK.
In 2009, financial institutions came under continued scrutiny as a We serve over 15 million customers in Asia, we have nearly 2.8 result of the market turmoil.
Insurance companies are, however, million policies and contracts in force across the US, in the UK we fundamentally different from banks because we invest in assets for have approximately seven million customers through Prudential the long-term.
During the financial turmoil we played a significant UK, and our asset management business, M&G, serves retail and role to help stabilise the market by providing liquidity during institutional investors, including 350,000 private investors.
difficult times to the benefit of the whole economy.
Responding to customers needs Insurance companies have a unique role in society by helping We are committed to listening to our customers and people manage uncertainty and plan for a more secure future.
understanding their individual needs so that we can help In this way, our commercial value is linked to the social value them make well-informed decisions.
The demographics of our of what we offer to our customers.
geographies, and our areas of expertise, mean the profiles of Our approach to CR is underpinned by our founding values of our customers and our products vary across our operations.
Throughout our 160-year history For example, in Asia, we have broadened our accident and we have been committed to helping our customers safeguard their health protection product portfolio, recognising the importance financial security and protect their families.
This, together with our customers place in healthcare for their extended family.
By contribution to the well-being of the communities in which we offering effective, economical solutions, we give our customers operate, is as strong today as it has always been.
Our offering in this product suite includes innovative solutions such as our first-in-market Multiple Claims CR framework Critical Illness products that allow customers to make up to three In late 2008, we enhanced our CR framework to further drive claims.
Another example of our commitment to provide local sustainability performance, provide greater focus to our products meeting local needs was the launch in 2009 of our programmes and activities, and to enable a more consistent Shariah-compliant Islamic fund management business in approach to our reporting.
We frame our CR activities around Malaysia, Prudential Al-Wara Asset Management Berhad.
five core themes: In the US, there are approximately 78 million people who will 1 Fair and transparent products meeting customer needs move from the workforce into retirement during the next decade.
2 Best people for the best performing business Jackson, our US business, is focused on understanding and meeting customers post-retirement needs.
During 2009, a period 3 Protecting the environment of unprecedented financial turmoil, savers began to seek greater 4 Supporting local communities certainty.
Jackson was quick to respond through making its variable annuity products more widely available.
It also provided 5 Accountability and governance customers with the flexibility to select, and only pay for, those benefits that met their unique financial requirements.
During 2009, Jackson also introduced a bespoke educational series for advisors to help them respond to customer concerns about the impact of the economic climate on their savings and income.
Our five corporate responsibility themes Fair and Best people for the transparent Protecting the Supporting local Accountability best performing 1 2 3 4 5 products meeting environment communities and governance business customer needs 69 Business review Corporate responsibility review continued The UK is characterised by an ageing population.
Low savings Serving our customers rates and high levels of consumer debt, coupled with an increasing We do not underestimate the importance of the financial shift in responsibility for providing retirement income away from decisions our customers face and the trust they place in us government and employers towards individuals, have resulted in to help them meet their changing requirements for savings, people being inadequately provided for during increasingly long income and protection.
As a result, there is a growing need for In 2009, Prudential Corporation Asia, was named Asia Pacific financial advice and financial products, including guarantees Health Insurer of the Year by Frost and Sullivan, underscoring and longevity protection.
consumers trust and confidence in our brand in that region, Prudential UK is helping to bridge this gap, principally through our and the professionalism of our teams.
core annuities, pensions and investment products where we can In the US, we once again earned recognition as a World Class maximise the advantage we have in offering with-profits and other service provider in the latest benchmarking study of North multi-asset investment funds.
We are the largest annuity provider American service centres by the Service Quality Measurements in the UK with approximately 1.5 million annuities in payment.
This marked the fifth year that Jackson has In addition, our with-profits offering is among the strongest in the achieved World Class status.
Jackson also earned SQMs Highest industry, with our With-Profits fund consistently outperforming Customer Satisfaction by Industry award for having the highest the market for our long-term investors and providing them with rate of customer satisfaction in the financial services industry.
attractive returns compared with many other investment options.
It also protects investors from the full impact of volatile market Our businesses participate actively in industry efforts to serve conditions while giving them the confidence of knowing that their customers better.
In the UK, the Financial Services Authority FSA savings are invested in a financially strong and well-managed fund.
has established Treating Customers Fairly principles.
In support of this, Prudential is a member of the Association of British Insurers At M&G, our UK and European asset manager, we believe in ABI Customer Impact Scheme that seeks to drive continuous offering clients straightforward products together with clear and improvement through the monitoring of customers experiences.
balanced information, helping them make the right investment In 2009, Prudential UK saw an increase in the number of decisions for their needs.
At M&G, our strategy is to invest customers rating it very good or excellent for the time taken to in companies and not just chase share prices.
We are informed arrange an annuity from 45 per cent in 2008 to 62 per cent in shareholders, not traders, which means taking a long-term 2009.
Prudential UK also won two five-star awards at the Financial approach to investment opportunities and, provided our Adviser Service Awards as well as receiving the award for the best investment case remains intact, maintaining our conviction annuity provider at the Professional Adviser Awards 2010. in the companies we hold.
We always try to resolve any problems for our customers as quickly In response to the significant reduction in bank lending in 2009, and smoothly as possible.
In 2009, the Financial Ombudsman M&G created the M&G UK Companies Financing Fund.
This fund Service FOS in the UK first published its complaints data showing seeks to offer valuable finance to medium to large-sized mid cap the number of cases upheld by FOS in favour of the consumer.
companies and has attracted some 1.6 billion in commitments Prudential was well above the industry norm, ranking 4th in the from clients.
list of almost 150 financial services companies.
A number of our customer-focused initiatives deliver wider benefits across other areas of our CR agenda.
For example, in the Best people for the best performing business US, Jacksons customer e-delivery strategy via its new website At Prudential, we strive to create an environment that enables us is providing customers with information on-demand, while also to attract and retain the right people those who are committed helping to protect the environment by conserving resources and and able to deliver top performance for our customers and generating cost savings for our business.
To achieve this we continue to drive our Human Resources HR strategy around five key themes: Clearly, it is in our own interest to understand and respond to ongoing demographic change as it enables us to tailor our Getting the right people into the business products and services more effectively.
However, we also take Building and rewarding performance a leading role in efforts to understand the implications of these Growing a strong talent pipeline changes on a global scale.
Developing credible successors Developing an organisation that works In mid 2010, we will publish The Global Ageing Preparedness Index in partnership with the Centre for Strategic and International Studies.
This will analyse 20 countries and their responses to the needs of an ageing population.
We expect the index to make a useful contribution and broaden the debate.
70 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW Diversity Inherent in our reward strategy is provision for our employees to benefit from the Groups success through share ownership.
In the We are committed to integrating diversity into our business practices.
Our policies are guided by the principles of the UNs UK, we operate two all employee share plans: a Share Investment Plan SIP and a Save As You Earn SAYE scheme.
In 2009 over Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisations core labour standards.
68 per cent of eligible employees participated in the SAYE scheme and almost 27 per cent in the SIP.
In Asia, we operate two SAYE We fully recognise the value that a diverse workforce brings to schemes similar to those in the UK, open to both employees and our organisation and believe it should reflect the diversity of the agents.
More than 32 per cent of eligible employees and just below markets in which we operate.
It is Group policy to give full and 25 per cent of eligible agents participated in these schemes in 2009. fair consideration and encouragement to the employment of applicants with suitable aptitudes and abilities.
It is also our policy Growing a strong talent pipeline to continue employing people who become disabled, and We recognise that the talent and knowledge of our people is key to provide training and career development opportunities to to our continued success.
In 2009, we implemented strategic disabled employees.
resourcing programmes for country CEOs in Asia, and for the We also train our people to be aware of, and sensitive to, the Finance function globally, to improve our medium and long-term talent pipeline.
needs of employees and customers with a disability.
We strengthened our diversity agenda in 2009 by working to In the US, the Jackson Professional Development Unit PDU harmonise the way employee diversity information is collected and its training programme was expanded.
The PDU runs a across the Group for reporting purposes.
We also reviewed and comprehensive training curriculum for all Jacksons wholesalers, updated a number of our employment policies.
These included who in turn provide ongoing training to advisers.
In addition our maternity adoption policy in the UK, and our Equal Treatment during 2009, Jackson launched a monthly training programme policy in Asia.
to help the companys field wholesalers to enhance their product knowledge.
In addition, our businesses worldwide continued to drive initiatives in 2009, reflecting our commitment to diversity.
For Developing credible successors example, our Korean life insurance business, together with our Every year we conduct a review across the Group to identify, Asian fund management operation, introduced employee training develop and reward people with leadership potential.
During on aspects of our diversity policies.
In the UK, M&G, our asset 2009, we held five Management Development Programme and management business, runs annual workshops for all managers seven Leadership Development Programme events.
These events to support our diversity agenda.
This includes Respect in the support the Groups succession and development strategy and, in Workplace and The Employment Life Cycle.
Employees of our 2009, over 100 individuals were assessed for their development property investment management business, PRUPIM, participate potential.
in an on-line learning programme on age discrimination legislation.
Our flagship Momentum Programme, operating since 2007, In 2009, we also participated in the Financial Services Inquiry into aims to recruit high-potential individuals early in their careers the sex discrimination and gender pay gap report of the Equality and to provide them with a fast-track development plan.
Through and Human Rights Commission.
business placements and training modules, the candidates gain the management skills and experience required in international Building and rewarding performance business.
Momentum has a strong diversity focus and is open We believe that employees should be rewarded according to the to people both within and outside of Prudential.
In 2009 the contribution they make to our business, as a whole.
We reward Momentum website received more than 33,000 visits from our people based on both the results they achieve as well as their 131 countries, and over 1,700 people from 49 countries applied.
Our remuneration policies are This is the highest number of applicants since the launch of the regularly reviewed to ensure that our reward structure keeps programme, and double the number of applications received in pace with the markets in which we operate, and that they remain 2008.
The 17 successful applicants increased the total number relevant to the growth of our business.
of participants in the programme to 37, who are in roles across Following the Walker Review of corporate governance in the all four of our businesses.
UK banking industry, we undertook an internal review of our remuneration structures and governance against good practice as defined by the FSA.
As a result of this review, we are confident that our procedures and practices meet the standard of good practice.
71 Business review Corporate responsibility review continued Developing an organisation that works Our corporate property team has identified a three-year Group-wide environmental strategy for all occupied buildings, We are committed to effective communication to support employee engagement and commitment.
We conduct regular with roll-out scheduled to commence in 2010. employee surveys in our businesses around the world to monitor For the second year running, we also endorsed the ClimateWise our peoples level of engagement with Prudential as an employer, principles on climate change in the UK.
All of Prudentials North identify the effectiveness of our organisations structures and America operations including Jackson, and PPM America practices, and highlight areas for improvement.
signed up for the second successive year to the US Climate In each of our Business Units there are dedicated intranet sites and Leaders programme.
This is an Environmental Protection Agency regular magazines to keep employees up to date, and provide a EPA and industry government partnership that works with mechanism to pose questions to their respective Chief Executive.
companies to develop comprehensive climate change strategies.
There are also a number of employee consultation forums in place In 2009, Jackson also launched its environmental Work Smart such as the M&G Staff Consultative Committee and the UK programme for employees.
Employee Forum within Prudential UK.
In Asia, we grade our buildings using a clear and transparent At Group Head Office, a dedicated team provides regular environmental classification system.
Where opportunities arise, we then improve our overall sustainability by migrating to communication to employees across the Group from the Group Leadership Team.
This enables employees to understand the properties in the highest category for environmental performance.
Group strategy, direction and performance.
Our property investment portfolio Our Prudential UK business has a long-standing relationship PRUPIMs vision as a leading sustainable real estate manager is with the union Unite, and this year is the 40th anniversary of to deliver superior investment performance through integrating this association.
sustainability into its business culture, activities and decision making.
It seeks not only to address its own impacts but also to Protecting the environment influence the property sector through innovation and thoughtWe are committed to playing our part in protecting the leadership.
environment but we also want to ensure that our contribution counts.
Given that the built environment is responsible for PRUPIM was the first UK property company to achieve the approximately 40 per cent of all carbon emissions, it makes sense International Environmental Management Standard ISO 14001 for us to focus our efforts on two distinct strategies: reducing the for the management of its real estate investment portfolio.
In 2009, direct impact of our own business operations, and ensuring that PRUPIM achieved ISO 14001 certification for an additional six the properties we manage through PRUPIM are environmentally managed investment properties and achieved PAS99 the worlds compliant and responsible.
We believe that this approach is not first integrated management system which includes ISO 14001 simply the right thing to do, but also that it is a way of creating at 10 managed shopping centres, taking the total to 52 PRUPIM value as our sustainability objectives are aligned with our properties that have been accredited to date.
business objectives of creating a competitive advantage for PRUPIM also launched the Sustainable Refurbishment the PRUPIM brand.
This complements the Sustainable Development Prudential participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project an Framework, both of which are public resources to actively annual commitment to disclose information on carbon emissions encourage sustainable practices, with the aim of sharing PRUPIMs and strategies for managing the risks posed by climate change.
many years of experience in this area with the property industry as a whole.
Full details of our environmental policy can be found on our website PRUPIM is a signatory of the United Nations Principles for at: www.
co. uk prudential-plc cr managementpolicies Responsible Investment and continues to lead the property industrys developments in sustainability through their active Reducing our direct impact Under the European Union Energy Performance of Buildings involvement in the British Property Federation, British Council of Shopping Centres, UK Green Building Council, Green Directive, Energy Performance Certificates EPCs are required for any building thatis constructed, sold, or rented.
EPCs rate Property Alliance, UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative, Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change, the energy of a building enabling both property investors and prospective occupiers to consider energy efficiency ratings and, more recently, the Better Buildings Partnership an initiative supported by the Mayor of London.
and levels of carbon emissions.
In 2009 we introduced Energy Performance Certificates for both our occupied and commercial PRUPIMs strategic approach and progress to date can be found properties in the UK.
We also gained ISO 14001 certification in their sixth annual Sustainability Report published in 2009. for our sites in Reading and London achieving our target of For more details please visit www.
com certification for all our occupied properties by the end of 2009.
72 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW Chairmans Award Since its launch, the Chairmans Award has gone from strength to strength, and in 2009, more than 2,600 employees signed up to the programme and supported over 30 projects around the world.
More than 250,000 was donated to our global charity partners.
This includes the additional cash sums awarded to the winning projects, voted for by colleagues across the Group.
The 2009 winning project was Plan International, Thailand.
This project, supported by 368 volunteers in Thailand, aims to make a sustainable improvement to the lives of children and communities living in poverty.
Supporting local communities Building financial capability We strive to ensure that our investment in local communities We began developing our financial capability programme in the has a sustainable benefit.
We encourage our businesses to build UK in 2001, and are continuing to see significant progress, both projects around financial capability, education, and meeting the in the UK and, increasingly, internationally.
needs of the most vulnerable in society, particularly the elderly In the UK, we work in partnership with a diverse range of and the young.
organisations such as Citizens Advice, the Personal Finance Education Group pfeg, the Specialist Schools and Academies Employee volunteering Trust, and the National Institute of Adult Continuing Education.
Our approach to community investment is to support charitable As a result of these collaborative initiatives, thousands of adults organisations and appropriate NGOs, not just through funding, and children are now benefiting from learning how to make but with the experience and expertise of our employees.
In 2009, decisions that will have a profound effect on their financial approximately one in four employees volunteered in their well-being.
At the end of 2009, we extended the reach of our community.
UK-schools module Adding up to a Lifetime by launching an In 2006, we launched our flagship volunteering programme, online version.
The Chairmans Award, supporting our global charity partners.
In 2009, our financial capability strategy in Asia gained further This programme has gone from strength to strength and, in 2009, momentum, with over 2,000 women participating in our Investing over 30 projects around the world were supported.
The seminars, first launched in China in Each year, a shortlist of volunteering programmes is chosen by a 2004, support women who are often responsible for planning the judging panel and employees are asked to vote for the project they familys financial needs.
The programme has been rolled out to believe has made the greatest impact.
All of the projects included Vietnam, India and Indonesia.
To date, more than 22,800 women in the Chairmans Award receive a financial donation from the have participated.
Group for each employee who signs up as a volunteer, and the Prudential also partnered with the Chinese Ministry of top five short-listed projects receive additional funding.
Education, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences CASS and the Chinese Insurance Regulatory Commission CIRC to develop and introduce an insurance education curriculum in schools across the country.
This programme has reached over 5,000 students from 26 schools in seven provinces since its launch in 2007.
73 Business review Corporate responsibility review continued Disaster relief Responsibility committee Supporting the relief efforts after natural disasters in our Below the Board, the Responsibility Committee comprises senior communities is another important part of our activities.
In representatives from relevant Group functions and each of our November 2009, we continued the work we began in 2008 core businesses.
This committee is responsible for monitoring in response to the earthquake in Sichuan, with the opening the Groups CR activities and for raising issues that need to be of a new, state-of-the-art library at the Guihua School in addressed.
Code of business conduct In September 2009, when a massive earthquake struck Consideration of environmental, social and community matters Western Sumatra, Indonesia near the city of Padang, we is embedded in our Code of Business Conduct.
responded immediately to support our employees, agents and the wider community.
We activated the Groups Disaster Relief Payment policy Fund straight away, our team on the ground immediately began It is our Group policy to agree terms of payment when orders working with local relief charities and we set up a mechanism for for goods and services are placed, and to pay in accordance our employees across the Group to donate.
In addition, a team with those terms.
of Prudential volunteers from six different countries across Asia travelled to Padang to help rebuild homes.
In the UK we strengthened this policy in 2009 by signing up to the Prompt Payment Code, launched in December 2008 by the Donations UK Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
In 2009 the Group spent 6.5 million in support of its community In 2009, our trade creditor days, based on the ratio of amounts investment strategy.
Direct donations to charitable organisations which were owed to trade creditors at the year-end to the amounted to 5.6 million, of which approximately 2.7 million aggregate of the amounts invoiced by trade creditors during came from EU operations.
This is broken down as follows: Education 1,589,000: Social Supply chain management and Welfare 632,000: Environment and Regeneration 73,000: Prudential recognises that its own social, environmental and Cultural 94,000 and Staff Volunteering 301,000.
The aggregate economic impacts go beyond the products and services it supplies figure for charitable donations from Prudentials non-EU to include the performance of its suppliers and contractors.
subsidiaries Jackson National Life Insurance Company and Prudential Corporation Asia amounted to 2.9 million.
It is our policy to work in partnership with suppliers whose standards are consistent with our Group Code of Business It is the Groups policy not to make donations to political parties Conduct.
We are also committed to helping our suppliers reduce nor to incur political expenditure, within the meaning of those their impact on the environment.
expressions as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
The Group did not make any such Procurement practices in Prudential UK have been successfully donations or incur any such expenditure in 2009. accredited with the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply CIPS certification, an industry benchmark of recognised good Accountability and governance practice.
The Board Prudentials 2009 on-line CR Report can be found at The Board discusses the Groups CR performance at least once www.
com 2009cr a year and also reviews and approves the Group CR Report and strategy on an annual basis.
74 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE 76 Board of directors 79 Governance report: Corporate governance Risk governance Corporate responsibility governance 93 Additional disclosures 94 Index to principal Directors Report disclosures 75
