Corporate responsibility report Introduction This year we have decided to report in accordance with the criteria set in the Connected Reporting Framework, an initiative launched 1 by the Prince of Waless Accounting for Sustainability Project.
In line with the principles outlined in the Framework, we have: Reported on sustainability issues that are material to Rathbones Discussed our sustainability trends in the short term Reported against our 2008 objectives and outlined our objectives for 2010 Reported our indirect carbon emissions through our supply chain for travel and paper consumption Followed international carbon reporting standards to enable comparability Estimated our carbon intensity In future, we hope to be able to consider how sustainability issues can be further integrated into our business model and our sustainability trends in the medium and long term.
Our sustainability issues As a provider of investment and wealth management services with of ces in the UK and Jersey, we consider that our exposure to sustainability issues is relatively small compared to other high impact sectors or larger financial services providers.
We consider our sustainability issues to be mainly: Socially responsible investment Whilst the primary consideration is to maximise risk-adjusted returns to clients, we recognise that nonfinancial considerations can impact the long-term value of companies.
Environment Carbon related costs Although we do not fall under the Carbon Reduction Commitment legislation, we recognise that increasing energy bills, paper usage, travel costs and waste will reduce pro ts as well as increasing our carbon footprint and should be minimised.
Employees Access to skills As a financial company our employees are our most valued asset.
We believe that a motivated and satis ed workforce leads to better financial performance.
Community Involvement and engagement Positive engagement with the communities around us is considered important for both the local communities and the employees involved.
The Social & Environmental Committee SEC is responsible for ensuring that Rathbones effectively manages its sustainability issues.
The Committee is formed by members of staff from key functions such as facilities management, personnel, marketing, IT and investment management.
The Committee is chaired by our chief executive, meets on a quarterly basis and reports directly to the Group Executive Committee.
With regard to environmental, social and governance ESG matters as they affect our business, the Board believes that the Group Social & Environmental Committee has identi ed and assessed the signi cant risks to the Companys shortand long-term value.
Socially responsible investment Although general investment activities are not covered by a formal socially responsible investment SRI policy, social, environmental and ethical considerations are taken into account for speci c mandates throughout the Group, but particularly by our specialist ethical investment service, Rathbone Greenbank Investments.
Increasing media coverage and general consumer awareness of social and environmental issues especially climate change have undoubtedly led to greater awareness of the concept of ethical or socially responsible investment.
Whilst a great deal of focus tends to be on products and services such as SRI unit or investment trusts, ethical banking, or mortgages, less space is given to the opportunity for private investors to invest in companies at the forefront of climate change mitigation through bespoke portfolio management.
1 For more information go to: www.
org 47 Corporate responsibility report Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 Socially responsible investment continued Through Rathbone Greenbank Investments and Rathbone Unit Trust Managements Ethical Bond Fund, the Company is able to provide investment services appropriate to clients interest in these areas.
Where appropriate, the Company is also able to participate in new share issues offered by companies offering environmentally and socially bene cial products or services on behalf of clients with speci c interests in these areas.
As a group, Rathbone Brothers Plc has been a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2006 and became a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment in September 2009.
Environment From the point of view of commercial risk, Rathbones considers itself to be at limited risk from any change in regulation or government policy on issues such as climate change as they might relate to restrictions on emissions of major greenhouse gases.
The Company is not a large emitter of such gases, nor is it an excessive consumer of resources.
Unless future regulations impose restrictions on universal business environmental issues such as resource use, building procurement and business travel, then we do not consider that there would be any signi cant impact on our business.
The need to comply with any future tightening of energy ef ciency standards would be of greater impact.
However, Rathbones considers that the steps it has already taken in the course of the refurbishment of its Liverpool and London of ces have largely addressed any reasonable measures it could be expected to take.
Our direct environmental impacts Our direct environmental impacts are those typical of an of ce based business, for example, energy consumption of buildings, travel related emissions, resource consumption and waste generation.
How we manage our environmental impacts Based on our carbon emissions during baseline year 2007 08, our overall goal is to reduce our carbon footprint where possible.
In order to achieve this goal, we have agreed a series of actions focused on addressing carbon intensive activities.
These include: Monitor and reduce the energy consumption of our of ces through improved energy ef ciency, management and staff engagement Further reduce the need for travel through the use of video conferencing systems In addition, we are currently evaluating the business case for offsetting some of our carbon emissions.
Our environmental performance Scope and boundaries The information provided in this report was approved by the Social & Environmental Committee and the Board on 23 February 2010.
It relates to the period from 1 October 2008 to 30 September 2009.
To enable comparability, the scope and boundaries of the data collected are unchanged, covering the UK operations excluding 2 Birmingham and Kendal.
This represents approximately 92% of Group employees as at 31 December 2009.
3 Data collection and calculation Data has been collected and calculated in accordance with the requirements set in the following standards: the World Resources Institute WRI Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol revised version, DEFRA Guidance on How to Report GHG Emissions September 2009 and ISO 14064 - part 1.
Our base year is 1 October 2007 to 30 September 2008.
Base year gures have been recalculated following the identi cation of unreported consumption for the London of ce.
We have improved the quality of the energy consumption data reported for our larger of ces through the introduction of an energy tracking tool.
2 Of ces under scope are in Bristol, Cambridge, Chichester, Edinburgh, Exeter, London, Liverpool, and Winchester 3 Data sources: most of our electricity and gas use data comes from meter readings or invoices.
Data for Exeter was not available: therefore a Government benchmark was used.
In most cases data did not account for the full reporting year and had to be extrapolated.
In the case of Liverpool, gas data was only available for the whole building and had to be adjusted pro-rata to give estimated gures for the space occupied by Rathbones.
Travel data: approximately 40% of train journeys were estimated based on cost.
Waste data: The majority of waste data was estimated based on of ce samples.
Paper data: Paper consumption was based on paper purchased and printing records Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 48 Corporate responsibility report Our environmental performance continued Our carbon footprint We have reported our carbon footprint in scopes 13 fide ned by the World Resources Institute WRI GHG Protocol in Chart 1 and in Table 1.
4 Our total carbon footprint for this year is 2,390 tonnes of CO2e.
Chart 1 Tonnes of CO2e by emissions source Tonnes CO2e Air 273 Rail 102 Taxis 6 Non-company cars 77 Electricity 1,665 Company cars 13 Gas 254 Total 2,390 Table 1.
Absolute and relative CO2e from Rathbones of ces under scope 2007 08 2008 09 Base year 2 5 Of ce square metres m 10,695 10,727 Number of employees as at 31 December 699 704 Scope 1 Gas use kWh 1,243,539 1,455,655 Gas CO2e tonnes 254 300 Company cars km 64,889 83,416 Company cars CO2e tonnes 13 19 Total CO2e tonnes 267 319 Scope 2 6 Electricity kWh 3,060,113 2,984,736 7 Total CO2e tonnes 1,665 1,603 Scope 3 Business travel km 2,905,584 2,701,346 8 Total CO2e tonnes 458 470 Total CO2e tonnes 2,390 2,392 CO2e tonnes per employee 3.4 3.4 2 Electricity and gas CO2e tonnes m 0.18 0.18 9 Waste tonnes 213 226 10 Paper tonnes 98 98 4 We have expressed our carbon footprint in terms of CO2 equivalent CO2e to accommodate non-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions 5 Bristol has moved of ces which has resulted in a small change in the total oor area for the group 6 Electricity consumption has been re-baselined for 2007 08.
We previously reported 1,999,470 kWh but we have added an additional 985,266 kWh following the identi cation of unreported consumption in London 7 Data re-baselined see above.
1,074 tonnes CO2e was previously reported 8 Data extrapolated to allow comparison with the complete data coverage of ight data for this year and to maintain consistency of approach 9 A small change in the estimated waste volume re ecting better data quality 10 Data re-baselined to include previously excluded envelopes 49 Corporate responsibility report Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 Our environmental performance continued For the first time this year, and in line with the Accounting for Sustainability model, we have decided to report our carbon intensity against our operating income and funds under management.
Carbon intensity 1 Carbon intensity 2009 2008 m m 2009 2008 Operating income 116.8 131.2 20.5 18.2 Funds under management FUM 13,100 10,460 0.18 0.23 1 Tonnes CO2e per m of operating income or FUM Performance analysis Scope 1 Natural gas Natural gas consumption has decreased by 15% over the past year.
Last year, Liverpool gas consumption was calculated using a Government benchmark.
Upon the introduction of energy tracking we found out that in fact energy consumption was 24% lower than originally estimated.
Company cars The phasing out of company cars has continued as leases end.
Scope 2 Electricity Our total electricity consumption has increased by 3% compared to the previous year.
All of our of ces with the exception of Liverpool and Bristol reported a drop in consumption.
Bristols increase is due to an of ce move to new premises that only operates with electricity.
Scope 3 Business travel excluding company cars Overall, we have reported a decrease of 2% in CO2e emissions from the baseline year.
We are pleased to report that we have completed our consolidation of business travel bookings which has resulted in increased con dence in the quality of data we report, although the full bene ts will be recognised in 2009 10.
Flights Our travel CO2e emissions are dominated by ights which generate 60% of emissions.
We are pleased to report a reduction of 4% in both kilometres travelled and CO2e emissions in 2008 09.
Rail National rail travel increased by 23% in 2008 09 from 1.36m km to 1.67m km due in part to the expansion of the regional of ce network in Exeter, Birmingham and Edinburgh.
Taxis and non-company cars Our use of taxis has decreased by 11% to 25,391 km.
However, relative CO2e emissions have increased by 1 tonne CO2e due to changes in DEFRA emission factors.
Non-company car use has decreased signi cantly.
Objectives for 2010 We will continue to encourage the use of public transport where practical.
Land ll waste and recycling All of ces have an active recycling programme with high levels of participation that cover at a minimum paper and cardboard.
In most of ces shredded paper, glass, plastic bottles and cans are also recycled.
Of the 305kg of waste produced per employee per annum, it is estimated that 254kg is recycled.
Redundant IT equipment is passed to EOL IT Services an approved WEEE disposal agent with a zero to land ll policy for re-use or recycling.
Wherever possible we continue to recycle uorescent tubes, batteries, toner cartridges and mobile telephones.
We have carried out wide sampling of our waste streams in our main of ces and have improved the quality of data received from our suppliers.
We continue to improve our recycling level, achieving an estimated average 83% recycling level across the business.
In London and Liverpool we have also seen waste to energy initiatives implemented and now send half of our non-recycled waste to energy production.
As a result, in London we have achieved our objective of sending no waste to land ll.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 50 Corporate responsibility report Our environmental performance continued Table 3.
Waste and recycling data Mass collected Mass collected 200809 200708 tonnes % tonnes % Paper and cardboard 64 30% 79 35% Secure shredding 104 48% 68 30% Other materials 9 4% 14 6% Total recycling 177 82% 161 71% Waste to energy 18 9% 0% Residual land ll waste 18 9% 65 29% Total waste 213 100% 226 100% Per employee 0.3 0.3 Paper usage Total paper consumption amounts to 98 tonnes, which is approximately equivalent to 14.1 million A4 sheets.
Paper is an energy and carbon intensive product to produce.
We aim, where possible, to reduce usage, to purchase recycled paper and to work with our print suppliers to reduce waste in the printing of our reports and brochures.
Paper usage 200809 200809 2008-09 200708 200708 200708 Paper weight tonnes Stationery Print Total Stationery Print Total Recycled paper 27 50 77 37 40 77 Virgin paper 5 16 21 6 15 21 32 66 98 43 55 98 65% of our paper consumption by weight is recycled stock.
The majority of the stationery paper purchased is Evolve brand, a 100% recycled product made exclusively from UK post consumer waste.
We have managed to reduce our stationery paper use by approximately 3 million sheets.
Paper use for printing has increased from year to year due in part to printing layout changes for client valuation packs and increased demand for other printed stationery.
We have estimated that our paper consumption this year has caused emissions of 208 tonnes CO2e.
However, as no agreed standard currently exists for GHG emissions for paper, we have excluded this from the overall carbon footprint.
Objectives for 2010 We remain focused on improved paper management in our of ces and will increase efforts to reduce our printed paper use.
Where possible, a summary of deals is now sent to clients with their periodic valuations rather than posting a contract note at the time of each deal.
We will also continue to seek cost effective ways to reduce use of virgin stock where possible.
51 Corporate responsibility report Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 Our environmental performance continued Table 5.
Performance versus our objectives Our objective for 2009 Performance Comment Our objective for 2010 Review energy On track Energy audit for Liverpool of ce Energy audit in Bristol intensive of ces in November 2009 Reduce our travel carbon Achieved We have reported an increase in the We will review our travel policy footprint by encouraging number of rail journeys and a reduction in and seek ways of increasing the use of rail rather the number of ights.
Our scope 3 the use of video conferencing than ights emissions have decreased by 2.6% Implement a zero-to-land ll Achieved Our zero-to-land ll programme has been Seek ways of reducing waste policy in our London and successfully initiated in our London and in other of ces Liverpool of ces Liverpool of ces Paper use: Reduce paper Not achieved We have seen a signi cant decrease Seek ways to reduce printed use in our of ces and for 2 million A4 sheets in our of ce paper stationery use, particularly for client communication use.
However we have seen a large client communication increase in printed paper Improve data collection On track Our data quality has improved.
However Enhance the central travel systems for energy, 40% of rail data is estimated based on booking system with on-line ights and rail cost data access Carbon Smart Opinion Statement This statement provides Rathbones and its stakeholders with a third party assessment of the quality and reliability of Rathbones carbon footprint data for the reporting period 1 October 2008 to 30 September 2009.
It does not represent an independent third party assurance of Rathbones management approach to sustainability.
Carbon Smart has been commissioned by Rathbone Brothers Plc to measure Rathbones carbon footprint for selected UK of ces for its 2009 Corporate responsibility report.
Through this engagement Carbon Smart has assured Rathbones that the reported carbon footprint is representative of the UK business and that the data presented is credible, coherent and compliant with appropriate standards and industry practices.
Data has been collected and calculated following the ISO 14064 part 1 standard and veri ed against the WRI GHG Protocol principles of completeness, consistency and accuracy.
Our work has included interviews with key Rathbones personnel, a review of internal and external documentation, interrogation of source data and data collection systems including comparisons with the previous year and a site visit to Liverpool.
We have concluded the following: Relevance We have ensured the GHG inventory appropriately re ects the GHG emissions of the Company and serves the decision making needs of users, both internal and external to the Company.
Completeness Reported environmental data covers over 90% of total employees including all entities that meet the criteria of being subject to control or signi cant in uence of the reporting organisation.
We recommend that Rathbones continues to improve data collection efforts for its most material emissions.
Consistency In order to ensure comparability, we have used the same calculation methodologies and assumptions as last year.
We have re-baselined data to account for changes in the emissions under scope.
Transparency Where relevant, we have included appropriate references to the accounting and calculation methodologies, assumptions, estimations and re-baselining performed.
Accuracy To our knowledge, data is considered accurate within the limits of the quality and completeness of the data provided.
Carbon Smart has assessed the data quality against the GHG Protocol principles.
Data from each emission source has been rated 1 poorest to 5 best.
For this year, overall data quality has been rated 3.2, an improvement compared to last year 2.6.
Rathbones goal is to increase this rating to 4 by 2010 by strengthening its data gathering systems.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 52 Corporate responsibility report Our environmental performance continued Data quality rating % Carbon footprint Data quality rating Scope 2008-09 2008-09 2007-08 Comments Overall 3.2 2.6 Scope1 2 11% 2 A signi cant portion of gas data was not available and benchmarks had to be used.
Company car data required minor assumptions and estimates Scope 2 4 70% 3 Majority of electricity related data is free from assumptions and estimations.
There are some minor extrapolations and pro rata calculations Scope 3 3 19% 2 Flight data quality was good with minor assumptions and estimates.
Rail and car data required moderate extrapolation.
Taxi data was based on cost benchmarks Paper 4 n a 4 High level of good quality data coverage Waste and recycling 3 n a 2 Waste data has improved signi cantly in key London and Liverpool of ces About Carbon Smart Carbon Smart is a carbon and sustainability consultancy headquartered in London.
Our team of sustainability, environmental, business and academic experts meet the IRCA criteria for Lead Sustainability Assurance Practitioner.
Signed Ben Murray Esther Rodriguez Director Associate Director Carbon Smart Limited Carbon Smart Limited Employees As with all professional services rms, Rathbones greatest asset is its people.
Their health, well-being, development, remuneration and involvement are all vital to the continuing success of the business.
Health and welfare Rathbones is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment in which its employees can work.
With the help of external consultants our health and safety policy for the UK of ces is regularly updated to re ect current legislation and best practice.
We provide a range of training courses for those staff with health and safety responsibilities and a steering group comprising representatives from all our of ces meets quarterly to share knowledge and to ensure that health and safety standards are maintained.
Upon completion of a qualifying period, all UK employees and their direct family members are eligible for private medical cover paid for by the Company.
All UK staff have the opportunity to attend an annual medical examination and Rathbones also provides an independent and con dential employee assistance programme offering advice on employment, personal and legal concerns.
Equality and diversity Rathbones is an equal opportunities employer and it is our policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are treated fairly and on merit regardless of their race, gender, marital status, age, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation.
It is our policy and practice to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment by disabled people.
If employees become disabled during their service with Rathbones, wherever practicable, arrangements and adjustments are made to continue their employment and training.
Should this not be possible we provide support in the form of a permanent health insurance scheme which pays a monthly income in lieu of salary and pays pension contributions on behalf of the employer and employee.
53 Corporate responsibility report Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 Employees continued Work-life balance Rathbones recognises the importance of an appropriate work-life balance both to the health and welfare of employees and to the business.
Holiday entitlements are 25 days increasing to 30 days after five years service.
Employees are able to buy up to five additional days of leave with the agreement of their manager.
Maternity bene ts remain in excess of those required under statutory provisions.
Career breaks of up to two years are also available for those with childcare responsibilities.
Flexible working policies are offered with a high number of successful applications, particularly from parents with young children.
On completion of five years service, employees have the opportunity to take up to three months unpaid leave once in every ten years without any loss of service-related bene ts such as pension or death in service cover.
The uptake and effectiveness of these policies is monitored together with other indicators of staff satisfaction levels such as average annual sickness rates and staff turnover.
Training and development It is vital that all staff continuously improve their skills, keep up to date with developments in their area of expertise and meet regulatory requirements.
We support this by helping individuals to nd the most appropriate development opportunities.
There are a number of options provided including attending external courses or conferences, internal seminars, development programmes, on the job training and coaching.
During 2009 we have continued to develop some long term development programmes as well as launching some new initiatives.
New initiatives A two day refresher course, The Application of Financial Ratios to Stock Selection was attended by the majority of our fund managers.
This course was tailored for our business and designed to be immediately relevant back at the desk.
We aim to deliver more of this type of training during 2010.
A new long term programme was launched to help to further improve business development skills with an initial focus on handling client meetings.
The aim of this is to ensure that the Rathbone proposition is fully and persuasively explained.
Retail Distribution Review professional standards The professional standards element of the FSAs Retail Distribution Review RDR aims to raise the professional standards of those giving financial advice across the sector.
As a result a small number of our staff will have to complete an additional quali cation.
The RDR also places a greater emphasis on continuous professional development CPD and whilst Rathbones has a long standing CPD process we will look to enhance this and ensure that targeted development opportunities continue to be available.
Rathbone Development Programme The Rathbone Development Programme has continued this year with the aim of improving networking, professional skills and increasing involvement in the business.
A signi cant part of this has involved working on live business issues including: A client survey to ensure that we are treating clients fairly Standardising documentation across the business to ensure a consistent image Implementation of a single provider for business travel This has proved to be a good opportunity for delegates to get to know more about the business outside of their area of responsibility and to develop project management skills.
At the conclusion of this programme the delegates create individual development plans with the help of feedback from senior managers and fellow participants.
Management Skills At the beginning of the year 15 of our managers and team leaders successfully completed an introductory level quali cation awarded by the Chartered Management Institute.
This was the culmination of a nine month training programme focusing on the techniques of management.
Eight delegates have chosen to take higher level quali cations and will complete these during 2010.
Secretarial Training Programme Now in its second year, the programme of quarterly meetings comprise communication of key business initiatives, training in new skills, networking and input from a range of staff to enable greater understanding of roles across the business.
This initiative has increased the engagement of this group of staff.
IT Skills A very comprehensive training programme involving all staff was implemented to support the upgrade to a new version of Microsoft Of ce.
This enabled a smooth transition and provided an opportunity for many to upgrade their skills.
Investment Rathbones continues to invest in staff training.
In 2009 we spent 326,790 on development, an average of 476 per person.
An average of 2.3 days per person was spent attending training courses.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 54 Corporate responsibility report Employees continued Rewards and bene ts Employees are encouraged to identify and to become involved with the financial performance of the Group.
The Share Incentive Plan SIP remains popular with 670 employees participating at 31 December 2009 holding an average of 2,010 shares.
The Company matches every share purchased by individual employees with another free of charge.
Shares are also given free of charge if earnings growth conditions are achieved.
A member of staff who has been in the SIP since its launch and who has made the maximum monthly contributions now owns 4,975 shares, which were valued at 39,800 as at 31 December 2009.
On 19 November 2009, shareholders approved the launch of an approved Savings Related Share Option Plan.
This was launched on 26 November 2009 with an option exercise price of 6.96.
Take-up was strong with 238 employees participating saving an average of 156 per month.
To encourage the use of public transport, we offer interest-free loans for season tickets to all staff on satisfactory completion of their probationary period and offer a cycle to work scheme.
Rathbones recognises its responsibility to assist in the financial welfare of its employees when they reach retirement age and pays contributions to provide death in service cover and bene ts on retirement.
Following a consultation process, the future accrued bene ts of employees in the fide ned bene t scheme were reduced by an increase in the retirement age from 60 to 65 and a move to career average revalued earnings CARE with effect from 1 July 2009.
The changes were made to reduce the cost of the scheme and to bring the cost more into line with that of the fide ned contribution scheme.
Employee involvement Communication with staff takes place through a variety of means including internal email and an internal newsletter.
Employees have easy access to policies, procedures, organisation charts, announcements and company news through a web-based shared workspace.
Presentations to staff on full and half year results are given by Board members.
All investment managers across Rathbone Investment Managements of ces in the UK and in Jersey are linked by telephone for a daily morning meeting to hear key market news and by telephone and video conference weekly for a more in-depth discussion of market trends, asset allocation and individual investment matters.
Non-investment management staff are also welcome to attend these meetings.
Consultation with staff takes place when major changes to bene ts such as pensions are being considered and a range of internal committees and working parties draw in participation from across the rm on key issues such as IT, training, business continuity and marketing.
Community Rathbones continues to review community activities, both on a group and a local scale, and supports employees participation in a wide range of activities involving both local and international charities.
During the year, 20 employees assisted at Personal Finance Education Group PFEG events for school children in London and Liverpool whilst 16 employees in Liverpool worked on-site for a day helping build 32 award winning Habitat for Humanity homes in Liverpool.
Donations and fundraising During the year, the Group made total charitable donations of 174,098, representing 0.59% of continuing Group pre-tax pro ts 2008: 165,478, representing 0.39% of continuing Group pre-tax pro ts.
Staff are encouraged to donate to charity in a tax ef cient manner through the Give As You Earn GAYE payroll giving scheme.
In 2009, Rathbone employees made payments totalling 384,273 2008: 107,783 through this scheme, which is administered by the Charities Aid Foundation.
The Company matched staff donations of up to 200 per month made through GAYE and in 2009 donated 81,109 2008: 77,843 to causes chosen by employees through this method.
30,000 was donated as part of a four year commitment made to support four Liverpool secondary schools in their bids for Specialist Schools and Academies Trust status.
A number of employees from our Liverpool of ce sit on the respective governing bodies, helping to maintain working relationships with each school whilst bringing a wide range of skills and business experience to the various committees.
The members of staff involved are, as a result, given opportunities to develop their wider professional and management skills.
A number of initiatives have been implemented with the individual schools including CV workshops, Business Enterprise days and pupil mentoring, all designed to enhance capability and future employability.
We also provide two work experience places for each school each year and offer a small number of sixth form pupils paid summer work.
In 2008, Help for Heroes and the Roy Castle Lung Cancer Foundation were selected by employee ballot as the charities we would support for 2008 and 2009.
During 2009, 9,497 has been raised by staff for these two charities.
55 Corporate responsibility report Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the report and accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group consolidated accounts and Company accounts, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group consolidated accounts and Company accounts for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group consolidated accounts in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company accounts in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their pro t or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group consolidated accounts, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Company accounts, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company accounts: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In the case of persons who were directors of the Company at the date when this report was approved: so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as fide ned in the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information as fide ned and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Responsibility statement We con rm that to the best of our knowledge: 1 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2 the Directors report, together with information provided in the Chairmans and Chief executives statements, Rathbones at a glance, Strategy and business performance and the business review includes a fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with the description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
By Order of the Board A D Pomfret Chief executive 23 February 2010 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 56 Statement of directos responsibilities in respect of the report and accounts
