Corporate Sustainability Did you know?
2,500 The number of employees engaged by Fairbridge, a charity that works with young people in some of the most disadvantaged areas in the UK.
Responsible lending teachers to do the same.
In 2009, over 700 RBS employees delivered We provide financial services to a number of large global companies MoneySense lessons and over one-third of a million pupils were who have operations in areas with potentially high environmental and reached by the programme.
MoneySense for Adults offers impartial social risks.
We provide services only to those whose operations meet guidance on money management through our MoneySense websites, all necessary legal requirements and standards set by the relevant which receive over 60,000 visitors every month.
We also have a range of regulatory bodies, and comply with our own environmental, social and partnerships with third sector organisations where we can target support ethical ESE risk guidance.
at vulnerable groups, for example, supporting single-parent families through Gingerbread.
In late 2009, we began a process of reviewing the policies and procedures we apply to our lending decisions with regard to ESE risk Supporting enterprise and Microfinance issues.
These policies are aimed at higher risk sectors in which the We are currently building a new Community Investment programme bank conducts business, such as oil and gas, and mining and metals.
under the theme of Supporting Enterprise that will significantly enhance The ESE Risk Policy Framework will further strengthen the process of our support for small businesses beyond our mainstream banking ensuring these issues are taken into consideration in lending and credit activities.
For example, in the UK, we are a Platinum Patron of The Princes provision decisions.
Our support is focused on the Trusts Business Programme, which helps young people from disadvantaged backgrounds to explore their Community Investment business ideas and provides access to advice, loan funding and the Helping to rebuild our reputation support of a business mentor, including our employees, when starting The role of Community Investment is to deliver programmes that help up an enterprise.
The Business Programme has helped over 70,000 to rebuild the reputation of the Group as a responsible business that young people since its inception.
In India, our RBS Foundation works has a sustainable impact upon the communities in which we operate.
in partnership with third-parties to provide technical assistance to To ensure we make our community investments as effective as possible emerging microfinance institutions in under-served areas and to promote we focus our resources on a small number of substantial strategic new economic opportunities for vulnerable communities.
These programmes centre around issues which are to date have helped more than 178,000 poor households across India.
important to our businesses and important to our reputation.
They complement the day-to-day activities of our businesses, but enable the The charitable endeavours of our employees Group to go further on key issues where we believe we have a role and Under the theme of Employee Engagement, we support the charitable responsibility to do so.
By targeting additional resources through these endeavours of our colleagues.
First, we match programmes, we can make a greater difference to the communities in the donations they make to charity via their salary.
Second, we make which we operate.
cash grants to the causes they give their time to, either as volunteers or fundraisers.
By directing our resources in this way we support around Our Group Community Investment programmes relate broadly to 3,800 charities and good causes around the world.
Third, we run a financial education, supporting enterprise and Microfinance and the sizeable employee volunteering programme, where we encourage charitable endeavours of our employees.
In addition to these core employees to participate in team-building opportunities during work programmes, we run a broad range of other community investment time, in partnership with a range of charities.
For example, over the last activities across our businesses.
Altogether, we invest more than five years our partnership with Fairbridge, a charity that works with 63 million a year in the communities we serve.
young people in some of the most disadvantaged areas of the UK, has engaged over 2,500 RBS employees.
In total, more than 50,000 RBS MoneySense employees give their skills, time and money to make a difference in the Financial education is a key issue under our theme of Fair Banking.
communities that we operate in.
The Group supports those efforts The aim of MoneySense is to increase financial capability and financial financially and by giving employees almost 155,000 hours off work to inclusion.
A core part of this programme is MoneySense for Schools, volunteer each year.
where RBS employees deliver lessons in secondary schools designed to help young people to manage their money: we provide resources for RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47
