GRA 6 Add Info 09 349-369. qxp:GRA 6 Add Info 09 15 3 10 09:36 Page 360 Additional information continued Economic and monetary environment In the US, the recession was at its most severe in the first quarter of Conditions remained difficult across much of the world economy in 2009.
The economy contracted at 6.4% quarter-on-quarter annualised In the first three months of the year, the global slowdown intensified, with rate, but stabilised in the second quarter and returned to growth in the many industrialised economies recording the fastest contraction in output third quarter.
Additional fiscal stimulus measures in 2009 helped to for a generation.
The synchronised nature of the downturn resulted in a support spending on autos and encourage a return of buyers to the marked deterioration in international trade, as firms pared back inventories moribund housing market.
Lower house prices also boosted and cut orders.
Financial market conditions remained turbulent, with affordability, and as prices bottomed out in the middle of the year, equity prices touching a low of 60% below their 2007 peak in March, as activity gradually picked up.
Between rising job losses added to pressure on consumer spending.
Policymakers January 2008 and December 2009 payroll employment declined by took unprecedented steps to combat the decline, augmenting earlier eight million, sixty percent of which occurred in 2009.
Labour market fiscal stimulus packages and embarking on extraordinary monetary policy weakness is likely to act as a drag on consumer demand for some time.
A number of central banks cut interest rates further, made Continued dollar weakness provided a boost to net exports in the significant asset purchases and provided additional liquidity to financial second half of the year.
Growth in emerging markets held up moderately well by comparison, with the exception of Eastern European states that suffered The Federal Reserve had lowered policy rates to 0.25% in December acutely from balance of payments difficulties.
2008, leaving no room for further rate cuts.
Programmes to help normalise conditions in financial markets and support liquidity were Signs of stabilisation began to emerge in the second quarter of 2009. extended in 2009.
In an effort to lower long-term market interest rates, Germany, France and Japan announced a return to economic growth in the Federal Reserve announced that it would purchase $200 billion of the three months to June, and the pace of recession abated elsewhere.
Government Sponsored Enterprise debt, $1.25 trillion of mortgage Strains in money markets began to ease, as evidenced by a gradual backed securities, and $300 billion of long-term treasury securities.
Long decline in inter-bank lending markets towards policy rates and a yields fell somewhat in the middle of the year but recovered by year end.
Asset prices began to recover from their first quarter trough, supported by substantial liquidity provision from The Eurozone entered 2009 on a similar footing to other developed central banks.
Prospects for profitability and employment remained economies, contracting sharply in the first quarter before returning to challenging, as workers continued to face difficult labour market growth in the three months to September.
However, there was significant conditions and revenues were squeezed.
Commodity prices staged a variation in the performance of economies within the region.
Germanys recovery in the second half of 2009, supported by increased optimism downturn was deep, with activity contracting by 6.7% between the for economic prospects and more resilient demand conditions in many second quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009.
Growth returned emerging markets where growth is more resource intensive.
The recession in France was similarly short but not as deep with a 3.5% contraction in output during the The UK economy contracted as much in the first quarter of 2009 as recession.
Peripheral economies with higher debt levels, like Ireland during the entire 1990s recession.
Activity continued to contract in the and Spain, were hit hard by rapid and steep rises in unemployment and second and third quarters, but the pace of decline moderated.
an extended period of contraction.
Significant slack was evident with businesses operating well below full capacity and the unemployment rate rising to c. 8%.
Lower consumer The European Central Bank reduced its main policy rate from 2.5% at spending acted as a significant drag on growth as households grappled the beginning of the year to 1% by May 2009, and embarked on a with falling employment and weaker average earnings growth.
Weak modest programme of asset purchases 60 billion of covered bond demand conditions at home and abroad, a high level of spare capacity purchases were announced in May to reduce longer rates.
It also and the uncertain outlook resulted in a sharp decline in business adopted a policy of unlimited liquidity provision to euro area banks.
Despite the early recovery in the UK's major trade partners, Nevertheless, lending to households and businesses fell, reducing the exports failed to deliver a significant boost.
Sterling strengthened rate of money supply growth to almost zero at year end.
Consumer modestly from its January low in trade weighted terms, but remained at price inflation across the single currency area was negative for six competitive levels against major currencies compared to the pre-crisis months, before returning to positive territory in October.
Inflation fell back from 5.2% in September 2008 to below the strength helped to put downward pressure on import costs, but also Bank of Englands 2% target in June.
Inflation remained above 1% threatened to act as a drag on the recovery by reducing the throughout the year in contrast to bouts of falling prices in the US and competitiveness of the region's exports in global markets.
euro area in part the result of a weaker exchange rate.
The retrenchment in international trade in late 2008 had severe The Bank Rate was reduced from 5.0% in October 2008 to 0.5% in consequences for the economies in Asia Pacific, some of which saw March 2009.
This brought the base rate to its lowest level in the Bank of exports fall in excess of 50% year on year.
The intensification of the Englands 316-year history.
With interest rates approaching the zero downturn in the first three months of 2009 further exacerbated this bound, policymakers embarked on an asset purchase programme, contraction, reducing industrial output and leading to rapid rises in know as quantitative easing QE, to provide further support to the unemployment.
Government stimulus packages introduced at the end of economy.
Initially 75 billion was allocated for asset purchases, which 2008 bore fruit in the second quarter of the year, combining with industry was expanded to 200 billion over the course of the year.
The impact of restocking to mark a return to moderate growth across much of the QE has been credited with reducing the long-term cost of borrowing for region.
Expansionary fiscal policy in China helped the economy to corporates and preventing deflation in the wider economy, though the bounce back to 9% growth year on year in the third quarter of 2009, but counterfactual the prevailing state of the world if QE was not here, as in many neighbouring economies, private sector demand undertaken is unknown.
remained soft, leaving economies reliant on government support in 2010.
360 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
