GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:28 Page 216 Corporate governance continued Board Committees Board Risk Committee In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the Board has The Board Risk Committee is comprised of at least three independent established a number of Board Committees with particular non-executive directors, one of whom is the Chairman of the Audit responsibilities.
The Committee chairmanship and membership are Committee.
A minimum of six meetings will be held each year.
The reviewed on a regular basis.
The names and biographies of all Board Board Risk Committee is responsible for providing oversight and advice Committee members are set out on pages 8 to 11. to the Board in relation to current and potential future risk exposures of the Group and future risk strategy, promoting a risk awareness culture In accordance with the recommendations of the Walker review, the within the Group, reporting to the Board, as well as identifying any company has established a Board Risk Committee to advise the Board matters within its remit in respect of which it considers that action or on risk issues.
improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Board Risk Committees report is set out on page 222.
The terms of reference of the undernoted committees are available on the Groups website www.
com and copies are available on request.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises independent non-executive Audit Committee directors, under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board.
The All members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive Nominations Committee meets as required.
The Audit Committee holds six scheduled meetings each year.
In 2009, the Audit Committee held four additional meetings.
The Audit The Nominations Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in the Committees report is set out on pages 219 to 221.
The Audit Committee formal selection and appointment of directors having regard to the is responsible for assisting the Board in carrying out its responsibilities overall balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
The relating to accounting policies, internal control and financial reporting.
committee engages with external consultants, considers potential candidates and recommends appointments of new directors to the Remuneration Committee Board.
The appointments are based on merit against objective criteria, The Remuneration Committee is comprised of independent nonincluding the time available of the potential director and the commitment executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee holds at least four which will be required.
In addition, the Nominations Committee scheduled meetings each year.
The Remuneration Committee held an considers succession planning for the Chairman, Group Chief Executive additional 16 meetings in 2009.
The Remuneration Committee is and non-executive directors.
The Nominations Committee takes into responsible for the overview of the Groups policy on remuneration, as account the knowledge, mix of skills, experience and networks of well as considering executive remuneration and, as required, making contacts which are anticipated to be needed on the Board in the future.
recommendations to the Group Board in respect of the remuneration The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and non-executive directors meet arrangements of the executive directors.
It is also responsible for setting to consider executive succession planning.
No director is involved in the remuneration arrangements of the Executive Committee and decisions regarding his or her own succession.
Management Committee and any employees falling within the definition of principle 8 of the FSA Code on Remuneration.
Group Corporate Sustainability Committee The Group Corporate Sustainability Committee is chaired by the Senior The Directors remuneration report is contained on pages 225 to 236.
Independent Director and attended by the Group Chairman and members of the Group executive and senior management.
It reports into the Board and is responsible for setting and reviewing the Groups overall sustainability strategy, values and policies.
It receives reports from the Environment Working Group and other relevant internal programmes.
216 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
