BuSineSS Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 33 coRPoRAte ReSPonSiBility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy Responsibility for CR lies with the Group CEO, who chairs the bi-annual Group REMAINS FUNDAMENTAL TO Executive Committee review of CR and the THE WAy RSA CONDUCTS annual review by the Board.
Briefings and For more details see ITS BUSINESS.
DURING 2009 training on specific CR issues are provided on www.
com WE LAUNCHED A NEW an ongoing basis.
CR targets and objectives PARTNERSHIP WITH WWF are included in the Group CEOs goals, which WWF PARTNERSHIP FOCUSING ON THE RISKS OF are also cascaded to direct reports and In 2009, we officially launched our relevant business functions.
partnership with WWF across the UK, ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE.
Canada, Sweden, Denmark and China Our CR data, processes and external reporting focusing on the insurance risks of PRogReSS in 2009 are verified by the Corporate Citizenship environmental change.
Over the next Our progress in 2009 was recognised by Company AA1000, GRI, ISAE3000 with an three years, RSA will be supporting Goldman Sachs, who named RSA as one of extra audit of the Groups carbon footprint conservation projects relevant to our the top five global insurers in their GS: Sustain forming part of our offsetting due diligence business, developing new products and report, an upgrade from Bronze to Silver in GHG Protocol.
We use a web-based engaging our employees and external the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, moving environmental management system to help stakeholders on the environment.
from Gold to Platinum in the Times Top 100 collect and analyse data across RSA.
Companies and winning the CorpComms Best Flooding remains a key issue for RSA.
Environmental, social and governance ESG The impact of increased frequency or risks are actively monitored and reviewed intensity of rain has a direct impact on APPRoAch And goveRnAnce regularly by the Board.
In 2009, the main our customers.
With increased pressure Behaving responsibly and ethically has a positive risks identified included the forthcoming UK on flood defence budgets, insurers need impact on people, communities and the Carbon Reduction Commitment legislation, to find environmentally sensitive and cost environment in which we operate.
We are environmental impacts of shipping and flood effective solutions.
Together with WWF committed to Doing the Right Thing, both as risk in the UK.
We set environmental we are restoring an urban river individuals and as a company and all employees improvement targets at a country level and in London.
Slowing down the river, are assessed against our brand beliefs to ensure as a Group achieved 74% of 2009 targets.
re-creating the natural meander and that this forms part of the performance and We recently set a challenging target to achieve creating a floodplain demonstrates a remuneration structure at RSA.
a reduction in CO of 40% by 2020 against our cost-effective, natural solution.
Our approach is practical and focused on As one of the largest Marine insurers, three key themes: road safety, social inclusion Further information on our approach, we are acutely aware of increasing and the environment.
These issues have been governance and policies can be found at: pressures on fishing, shipping and resource identified as important by our customers, www.
com rsa pages responsibility extraction and we are working to improve investors and employees.
In Canada, we are establishing Future, the sustainability charity, agree that cR SuPPoRtS ouR StRAtegy marine protection areas to help safeguard we are focusing on the right issues.
Our commitment to Doing the Right Thing the long-term future of our fishing industry is not isolated from but underpins our business and in Scandinavia, we are collaborating The principles by which we operate our strategy.
We incorporate the activities with governments to better manage business and our brand beliefs underpin our discussed below into our strategic priorities.
commercial use of the Baltic Sea.
commitment to our customers, staff and other For example, our work on flood mapping helps stakeholders and our Corporate Responsibility us identify the appropriate price for the risk Governments are placing an increased CR policies form an essential part of our accepted, driving sustainable earnings, whilst focus on renewable energy to combat broader risk and governance framework.
also allowing us to prioritise our claims climate change.
As a leading insurer of this Every country is required to comply with our approach.
The development of our renewable risk, our Global Renewables business is CR, environment, charity and human rights energy products has been a key factor in uniquely placed to help the transition to policies on a quarterly basis.
Compliance with delivering targeted profitable growth and a low carbon economy.
In China, we will the policy framework is reviewed by the Group establishing RSA as a leading renewables be working with WWF and a range of Executive Committee and Group Board in insurer globally and the work we do on stakeholders to develop renewable regular CR updates.
environmental management to reduce travel, energy usage and energy efficiency.
paper consumption and energy and water
