38043 pp009-030 File0306 03 201001:01Page26 26 Corporate responsibility Schroders has a long-standing commitment to Innovation: We challenge the established way sustainability, maintaining consistently high standards of doing things and seek to anticipate future in all areas of corporate responsibility.
We seek to: Teamwork: We work as a team to create value for our clients.
We value the contribution of individuals Attract and develop the best people: and encourage healthy debate.
Reduce our environmental footprint: Excellence: We strive to deliver the best and Support the communities in which we operate: continually look for ways to improve.
Be transparent in our operations and reporting: and Governance structure Encourage and support these principles in the The Board is responsible for corporate governance companies in which we invest.
and corporate responsibility within the Group.
Alan Brown, Chief Investment Officer, chairs the Corporate Schroders is an index component of both the Dow Responsibility Committee that oversees all employee, Jones Sustainability World Index and the Dow Jones environmental and community involvement issues.
We are also included in This Committee is responsible for the development of the FTSE4Good Index, which is designed to identify Schroders policies on corporate responsibility and Further information on our companies that meet globally recognised corporate their implementation throughout the Group as we look CR activities is published responsibility standards.
As a major investor, we on our website at to embed corporate responsibility principles in all our recognise that how we behave can influence other www.
com ir activities and culture.
Our approach to corporate responsibility is built Our stakeholders, with whom we maintain an ongoing around four main areas: dialogue, include shareholders, clients, employees, regulators, non-governmental organisations, the wider Marketplace: community and the companies in which we invest.
We Workplace: endeavour to develop close relationships with all stakeholders.
Our behaviour is influenced by our Environment: and core values: Community.
Integrity: We are honest, open and uncompromising in our commitment to our standards.
We welcome the responsibility that comes with the trust our stakeholders place in us.
Passion: We share a deep rooted belief in what we do.
We demonstrate this through the dedication, enthusiasm and energy we bring to our work.
Our four main areas for corporate responsibility Marketplace Workplace Environment Community | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp009-030 File0308 03 201013:10Page27 27 The business monitors the following key performance indicators to assess its progress within each of these four areas: Corporate responsibility Why is it important?
of meetings As a leading asset management group, Number of environmental, social and 05 89 we recognise that our investment governance engagements with decisions have a greater impact than 06 90 companies in which we invest.
07 80 08 62 09 87 Environment We are committed to continuous Tonnes improvement in minimising the negative carbon footprint 07 5,842 environmental impact of our operations 08 5,656 and are targeting a 15 per cent.
Our CO output in London, as 2 reduction by 2012.
We began measuring a result of electricity and gas 09 5,098 our carbon footprint in 2007. consumption, has been calculated using the 2009 Guidelines to DEFRAs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Community Our charitable giving is focused m on employee choice, with the Group charitable giving 05 0.5 matching employee donations 06 0.6 and sponsorship.
The Groups financial contributions to charitable causes during the year.
07 1.3 08 1.1 09 0.6 Our people The survey is undertaken every three Per cent.
of survey respondents proud to be years and the results provide the associated with Schroders employee opinion survey management team with an insight into 05 89 how employees view the business over A survey of employees where results 08 92 the longer term.
The last survey was are benchmarked against other undertaken in 2008. financial services organisations and high performing organisations.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp009-030 File0306 03 201001:01Page28 28 Corporate responsibility continued Marketplace During 2009, we engaged in dialogue with 87 Transparency, accountability and sustainability are companies 2008: 62 companies on specific ESG essential to the success of our business and have related issues and our meetings with companies were become increasingly prominent in the light of market used to assess ESG issues if there were concerns events in recent years.
At Schroders, we put our over the impact of a companys ESG performance on clients first and we are committed to developing the share price.
Overall, we voted on 99 shareholder sustainable relationships.
Treating clients fairly is an resolutions of a social, ethical or environmental nature important principle for our business.
In addition we also utilise the values are embedded in our culture and can be seen Ethical Investment Research Service to screen in the integrity with which we behave.
In providing investable universes in orderto reflect clients values solutions to address our clients investment needs, in their investment portfolios.
At the end of 2009, we we seek to communicate clearly the services we offer had 3.8 billion of funds under management which and to be transparent in our relationships with clients.
had some form of ethical criteria attached to them 2008: 3.7 billion.
As a leading asset management group, we recognise our responsibility in ensuring that we engage with Workplace companies to assess not only the financial risks but Schroders has more than 2,600 employees across also the environmental, social and governance ESG 25 countries.
Our aim is to be an employer of choice risks that can impact long-term value.
and one of our strategic priorities is to develop, We introduced a socially responsible investment manage and retain our talented people in order policy in 2000 to enhance our approach to corporate to deliver to our potential.
This policy meets the Association of We work to ensure that our employee policies reflect British Insurers Disclosure Guidelines on Socially best practice within each of the countries where we Responsible Investment and endorses the Voluntary operate, and that our employees understand the Code on Shareholder Activism issued by the strategic aims and objectives of the Group, are clear Institutional Shareholders Committee.
A copy about their role in achieving them and aware of and of the policy is available on our website at participate in the wider community.
with employees worldwide on a day-to-day basis.
We We are also a signatory to the United Nations also ensure that what is explained to the external Principles for Responsible Investment which serves market is disseminated and discussed internally.
We to reinforce our commitment to integrating ESG utilise employee meetings to facilitate the exchange issues into our investment decision making.
of views with senior management and discussion We are a founding member of the Institutional of the progress made by the Group.
Investors Group on Climate Change, signatories to the In the UK, there is an Employee Consultation Forum, Bali Communique issued by the Corporate Leadership consisting of employees elected by their peers.
Group on Climate Change and a member of the Members of the Forum meet regularly with Carbon Disclosure Project.
Our investment process management as part of a Joint Consultative Group incorporates ESG research into the corporate which discusses employee-related matters and responsibility performance of companies and we provides feedback and recommendations to senior engage with companies where their ESG practices fall management.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp009-030 File0306 03 201001:01Page29 29 Remuneration In creating a high performing organisation, we Our approach to remuneration is consistent with recognise the importance of encouraging all our our ambition to be an employer of choice.
We have employees to learn, develop and fulfil their potential.
developed flexibility to enable our employees to We provide our employees worldwide with access personalise elements of their remuneration package to a range of training and development opportunities to suit their own needs and ambitions.
that are relevant to our business.
High ethical standards Health and safety We actively promote high ethical standards.
Concerns We promote high standards of health and safety at about behaviour or decisions that are perceived to be work and have a global health and safety policy, which unethical can be raised by employees through our we expect all employees to follow and which highlights internal whistleblowing process.
Personal securities our commitment to ensuring employees are provided trading by employees is regulated.
Employees are not with a safe and healthy working environment.
Training permitted to solicit or accept any inducements is offered to all employees.
which are likely to conflict with their duties.
Training is provided in relation to these issues and in relation to Environment money laundering, terrorist finance, data protection During 2009, we made a number of key and treating customers fairly.
improvements to help minimise our environmental impact.
We remain committed to continuous Diversity improvement in this area and to the promotion of We are committed to providing equal opportunities positive environmental practices.
We measure our and we expect our workforce to reflect the diversity performance in terms of waste management, energy of the many communities in which we operate.
We are members of recognise that through the attraction and retention of Green500, an initiative from the London Development a diverse workforce we are better able to understand Agency, which works with organisations to achieve the needs of all our clients.
carbon reduction goals as well as providing, in the future, independent verification of carbon savings.
A flexible working policy has been developed to recognise the diverse needs of employees in Waste management London only managing the responsibilities of their work and In 2009, we saw a 42 per cent.
reduction in waste personal lives.
We believe that achieving an effective generation in London following the introduction of balance in these areas is beneficial to both the Group further recycling initiatives and employee awareness and the individual.
It is the Groups policy to give fair campaigns during the year.
We aim to recycle or reuse consideration to applications from disabled persons, over 90 per cent.
of our waste: although this years having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
performance falls just short of this we have managed For the purposes of training, career development and to significantly reduce the absolute amount of waste progression, disabled employees, including those we generate.
who become disabled during the course of their employment, are treated on equal terms with other Schroders was awarded the Gold Award in the City employees.
We operate a zero tolerance policy to of Londons Clean City Scheme in 2009.
A change to harassment and bullying.
the scheme rules has meant that Schroders no longer qualified for the Platinum award, which we have won Personal development four years running, due to the size of our organisation.
Our performance management process comprises The Gold award places us in the top 100 out of 1,400 an annual performance appraisal against agreed buildings in the Scheme, which recognises good objectives and our core values.
Output from this waste management and effective recycling.
performance process is used to inform decisions on remuneration, career development and progression.
We recognise the importance of encouraging our employees to learn, develop and fulfil their potential.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp009-030 File0308 03 201013:10Page30 30 Corporate responsibility continued Water usage London only Waste recycled or used per cent.
We are also committed to the efficient use of water 07 91 and encourage our employees to conserve water.
Our 08 82 consumption of piped water in London has reduced by 12.7 per cent.
in 2009, primarily as a result of water 09 88 efficiency initiatives introduced during the year.
Waste generated tonnes per employee Community 07 0.40 We encourage all employees to participate in the community and in civic and charitable causes.
We 08 0.23 believe that involvement is valuable to the community 09 0.15 and the individual as it can assist personal development.
Energy usage London only Our energy usage is one of the most significant Charitable giving impacts that our operations have on the environment.
Our charitable giving is focused on employee choice, During 2009, we developed and improved our carbon with the Group matching employee donations and management policy.
Our ambition is to reach our sponsorship.
In 2009, donations totalled 0.6 million target of reducing carbon output by 15 per cent.
2008: 1.1 million, reflecting the impact of the by 2012. challenging market conditions on our profitability.
In 2009, we have not made any discretionary donations, From January to October 2009 our head office was preferring to focus our efforts on employee choice supplied with 100 per cent.
We through matched payroll giving and other matched have procured a contract for the supply of electricity donation schemes.
that is exempt from the climate change levy.
This contract runs from 1 November 2009 to 31 October A number of our offices operate payroll giving 2010. schemes, of which the UK scheme remains the largest, with 21 per cent.
of In total, energy consumption for 2009 across our main London offices has decreased by nine per cent.
Charitable donations of 202,000 were made through this scheme and we reduction primarily reflects the introduction of more energy efficient systems and advanced controls, and again received the Payroll Giving Quality Mark Gold Award in 2009, which recognises that over 20 per the consolidation of space and IT computer systems.
of employees donated money to charity via Energy megawatt hours per employee our payroll.
07 7.1 Volunteering 08 6.5 We also encourage employees to spend time working in the community.
Employees globally are able to take 09 6.5 up to 15 hours paid leave per year to provide CO tonnes per employee 2 volunteering services.
07 4.1 In London, we are a corporate sponsor of the Hackney Schools Mentoring Programme, established 08 3.7 by the East London Business Alliance and Hackney 09 3.8 Learning Partnerships.
Our employees help to mentor 14 and 15 year old students in the London Borough of We use the National Grid Rolling Average, as Hackney to increase students self confidence, whilst recommended by the Department for Environment, allowing them to gain experience of the working Food and Rural Affairs, to calculate CO equivalent 2 environment and broaden their aspirations.
emissions relating to the electricity element of our total Employees have also helped senior school children energy consumption.
with literacy skills and worked with a homeless charity.
Overseas, our employees also participate in We continue to encourage our employees to use volunteering schemes.
video conferencing as an alternative to business air travel and to reduce our CO impact.
In London we 2 have seen a 38.6 per cent.
reduction in distance travelled in 2009, compared to 2008.
Actions taken to align our cost base to the more challenging market conditions will have contributed positively to this.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp031-041 File0406 03 201001:03Page31 Directors profiles 32 Directors report 34 Governance Corporate governance report 38 Remuneration report 42 Nominations Committee report 56 3 Audit Committee report 58 Risk management and internal control report 60 Directors responsibility statement 62 As one of the UKs largest asset managers, corporate governance is very important to us.
We are committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism across all our activities.
