Our performance Operating and fi financial review continued Share price Retirement benefi ts Carillions share price was 303.8 pence at close of business on The Groups ongoing pensions charge against profi t in 2009 31 December 2009, an increase of 22.5 per cent in the closing was 28.6 million 2008: 35.8 million.
After additional cash price on 31 December 2008 of 248.0 pence.
payments to the Groups pension schemes of 29.0 million 2008: 50.5 million, in line with our defi cit recovery plan, and a Carillions total shareholder return increased in 2009 by 23 per curtailment gain of 3.3 million 2008: 38.3 million, the Groups cent, broadly in line with the return for the FTSE 350.
Over the pension schemes had a total defi cit net of tax at 31 December last fi five years, Carillions total shareholder return has signifi cantly 2009 of 211.1 million 2008: 76.2 million.
As part of the outperformed the FTSE 350.
The FTSE 350 has been chosen Groups strategy for managing the risks and liabilities associated by the Board as the best comparator to illustrate Carillions with its defi ned benefi t pension schemes, the benefi ts for performance against a broad equity market index.
members of the Alfred McAlpine Pension Plan will, as with other Carillion schemes, no longer be linked to fi final salary with effect Five-year total shareholder return from 31 December 2009.
250 Committed bank facilities The Groups main committed bank facilities of 655 million 200 comprise a 590 million syndicated fi five-year facility, bilateral facilities of 50 million and a 15 million 364-day facility.
The 150 590 million facility is repayable on 30 September 2012, having been arranged in September 2007 on favourable terms, before the severe tightening of the credit markets.
The bilateral facilities 100 have repayment dates between September and December 2012.
These facilities have proved to be more than adequate to support 50 the operations of the Group.
0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Operational and fi financial risk management Carillion has rigorous policies and processes in place to identify, One-year total shareholder return mitigate and manage strategic risks and those specifi c to individual businesses and contracts, including economic, 140 social, environmental and ethical risks.
These are summarised 130 on page 16 of the Group Chief Executives review.
120 Treasury policy and fi financial risk management 110 The Group has a centralised Treasury function whose primary role is to manage funding, liquidity and fi financial risks.
In addition, 100 Treasury sources and administers contract bond and guarantee 90 facilities for the Group.
Treasury is not a profi t centre and does not 80 enter into speculative transactions.
The Board sets policies within which Treasury operates that ensure the most effective fi nancing 70 of the Groups operations and limit exposure to fi financial risk.
The 60 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 31 areas of signifi cant fi financial risk facing the Group relate to funding Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Dec and liquidity, counterparty risk, foreign exchange and interest rates.
Carillion Total Return FTSE 350 Total Return Carillion plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 03 Our performance Funding and liquidity by the Board.
The Group has not entered into interest rate In addition to Carillion plcs principal borrowing facilities described derivatives to fi x or hedge interest rate risk and currently none are on page 28, money market and short-term overdraft facilities are outstanding.
Certain longer-term assets have been fi nanced using available to Carillion plc and certain subsidiaries.
Operating leases fi xed rate leases.
are also employed to fund longer-term assets.
The quantum of committed borrowing facilities available to the Group is regularly Carillion has invested equity in a number of Joint Venture Special reviewed by the Carillion Board and is designed to satisfy the Purpose Companies SPC to deliver Public Private Partnership requirements of the Groups business plan.
SPCs obtain funding for these projects in the form of the Group had undrawn committed facilities amounting to long-term bank loans or corporate bonds without recourse to 518.4million 2008: 242.3 million.
This excludes the Groups the Joint Venture partners and secured on the assets of the SPC.
share of cash balances amounting to 144.5 million 2008: A number of SPCs have entered into interest rate derivatives as 157.7million within jointly controlled operations, which are a means of hedging interest rate risk.
These derivatives are outside of the Groups facilities.
These cash balances are available interest rate swaps that effectively fi x the rate of interest payable.
to the Group to the extent that they are not needed to meet the working capital requirements of the jointly controlled operations.
Credit risk An analysis of the Groups credit risk is provided in Note 27 on Counterparty risk page 95.
The Group undertakes signifi cant fi financial transactions only with counterparties that have strong credit ratings.
The limits and Going concern requirements in respect of such transactions are reviewed regularly The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely by the Board of Carillion plc.
to affect its future development, performance and position, the fi financial position of the Group, its cash fl ows, liquidity position Foreign exchange and borrowing facilities are described in Section 3 on pages 12 to The Group hedges all signifi cant currency transaction exposures 29, entitled Our Performance.
In addition, note 27 to the fi financial using foreign exchange risk management techniques.
In order to statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes protect the Groups balance sheet from the impact of exchange for managing its capital: its fi financial risk management objectives: rate volatility, foreign currency net assets are hedged using details of its fi financial instruments and hedging activities and its matching currency loans equivalent to at least 60 per cent of exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
the net asset value, where these assets exceed the equivalent of 10million.
Profi ts arising within overseas subsidiaries are The Group has considerable fi financial resources together not hedged unless it is planned to make a distribution.
Such with long-term contracts with a number of customers and distributions are then treated as currency transactions and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the The average and year-end exchange rates used to translate the current uncertain economic outlook.
Groups overseas operations were as follows: The Directors confi rm that, after making enquiries, they have a Average Year end reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have sterling 2009 2008 2009 2008 adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Middle East US Dollar 1.56 1.84 1.61 1.44 foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the Oman Rial 0.60 0.71 0.62 0.55 going concern basis in preparing the fi financial statements.
UAE Dirhams 5.72 6.75 5.93 5.28 Canada Dollar 1.78 1.95 1.69 1.77 Trinidad Dollar 9.81 11.52 10.23 9.04 Interest rates Richard Adam FCA The Groups borrowing facilities are at fl oating rates of interest Group Finance Director linked to the London Inter Bank Offered Rate, UK base rate or 3 March 2010 prevailing local currency interest rates.
Short-term bank deposits and foreign currency hedging transactions are executed only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties and credit exposures to counterparties are monitored regularly so that exposure to any one counterparty is either within Board approved limits or approved Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 Resource use C Governance Supply chain l i m e a c t r e o f c k h r a o n w g e d a n n a d s e e n i t e i r n g Customers Biodiversity u y m m o c e l b a n i a t s u S Our performance Sustainability review Strategy In this section of our Annual We have a well-established strategy model for sustainable Report we provide a summary development, which is aligned with the four priority areas defi ned by the UK Government in its sustainable development strategy, of what we are doing to make Securing the Future, namely our business more sustainable.
A Sustainable communities and workforce Natural resource protection and environmental enhancement more detailed account is provided Climate change and energy in our 2009 Sustainability Report, Sustainable consumption and production.
which will be published on our We have identifi ed 12 behaviours and activities across these four priority areas, as illustrated in the diagram below, which affect the website www.
com delivery of our business objectives.
MAKING TOMORROW Value and risk Environmental impacts A BETTER PLACE Carillion plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 N a t u r a l r e s o u r c e p Design Community r o n t o e i c t t c i o u n d a o r n p d d e n n v a i r n o o n i t m p Atmospheric impacts Our people e m n t u a s l n e o n c h a e n l b c e a n m i e a n t t s u S Health and safety Section 03 Our performance Managing sustainability Our Joint Venture business, Al Futtaim Carillion, received The Our commitment to sustainability is driven by our Board, supported Health, Safety and Environment HSE award for Build Safe UAE by a Sustainability Committee.
This Committee is chaired by our for its diligent and rigorous efforts to make its construction sites Chief Executive, John McDonough, and includes a number of across the Middle East as safe as possible and by taking a very Executive and Senior Directors.
The Committee also benefi ts from active role in the Build Safe UAE programme.
expert advice from two external members, Dame Julia Cleverdon, Vice President of Business in The Community BITC and Jonathan In 2009, as well as continuing to set specifi c sustainability targets Porritt, Founder Director of Forum for the Future.
for each of our business groups and for the Group as a whole, we focused on a number of important specifi c areas, namely The Sustainability Committee is supported by a Sustainability Forum, comprising our senior business leaders, that informs the embedding our carbon reduction strategy into all areas of development of our sustainability strategy, shares best practice and our business with action plans to support the delivery of our ensures the effective dissemination of our sustainability strategy target to reduce carbon emissions by 50 per cent by 2010, and policies to our business units.
All our business units have a measured against a 2006 baseline sustainability plan and objectives, which form an integral part of delivering the commitment we have made to halve the their annual business plans.
Our seventh annual Sustainability volume of construction waste sent to landfi ll by 2012 Week was again organised to coincide with World Environment through the Business Action on Homelessness programme, Day.
In 2009, our focus for sustainability week was on carbon enabling 100 candidates to gain valuable two-week reduction and our chosen charity for the week was The Princes work placements in our businesses and supporting their Trust, for which we raised over 6,500 from employees re-introduction to employment fundraising activities.
We chose The Princes Trust, because we working with communities and in particular ensuring that already support the work it does to promote more sustainable at least one per cent of our pre-tax profi ts are given in cash practices, for example the Get Into Construction programme.
or kind to community activities monitoring progress with implementing our apprenticeship Our performance charter to ensure at least 250 apprentices are gaining In 2009, Carillion was included in the Top 20 UK companies in valuable work experience on our contracts and projects and the Sunday Times Best Green Companies.
We also continued delivering our commitments on sustainable procurement to improve our ranking in BITCs Corporate Responsibility Index, through applying the framework methodology developed by moving up from a Gold to a Platinum ranking, with a score the UK Governments Sustainable Procurement Task Force.
The Corporate Responsibility Index involves a detailed, independent assessment of Carillions sustainability The Groups sustainability targets for 2009 were based on strategy, management processes and performance.
Such 14 specifi c and measurable targets.
In order to drive continuous assessments enable us to benchmark our performance against improvement we set demanding targets and our performance other companies, including those in different market sectors.
against them is independently verifi ed by Bureau Veritas.
A full report on what we have achieved will be published in our 2009 Carillion continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index and Sustainability Report, in April 2010. this year we submitted a full response to the Carbon Disclosure Project for the fi first time.
Our Middle East and North Africa MENA business won the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR of the Year Award and the Build Safe UAE Award for best practice, at the 2009 Construction Week Awards held in Dubai.
To win this award, our MENA business had to demonstrate that it has its employees welfare and that of the community at heart.
Our MENA business was specifi cally recognised for its efforts to protect the environment through effi cient waste management techniques and a number of clean-up campaigns.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31
