3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report St. Jamess Place is committed to growing the business in a way that considers the economic, social and environmental impacts of what we do.
We understand that responsible management is increasingly important to our stakeholders shareholders, clients, Partners, employees, suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
This report provides information on how we manage The Foundation Corporate Social Responsibility CSR at St. Jamess Place The St. Jamess Place Foundation is a thriving grant making and identifies the key areas where we have made a positive charity that was set up in 1992 because the Founders, impact during the year, including: Directors, Partners and employees of the Company had a collective desire to give something back to the community The St. Jamess Place Foundation the Foundation in which we live.
People Clients The Foundation has made a significant impact on helping Community activities the causes we have supported as well as helping to maintain Environment the Companys core values and reinforce team work and collaboration across our whole community.
2009 was a We are pleased that St. Jamess Place continues to be record year for the Foundation, both in terms of funds raised included in the FTSE4GOOD Index which comprises and the amount of funds donated to good causes.
Further companies that meet globally recognised CSR criteria.
details are set out below.
Further information can be found on our website at www.
CSR Governance St. Jamess Places CSR programme is overseen by the HR Corporate and Social Responsibility Steering Group.
The Steering Group met on a regular basis throughout the year to review the Companys HR and CSR programmes against its objectives.
The Group is chaired by the Company Secretary and comprises senior executives from across the business.
During the year, the Steering Group considered a number of CSR related matters including how to encourage more employee volunteering in the local community, fundraising activities for the Foundation and how to reduce the Groups The Foundations ability to support charities in their efforts environmental impact through changes to the company car to make a lasting and positive difference to the lives of scheme.
The Group also considered actions emanating from people most in need is thanks to the generosity and the the staff survey, recruitment and recognition policies and extensive fundraising efforts of Partners and employees employee development.
In 2009 Partners and employees of St. Jamess Place raised 1.3 million which was then Environmental matters are also considered by the St. Jamess matched by the Company pound for pound, giving a total Place Environmental Working Group.
The Group met on a of 2.6 million.
Through our grants programmes in 2009 regular basis throughout the year to review the Companys we were able to donate in excess of 3 million to good environmental programme against its objectives.
The Group causes assisting a mixture of large and small charities with is chaired by the Operations Director and, during the year, one-off grants as well as committing to multi-year grants focused on ways to reduce landfill waste, increase recycling over a three year period both in the UK and overseas.
and increase the overall awareness of environmental matters with staff.
Business Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 St. Jamess Place plc.
3183415 29 Following consultation with Partners and employees the Clinical Nurse Specialist also provides a 24-hour on-call Foundation reviewed its themes for grant-making activities telephone service for advice and help and is also backed up in 2009 and beyond.
Two main themes were approved, by the Hospice at Home team.
Cherishing the Children and The Hospice Movement: Overseas Cherishing the Children Hope and Homes for Children The Foundation invests in projects that are for the benefit of In 2009 we committed 850,000 to assist Hope and Homes children and young people up to the age of 25, whose lives for Children HHC in transforming the lives of 600 have been challenged by physical or mental health difficulties young disadvantaged and orphaned children in Ukraine.
We or a life-threatening or degenerative illness.
The Foundation enabled HHC to begin the closure of an outdated orphanage will also consider applications for funding from charities in Makiriv near the capital Kiev and they will soon begin to supporting children and young people who are marginalised build a social services centre and small family home.
Our or disadvantaged in some way and struggling to get on in life.
recent gift means the Foundation has donated almost 4 million over the last ten years to assist HHC in support of orphans across Eastern Europe and Africa.
UK The Childrens Trust The Childrens Trust opened its new Hydrotherapy Centre for disabled children in Tadworth, Surrey.
The Childrens Trust provides care, education, therapy and rehabilitation to children with multiple disabilities and complex health needs and received a donation of 1.2 million to fund the project from the Foundation.
It is the single largest gift made by the Foundation in its 18 year history and has been made possible by the fundraising Kids Company efforts of Partners and staff in the last two years.
The Foundation has donated 60,000 to Kids Company www.
uk to fund a volunteer coordinator The new Hydrotherapy Centre replaces an old pool built assisting disadvantaged and marginalised young people in the 1930s, which was increasingly hard to maintain and through their individual support and mentoring is an integral part of The Childrens Trusts newly-built programmes.
Each year Kids Company provides practical, residential rehabilitation centre for children with acquired emotional and educational support to 1,200 inner-city brain injuries.
It will be used by children who come from all London children and young people.
parts of the UK to benefit from the Trusts services.
The Hospice Movement The Foundation helps people of all ages through its support of projects put forward by hospices and makes grants of up to 10,000 for items such as equipment or a contribution towards the cost of specialist nursing care or therapies.
Hospices offer care, support and medical help to people of all ages, often playing a vital role in supporting people at the end of their lives, as well as supporting their families so they are able to cope with the emotional and practical challenges.
The Foundation assists hospices to improve the quality of care they offer people.
St. Richards Hospice The Foundation made a grant of 10,000 to St. Richards Hospice in Worcester to fund the salary of a Clinical Nurse Pictured left to right at the official opening ceremony Specialist.
The nurses spend time with the patients, listening of the new Hydrotherapy Centre are Andrew Ross, chief to their concerns, helping them to make choices, identifying executive of The Childrens Trust, Mike Wilson, Chairman other support services and linking with the other healthcare of St. Jamess Place, Malcolm Cooper-Smith, chairman of professionals working with them.
The doctors work with the Foundation, David Bellamy, CEO of St. Jamess Place the nurses to advise on pain and symptom management.
The and the president of The Childrens Trust, Sir Brian Hill.
3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued WellChild A key aspect of our fundraising is the funds we receive from The Foundation agreed to fund a WellChild Nurse Partners and employees by way of monthly regular gifts, www.
uk working out of Cardiff Hospital either a set amount or a percentage of earnings, with over to care for children with life-limiting and life-threatening 80% of our community contributing in this way, showing conditions and illnesses, and those whose lives are just how committed our community is to the Foundation challenged by disability.
The total donation from the and the hundreds of charities we support.
This is illustrated Foundation is 75,000 over two years.
by the Aberdeen Office which has for a number of years had 100% of their Partners and employees supporting the National Star College Foundation in this way.
In December 2009 the Foundation agreed to donate 656,000 to fund a student residence being built at National Star College based in Ullenwood, Gloucestershire.
The National Star College NatStar educates disabled young people between the ages of 16 and 25, many of whom have severe disabilities and complex health needs.
Over 40 years, NatStar has enriched thousands of young peoples lives through holistic programmes of education, therapy, independence training, personal care and pastoral support.
Students from all over the UK attend the college and it also provides some day places for local students.
Our grant will enable them to build a new specialist hall of residence tailored to the students needs.
Supporting Charities Through One-Off Grants Led by Senior Partner Steve McKnight far left, the As well as the larger donations we make, we also help Aberdeen Office not only have 100% of their Partners and hundreds of organisations by donating small one-off grants employees contributing to the Foundation, they also hold of up to 1,000 to assist their efforts both in the UK and regular events to raise funds, including an annual family fun abroad.
These causes are mostly introduced by members of day shown above.
the SJP community and encompass a broad range of different types of charities.
In 2009 a total of 180,000 was donated Dare to Dream Ball to small charities in this way.
The Dare to Dream Ball held in London in March 2009 raised an amazing 500,000 for the Foundation which National Autistic Society Aberdeen Youth Club represents the largest amount raised for the Foundation An example of the type of small grants we make to charities from a single event in its history.
The event was the vision introduced to the Foundation by our Partners and employees of two of our Partners, David Moran and Lesley Belcher is the grant we made to The National Autistic Societys youth and Davids wife Patricia, who had the drive and passion club in Aberdeen.
The Society provides a safe and nurturing to make it happen, dedicating much of their own time to environment for autistic children, providing fun activities, make it such a success.
The event was well supported by the such as art and drama, whilst encouraging the childrens social Partnership with over 1,000 people enjoying fine cuisine skills.
Our grant will help to fund the establishment of more and superb entertainment, while at the same time showing youth clubs in Scotland for autistic children.
their generosity through their involvement in the various fundraising initiatives on the night.
The event was also well Fundraising supported by a number of St. Jamess Places key suppliers.
In 2009, Partners and employees of St. Jamess Place raised a total of 2.6 million including Company matching.
The total amount raised equates to each member of our community donating 1,270 to the Foundation in 2009.
The amount raised in 2009 is an improvement on the 2.45 million raised in 2008 and takes our total fundraising since the formation of the Foundation in 1992 to a total of 17.7 million.
The total funds raised and engagement in the Foundation by the whole SJP community illustrates how central the Foundation is to the objectives of the Company and how important it is to the Partners, employees, Directors and Board of St. Jamess Place.
3183415 31 The major sponsors of the evening were Invesco Perpetual, Jupiter Group, Stamford Associates, Prudential, Schroders, THS Partners and IFDS.
One of our most successful, and regular, annual fund raising events is The St. Jamess Place Triathlon in support of Hope and Homes for Children www.
The event is the idea of one of St. Jamess Places leading Partners Martin Rashdi who, along with a dedicated team, has now raised in excess of 1 million over the last seven years.
Another fund raising event saw an enthusiastic group of Simon Fleet competing in the 2009 Jungle Marathon Partners, employees, clients and family ride from Walney to in Brazil Wear in the SJP Coast to Coast Cycle Challenge organised by SJP employee Kate Roberts and Company Secretary People Hugh Gladman.
53 cyclists raised in excess of 75,000 for Our Approach the Foundation.
At induction, all employees and members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership receive a booklet entitled Our Approach In September 2009, 131 Partners, employees, clients, which gives guidance on the culture and values of St. Jamess friends and family braved the harsh conditions of Dartmoor Place.
We believe it is important for all areas of our community National Park to take on the Ten Tors Challenge at the same to know and understand our objectives: the St. Jamess Place time raising 80,000 for the Foundation.
brand and how its integrity and value should be maintained: our corporate culture and management style: how we deal with internal and external communications: and our commitment to the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Spirit of Partnership For Partners, the Spirit of Partnership, written by Partners for Partners, sets out the principles which have made the Partnership our competitive edge and a group of professionals that other advisers aspire to join.
We emphasise our values of integrity, trust, openness, partnership and teamwork and the clarity we provide is designed to guide individual and corporate actions, decisions and standards across the Company.
Participants of the 2009 Ten Tors Challenge on Dartmoor our Employees As well as the events organised and supported by the We take pride in being a people business and continue to St. Jamess Place community a number of individuals set believe that our success as a business depends on the loyalty personal goals and took part in their own activities to raise and dedication of our people, whether Partners or employees.
valuable funds for the Foundation.
Two examples of Our employees give us a sustainable competitive advantage this include: and the attitude, knowledge and commitment of our people continues to be a strong differentiator.
We aim to attract the Principal Partner Simon Fleet successfully completed the best people, enable them to fulfil their potential and secure 2009 Jungle Marathon in Brazil and raised 20,000 for their continued commitment by providing them with an the Foundation including Company Matching.
The event interesting and challenging career within a first class working consisted of Simon completing four back to back marathons environment.
We share ideas and are always receptive to in dense jungle.
We give credit where credit is due and work hard to recognise individual performance.
Senior Partner Ian Jamieson completed the Ironman USA in Mount Placid raising 21,000 including Company matching, for the Foundation and Hope and Homes for Children.
3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 2009 saw the introduction of a new booklet which outlines Whilst our employee turnover is very low, we carry out our leadership ethos, leading by example, conveying farewell interviews for all our employees, to gain valuable belief, enthusiasm and passion for what we do.
Our feedback on reasons for leaving and act where possible.
Leadership Team meets on a quarterly basis and has specific responsibility for protecting our unique culture: the team People Development focuses on management and inspirational leadership for St. Jamess Place is a Corporate Member of the Institute individuals, the Company and the community.
During 2009 the ICS Awards programme continued to provide practical support to Employee Communication the development of employees with growing numbers of We remain committed to an open style of communication staff involved in the scheme.
We now have over 50 people with employees.
We keep all of our community informed participating in the Awards programme and many of the frequently on matters that might affect their day-to-day early participants now assist colleagues in coaching and work and communicate items of interest via a bi-monthly mentoring roles.
The Company retained its Approved employee newsletter.
Regular feedback is sought through Centre Status by the ICS which recognises that our informal lunches hosted by Directors, and managers are programme is self-sufficient with our own training events, expected to have regular team meetings and regular onecoaches and assessors.
to-ones with their team members.
Directors and senior managers frequently visit all St. Jamess Place office The Knowledge Development Meetings implemented during locations to disseminate key corporate messages and 2008 for Cirencester employees were extended in 2009 and obtain valuable feedback.
were supported by a new range of events for Managers.
In total we ran 60 of these events with over 800 attendees.
This Employee Feedback approach has proved to be successful in helping employees We continue to seek employees views and opinions through develop their understanding of our business.
These meetings our Employee Survey.
Our 2008 survey received a response are extremely well received and the programme will rate of 82% and employee engagement was as high as 95% continue to evolve throughout 2010. in some areas.
Survey results provide an overwhelming message that St. Jamess Place is a great place to work and The induction programme for new Head Office employees the advocacy of our staff is measured through our employee ensures that the unique brand and culture of St. Jamess engagement index.
The following table shows the response Place is shared in sufficient depth with all new joiners with to the questions linked to our overall employee engagement: an emphasis on St. Jamess Place as a Wealth Management company.
The inclusion in the programme of selected I feel proud to work for SJP 93% members of staff from our third party providers and suppliers is proving very successful in helping them build a I would recommend SJP as a good place to work 92% better understanding of the Company.
Considering everything, I am satisfied with SJP as a place to work 90% Our Field Management Team has different specialist I feel a strong sense of belonging to SJP 84% areas, so we have created a development programme that I intend to still be working for SJP in is tailored to each role.
This commences as soon as a new twelve months time 88% Manager joins St. Jamess Place and continues throughout their career.
An example of this is a programme of six I am happy to go the extra mile at work courses for Business Development Managers that helps when required 96% them develop their skills to act as a consultant and help Working here makes me want to do the best I can 91% Partners build their practices.
This covers various topics from recruiting staff to business planning.
During 2009 we We plan to carry out a similar employee survey in 2010. worked extensively with our Senior Field Management team Employee retention for 2009 was 95% whilst days lost to develop a more effective appraisal and review process through sickness across the business stands at 4.66 days per to ensure that everyone has clear personal development employee, per year, which is below the national average.
We have also commenced work to help our Our workplace gender profile is fairly evenly split with a Field Managers assist and support Partners in acquiring total of 332 female and 294 male employees.
We are keen to the professional qualifications required by the Retail ensure that individuals are encouraged to develop and given Distribution Review.
opportunities to seek new challenges across the business and as a result, job vacancies are advertised internally.
3183415 33 Performance, Reward and Remuneration In respect of employees with disabilities, we will always The performance and development of our people consider possible modifications to the working environment is encouraged and supported through a formalised to ensure that anyone with disabilities has the chance to take Performance Development Review process.
Our reward up opportunities or receive promotion.
package is competitive with a comprehensive range of benefits provided to all employees including Pension, Life We ensure that every effort is made to achieve continuity and Critical Illness cover and Private Medical cover.
Our of employment in the event of an employee becoming employee survey found that 99% of employees understood disabled.
Similarly best practice principles ensure that our what is included in their benefits package.
responsibilities are met as an equal opportunity employer.
We provide all employees with the opportunity to benefit our Clients from annual bonuses linked to St. Jamess Place corporate or St. Jamess Place has always recognised that the interests of team performance and recognise the benefit of all employees our clients are paramount and central to our culture.
We being given the opportunity to participate in ownership strive to build and maintain long-term relationships with of St. Jamess Place shares.
All employees are eligible to clients through the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
These participate in the Sharesave plan and acquire shares in the relationships are founded on the principle that every client Company after a three-year savings period and currently has different goals and aspirations, requiring an individual, 65% of employees participate in the scheme.
personal and bespoke advice service from a St. Jamess Place Partner.
By applying this principle, our Partners have All employees are provided with an opportunity to sacrifice developed exceptionally strong and lasting relationships with earned bonuses to their pension arrangement, with any their clients which are founded on trust.
We aim to deliver amount sacrificed enhanced by 10% by the Company to consistent all round performance to clients by: encourage retirement planning.
A pension salary sacrifice arrangement was introduced during 2009 to complement Providing trusted advice through experienced and the existing bonus sacrifice arrangement enabling staff to suitably trained advisers.
give up a portion of their annual salary, such amount again Providing solutions to meet identified client needs.
enhanced by 10% with over 20% of our employees electing Ensuring that our literature is clear and easily to participate.
Doing our very best to ensure that our clients In 2010, the Company will launch a Share Incentive Plan investments are managed effectively and meet or exceed SIP and provide all employees with further opportunity expectations.
to purchase shares in the Company.
Under the SIP, Exhibiting empathy and consideration when dealing employees will be given the opportunity to acquire up with our clients and working within the spirit of our to 1,500 worth of shares from their pre-tax salary.
The relationship with them: we listen to their needs.
Company will then match every tenth share acquired with one further share at the end of the period.
These We support and encourage Partner client relationships by arrangements maximise the opportunities available from ensuring that the range of wealth management products HMRC approved or exempt arrangements from a tax and services on offer is comprehensive and meets both the planning and long-term saving perspective.
current and future needs of clients.
We wish to ensure that our clients perception of St. Jamess Place is positive Diversity and Equal opportunities in every sense and that their experience of dealing with St. Jamess Place has a well-established awareness of its the organisation is consistent with the image we portray.
statutory and social responsibilities with regard to the We also guarantee the advice given by Partners when they recruitment and employment of staff.
The Company is recommend any of the products and services provided by committed to maintaining an appropriately skilled and companies in the St. Jamess Place Group.
diverse work force irrespective of age, colour, race, nationality, ethnicity, sex, mental or physical handicaps.
In settling life and health claims, we take a positive view We seek to employ the best person for each job and aim and do not hide behind the small print.
Wherever possible, to ensure everyone can enjoy equal opportunities in an we will pay claims in line with the spirit of the contract.
environment that is free from discrimination of any sort.
We also place great emphasis on communicating the characteristics of our products and services with clarity and transparency.
3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Investing Client Money Future research is planned for 2010.
The results will enable As well as providing advice on a range of products and us to measure progress and ensure we remain aligned to services, a substantial part of our business is the management clients expectations.
At the heart of this process is the Investment Committee, chaired by Sir Mark Weinberg and During 2009, St. Jamess Place won three prestigious assisted by independent investment consultants Stamford awards as voted for by readers of the Investors Chronicle Associates.
Stamford are responsible for monitoring and Financial Times.
Readers of these two publications the managers and for making recommendations to the were asked to rate their wealth managers on a range of Investment Committee.
We select the best Fund Managers, criteria including performance, fees, range of investments, closely monitoring their activities and introducing new trustworthiness and reliability.
This approach has consistently delivered above average investment returns over the medium Wealth Manager of the Year Second successive year to long term for our clients.
This award identifies wealth managers who offer all-round outstanding service and performance to their clients.
There have been a number of initiatives developed in recent years to enhance the client experience such as the Best Wealth Manager for Investments introduction of our flagship client report the Wealth This award identifies wealth managers that readers believe Account.
This brings together all of a clients products and offer their clients outstanding investment services.
services arranged via the St. Jamess Place Partnership into a consolidated annual summary with valuation and asset Best Wealth Manager for Inheritance Tax IHT & class information.
Succession Planning This award identifies wealth managers who offer outstanding Client Feedback IHT and succession planning advice.
We recognise that clients needs change over time and we try to anticipate and understand this process and respond In addition, readers of The Daily Telegraph voted positively in a way that maintains the Partner client St. Jamess Place Wealth Management the winner of the relationship for the long term.
Best Performing Fund Award for 2009 in recognition of the consistent performance of our fund range.
Client consultation is undertaken on a regular basis via client surveys and focused research on specific areas of our Community activities offering.
We conducted annual satisfaction surveys in 2007 Our community activity is focused on the recognition of our and 2008 and the feedback was very positive which gave us a responsibility to help build strong and healthy communities clear understanding of what clients want and expect.
in the areas in which we operate our business.
In 2009, 463 clients responded to an invitation to take Where possible we work with local charitable partners part in Partner-led online satisfaction surveys and the and community organisations.
The combination of their feedback was again very positive, with 99% of those clients expertise and the talents and enthusiasm of our employees responding saying that they would be willing to refer their makes our community involvement effective and rewarding Partner to family, friends or colleagues.
3183415 35 Highlights from our community activities include: Employee Our Employee Volunteering has taken a different direction in 2009 with employees being Volunteering encouraged to share their business skills and experience to help charities and Third Sector organisations.
This is high on the agenda for 2010 and looking to link skills based on volunteering with our employees personal development.
For example, some of our employees are directly involved in sharing their skills with each of the initiatives detailed below.
Cirencester We entered into a partnership arrangement with the Trustees of the beautiful Cirencester Parish Church Church to help them to raise funds for the much-needed restoration programme.
Under the scheme, St. Jamess Place will match funds raised by the Church in local fundraising activities up to a limit of 50,000 per year.
We very much hope this will encourage the local community to support the restoration programme.
Cirencester Cirencester College has over 1,600 students between the ages of 16 and 19 and a further 7,000 College students attending a variety of adult learning courses.
Our main involvement with the College is to provide support for the 16 to 19 year old Academy Programmes, of which there are eight, all designed for students who aspire to work in a particular market sector.
In 2009 we supported seven students with paid summer internships and we continue to provide extensive personal mentoring to students from a business coach.
St. Jamess Place also sponsors a number of awards and continues to have representation on the various Academy Boards.
We have also employed five Academy students as a direct result of our relationship with the College, following their graduation.
Young Young Glos is the leading voluntary youth organisation in Gloucestershire, delivering high-quality Gloucestershire programmes and training for vulnerable young people.
In 2009, we helped Young Glos to set up a drop-in centre for young people in South Cerney, near Cirencester and helped with their bid for government funding to build a new centre for young people in Gloucester.
An example of employee involvement includes St. Jamess Place providing an employee who advises the Board of Trustees on topics such as employment issues or risk management.
Citizens Advice The Cheltenham and Cirencester Citizens Advice Bureau CAB provides a range of advice to Bureau people living in the Gloucestershire area.
In 2009, the CAB identified a growing need for a debt counselling service as a result of the economic downturn.
St. Jamess Place agreed to part fund the salary of a debt counsellor for the Cirencester area to provide much needed support for the community in the area.
CCP Christmas CCP provide a range of crisis and preventative services to improve the lives of children, families Hamper Scamper and vulnerable adults across Gloucestershire.
The Hamper Scamper is a Christmas giving scheme, Appeal providing food hampers and gifts for disadvantaged people.
In 2009, our employees donated 175 presents, food for hampers and other donations.
We also held a mufti-day to raise funds for a local charity providing a Christmas Day meal to the homeless or elderly in the Cirencester area.
St. Jamess Place also sponsors the Loughborough University Environmental Performance swimming club.
The support helps the team in a number We continue to manage the Company in a responsible of ways such as safeguarding the existing swimming way which takes into account our impact on the programme and allowing the squad to enhance its current environment.
During 2009 we continued to make performance and receive additional coaching.
In 2009, improvements to our activities and worked towards Loughboroughs swimmers experienced unprecedented improving our environmental performance.
We recognise success in the pool at the FINA World Championships in that both the Company and our staff have a responsibility Rome with 14 swimmers representing national teams and towards managing the effects on climate change by taking returning with five medals from a GB total of seven.
The a responsible approach to business activities.
team was also named BBC East Midlands team of the year We measure our environmental data from October to during 2009.
St. Jamess Place will continue to provide September, which allows sufficient time for the data sponsorship as the team turns its focus to London 2012. collation process to be completed and included on a consistent basis, for inclusion in our Annual Report.
3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Co Emissions For consistency we have produced comparable figures 2 The table below summarises our CO footprint for the years across the core business activities which produce 2 2007 8 and 2008 9, produced for our core business and greenhouse gases.
These have been presented as tonnes of adjusted to take into account the updated Defra conversion CO per category and measured on a full time occupant 2 rates for all categories.
We have used the UK Grid rolling basis to give percentage changes between 2007 8 and average basis to calculate electricity usage and recalculated 2008 9. the 2007 8 figures for comparison purposes.
FTO figures for electricity and gas include all occupants of St. Jamess Place Offices.
FTO figures for travel only relate to those with company cars and those who claim travel expenses which are staff related.
We are pleased to have achieved reductions in CO output Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification 2 by 1% for electricity and 12% for gas.
This can mainly be PEFC accredited stock.
We use 100% recycled branded attributed to more efficient management of the Building copy paper throughout the Company and work closely Management System in our new Head Office building with our paper and copier suppliers to ensure that we during our second year of occupation.
Business travel can continue to use this paper without impacting on has also improved with an overall improvement of 10% equipment performance.
in absolute terms and 12% in FTO terms.
This has been achieved through less business car mileage offset against an During the year, we undertook a project to introduce a increase in rail usage and a significant increase in the use of more fuel efficient car scheme which would help reduce audio and web conferencing.
As a result, a number of higher generating 2 CO car models were removed from the approved car 2 During the year, our general waste output reduced list available to employees.
Early evidence shows that the and paper recycling increased by 5% following the changes have reduced our average CO emissions from 2 implementation of increased recycling facilities in all our 176g km to 159g km.
Further analysis is scheduled towards office locations.
We now recycle paper, plastic bottles, cans, the end of 2010. toner cartridges and electrical equipment and are pleased that in our core business areas there has been an overall In 2009, we further increased our corporate environmental reduction in CO output in absolute terms of 5%, while full awareness by highlighting World Environment Day in which 2 time equivalent employee CO output has reduced by 7%.
a number of activities were held during the day to promote 2 Our Marketing Department continues to search for environmental awareness.
We also held a separate SJP improvements to processes with a view to reducing the Environment Day to further heighten awareness amongst need to produce paper based literature.
One example of an staff and invited a speaker from a supplier company, who are improvement has been the introduction of on demand print leaders in their industry on environmental improvements, options rather than print and distribute.
Print material is to present to a number of staff and management about their still needed for client facing documents and these are printed achievements and the business benefits gained from their using paper produced on Forestry Stewardship FSC or environmental journey.
3183415 37 Engagement with Third Parties Hydro: Sichuan Province Hydro Power Project In 2009, we once again took part in the carbon disclosure This project bundles four small run-of-river hydro power project.
The project is a global initiative to inform investors stations in Sichuan province, western China.
The project of the risks and opportunities presented by climate change displaces electricity generated by fossil fuel power plants and from an individual company perspective which provides the will generate emission reductions of an estimated 360,000 investment community with information on greenhouse gas tonnes CO equivalent between 2006 and 2012, certified 2 emissions and climate change management strategies.
We and verified to the Voluntary Carbon Standard.
continue to remain a member of Business in the Community BITC and engage with them on a regular basis to discuss Tree Electronic Communication our progress and plans for improvements.
We have also We are signed up to the e Tree initiative a programme engaged with the Ethical Investment Research Services Ltd which encourages shareholders to receive electronic EIRIS for inclusion in the FTSE4GOOD Index.
communications as a way of saving paper and reducing the impact on the environment.
The scheme is run in association Environmental Projects with the Woodland Trust Tree for All Campaign and for We continuously look at ways to reduce our CO emissions every shareholder who registers to receive information 2 and obtain a significant proportion of our electricity supply electronically, a sum is donated on the shareholders behalf from renewable sources via our energy supplier and include to an area selected for re-forestation in the UK by the this as part of our Carbon Footprint reporting.
Further details of the scheme can be found at looked into an added energy efficiency system for our new www.
com Head Office, however we concluded that this will make no material improvements to the existing system, which is both activities Planned for 2010 relatively new and remains efficient.
A number of initiatives are planned in 2010 to further improve our environmental performance.
These include: We recognise that in spite of making various changes to systems and increasing awareness amongst employees, Reducing printed material further by increasing Partners and suppliers, we still produce emissions.
For electronic access to information and working to create this reason we engage with the Carbon Neutral Company and improve on existing print to order facilities.
CNC to manage our offsets.
Further details of the offset Maintaining our improvements in recycling by projects into which we have invested through CNC are set continuing to check on existing practices and provide out below: additional facilities where necessary.
Continuing to encourage the use of audio and Forestry: Mynydd-Y-Garnedd, Wales web conferencing which will impact on and reduce Right in the heart of Snowdonia, Mynydd-Y-Garnedd will business mileage.
link two existing National nature reserves through a new Looking further into energy improvement systems for native woodland.
Mynydd-Y-Garnedd has been designed office locations with older Building Management Systems to grow from a combination of natural regeneration and in operation.
Engaging further with both Business in the Community for environmental improvements and with CNC to wind: Sebenoba-Karakurt Wind Power Project further reduce our emissions and where this is not This project sees the construction of 21 new wind turbines possible, to offset via appropriate projects both in the at two sites in Turkey.
By providing renewable energy, UK and abroad.
the project reduces Turkeys reliance on fossil fuels for Continuing to engage with employees to maintain electricity supply.
The project aims to generate emission awareness of environmental matters including holding reductions of 127,000 tonnes CO equivalent in between another St. Jamess Place Environment Day to further 2 2007 and 2009, certified and verified to the Voluntary encourage staff and suppliers to consider their effect on Carbon Standard.
wind: Tirunelveli Wind Power Generation A full Environment Report is produced annually and can This project sees the construction of 22 new wind turbines be located with a copy of our Environment Policy on our in India.
By providing renewable energy, the project helps corporate website at www.
to reduce Indias reliance on fossil fuels for electricity generation.
The project has generated emissions reductions of 47,000 tonnes CO between 2005 and 2007, verified to 2 the Voluntary Carbon Standard.
