Corporate social responsibility 44 Introduction SVG Capitals long term business success requires effective management of both financial and non-financial performance.
Our business relies in particular on strong relationships with our employees, our investors, and the general partners of the funds in which we invest.
Although we are a major investor in private equity funds, regulations and commercial realities limit the degree to which we can have an active influence on those funds.
We aim to develop open, long term relationships with the general partners with whom we invest.
Nonetheless we do engage with general partners to identify where non-financial issues may have an impact on our reputation and on that of our investors.
We also engage with relevant industry associations and participate in other initiatives to help raise awareness and understanding of these issues, both within and outside the sector.
The Group employs 70 people based in London, Boston and Singapore.
As a financial services firm, the environmental and social impact of our activities is low.
However, we are looking at ways to reduce this environmental impact, and to support local communities.
We recognise the mutual benefits that can arise from doing so in a consistent way.
Overall responsibility for the implementation of the Groups Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Policy rests with the Board, working with relevant corporate functions, including a CSR committee chaired by Nicholas Ferguson.
The Boards strategic priorities with respect to the CSR policy are: Employees Our objective is to recruit, train and retain the highest calibre employees, and to foster a work environment that helps them to fulfil their potential.
To do this we aim to: provide a supportive work environment and corporate culture provide appropriate training and development address where possible employees interests regarding environmental, social and governance issues Investors Our objective is to ensure that our operations address investors policies relating to environmental, social and governance issues.
To do this we aim to: maintain a high standard of corporate governance respond to investors environmental, social and governance concerns as they relate to our own operations give full consideration to investors concerns as they relate to our investment activities Funds in which we invest Our objective is to develop strong relationships, balancing the legitimate needs of the general partners of the funds in which we invest with our interests and the expectations of our investors.
We aim to do this by: ensuring the highest levels of integrity in our relationships with general partners developing strong and open working relationships with general partners, so that we can maintain trust without unnecessary restrictions and unrealistic requests undertaking early and constructive engagement on environmental, social and governance issues of legitimate concern to our investors.
Prior to investment, we evaluate how the general partners assess such issues as part of their due diligence on underlying companies and how they report on such issues.
Making a difference where we can Communities Our objectives are to support our employees volunteering and charitable donations through a matched giving scheme and to support communities by providing charitable donations from the Group of up to 350,000 in aggregate per annum.
The CSR committee has responsibility for the implementation of the charitable donations policy which is focused on: creating opportunity providing access to education protecting the environment In 2009, the Group agreed to continue to support the School for Social Entrepreneurs, Breakthrough, Fairbridge and ERM Foundations Low Carbon Enterprise Fund.
Environment Our objective is to reduce the most significant environmental impact of our operations.
We aim to do this by: periodically undertaking a carbon footprint analysis reducing the impact of our travel and energy use disposing of office waste and used equipment in a responsible manner Engagement with the sector Our objective is to engage in debates on the role and impact of private equity.
We aim to do this by: working with relevant sector associations participation in other relevant initiatives engaging in discussions with stakeholders
