THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued be carried forward and applied to reduce any percentage We review the environmental statements and behaviour of underperformance in future periods.
all the companies in which we invest and take these into account in decision-making.
We recognise that good If the total return of Sigma equity shareholders environmental management can play a part in overall risk funds for any performance period is less than the management and also have a financial impact in terms of hurdle rate for the relevant performance periods, savings through energy and water efficiency.
Where such underperformance expressed as a percentage appropriate, our managers will engage with investee will be carried forward.
No fee will be payable unless companies to raise concerns about environmental matters.
the Group equity shareholders funds for the particular share class outperforms the hurdle rate, So far as direct property investments in the Ordinary after taking into account any accumulated share class portfolio are concerned, the Company percentage underperformance for previous periods conducts environmental audits prior to purchase to to the extent it is not offset by the overperformance identify possible contamination or materials considered offsets described above.
We will take remedial action or enforce tenant obligations to do so wherever appropriate.
Basis of Accounting and IFRS We and our advisers assess the environmental impact of On the basis of the Boards expected long term split of our properties on an ongoing basis and will take all returns, in the form of capital gains and income in equal necessary action to comply with our environmental proportions, the Group charges 50% of finance costs to responsibilities.
One-third of the management fee is deemed to Annual General Meeting relate to the administration of the Company and is charged The AGM will be held on Tuesday, 28 July 2009 at to revenue.
The remainder is split on the same basis as 12 noon.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 86 to finance costs and 50% charged to capital.
The overall result 88, and an explanation of the business to be conducted is that two-thirds of the management fee is charged to is given on pages 89 and 90. revenue and one-third to capital.
All performance fees are charged to capital.
Two items of special business are to be proposed at the AGM.
Allocation of Costs between share classes Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution and Each share class has its own management fee structure resolution 11 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
and is invoiced directly for management fees which are allocated between capital and revenue accounts on the Resolution 10 Authority to Purchase Own Shares basis of accounting described above.
The Companys Articles permit the Company to purchase Administration costs incurred specifically by a single share its own shares out of capital profits.
Under the Listing Rules class are charged to that share class.
of the Financial Services Authority a company is permitted to purchase up to 14.99% of its issued equity share capital The remaining corporate expenses are allocated to the through market purchases pursuant to a general authority share class in the proportion to their relative Net Asset granted by shareholders in general meeting.
Values at the end of the previous accounting period.
The current authority which permits the Company to Environmental Policy purchase up to 14.99% of its issued Ordinary and Sigma The Company considers that good corporate governance shares expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
extends to policies on the environment and has therefore The Board believes that the Company should continue to adopted an environmental policy in respect of its have authority to make market purchases of its own investments in both physical property and listed property Ordinary and Sigma shares for cancellation.
Within the context of the overall aim of the therefore seeking to renew its power to make market Company to maximise shareholders returns, we will seek purchases of Ordinary and Sigma shares.
Accordingly, a to limit our own and our investee companies impact on special resolution to authorise the Company to make the environment.
We will comply with all relevant market purchases of up to 14.99% of the Companys legislation relating to our operations and activities.
