Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Maintaining high standards of compliance and risk management Corporate social responsibility activities ultimately reporting to the Chief Executive and monitored by the Board and Audit Committee: Introduction Through its support for the ef cient operation of the global capital Fully complying with legal and regulatory requirements in each markets, the Company helped ensure its clients were able to of the jurisdictions in which it operates, including the Financial continue to prosper and to achieve their own business objectives, Services Authoritys Conduct of Business Sourcebook and the and to meet expectations of their own shareholders and their other Bank of Englands Non-Investment Products Code: stakeholders.
In this way Tullett Prebon best found expression for its positive contribution to society more widely.
Disallowing corrupt practices such as inappropriate payments to any third party directly or indirectly: By successfully providing a critical component of the global capital markets infrastructure Tullett Prebon is best able to maximise Fully complying with tax laws in each of the jurisdictions in returns to shareholders over the medium to long term.
As a publicly which it operates relating to its affairs and the deduction of listed company Tullett Prebon continues to enjoy a positive record taxes from staff remuneration: in creating value for both institutional and individual investors.
Trading fairly, knowing its clients and properly understanding In turn this allows the Company to make a signi cant contribution its trades with its clients.
The Company has a policy to society through social transfer payments in the form of tax of not participating in trading activities which it suspects payments.
may not be for legitimate trading purposes, or whose sole purpose appears to be tax reduction by the counterparty: The Company intends that its high standards of governance and business ethics contribute to the wider social good through the Guiding employees involved in procurement activities, including example it sets and the high standards it maintains, both in the a requirement to adhere to the highest ethical and social United Kingdom and in all other geographies where the Company standards: and is present, complying with all laws and regulations, trading fairly, and only participating in legitimate trading activities.
Maintaining appropriate guidelines on gifts, hospitality, entertainment and con icts of interest.
Governance Responsibility for social, ethical and environmental matters rests Employees with the Board, and is included in its terms of reference.
The Chief Attracting and retaining the best brokers, support staff and Executive Of cer is the Board member responsible for Corporate management remain crucial to the Companys ongoing success, and Social Responsibility CSR.
and the Companys ability to maximise returns to shareholders is dependent on employing the best staff in all the geographies In recognition of the increasing importance of the CSR agenda, in which it operates.
The Company is committed to training and in 2009 Tullett Prebon established a CSR Governance Committee.
motivating its staff and measures performance to achieve this Membership of this committee comprises all members of the objective.
During 2009 the Company reviewed the training available Companys Executive Committee, re ecting the importance to management, with a view to improving succession planning the Company places on this broad area of responsibility.
Programmes to educate trainees continued in the reporting period.
The productivity and welfare of employees in a Policies and ethical issues business dependent on people such as Tullett Prebon is a matter The Board expects the Company to maintain high standards that attracts considerable senior management attention.
of governance and of ethical behaviour throughout the business, and policies and procedures exist to ensure employees at all levels Employee engagement is recognised as an important responsibility maintain the standards that are set and which are expected of them.
and the Company maintains effective internal communications channels.
Employees are informed in a timely way about major Policies on equal opportunities developments in the business, such as the launch of new products, Tullett Prebon is committed to attract, retain, develop and advance key hires, and financial announcements.
This information is made the most quali ed persons without regard to their race, ethnicity, available to all employees via regular use of internal emails, the religion, or belief, gender, age, sexual orientation or disability.
This intranet, newsletters and town hall meetings, as appropriate.
commitment is underpinned by policies on equal opportunities, harassment and discrimination, to which all employees are required The welfare of staff is taken seriously and the Company has policies to adhere.
Given the demanding conditions of broking activities, immediate responsibility for staff welfare and the Ethical issues management of stress rests with line management and the Human The Companys approach to ethical behaviour and corporate Resources department, and this is supplemented by an Employee governance is speci cally written into policy and Tullett Prebon Assistance programme, which provides counselling, and advice to documents, for observance by all members of staff, and provide for: staff and their families.
Tullett Prebon plc 19 Annual Report 2009 Business Review continued Records on employment and pastoral care matters are maintained which the Company believes is important to help alleviate the as required in each legal and regulatory jurisdiction: high-stress work environment, and also responds to staff requests for support with physical exercise and certain outdoor pursuits.
In 2009 the average revenue generated by each broker was 565,000 2008: 548,000 : The Company responded to requests from staff for support for both team sports and physical exercise activity, re ecting a growing The Company employed 2,445 staff worldwide in 2009 desire amongst staff across all the Companys of ces for a healthier 45% in Europe, 33% in North America and 22% in Asia Paci c lifestyle.
This is something the Company has been keen to respond to.
and total remuneration for all staff in 2009 was 566m 2008: 590m : In recognition of the increasing number of staff participating voluntarily in various sports teams and competitions, in all countries Claims for compensation for work-related accidents and in which the Company operates, arrangements have been made to illnesses were minimal in 2009 with only one claim for Workers provide equipment for staff teams, and it is hoped this will further Compensation in the US which resulted in an absence of one encourage staff participation in healthy physical exercise and day.
There were no such claims in the UK or Asia Paci c. In 2008 sporting activities.
Again in response to staff demand, the Company there was similarly only one claim in the US with none in the UK : provided the necessary resources for staff to participate in the annual JP Morgan Chase run in London, New York and Singapore.
In 2009 there was a further reduction in absence due to short-term employee sickness in the UK, both total days taken In the UK the Company offered free tness training to all staff, and average time off work, the Company losing 2,080 sick days provided by the tness company BritMilFit.
The average similar training is being investigated in the Companys other key time off work due to short-term sickness in the UK was 2.13 days business locations where there is demand for it.
Also in the UK the per employee 2008: 2.34 days, and in 2007: 2.83 days.
In Company introduced the salary sacri ce scheme for the purchase Asia Paci c, 1,200 days were lost due to short-term sickness, of bicycles which has enabled more staff to cycle to work.
an average of 2.56 days per employee.
The US do not report short-term sickness in the same way as in Asia Paci c or the UK, The salary sacri ce scheme was also adopted in the UK to assist but in terms of longer term disability sickness the average rate employees to obtain childcare vouchers.
was 1.5 days per employee: and Social and community issues 2009 saw 11 minor reported staff accidents in the UK, compared Service in the volunteer reserve forces to three in 2008.
This increase is believed to be due to improved Re ecting the continued burden on members of the Volunteer reporting of these events following the hiring of a dedicated Reserve Forces in both the UK and the US, the two countries that Health & Safety and Environmental Of cer in June 2008.
No account for around 80% of Tullett Prebons revenues, the Company visitors suffered injury on Company premises during 2009. has agreed to provide additional support to its employees who are members of the reserve forces in these two countries.
In the The Company is highly dependent on its employees, and retention UK this extends to providing one additional week of paid leave to of key personnel remains one of managements core tasks.
2009 help a volunteer complete his or her annual training commitment.
has presented many challenges in this regard, but management In the US this provides for the Company to make up a volunteers believe that retention policies in general have proved successful mobilised pay to their civilian salary to ensure they are not worse in retaining staff at all levels.
However, the Company has sought off as a result of their public service commitment.
to nd a sensible metric to illustrate staff retention beyond the simple end-of-year headcount numbers, which whilst useful in Tax and other social payments themselves they do not help understand retention in a qualitative The Company continues to strive to maintain a Low Risk rating from way.
The challenge has been to nd a practical solution which can HMRC.
The Company has earned this Low Risk rating in each of the be delivered within existing resource constraints.
last four years since HMRC started to publish the names of those companies achieving this important status.
Accordingly, the Company monitors length of service of all staff.
Such a metric will provide a more qualitative measure as it The Board continue to believe that as Tullett Prebon is registered, implicitly re ects staff attitudes to employment with the Company.
regulated and publicly listed in the UK, the Company has a social A dissatis ed workforce would be expected to be highly uid duty to pay the right tax at the right time.
with few long serving members of staff.
The Company records percentages of staff, by region, that have five and ten years or more Tullett Prebon made payments to tax authorities principally in the service.
In the US 55.5% of employees have five plus years service, UK and US, the main jurisdictions in which it operates for 2009 and 34.7% have ten plus years service.
In the UK the percentages of just under 280m, covering corporation tax, employers social are 54.9% and 31.6%, and in Asia Paci c the percentages are 31.5% security payments, and income taxes and social security paid on and 18.7% respectively.
In addition to the use of improved monitoring of staff service, the In addition the Company makes further income tax and employee Company has introduced an enhanced pastoral care programme social security payments to the tax authorities in all tax which will continue to be rolled out across the Company as resources jurisdictions in which it operates.
This addresses the need for an improved work life balance 20 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009 Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Donations The emission of greenhouse gases, as a result of of ce based The Company has maintained the policy of making no donations business activities and from business travel, is the main to political parties.
Similarly, charitable donations are not normally environmental impact from the Companys business.
These two policies re ect the Boards view that cost control regime minimises business travel and increasing use shareholders funds should be retained for use within the business continues to been made of video and telephone conferencing.
and that it is for shareholders to determine what non-business use should be made of their resources.
Anticipating the introduction of Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC obligations on UK companies in April 2010 the Company Public policy engagement has taken advice from professional specialist consultants and The credit crisis has understandably focused public and political is prepared to comply with CRC requirements when the scheme attention on the financial services industry.
Much of that attention comes into force.
In addition, the Company undertook a Carbon has been ill informed, distracted by political point scoring, and Footprint Audit during 2009 in its key geographies to produce highly negative.
This has led to a potentially damaging geo-political benchmark data, and this will help management prepare the environment within which the public policy response to the crisis Company to meet additional environmental obligations that will be made.
This could harm the capital markets and, in turn, the are expected to be introduced in the future.
Companys ability to continue to expand its business and to further grow shareholder value.
With that in mind the Company sought to An environmental policy is being developed with the assistance engage in the public policy debate.
Despite being a relatively small of specialist external consultants and will be adopted across the UK listed entity, Tullett Prebon has been able to punch above its Companys UK operation in 2010.
Similar policies will be developed weight, in part due to its position at the very heart of the capital for other countries re ecting the particular requirements and the markets which has given it an informed view available to very few custom and practice in each jurisdiction as appropriate.
Three strands of public policy activity were undertaken in the reporting period: Contractual or other arrangements essential to the business of the Group Additional financial support was made to the Companys trade The success of the Company relies on certain contractual or body, the Wholesale Markets Brokers Association WMBA other arrangements within individual entities and across the so that they could undertake a public relations and lobbying Group relating to revenue generation, operational performance programme in the UK and in Brussels.
The Company was or nancing.
also a founding member of a new WMBA in North America WMBAA which has been established primarily to undertake The successful generation of revenue relies on the Groups ability to a lobbying and educational function for the inter-dealer broker hire and retain highly quali ed employees.
Employment costs made industry in the United States.
The Company has also maintained up 79% of the Groups administration expenses in 2009.
A number its membership of other key trade bodies SIFMA and ISDA.
of legal arrangements, including in certain circumstances rolling To ensure proper coordination and management of its contracts and non-compete arrangements, are used to enhance memberships of these important trade bodies, responsibility the Groups ability to attract and retain key personnel.
for them has been focused in a single member of the Companys Executive Committee.
The Group facilitates a nite number of customer relationships.
These relationships are serviced over a wide range of products The Companys Chief Executive Of cer sought to engage and across a geographically diverse business.
in public debate on issues which are relevant to the financial services sector, where appropriate and where possible.
The ef ciency of the Groups operations depends on certain Signi cant traction was achieved in this activity in 2009. key supplier relationships.
The Groups clearing is provided by, or executed through, the FICC, NSCC, Euroclear, Clearstream, A new post of Global Head of Research was established to and certain key banking relationships.
increase the Companys visibility in, and penetration of, the public policy arena in general, and in the debate surrounding the The Group is dependent upon certain information, communication credit crisis in particular.
It is hoped that this appointment will and IT system providers and operates from a limited number of further enhance the Companys visibility and in so doing will properties.
The Group seeks to ensure its systems are robust and assist the Company in its public policy engagement programme.
are capable of operation from tested business continuity sites.
Environment The Group relies on a small number of international banks to Tullett Prebon, as an of ce based business, is not engaged in provide bank facilities.
Approximately 80% of its committed activities that are generally regarded as having a high environmental facilities are provided by four major banks, Lloyds Banking Group, impact.
However, the Board has agreed that it will seek to adopt The Royal Bank of Scotland, HSBC and Bank of America.
Further policies to safeguard the environment to meet statutory analysis of the Groups debt structure can be found in Note 21. requirements or where such policies are commercially sensible.
Terry Smith Chief Executive 8 March 2010 Tullett Prebon plc 21 Annual Report 2009 Governance In this section: 23 Board of Directors 24 Directors Report 26 Corporate Governance Report 30 Report on Directors Remuneration 36 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 22 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009
