Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Corporate Responsibility Review Review Our society is resolved to reduce levels of Managing our carbon in the atmosphere and to secure energy supplies for the future.
Centrica can business impact help achieve these goals and is keenly aware of its responsibilities.
Mary Francis CBE, Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee We believe that being a responsible business is fundamental to our At Centrica, we believe that a long-term success and contributes to a healthy business environment.
It is essential to maintaining our reputation with customers, investors, business must be alert to the regulators and other external stakeholders because it reflects the impact it has on the society and principles which they value.
For the same reason, it enables us to recruit and retain the most talented and capable people.
Consequently, the physical environment in which we set ourselves high standards in all areas of responsible behaviour, including business integrity, environmental stewardship, fairness to it works and that it should do what customers, employment and community support.
it can to contribute to the health Even in a year in which all businesses were preoccupied with shortand sustainability of both.
That term financial and economic concerns, we held true to these principles.
In particular we continued to develop and expand our workforce to is what we mean by corporate install the low carbon technologies of the future, including solar panels and microCHP units, and to advise our customers on using energy responsibility.
Leadership in these services will position Centrica both to contribute to and benefit from, the progressive transition to a low carbon economy which our society has set as its goal.
We also took further steps to reduce the carbon intensity of our energy generation and to improve the security of the UKs energy supplies.
We expanded Centricas investment in wind power and consolidated our upstream base through our acquisitions of Venture and a 20% stake in British Energy.
Below is a summary of Centricas corporate responsibility CR performance in 2009.
Further details can be found at www.
Strategy and governance In 2009 we reviewed carefully where we should focus our corporate responsibility efforts, aided by feedback from external stakeholders in the UK and North America.
We gave highest priority to the seven areas where Centrica is expected to have the greatest long-term impact and where our stakeholders have the highest expectations of us.
These were: to contribute to the transition to a low carbon society: to invest in secure energy supplies for our customers: to be trusted by our customers and support the most vulnerable: to keep our employees safe and healthy at work: to develop our employees: to support local communities: and to ensure responsible procurement.
The Board of Directors continued to exercise oversight over the CR programme through the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The Committee approves our overall CR strategy, sets stretching targets and challenges the Groups performance and alertness to external Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 Business Corporate Responsibility Review Review continued developments.
The Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief British Gas is well positioned to deliver energy efficiency services Executive, has overall responsibility for implementing the CR strategy.
over and above its regulatory obligations.
We have an existing network of over 9,000 engineers and are the UKs leading supplier Our business principles listed on page 3 are the foundation of our of A-rated high-efficiency boilers.
We are increasing our partnerships responsible approach.
We reviewed our business principles in 2009 with local authorities to provide advice and services to help their to ensure that they continue to embody the highest standards of tenants save energy and reduce their bills, and are working closely ethical behaviour.
We are following this up with a programme to raise with banks on a range of options to provide affordable financing.
awareness and compliance with the principles across the Group One example is a pay as you save scheme being trialled with the in 2010.
Energy Saving Trust whereby customers pay for energy efficiency Business Unit Managing Directors have provided strong operational services and microgeneration through long-term payment plans.
leadership for our CR work in 2009, supported by specialist functions Investing in microgeneration at Group level such as risk management and internal audit.
Further We continued to invest in promising microgeneration technologies details on how our CR-related risks are managed can be found on in 2009 with British Gas acquiring a stake in Econergy, a leader in pages 29 to 34. biomass heating another step in developing a broad range of During the year, the CR Committee agreed a set of high level key renewable, energy efficient and low carbon microgeneration performance indicators KPIs to monitor our progress and help us technologies for British Gas customers.
The KPIs and performance against In the US, Direct Energy introduced the Climate Master geothermal them are included in this report.
heating and cooling systems for residential customers.
Climate We keep our targets and KPIs under review and in some areas we Master geothermal is a highly efficient system using natural have changed the way 2010 performance will be measured to better underground heat to cut energy use and carbon emissions.
reflect our business aspirations or to challenge ourselves against smart meters more relevant metrics.
Further work is still required to develop a set During 2009 British Gas installed more than 50,000 smart meters of KPIs that fully reflects our commitment to setting clear targets and in businesses and homes across the UK.
Smart meters provide objectives across the Group.
Making progress in this area will remain energy usage information directly to both the energy supplier and the a priority for the Committee in 2010. customer.
We plan to help our customers use this information so that they can consume less energy, thereby cutting carbon emissions CR priority: to contribute to the transition to a low and saving money.
carbon society We share the widespread disappointment with the inconclusive In December 2009 the UK Government announced that energy outcome of the Copenhagen climate change conference in December suppliers will be responsible for installing and maintaining smart gas 2009.
We firmly believe that man-made climate change is a problem and electricity meters in 26 million properties over the next 10 years which requires urgent and sustained global action if we are to avoid a total of 47 million by 2020. severe social, economic and environmental consequences.
We want British Gas is setting up a new business called British Gas Smart to see a robust climate change agreement that provides a clear and Metering to deliver this task.
In 2009, we committed to create around sustainable framework for EU and US energy policy.
4,100 skilled green jobs by 2011 2,600 within British Gas Smart Metering and 1,500 new jobs for wind farm designers, energy efficiency Centrica already has an important role to play in assisting the surveyors and engineers.
We opened two new training academies in transition to a low carbon society.
We are committed to be the 2009 in Hamilton near Glasgow and in Leicester.
In 2009, we leading supplier of advice and services on low carbon solutions employed 250 new apprentices and invested 24.5 million in training.
for our customers from microgeneration to efficient, low carbon heating installations.
We are also committed to targets for reducing Similar approaches are being evaluated in North America.
With the carbon intensity of the energy that we source and generate e-Radio USA, Direct Energy is promoting a system to help through our upstream operations.
It sends alerts and commands to appliances and smart devices instructing them to switch off or Our 2009 Our 2008 reduce consumption at set times during peak periods.
Through KPI performance performance another partnership, Direct Energy is developing a blueprint for an LIfetIme carbOn savIngs frOm energy effIcIency PrOducts PrOvIded tO uK energy efficient home in which appliances can communicate with hOusehOLds tonnes each other and can be turned on and off remotely.
We are piloting Our 2009 commitments: Provide energy efficiency products in 2009 with total lifetime carbon savings of the project through our energy customer network.
1 13.2m tonnes of CO2 to meet our CERT obligation Whats next: Provide energy efficiency products in 2010 with total lifetime carbon savings of 14.6m 1 Our 2009 Our 2008 tonnes of CO2 to meet our CERT obligation 17.53m 17.87m KPI performance performance 1 See page 26 for footnote carbOn IntensIty Of Our uK POWer generatIOn g cO2 kWh Our 2009 commitments: Reduce our carbon intensity to advising on energy efficiency 380g CO2 kWh by 2012 and 350g CO2 kWh by 2020 Using energy more efficiently is the cheapest and easiest way for Whats next: Following 2009 acquisitions, reduce our carbon intensity to 270g CO2 kWh by 2012 and 260g 2 our customers to reduce their energy bills and carbon emissions.
CO2 kWh by 2020 370 379 The UK Government is encouraging both domestic and commercial 2 2009 data subject to final verification energy efficiency as a key part of meeting its carbon targets.
Under the Carbon Emissions Reduction Target scheme CERT, energy Investing in low carbon generation suppliers like British Gas are required to provide energy saving The UK has adopted binding targets to reduce greenhouse gas services such as loft and cavity wall insulation.
The products we emissions by 34% by 2020 and 80% by 2050.
Centrica has an supplied through the scheme in 2009 will save 17.53 million tonnes important contribution to make to the achievement of these targets of carbon dioxide over their lifetimes.
We are well on target to through the way it manages emissions from its upstream activities, achieve our current CERT carbon savings goal.
22 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information For more information, go to www.
com responsibility such as electricity generation.
In 2009 we made significant progress CR priority: to invest in secure energy supplies through our investments in wind and nuclear generation.
for our customers During the year, the 194MW Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind farms In the UK, the liberalised energy market has proved central to became fully operational and we announced plans to construct a new securing energy supplies whilst providing customers with the lowest 270MW wind farm off the coast of Lincolnshire.
This major investment domestic gas prices in Europe.
But further investment is needed if decision followed the UK Governments decision in April 2009 to we are to maintain our security of supply in a way which will also temporarily enhance the level of support provided for new offshore meet our targets for reducing carbon emissions.
According to the wind projects.
energy regulator Ofgem, some 200 billion needs to be invested by 2025 in the UK alone.
We were also awarded exclusive rights to develop the Irish Sea zone as part of The Crown Estates Round 3 offshore wind tendering Centrica has already made significant investments to maintain process.
The zone gives us the potential to deliver up to an additional supplies for our customers.
During 2009, in the UK we invested 4.2GW of offshore wind farm capacity, enough power for over more than 4 billion in sources of gas, power generation and gas three million British Gas homes.
storage assets and have plans to spend an additional 15 billion in the UK by 2020.
We believe that if the UK Government and regulator In 2009, Centrica acquired a 20% stake in the nuclear generator establish the right market frameworks, then industry can deliver British Energy from EDF, further details of which are on page 15. this investment.
Nuclear energy has minimal carbon emissions and provides reliable baseload power which wind cannot do.
It is thus an important part In 2009, Centrica acquired significant new UK gas production assets of Centricas, and the UKs, energy portfolio.
through our takeover of Venture.
The Venture operations will form part of our Centrica Energy business, and we will integrate them into We measure the impact of our generation activities on the our CR programme and 2010 reporting.
atmosphere by tracking carbon intensity.
Carbon intensity measures the efficiency of power generation and is defined as the amount of Also in 2009, we completed the acquisition of a 20% stake in British carbon dioxide emitted per unit of electricity generated from our Energy, owned by EDF.
British Energy operates eight of the 10 UK power generation assets and site-specific contracts.
In 2009, the nuclear power stations and will have a significant role in the carbon intensity of our UK power generation was 370g CO2 kWh, development of the next generation of nuclear power.
a reduction of 2% compared to 2008 that mainly reflected the As a result of the Venture and British Energy transactions, we are additional wind farm capacity within our generation portfolio.
The now able to supply about 60% of our customers gas and power purchase of the stake in British Energy and more planned investment demand from our own assets a significant increase from 2009. in renewable energy will mean that we can reduce carbon intensity We are likely to continue investing to acquire and develop gas further.
We have therefore set new targets for the carbon intensity production assets in the UK and Norwegian continental shelf and of our power generation to 270g CO2 kWh by 2012 and 260g CO2 further afield in future years to provide the necessary energy security kWh by 2020, reflecting improved carbon intensity performance of for our customers.
more than 30% in the next 10 years.
For more information on our carbon intensity performance see page 9.
In recognition of the importance of gas storage in meeting the UKs future energy requirements we are evaluating three additional gas We are steadily increasing the proportion of Centricas power which storage projects, which would increase total UK storage capacity is generated by low carbon technology, including wind and nuclear.
At the end of 2010, it is forecast to account for around a quarter of our output from our own power generation assets and under A significant contribution to future UK gas supplies will come from site-specific contracts.
By 2017 we expect that LNG will grow to more than 25% of UK total gas supply.
The UK currently has two Our 2009 Our 2008 main LNG import centres with terminals at Milford Haven, South KPI performance performance Wales and the Isle of Grain in Kent.
year-On-year Percentage reductIOn In energy electricity and gas cOnsumPtIOn Major investment has taken place to enable huge LNG tankers to 3 savIngs acrOss Our uK PrOPerty POrtfOLIO Our 2009 commitments: Achieve a 5% year-on-year unload at the UK terminals.
Centrica has underpinned that investment reduction in UK office energy use by negotiating contracts with National Grid, owner of the Isle of Grain Whats next: Achieve a 20% reduction in our Group internal carbon footprint, including office energy terminal.
We are also in discussion with major LNG resource holders use, vehicle emissions and business travel of our % % 3 to receive deliveries via Milford Haven in South Wales, the largest existing business by 2012 baseline year: 2007 8.36 7.23 LNG terminal in Europe.
In 2009, Centrica imported 1.6bcm of LNG 3 See page 26 for footnotes into the UK through the Isle of Grain terminal, with LNG contracted from six countries and seven LNG suppliers.
cutting centricas internal carbon footprint We are practising what we preach in energy saving and intend our More detailed information on our 2009 investment activities can offices to be a demonstration of what is achievable for our customers.
be found within the Operating Review from page 14 onwards.
Since 2003, our UK business has achieved a reduction of about 40% CR priority: to be trusted by our customers and in the energy it uses, helping to drive down our internal carbon support the most vulnerable footprint by around 20%.
In 2009, we achieved an 8.36% reduction in energy use across our UK properties, exceeding our 5% target.
We are committed to treating our customers fairly at all times.
We believe that gaining and maintaining customer trust is a fundamental While pleased with this progress, we are challenging ourselves to do business objective and that a number of issues impact the level of more and have set a new longer term Group internal carbon footprint trust consumers have in us.
Our research indicates that the most target a 20% reduction in the internal carbon footprint of our significant factors are customer service, price and support for existing businesses by 2015 baseline 2007.
This will tackle the vulnerable customers.
three main sources of carbon emissions from our operations non-generation, which are office energy, business travel and 2009 data subject to final verification our commercial and company vehicle fleet.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 Business Corporate Responsibility Review Review continued green streets The UK carbon reduction target is 80% on 25% 1990 levels by 2050.
To find out what could be The project showed demonstrable benefits achieved at a local level we ran a year-long project for consumers through lower energy bills and, called Green Streets, a competition between most importantly, an average reduction in eight communities that promoted awareness carbon footprint of almost 25%.
of low carbon solutions for householders and showed how different energy efficiency solutions, allied to changes in behaviour, can deliver benefits 35mt CO2 to customers.
If the Green Streets savings were replicated across UK households, we estimate that 35 The results published in March 2009 demonstrate million tonnes of CO2 would be cut from the how much can be achieved using current national carbon footprint.
Building on these findings, we launched the Green 6 billion Streets 2010 community initiative in January 2010, At 2009 prices this would save 6 billion in which 14 communities will compete to reduce per annum.
their energy use and carbon emissions.
Improving customer service recommend our services and benchmarks this performance against We have worked hard to improve our customer service and are our competitors.
In 2009 both British Gas and Direct Energy pleased with the significant improvements shown in our customer achieved improved NPS: more detailed information is highlighted on surveys in 2009.
We are in no way complacent and will continue to page 9.
Further NPS improvement in 2010 remains a priority in both challenge ourselves to improve the experience we give our customers.
fair and transparent pricing Our 2009 Our 2008 The price that consumers pay for energy in general, and gas in KPI performance performance particular, is an emotive issue in the UK and we understand the custOmer accOunts On essentIaLs tarIff Our 2009 commitments: To manage up to 750,000 reasons for this.
British Gas is committed to providing its customers Essentials accounts Whats next: Continued focus on targeting the most with the lowest price possible and was able to lower gas prices in appropriate support and resources to individual February 2010. vulnerable customers 487,995 526,500 Wholesale energy costs comprise around 50% of an average bill, custOmers suPPOrted by brItIsh gas vuLnerabLe custOmer InItIatIves the remainder is made up of costs such as delivery of the energy Whats next: Continue to work with charity partners to deliver maximum impact to vulnerable customers 2.2m 1.4m to customers homes, operating costs, tax and government environmental contributions.
Delivery and environmental costs custOmer satIsfactIOn: brItIsh gas 4 net PrOmOter scOre are both rising significantly faster than inflation.
Whats next: British Gas has changed its methodology % % for 2010 and will target a score of 3 under the new system 7.0 -0.8 British Gas buys the majority of its customers energy needs in custOmer satIsfactIOn: dIrect energy advance, to protect customers from the daily volatility in energy 4 net PrOmOter scOre Whats next: Direct Energy aims to improve on 2009 prices and to ensure that we have enough energy to satisfy our scores under the current methodology and roll out an % % customers needs.
So, while the wholesale prices fell sharply during improved NPS system in 2010 9.5 6.9 the second half of 2009, some of the energy our customers were 4 See page 9 for full details using during this period was purchased up to two years ago when the wholesale price was significantly higher.
British Gas has made significant changes to improve systems and train and motivate employees.
Engineers appointments were a supporting vulnerable customers particular area of concern and British Gas responded vigorously We have a particular responsibility to vulnerable customers who to the problem introducing a call-ahead service.
The time taken are unable to afford energy necessary to safeguard their welfare for to answer customer telephone calls continued to fall and the launch reasons of age, health, disability or severe financial insecurity.
No other of the Were Listening campaign has provided further channels for industry commits such large amounts to helping its poorest customers.
feedback and suggestions on customer service.
This issue has particular focus in the UK where fuel poverty is high As a result, British Gas has reduced its share of complaints to the on the political agenda.
In 2009 we introduced a targeted approach energy Ombudsman to 19%: 34% less than in 2008 and lower than to make our support more effective.
Working with organisations such our market share of around 33%.
British Gas has adopted the FSAs as Help the Aged and National Debtline, we tailored our support to Treating Customers Fairly principles in respect of all of our insurance individual needs.
For example, we focused on providing priority based products and services, and we are starting to introduce the service in cold weather for our older customers, whereas indebted principles across all other British Gas operations.
customers are better supported with debt management plans.
There is no centralised Ombudsman in North America so Direct Our Essentials social programme provides a range of assistance for Energy has developed a complaints management system, which specific categories of customers eligible for state benefits, including includes monitoring complaints logged with local regulators, media, help with energy efficiency and discounted bills for those most in Better Business Bureaux and other channels.
This includes a total of 70 million in savings for nearly 488,000 complaints dropped 63%.
The programme, the largest in Britain, saved our most vulnerable customers with a dual fuel account an A key performance indicator of customer trust is a net promoter average of 264 each, compared with standard payers.
score NPS survey, which measures how willing customers are to 24 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information For more information, go to www.
com responsibility In total, British Gas provided more than 80 million of support Our future success depends on attracting and retaining the best through a range of initiatives for around 2.2 million vulnerable people.
To create an environment in which all employees can flourish households in 2009.
This was more than the total support provided we are committed to supporting skills development, promoting equal by all other major UK energy suppliers.
We reached 750,000 more opportunities and diversity and providing regular opportunities for households than in 2008, an increase largely due to the number of open employee engagement.
Centrica is committed to regular communication and consultation We are sharing our expertise from the UK to improve support for with employees through briefings, meetings, emails, information vulnerable customers in North America.
Direct Energy helped over screens, annual roadshows with senior management, a Group-wide 175,000 customers access approximately US$22 million in bill intranet and internal magazines and newspapers.
Company financial payment assistance over the year.
Direct Energy also established performance is communicated to all employees using online media, a Vulnerable Customer Working Group focused on identifying the printed materials and face-to-face briefings with members of the most effective means to provide support through financial Executive Committee.
assistance, products and services and advocacy with regulators.
Great performance is key to our success.
To deliver this each individuals objectives are aligned to the business strategy and CR priority: to keep our employees safe and healthy measure both what they do as well as how they do it.
Progress is at work tracked throughout the year as part of our performance cycle, which We do not compromise on the safety of our employees.
Health and also focuses on development and career planning.
safety is one of our highest priorities, and from 2010 annual bonus We are building our leadership skills for the future through a variety targets for the Groups Chief Executive and each Executive Director of different methods.
Examples include our General Management will each include a health and safety performance target see page Programme aimed at growing our next generation of general 49 for further details.
managers and The Leaders Journey, a series of focused In 2009, we took steps to embed a more proactive approach to experiences designed to address key leadership traits we want managing health and safety across the Group, with a particular focus to strengthen in our business.
We are expanding our training on individual leadership.
Historically the performance of our upstream programme focused on smart meter installation and provision businesses has been strong, despite the inherent risks of their of low carbon services from our seven UK regional training centres.
Our priority in 2009 was to address the injury record in the service and repair part of British Gas, where our engineers are exposed We also run highly regarded UK summer placement and global to a wide range of different hazards when visiting domestic properties.
graduate recruitment programmes, which form an important part of our skills and recruitment strategy.
In 2009, 70 graduates joined We ran a hard-hitting What if safety campaign that made a personal our UK and North American schemes whilst the 2009 summer emotional connection with our engineers.
This was backed by high placement programme accepted 50 applicants and won an award profile consistent attention of management to safety.
The results have for Best Work Experience programme.
been encouraging with a reduction in lost time injury LTI rate in this employee engagement part of the business from 2.07 in 2008 to 0.74 in 2009.
We believe We need to create an environment in which our employees are this is still too high and are targeting continued reductions through fully engaged with our business objectives.
We track employee a new Group safety, health and wellbeing policy and strategy.
engagement through a range of questions in our annual employee survey, a confidential process administered by an independent Our 2009 Our 2008 KPI performance performance third party.
grOuP LOst tIme InjurIes LtI 100,000 hours worked Our 2009 commitments: 20% LTI reduction on 2008 Our 2009 Our 2008 performance to 0.8 KPI performance performance Whats next: 12.5% LTI reduction on 2009 Percentage Of emPLOyees engaged at performance to 0.43 0.49 1.00 centrIca measured through the employee 4 engagement survey Fatalities Our 2009 commitments: Employee engagement 0 1 score of 60% by 2009 and 62% by 2010 Whats next: The next full global survey will be Overall the Groups LTI rate per 100,000 hours worked improved conducted in June 2010.
Each part of the business will aim to improve their individual scores to achieve from 1.00 in 2008 to 0.49 in 2009. a Group score of more than 66%, ensuring we remain % % in the high performance category.
66 57 Our entry into the UKs nuclear industry brings specific challenges as Employee gender female male % the radioactivity associated with nuclear power generation introduces 30 70 30 70 different safety risks relative to conventional sources of power Employees from ethnic minority groups % % generation.
Radiation emissions and radioactive waste must be 15.5 15.3 contained and handled safely.
4 See page 9 for full details As a minority shareowner in EDFs nuclear operations in the UK, we In 2009, we had an exceptionally high response rate of 90% and are not the operator of any nuclear facilities.
EDF is the worlds largest the scores for engagement Group-wide increased by nine points nuclear operator and its UK nuclear subsidiary, British Energy, has an to 66% from 2008.
Independent external benchmarks indicate that excellent safety record, vast experience and a record for being open organisations with engagement scores above 60% consistently and transparent.
We are represented on the organisations board and deliver better business results.
Our current overall score of 66% have established a nuclear team to manage our role within the UKs places us in the high performance range.
Employee retention rates were high at 92% in 2009, compared with CR priority: to develop our employees 84% in 2008.
High employee engagement scores, improved external recruitment processes and significant improvements in call centre Centrica is a major employer of a diverse and talented workforce retention rates have all contributed to more employees wanting to and, during 2009, we employed an average of 34,125 people.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 Business Corporate Responsibility Review Review continued business reorganisation contribute financially to local and national charities through payroll We undertook extensive reorganisation across our business in 2009. giving, matched funding and the employee lottery.
We managed the change sensitively and in consultation with all those Centricas total community contributions in 2009 were 76.9 million involved.
The reorganisation has meant some redundancies but also 24 million up from 2008.
Details of the causes we support are opportunities such as increased training and recruitment for provided in our online CR report.
A significant proportion of the customer service advisers and service engineers.
overall total relates to the support provided through the British Gas The outsourcing of some of our back office operations has been Essentials social programme.
managed successfully with the involvement of trade unions and employee representatives in the UK.
As we shift business activities Our 2009 Our 2008 KPI performance performance to new regions, we ensure that our expatriate and local managers 5 tOtaL cOmmunIty cOntrIbutIOns m understand the challenges of working in developing countries that have 76.9 52.9 different cultures, labour standards and security and health and safety procedures.
Our offshore partners are audited on a regular basis, and CR priority: to ensure responsible procurement any issues raised from employee engagement surveys are pursued.
Monitoring and managing social and environmental performance in diversity and equality the supply chain is an imperative for multinational and consumerWe aim to provide a workplace that is inclusive for all our employees facing brands.
and believe diversity is good for our business.
We are committed to We have developed a Responsible Procurement policy for suppliers offering equal opportunities to all people with disabilities, ensuring that outline the standards that Centrica expects of its business that we do not discriminate in recruitment, promotion, training, working partners.
It translates the values of the business principles and the conditions or dismissal, subject to health and safety considerations.
Responsible Procurement and Supplier Management Policy into a If employees become disabled while in our employment we offer, document that can be included in supplier contracts.
wherever possible, appropriate support, retraining, equipment and facilities to enable their employment to continue.
Our focus in 2009 has been on implementing the policy.
We have started to introduce CR clauses into supplier contracts: are We promote workplace practices to encourage greater representation developing a risk analysis methodology and are exploring where and of women and ethnic minorities.
We have conducted an Equal Pay how the responsible procurement processes can be integrated into Review for several years and are aligned to the best practice among our wider procurement systems.
The 2009 review found that Centricas performance management and reward practices were not subject to Procurement and supplier management teams have been proactively gender bias.
engaging with all suppliers whose contracts have been up for renewal in 2009.
We prioritise the contracts which we consider We also worked with the Institute for Employment Studies to explore to present material risks to the business, based on size, brand further the reasons why there are relatively few women in senior association, intrinsic commodity or service risk, sub-contracting management positions.
We are now reviewing the findings and levels and country risk.
To date 101 of our strategic suppliers have recommendations and have established a steering group to drive signed contracts that included the CR clauses which came into and improve progress.
For 2010 we are aiming to sign 150 more.
Our Group age policies and practices received two Employers Forum on Age EFA awards in 2009 for innovation in flexible working and Our 2009 Our 2008 KPI performance performance innovation in attracting baby boomers.
In addition we won, for the suPPLIer cOntracts WIth resPOnsIbLe second year running, the AARP American Association of Retired PrOcurement cLauses Whats next: Sign contracts with 150 additional Persons Award for our HR policies and practices in the recruitment, suppliers that include CR clauses 101 n a retention and promotion of older workers.
In May 2009, we also ran a successful supplier forum on responsible CR priority: to support local communities procurement, attended by 30 key partners, which provided an As a major employer and provider of essential energy services, opportunity to identify and confront the challenges of implementing Centricas wellbeing is bound up with that of the communities in which responsible procurement.
we work, at both national and local level.
We believe it is important to provide our employees with opportunities for community involvement.
We work with our charity partners such as Save the Children to create volunteering programmes that best use our skills to support the most vulnerable in society.
The range of volunteering Mary Francis CBE opportunities available to employees through our UK Get Involved senior Independent director and chair of the corporate programme, North American direct in the community scheme and responsibility committee other community initiatives are designed to allow employees to 25 February 2010 support organisations to which they have a personal connection and which match their skills and needs.
We also help our employees to 1 4 This figure is an externally agreed target with Ofgem and subject to change, depending on our For details on the net promoter score NPS and the Employee Engagement Survey see page 9 5 market share Combination of figures calculated from London Benchmarking Group methodology and cost of 2 2009 data subject to final verification voluntary programmes to support vulnerable customers in the UK.
Group cash donations during the 3 year amounted to 4.8 million 2008: 5.9 million.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made Group environmental targets for energy management are set in order to challenge and improve for political purposes.
The Group, in the normal course of its business, has paid for its management performance in both building management and control and occupier behaviour.
The targets do not to attend events at which politicians and other opinion formers have been present, but does not relate to the gross environmental footprint of Centricas property portfolio and as such the data is consider these payments to be political donations normalised to smooth out the impact of adding or removing sites from our portfolio to avoid obscuring the performance of the property management teams and building occupiers.
Data relating to the gross footprint is however recorded and disclosed separately in the corporate responsibility report 26
