People As a global organisation, Vodafone embraces the differences that every employee brings to the Group, recognising that a workforce which reflects the diversity of the customers it serves is better able to understand their expectations and more likely to have the skills and knowledge needed to deliver the innovative products and services that they want.
Vodafone employed an average of around 79,000 people worldwide Certain results from this years survey were above the benchmark Analysis of Groups employees by location during the 2009 financial year.
The Group aims to attract, develop and for other high performing organisations, particularly in relation to retain the best people by providing a stimulating and safe working fair treatment, encouraging innovation and recognition.
environment, offering attractive performance based incentives and Vodafone identified three key areas of action team working, 1 rewarding career opportunities.
attracting and retaining talent and managing change from the 2007 survey.
The 2008 survey showed significant improvement in 2 7 Organisation changes each of these areas.
3 4 Creation of three regions managed by regional CEOs.
Targets and actions have been identified to build upon and sustain the 6 Creation of leaner, more agile organisation.
5 high level of engagement achieved.
The Group plans to carry out Higher proportion of employees in customer facing roles.
another full global survey in November 2009.
Germany 17.4% Reorganisation of teams whose activities benefit from 2.
Vodacom 4.2% 96% of employees completed performance review.
Vodafone changed the shape and size of its organisation during the 7.
Other 41.1% 95% of employees agreed goals.
2009 financial year to accommodate growth within the business as well as to create a leaner, more agile structure with clearer reporting lines and accountabilities across the Group.
Changes included: Vodafone operates a globally consistent performance management process, which requires each individuals performance to be reviewed creation of three regions Europe, Africa and Central Europe and with his or her manager and career development goals to be set Asia Pacific and Middle East, each managed by a Regional CEO: through a performance dialogue.
Excluding India, 96% of employees centralisation of teams who manage activities that benefit from the completed a performance review and 95% of employees agreed Groups global scale, including terminal procurement, supply chain, development goals and business objectives with their manager.
IT and network programmes and product development: continued integration of new acquisitions: and Succession planning is supported through development boards, restructuring and cost efficiency activities in some operating which occur annually, covering all functions and levels within the companies.
Leadership roles and key appointments are reviewed monthly by the Executive Committee.
As a consequent of these changes, approximately 1,900 jobs were eliminated.
Despite these reductions, the overall number of people Training and development working for Vodafone grew by 9%, due to growth in emerging markets and business acquisitions.
People whose jobs were affected by the 230,314 days of training were provided, an average of three organisational changes were treated in line with Vodafone policy and days per employee.
good practice on employee relations and consultation.
Vodafone is committed to helping people reach their full potential People engagement through ongoing training and development.
In the 2009 financial year, Vodafone provided an aggregate of 230,000 days of training, an Latest people survey had an 85% response rate globally.
Increased level of employee engagement, achieving the high average of three days per employee.
High scores in fair treatment, encouraging innovation In the 2008 financial year, over 4,500 managers globally received and recognition.
training on Vodafones total communication strategy and products.
In the 2009 financial year, this training programme was extended to all employees via an online interactive course that has been translated In November 2008, Vodafone carried out its fourth global people into 11 languages and rolled out to 18 countries.
The survey measured the level of engagement a combination people have completed the online course, and 13,701 people have of pride, loyalty and motivation of the Groups people and 59,453 attended the quarterly web sessions that support the programme.
people responded to 68 individual questions covering most aspects of the employee experience, achieving an 85% response rate overall.
In the 2008 calendar year, Vodafone launched Inspire, a development programme for the leaders of tomorrow.
Inspire has a total of Employee engagement increased by four percentage points to 70 delegates from across 17 countries on the programme, with a 75%.
This is the highest it has ever been since Vodafone started further intake planned in the 2009 calendar year.
The programme is surveying its people in 2003.
It is particularly significant because, focused on developing commercial acumen and leadership for the first time, Vodafone achieved the high performance capabilities through a combination of training, business challenges benchmark for engagement.
The high performance benchmark is and international assignments.
an external measure of best in class organisations that achieve strong financial performance alongside high levels of engagement.
This achievement demonstrates that, more than ever before, people at Vodafone feel proud, committed and willing to give their best.
18 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Business Equal opportunities and diversity Retirement benefits are provided to employees and vary depending on the conditions and practices in the countries concerned.
These are Implementation of a new diversity and inclusion strategy.
provided through a variety of arrangements including defined benefit 13% of senior employees and three operating company CEOs and defined contribution schemes.
23 nationalities are represented in top management bands.
Health, safety and wellbeing Introduction of group wide product safety and assurance Vodafone is committed to providing a working culture that is policy.
The Group does not condone unfair treatment of any Increasing importance placed on integration into operating kind and offers equal opportunities for all aspects of employment companies in developing markets.
and advancement regardless of race, nationality, sex, age, marital Improvement in employee wellbeing initiatives.
status, disability or religious or political belief.
This also applies to agency workers, self employed persons or contract workers who work for Vodafone.
The health, safety and wellbeing HS&W of Vodafones customers, employees and others who could be affected by its activities are of People with disabilities are assured of full and fair consideration for all paramount importance to Vodafone and the Group applies rigorous vacancies and efforts are made to meet their special needs, particularly standards to all of its operations.
in relation to access and mobility.
Where possible, modifications to workplaces are made to provide access and, therefore, job Following a review of business activities in the 2009 financial year, opportunities for the disabled.
Every effort is made to continue the Vodafone introduced a group wide product safety and assurance employment of people who become disabled via job design and the policy to provide clear standards and accountabilities for managing provision of additional facilities and appropriate training.
HS&W in the development, sourcing, sale and use of products.
Gender diversity is a key focus area for Vodafone.
13% of the Groups This year saw increasing importance placed on integration of HS&W senior employees, including three operating company CEOs, are into Vodafone businesses in developing markets.
In 2008, Vodafone implemented a diversity and inclusion in managing high risk areas, such as network deployment, was a major strategy to improve gender diversity across the Group.
A range of initiatives included producing a Guide to Partnering streams were established, overseen by a steering committee, to with Vodafone for suppliers, establishing access for suppliers to health ensure the Group continues to make progress in this area.
and safety resources online and actively engaging with the Groups global network suppliers to agree safety standards.
Vodafone has started to rollout inclusive leadership workshops for leaders in all operating countries.
These workshops aim to improve The Groups continued focus on the implementation of wellbeing understanding of inclusive and non-inclusive behaviour.
Members of initiatives across the business saw a significant improvement in the Executive Committee attended the first of these workshops responses by employees to wellbeing questions in the 2008 this year.
Reward and recognition Employment policies Extension of reward differentiation based on individual Policies are developed to reflect local legal, cultural and performance.
A variety of share plans are offered to incentivise and Vodafone aims to be recognised as an employer of choice.
The Groups employment policies are developed to reflect local legal, To support the goal of attracting and retaining the best people, cultural and employment requirements.
The Group seeks to maintain Vodafone provides competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits in high standards wherever the Group operates, as Vodafone aims to each local market where it operates.
ensure that it is recognised as an employer of choice.
The Group considers its employee relations to be good.
In the 2009 financial year, Vodafone extended reward differentiation based on individual contribution through the global reward programmes.
This included individual differentiation on both the global short term incentive plan and the global long term incentive plan.
A variety of share plans are offered to incentivise and retain employees and in July 2008, all eligible employees across the Group were granted 290 shares under the global allshare plan.
1 Key performance indicators KPI 2009 2008 2007 2 Total number of employees 79,097 72,375 66,343 Employee turnover rates % 13.0 15.2 14.2 Average training spend per employee 600 704 530 Number of women in the top senior management roles 29 26 22 out of 221 out of 211 out of 204 Number of nationalities in the top senior management roles 23 20 20 Notes: 1 Of the total number of employees, 71,664 2008: 62,456, 2007: 59,909 are included in the scope of these figures.
2 Represents the average number of employees during the financial year, incorporating employees of newly acquired entities from the date of acquisition and the Groups share of employees in joint ventures.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 19
