Performance Corporate responsibility Being a responsible business is one of Vodafones enduring goals, recognising that responsible behaviour underpins the value of the brand.
The Groups approach to Corporate Responsibility CR is to engage with stakeholders to understand their expectations on the issues most important to them and respond with appropriate targets, programmes and reports on progress.
More detail on CR performance for the year ended 31 March 2009 will be available in the Vodafone 2009 CR report and at www.
During the year, Vodafones 2008 CR report won three Corporate Register Reporting responsibility businessprinciples and are communicated to employees in a number Awards for the best report, relevance and materiality and credibility through of ways, including induction processes, websites and face to face meetings.
Vodafone is included in the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Index and rated first in the Global AccountAbility Rating, published by Fortune.
The Executive Committee receives regular information on CR and, for the last six years, the Board has had an annual presentation on CR.
A CR management structure is established in each local operating company, with each one having a representative Strategy on its management board with responsibility for CR.
CR performance is closely monitored and reported at most local operating company boards on a regular basis.
A broad range of stakeholders is increasingly interested in how Vodafone manages CR is also integrated into Vodafones risk management processes such as the formal CR issues.
For example, the Groups licences to operate are granted by governments annual confirmation provided by each local operating company detailing the that frequently seek evidence of responsible business practices and in many markets operation of their controls system.
consumers are becoming more concerned about CR issues, such as climate change, content standards and mobile phones, masts and health.
These processes are supported by stakeholder engagement, which helps to ensure Vodafone is aware of the issues relevant to the business and to provide a clear CR is relevant across all aspects of Vodafones activities and therefore the Group understanding of expectations of performance.
Stakeholder consultations take place seeks to integrate its CR approach into all key business processes.
The CR strategy, with customers, investors, employees, suppliers, the communities where the Group which addresses CR issues material to the Group, has the following main strands: operates and where networks are based, governments, regulators and nongovernmental organisations.
Established in 2007, the Vodafone Corporate to capture the potential of mobile communications to bring socio-economic value Responsibility Expert Advisory Panel comprises opinion leaders who are experts on in both emerging economies and developed markets, through broadening access CR issues important to Vodafone.
The Panel met twice during the 2009 financial year to communications to all sections of society: and discussed the results of research on the socio-economic impact of mobile communications in India, climate change, the limits of Vodafones responsibility and to deliver against stakeholder expectations on the key areas of climate change, embedding business principles into company culture.
In addition, the Group has a safe and responsible internet experience and sustainable products and continued to hold formal stakeholder engagement events, this year focused on services: and climate change and mobile advertising.
The Group has also published a CR dialogue to ensure Vodafones business practices are implemented responsibly across the on waste.
Group, underpinned by Vodafones values and business principles.
Vodafones CR programme and selected performance information, as reported in the Key CR strategic objectives Groups 2009 CR report, will be independently assured by KPMG using the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000.
The assurance process assesses Core initiative: Vodafones adherence to the AccountAbility1000 Principles Standard AA1000APS Access to communications addressing inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness, and the reliability of selected performance information.
KPMGs assurance statement outlining the Safe and responsible Climate change Sustainable specific assurance scope, which excludes India, procedures and assurance opinion internet experience products and will be published in the Groups 2009 CR report.
services Supported by responsible business practices For the 2009 financial year, the Groups CR reporting comprises online information on CR programmes and a performance report.
Thirteen operating companies have Underpinned by values, principles and behaviours at some time produced their own CR reports.
Performance in the 2009 financial year CR governance The Groups main focus is on implementing its CR programme across local operating Access to communications companies.
For the purposes of this section of the annual report, operating Access to communications offers a significant opportunity for Vodafone to make a companies refers to the Groups operating subsidiaries and the Groups joint venture strong contribution to society, with a considerable body of research showing that in Italy.
For the first time, it includes information on India but, given the scale of mobile communications has the potential to change peoples lives for the better, by operations and the challenges of bringing India in line with the Groups CR practices, promoting economic and social development.
which may take some time, the CR information and data disclosed for India is preliminary.
The newly acquired businesses in Ghana and Qatar are excluded and it is intended Emerging markets to include them in reporting for the 2010 financial year.
The Group recognises that In January 2009, Vodafone published research on the socio-economic impact of it has influence with joint ventures, associates, investments, partner networks mobile phones in India.
The report found that the GDP of Indian states with higher and outsourcing partners.
In the 2009 financial year, the Group reviewed its role mobile penetration can be expected to grow faster than states with lower mobile in promoting CR with these partners and the result of this analysis is available at penetration at a rate of approximately 1.2% per 10% of penetration.
Investment Fund was set up in 2007 to promote the development of products with high social value that may not otherwise be seen as commercially attractive.
Since Vodafones approach to CR is underpinned by its business principles which cover, the fund was established, eight initiatives have been supported across the Vodafone amongst other things, the environment, employees, individual conduct, community footprint in areas such as mobile health, mobile transactions, and entrepreneur and and society.
The business principles are available at www.
com small and medium enterprise development.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 45 Corporate responsibility continued Vodafone also continued to focus on mobile payment services and own branded The Group continued to engage on the issues of privacy and freedom of expression in handsets for emerging markets: the human rights context throughout the financial year.
This included participation in the initiative that was launched in December 2008 as the Global Network Initiative In the 2009 financial year, 10.7 million Vodafone branded handsets were sold in GNI.
Vodafone has not signed the GNI principles but is currently engaging other 29 markets.
Approximately 70% of these handsets cost less than US$50.
companies with substantial telecommunications businesses, building on the The Vodafone Money Transfer service is now live in three markets, Kenya, Tanzania progress made to date, to develop a more appropriate, sector specific response to and Afghanistan, with over six million subscribers using it to do simple financial these issues.
This includes person-to-person money transfer, salary disbursement and bill payment.
Vodafone has created a dedicated business unit to progress the Climate change extension of these services to additional markets and new partners.
Vodafone recognises climate change as one of the most significant challenges facing society.
The Groups climate change strategy has two key elements, focusing on Accessibility limiting its own emissions and developing products and services to reduce the In the 2009 financial year, Vodafone conducted a review of the market for accessible emissions of its customers.
products across the European Union EU and surveyed its local operating companies initiatives.
The review resulted in a revised strategy to provide more Last year, the Group announced that by 2020 it will reduce its carbon dioxide CO 2 effective targeted support for customers in three key segments identified as areas emissions by 50% against the 2007 financial year baseline of 1.18 million tonnes.
This where Vodafone can have an important impact: blind or visually impaired, deaf or baseline includes all operating companies within the Group throughout the 2007 hard of hearing and the elderly or those with special healthcare needs.
The primary strategy to achieve the 50% reduction is through direct reduction in CO emissions.
This is to be achieved through the evolution of network 2 Vodafone Spain has launched Vodafone Speak, which is subsequently going to be technology, investment in energy efficiency and by making greater use of renewably trialled in other countries.
This text-to-speech software, enabling blind and visually generated electricity.
Energy use associated with the operation of the network impaired customers to use text messages, is an updated version of Mobile Speak, accounts for around 80% of the Groups CO emissions.
In the 2009 financial year, the 2 which is currently available in nine of Vodafones operating companies.
Vodafone total energy use of the Groups baseline operations increased by 2.3% to 2,863 GWh.
Speak is easier to use than its predecessor and can be downloaded and installed free This increase is due to growth in the Groups network energy consumption.
As network via SMS text message.
Other products also being trialled by Vodafone Spain include technology evolves and is consolidated, the energy efficiency of the Groups network T-loop headsets, mobile video for deaf signing and mobile GPS navigation systems is projected to improve.
The total CO emissions of these operating companies 2 for people who are blind or visually impaired.
decreased by 7.4%, to 1.19 million tonnes of CO.
The carbon intensity of the Groups 2 energy consumption has decreased due to the increased use of green tariff energy Safe and responsible internet experience generated from renewable sources and the decrease in carbon intensity of grid Vodafones reputation depends on earning and maintaining the trust of its customers.
electricity across many of the Groups operating markets.
For more detailed analysis The way the Group deals with certain key consumer issues directly impacts trust in of the Groups carbon reporting please refer to www.
These include responsible delivery of age sensitive content and services, mobile advertising and protecting customers privacy.
The Group is trialling the use of onsite micro-renewable generation with the objective of reducing diesel consumption in remote sites where there may be no Responsible delivery of content and services access to the electricity grid.
These are the sites with the greatest financial return on Over the past year, Vodafone has been increasingly involved in industry work in this renewable investment.
Having implemented age-restricted content controls in all markets where such content is provided, the Groups focus moved towards ensuring a safe and responsible Vodafone has developed climate change strategies for those operating companies internet experience when using new media applications.
These areas have particular which have joined the Group since the 50 % target was set.
Vodafone Turkey has put relevance to the mobile communications sector and have formed a key part of in place a local climate change strategy, which includes investment in more efficient Vodafones activities during the 2009 financial year: air-conditioning and direct energy metering of network sites.
The scale of the Groups operations in India represents the largest contribution towards the Groups overall Vodafone has incorporated the Safer Social Networking Principles for the EU, CO emissions.
A climate change strategy has been developed initially focusing on 2 published in February 2009, into its own best practice guidelines for social improving the quality of data to support setting a target for India, which balances the networking and other user interactive services.
need to constrain emissions with the demand for access to communications which Together with other industry partners, the Group was instrumental in developing empowers economic development.
The instability and limited coverage of the national the teach today website www.
eu, providing advice for teachers and electricity grid requires diesel generation on the majority of sites and Vodafone is students to help create a safer online environment for children and young people.
undertaking micro-renewable trials at a number of locations.
Vodafone has also developed a dedicated website for parents, covering all aspects of todays technology, including mobile phones, to help them prevent its misuse.
In the 2009 financial year, the total CO emissions of all Vodafone operating companies, 2 All of Vodafones operating companies within the EU have signed up to national codes including the Groups operations in Turkey but excluding India, were 1.31 million tonnes.
of conduct and are implementing the EU safer mobile framework at national level.
The estimated CO emissions of Vodafones operations in India were 1.90 million tonnes.
2 This includes emissions from the network sites managed by Vodafone and the network Consumer privacy and freedom of expression sites managed by Vodafones joint venture, Indus Towers.
Vodafone knows that its users increasingly wish to exercise control over how their personal information is made available and recognises the need to ensure that Sustainable products and services internet commerce over mobile and new business models such as advertising, gains The information and communications technology ICT industrys role in the the trust of both consumers and regulators.
This is why the Group seeks to ensure transformation to a low carbon economy was considered in the Smart 2020 report that its products and services are designed from the outset to address privacy risks commissioned by the industry group the Global eSustainability Initiative see and concerns, particularly those associated with social networking and media, as well www.
The report calculated the potential emissions saving from ICT as location-enabled applications and services.
applications at 7.8 billion tonnes of CO in 2020, representing 15% of total global 2 emissions.
Applications for mobile communications include the enabling of more The Group now provides mobile advertising services in 18 markets and it has efficient logistics processes, the implementation of smart grids and remote energy continued to adopt a cautious approach to ensure these benefits are balanced with monitoring and substitution of travel through teleconferencing and remote working.
respect for the customers privacy.
Vodafone has sponsored, and actively participated Vodafone is focusing on developing products and services that will enable customers in, a multi-stakeholder initiative exploring solutions to achieve robust and trusted to reduce their emissions.
For example, Vodafone has signed up to the GSM methods of establishing consumer consent for online services.
The Group also took Associations initiative to standardise mobile phone chargers and reduce their an active role in the GSM Associations mobile media metrics programme to create a energy consumption.
measurement process for mobile browsing that is designed to protect the privacy of mobile users whilst providing rich statistical planning information for the media and advertising communities.
46 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Performance Vodafone continues to address the reuse and recycling of handsets, accessories and contractors.
However, the changing nature of Vodafones contractors footprint poses network equipment.
The Group has worked with suppliers to ensure substances a challenge to achieving this rapidly.
prohibited by the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive are phased out.
The Group complies with the EUs Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment Directive The Group also further developed its internal procedures leading to network through its handset recycling programmes in all operating companies where it applies.
By cooperating with other mobile communications operators to share During the 2009 financial year, 1.82 million phones were collected for reuse and sites, the Group is reducing the total number of base stations required.
This lowers recycling through collection programmes in 16 local operating companies, exceeding costs, enables faster network deployment and reduces the environmental footprint the target of 1.5 million.
4,860 tonnes of network equipment waste was generated in of the network without loss of quality or coverage.
The Group is now conducting all operating companies, excluding India, with 97% of this sent for reuse or recycling, network sharing in all but one of its controlled markets.
exceeding the Groups target of 95%.
Vodafone aims to comply with local planning regulations but is sometimes found to be in breach.
This is normally related to conflicting local, regional or national planning Responsible business practices regulations.
During the 2009 financial year, excluding India, Vodafone was found in Mobile phones, masts and health breach of planning regulations relating to 492 of its 105,164 mast sitings.
Fines levied Vodafone recognises that there is public concern about the safety of radio frequency by regulatory bodies or courts in relation to offences under environmental law or RF fields from mobile phones and base stations.
The Group contributes to the funding regulations were approximately 135,000. of independent scientific research to resolve scientific uncertainty in areas prioritised by the World Health Organisation WHO.
In 2006, the WHO identified the following three main areas for additional research: long term more than 10 years exposure to Supply chain low-level RF fields, possible health effects of mobile device use in children and During the 2009 financial year, Vodafone continued to implement its code of ethical dosimetry the way levels of RF absorbed are calculated.
There is comprehensive purchasing, which sets out environmental and labour standards for suppliers.
During access to relevant peer review and published scientific research reviews available at the 2009 financial year: www.
65 strategic global suppliers have been assessed using the Groups supplier Vodafone requires manufacturers of the mobile devices it sells to test for specific evaluation scorecard in which CR accounts for 10% of the total.
The scorecard absorption rate compliance with standards set by the International Commission on evaluates the suppliers CR management systems, public reporting and approach Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection.
Testing is carried out for use both against the ear to managing their suppliers.
Over the last three years, a total of 535 suppliers have and against, or near, the body.
Vodafone has been actively engaged with the been evaluated using the scorecard.
International Electrotechnical Commission Standards Organisation in developing a 18 site evaluations of high risk suppliers have been completed.
new global protocol for testing phones for use against, or near, the body.
This new 82% of local strategic and preferred suppliers, excluding India, responded to a standard, which better reflects customers use of mobile devices, was approved by a request for more information on the policies and programmes they have in place national committee vote in March 2009. to meet the requirements of Vodafones code of ethical purchasing.
Vodafone continues to engage closely with local communities as part of the planning The Group participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project supply chain initiative to process for new masts.
Fifteen operating companies undertake independent RF field help increase its understanding of the risks and opportunities that climate change monitoring as part of an ongoing programme of community engagement.
The presents to the supply chain and has added climate change requirements into the Groups long term programme of engagement, with a range of stakeholders, aims to Groups supplier evaluation scorecard.
reduce levels of concern amongst the public and to demonstrate that Vodafone is acting responsibly.
In surveys of external stakeholder opinion conducted annually Social investment over the last three years, an average of 78% of respondents regarded Vodafone as The Vodafone Foundation and its network of 22 local operating company and associate acting responsibly regarding mobile phones, masts and health.
foundations have continued to implement a global social investment programme.
During the 2009 financial year, the Company made a charitable grant of 24.0 million to Responsible network deployment The Vodafone Foundation.
The majority of The Vodafone Foundation funds are Vodafones mobile communication services rely on a network of radio base stations distributed in grants through operating company foundations to a variety of local that transmit and receive calls.
Vodafone recognises that network deployment can charitable organisations meeting the needs of the communities in which they operate.
cause concern to communities, usually about the visual impact of base stations or health issues concerning RF fields.
During the year, the Group continued to track The Vodafone Foundation made additional grants to charitable partners engaged in compliance with its policy on responsible network deployment and with national a variety of global projects.
Its areas of focus are: sport and music as a means of industry codes of best practice on network deployment.
The Group has started to benefiting some of the most disadvantaged young people and their communities, audit first tier contractors to gain assurance of their adherence to Vodafones and disaster relief and preparedness.
In addition, operating companies donated a responsible network deployment policy.
A significant number of local operating further 18.0 million to their foundations and a further 2.9 million directly to a variety companies have already conducted site audits of their contractors and the overall aim of causes.
Total donations for the year ended 31 March 2009 were 48.2 million and is to extend this programme across Vodafones footprint, including beyond first tier included donations of 3.3 million towards foundation operating costs.
1 Key performance indicators 2 3 KPI 2009 2008 2007 Vodafone Group excluding operations in India Energy use GWh direct and indirect 3,124 2,996 2,690 4 4 Carbon dioxide emissions millions of tonnes 1.31 1.37 1.18 Percentage of energy sourced from renewables 19 18 17 4 Estimate for operations in India 5 Energy use GWh direct and indirect 2,049 5 Carbon dioxide emissions millions of tonnes 1.90 Number of phones collected for reuse and recycling millions 1.82 1.33 1.03 4 Network equipment waste generated excluding operations in India tonnes 4,860 4,287 9,960 Percentage of network equipment waste sent for reuse or recycling excluding operations in India 97 96 97 Notes: 1 These performance indicators were calculated using actual or estimated data collected by the Groups mobile operating companies.
The data is sourced from invoices, purchasing requisitions, direct data measurement and estimations, where required.
The carbon dioxide emissions figures are calculated using the kWh CO conversion factor for the electricity provided by the national grid, suppliers 2 or the International Energy Agency and for other energy sources in each operating company.
The Groups joint venture in Italy is included in all years.
2 The data for the 2008 financial year excludes operations in India and Tele2 in Italy and Spain.
3 The data for the 2007 financial year excludes the newly acquired operations in Turkey and the operations in Japan that were sold during the 2007 financial year.
4 Amounts related to the 2007 and 2008 financial years have been amended.
Refer to the online CR report for further information.
5 The data includes the network sites managed by Vodafone and the network sites managed by Vodafones joint venture, Indus Towers.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 47
