Corporate responsibility report ESAB Brazil has had a long association with the communities it serves.
Programmes to support health, children, the disabled and local events have been a long-standing feature in the company calendar.
These events are not just for the community outside the company: ESAB includes employees and their families.
ESABs environment, health and safety material and publicity have a common theme: good for you, good for your family, good for the company.
One such programme has been the Cidades da Solda Welding Cities Project, which is an initiative that trains youths in social risk situations as welders.
Supported by ESAB, Cidades da Solda now has seven units and has successfully trained hundreds of welders.
 responsible for Quality, which reflects our belief The Board considers social, environmental and that these two areas complement each other as ethical matters in the context of the overall part of our corporate responsibility.
Charter is committed to appointed a full-time EHS professional for Africa understanding and responsibly managing and also for its Aeolus plant in Brazil.
significant risks to the environment and the communities in which it has a presence and where An EHS conference was held in North America it has operational control or significant influence.
with representatives from all ESAB and Howden They are managed as part of the overall corporate sites.
A 3.5-day Howden EHS conference was governance and risk management framework.
run in Spain for all managers worldwide.
Our policies and management approach can be The Howden Academy now runs two modules seen in the Corporate Responsibility CR section dedicated to EHS and global training schemes of our website, www.
for all units are being planned for 2010.
The operational heads of all Charter businesses Approximately 0.7 million was spent by Howden have responsibility for implementing the policies on EHS improvement projects in 2009. and are accountable for CR performance.
CR is being integrated within our overall risk EHS management systems management practices.
The Head of Risk Charter aims for all operating sites to implement Management has an overall co-ordinating role certified EHS management systems and in areas of CR to improve the sharing of best significant progress has been made in recent practice, collection of data and consistency years.
In 2008 ESAB became the first of reporting.
international company to be jointly certified to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 for the entire The Board and the senior management receive organisation.
In 2009 this was extended to a monthly performance report on environmental include the Romar automation business, and health and safety EHS performance.
acquired in 2008, with factories in Singapore and Formal reviews of major risks are undertaken by China.
An ESAB energy management system will senior management quarterly and by the Board be developed in 2010 and incorporated into the every six months.
Environmental, healthandsafety Additionally, trained internal personnel audit Management approach ESAB sites annually to assess compliance with In 2009, a new EHS policy was formally adopted policies and to monitor progress with by the Board, signed by the Chief Executive and improvement action plans.
41 audits were distributed to all businesses.
Also new Charter completed in 2009, representing 87 per cent of travel guidelines were approved, covering health, all ESAB operating units 2008: 24 out of 43. safety and security.
Howden has continued to make progress in The Board and the senior management receive 2009 with ISO 14001 certification, with five more a monthly summary of EHS performance manufacturing sites completing the process, and worldwide, presenting lost time injury cases, two more sites achieving OHSAS 18001 results of the incident analysis and key corrective certification.
Certified sites are independently actions taken.
It also reports the number of near reviewed as part of the re-certification process.
misses, progress on key activities and plans for It is planned to complete certification to the next quarter, enabling issues most relevant ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 at all to the business to be prioritised and resources manufacturing sites during 2010.
Construction and Maintenance Division retained its British Safety Council 5-Star rating with an Resources and training improved score and was, once again, awarded a EHS management resources were strengthened Sword of Honour.
Howden has also made further in 2009 with additional central resources progress with the roll-out of a web-based and reinforcement of operational capabilities EHS management and reporting system.
through additional recruits and skills training.
The ESAB Director of EHS is now also 36 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation  3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 Jan 07  08  09 FebMarAprMayJunJul- -Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan 08 Feb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan 09 Feb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec EHS regulatory issues incidents were recorded in 2009, an increase of During 2009, there were no environmental 76 per cent from 2008.
This reflects our effort to releases reported.
Howdens operation in Mexico identify and correct hazardous situations before City, Buffalo Forge SA, paid a fine of 1,700 they can lead to a more serious injury.
We following an audit by PROFEPA in September continue to eliminate the root causes through use 2005.
No other regulatory actions, fines or of hazard and risk assessment tools.
Correcting unsafe conditions before they result in Pre-registration under REACH EU Regulation injuries is also an important part of our approach.
on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation In the last quarter of 2008, ESAB started and Restriction of Chemicals was completed by recording reports of unsafe conditions centrally, 30 November 2008.
Charter has been preparing and during 2009 over 3,000 were logged.
to participate in Substance Information Exchange This has contributed to a progressive fall in both Forums SIEFs as required.
ESAB has been the number of injuries, and also the severity of revising product warning labels and safety these injuries.
information sheets to prepare for REACH compliance.
Health To respond to the H1N1 flu virus, the business Howden has retained consultants to help develop continuity plan was implemented, with Charters a programme to comply with the UKs new, legally crisis management team monitoring developments binding, climate change and energy-saving and issuing frequent communications.
This scheme, the Carbon Reduction Commitment, ensured appropriate actions were taken at all where Charter will be a full participant.
businesses and continue to be taken.
Safety performance Environmental performance Charter operates in heavy engineering On the basis of UK government guidelines and environments where there is considerable the challenges of climate change and water inherent risk and we recognise the need to scarcity, Charter has selected as environmental adopt best practice safety management across KPIs the reduction of direct and indirect energy all our operations.
usage, water consumption and waste transferred to landfill.
This focus, which is integrated with the We are pleased to report that no fatalities Lean Manufacturing initiative, is also expected to occurred in 2009 including on-site contractors.
drive efficiency gains and cost savings.
Nevertheless, we regret that during the year we recorded six amputations, all involving fingers, Due to reporting deadlines, the latest annual five to employees and one to a contractor.
environmental data available is for 2008.
These incidents are considered unacceptable This relates to a year where production volumes and we have placed the highest priority on in ESAB were at their highest ever levels.
investigating the root causes and implementing Data for 2009 is expected to be available in the corrective action plans in each case.
second quarter when it will be added to the Companys website.
In 2009, the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR was 1.17, around 24 per cent less than Between 2007 and 2008, ESABs consumables in 2008, and 50 per cent less than in 2007. production and revenue both increased by The number of days away from work per 16.9 per cent: not surprisingly, all of ESABs 200,000 hours worked was reduced by 26 per environmental KPIs also showed an increase.
These However, all KPIs reflect improvements in numbers include acquisitions.
The total number eco-efficiency when compared with the increase of hours worked in 2009 was 24.5 million in revenue and production.
compared to 26.1 million in 2008, a reduction of 6 per cent.
Energy usage increased by 7.6 per cent from 1,408,787 GJ to 1,516,299 GJ whilst In 2008 and 2009, the total numbers of near greenhouse gas emissions increased by misses were recorded.
Just under 3,400 such 8.9 per cent from 281,629 TCO eq to 2 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 37 Corporate responsibility report continued  70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Jan 07  08 09 FebMarAprMayJunJul- -Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan 08 Feb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan 09 Feb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 306,587 TCO eq.
This reflects the increase in Water use increased by 1.4 per cent from 2 consumables production now in countries 62,742 metric tonnes to 63,606 metric tonnes where a higher proportion of electricity is but, per million of revenue, it fell by 22.4 per generated from fossil fuels, for example China cent.
However, considering the increase in revenue, the business was more energyHowden has set a target for reducing the energy efficient in 2008, resulting in an 8.0 per cent fall used by Howdens manufacturing sites by 5 per in energy consumed and a 7.0 per cent fall in cent between March 2009 and March 2010.
CO eq emissions per million of revenue To provide an improved measure of manufacturing 2 generated.
efficiency this will be normalised using production hours rather than overall revenue.
In April 2009, ESAB set a 12-month target to reduce energy consumption at each site by  10 per cent per tonne of consumables ESAB products are used in a wide variety manufactured and by 5 per cent in its equipment of engineering structures across the world, factories and offices.
A detailed blueprint for requiring the highest levels of technology and achieving best practice has been drawn up and manufacturing precision to provide assurance of communicated to factories.
Each unit reports its weld integrity.
In addition to our internal quality energy usage monthly and also shares best management, all of our products are tested practices with other sites.
There are now 529 routinely by external laboratories to provide the live projects.
highest possible level of confidence.
ESABs waste to landfill increased by 8.8 per ESAB is committed to objective disclosure on the cent from 8,694 tonnes to 9,460 tonnes but, quality and safety of our products, including real per million of revenue, it fell by 6.9 per cent.
or perceived hazards relating to substances in This figure includes waste from a major project the product, the product itself, or product use.
at the Monterrey site in Mexico that resulted Comprehensive safety data sheets have been in an additional 650 tonnes of waste to landfill compiled for every consumable product and are in 2008. available online in 21 languages.
They include advice on minimising impacts relating to product The consumption of water increased only use and disposal.
insignificantly, from 1,248,292 cubic metres to 1,252,575 cubic metres, and the total per The need for low-energy designs by our million of revenue fell by 14.2 per cent.
customers has led to the use of ever lighter materials, demanding more sophisticated Data for Howden has been collected for 2007 welding techniques.
In 2009 ESABs quality management team was Energy use increased by 12 per cent from strengthened with the appointment of a group 118,919 GJ to 133,075 GJ whilst greenhouse quality director who will be implementing global gas emissions increased by 8.9 per cent from standards to ensure that our products continue 17,660 TCO eq to 19,233 TCO eq.
to meet the high specifications demanded by 2 2 Considering the increase in revenue, Howdens our markets.
energy efficiency improved, with a reduction of 14.3 per cent in energy consumed per million Employment of revenue and a corresponding 16.6 per cent Human resource HR management fall in CO eq: Charter, ESAB and Howden have a clear, 2 three-year roadmap for human resource Howdens waste to landfill increased by development.
The 2008-2011 plan is to take 33.8 per cent from 512 metric tonnes to 685 the HR function away from traditional, reactive tones, equivalent to a 3.0 per cent increase per activities to one that delivers tangible million of revenue.
The main reason for this business value.
increase was a manufacturing process change that resulted in an unusually high level of scrap: 38 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation In August 2009 Howden Africa Holdings Limited, in partnership with electricity providers Eskom, awarded a grant of R100,000 to the Kwazamokuhle Secondary School at Hendrina in Mpumalanga to establish a science laboratory at the school.
A Corporate Social Investment CSI committee was also appointed and to date has presented more than R200,000 in financial assistance to causes located near Howdens Booysens factory, South Africa.
The principal long-term beneficiaries of Howdens programme include Cotlands, St Marys Orphanage and Girls & Boys Town, the Viva English Project at Mount Pleasant School in Port Elizabeth and Nita Taljaard, Howdens beneficiary at United Cerebral Palsy.
The Groups key 2009 goals for human resource Our equal opportunities policy was management were managing and developing our re-communicated in ESAB in 2009. existing talent worldwide, succession planning and more consistent and rigorous performance No reports have been received of any breaches of appraisal systems, including increased emphasis anti-discrimination laws in all relevant jurisdictions on CR objectives.
concerning matters of gender, ethnic origin, age, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
We have retained these priorities whilst, in the face of a major downturn, also prioritising a Training and development responsible redundancy programme.
Recruitment, performance appraisal and reward Our approach has involved a combination of processes have been enhanced across the short-term working options, clear redundancy Group.
Through linking various processes selection frameworks, appropriate compensation together, such as the objectives planning process packages, clear communications, engagement to that of budgeting and reporting, performance with unions and government officials and is being increasingly linked to reward.
This approach not management is linked to executive education, only respects those affected but maintains the coaching and succession.
This linkage of respect and trust of our retained employees.
professional recruitment, performance management and reward directly supports the To support our drive for more proactive HR Company strategy of professional competence, management, our Group head of HR is also a excellence and customer focus.
In order for Director of Charter Limited.
We recruited a new ESAB to become the clients preferred partner head of HR for ESAB North America and and to be seen as The Welding Authority, the strengthened HR capability supporting our global aim of the HR function is to enable better lines of business.
The Howden global HR group, solutions for customers by means of superior set up in 2008, has now identified 14 projects to people performance.
Likewise Howden has used be completed over five years, focusing on skills, this HR philosophy to support its five-year development and retention.
A new Howden HR strategic plan.
information system was implemented in 2009, allowing the recording of employee details in Charter businesses invest in employee skills and seven languages in 17 countries and a similar capabilities through a variety of programmes, system is to follow in ESAB.
This aids legal including training and succession planning.
compliance with equality laws, for example The Charter Manual is being updated to clarify line relating to ethnic origin in South Africa.
managers responsibilities for managing their people and the Group continues to invest in Employee numbers developing skills across both ESAB and Howden, Employee numbers at the end of 2009 were for example through the Lean Manufacturing 11,982 2008: 13,364.
Two boot camps have been run in fall in demand, reductions in manned capacity ESAB to train lean practitioners each of 10 days were implemented throughout ESABs duration.
During 2009, approximately 80 Howden businesses, and through the calendar year of managers from nine countries have participated in 2009 more than 1,200 jobs ceased taking the Unipart Lean Leadership Training programme, ESABs total reduction from autumn 2008 to with an additional 12 delegates from seven December 2009 to 1,641.
Howden has countries attending a boot camp.
benefited to some degree from its backlog of orders, however, due to cost reduction ESAB training requirements it was necessary to make In 2009 ESAB made progress with its Leadership approximately 270 people redundant in 2009.
This programme involves 220 people worldwide who have been Equal opportunities selected to join three talent groups: leadership Charter recognises and values diversity in the talent, developing talent and technical talent.
workforce and all recruitment, selection and The programme has established an online promotion is on the basis of individual community that can access a growing library of qualifications, skills, experience and merit.
articles matching MBA standards and which can Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 39 Corporate responsibility report continued contribute via a collaborative software system.
succession management, has achieved 100 per This programme is seen as critical to the cent coverage of the 157 senior managers Companys sustainable development by identified for participation.
harnessing and developing its core talent.
The Howden Academy has continued in 2009: The ESAB University was launched, focusing on four cohorts have now been run, each lasting a number of learning themes and workstreams.
Approximately 200 new engineers This was accompanied by the roll-out of a global from 14 countries have attended the Howden e-learning capability, extending the previous Academy over the 1.5 years since starting in July years pilot to North America.
750 individuals 2008, with more than 90 per cent of the across Europe, Asia, the Middle East and North engineers managers confirming an acceleration America now use the SkillPort web system and in productivity and effectiveness as a result of more than 1,000 hours of training have already training received.
The Howden Academys been delivered.
Within ESAB University, a success has been recognised by a number of two-week residential leadership development awards, including the Glasgow Business Award programme was run with delegates from for Excellence in Skills and Learning and the 13 countries spanning the Americas, Europe, UK CBI Human Capital award for Education the Middle East, South East Asia and China.
In 2010 the Howden The faculty included Charter Executive Directors Academy will be made available to employees including the Chief Executive, who led a session online, using e-learning modules.
also be developed further to include additional product ranges.
2009 has also seen the delivery of an awareness programme on diversity and inclusion.
This aims Media training has been provided for the Howden to create a more culturally aware cadre of Board and Senior Executives and a coaching managers and to guide executives around the programme was delivered to develop those world on how to be more successful in regional senior managers identified as potential leaders.
Executive Directors of Charter, Department Heads of Charter and senior ESAB Employee communications managers received a briefing on equal ESAB is continuously seeking to improve opportunities and employment law.
During 2009, ESAB continued with its in-house Howden training magazine Lets Talk, and the monthly Cascade.
Howden held an HR conference in Spain in The Cascade communicates key messages September 2009, focusing on training for global through the management chain with local HR staff, including training on psychometric content added.
The Cascade brief is posted on profiling.
The conference also looked at ESABs intranet to ensure the fullest coverage.
developing plans to support the business in Key messages show frequent links to other managing through an economic downturn.
business initiatives such as environment, health and safety performance, the Lean Programme, Howden piloted a global management objective setting, performance management and development programme in 2009, involving organisation development.
Increasingly, the 12 managers and covering a range of topics intranet is used as a source of information and including recruitment, communications, education, including portals for specialist performance management and leadership.
Five more courses are planned for 2010, which will be extended to include EHS, and the goal is Howden continues to produce the Team Brief for all managers of people 385 to attend the every two months and a group newsletter every programme over a three-year period.
Works councils and other consultative bodies continue to be used for A core talent and succession management two-way constructive dialogue and consultation programme has also been continued in 2009. on decisions affecting people at work.
The programme, which dovetails performance appraisals into talent development and 40 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation Sub-contractors and suppliers Communities ESAB and Howdens relationships with subMany Charter businesses support local charities contractors and suppliers create potential risks in through fundraising or other forms of assistance.
their supply chains associated with a range of CR In addition, local voluntary initiatives and issues linked, for example, to mineral extraction, community investment serve to build stakeholder manufacturing, employment, the environment relations and enhance our reputation as an and business ethics.
employer of choice and a good corporate citizen.
Details of charitable donations are We aim to work with product suppliers that reported on page 46. meet our own standards of safety, environmental and quality management.
ESAB has a Code of Ethics for purchasing and has in place a self-assessment procedure through which about 1,500 suppliers have been surveyed since 1997: non-conformances are addressed by the ESAB local business units.
A list of banned and hazardous substances has also been circulated to suppliers and is monitored regularly.
From 2009, the self-assessment programme is being strengthened with the introduction of on-site environmental, health, safety and quality audits for finished goods suppliers.
All new finished goods suppliers will be audited and we will also systematically cover the existing supply base.
Howden has implemented, group-wide, a formal vendor audit process, which includes ensuring the Charter Code of Conduct is followed.
CodeofConduct Charters Code of Conduct provides the framework for the behaviour expected of all employees in conducting themselves, whatever their role and wherever they are located.
It is the responsibility of all Charter businesses and employees to ensure the Code and all supporting policies and procedures are complied with.
As part of the Code of Conduct, Charter operates a whistleblowing policy which was re-issued in 2009.
20 events involving allegations of fraud, theft or other possible breaches of the Code of Conduct were investigated in 2009.
13 resulted in dismissals, two led to resignations, four required no further action and one is still under investigation.
Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 41
