30 Business overview Corporate Responsibility Review We recognise that a key element in the continual improvement of Our approach health and safety management is sharing best practice and lessons The Group fully acknowledges its obligation to learnt from incidents across all of the Group companies.
A common ensure the responsible operation of its business incident reporting and investigation procedure is in place, as well as an alert system that formally ensures key findings from incidents at all times with due regards to the interests of are quickly communicated to all operational sites and actions taken shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers as appropriate.
All accidents and near misses are investigated, with actions generated to prevent recurrence.
A Health, Safety and and the wider community.
Environment Technical Group, with representatives from across the The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and Group, supports continual improvement through the development maintaining the Groups policies in this area, and the Chief Executive and promotion of good health and safety practice.
is accountable to the Board for ensuring that the Groups businesses Our programme of health and safety audits continues, supported adhere to these policies.
These audits incorporate a review of During the year, the Group Executive Committee steered a focused process safety management in the US, and, in Europe, address review of the Groups corporate responsibility performance, the requirements of the Seveso II Directive.
recognising that the long term success of the Group will be enhanced We continue our successful implementation of formal management by a positive interaction with all of our stakeholders.
Our senior systems across the business, and now have fourteen out of management also participated in a workshop on corporate seventeen candidate sites validated as compliant with the health responsibility as part of the Groups management development and safety management system OHSAS18001.
As a consequence of these initiatives, we have concluded newly-acquired businesses to achieve certification within two that we should focus in particular on the following key areas: years of joining the Group.
Health and safety Newly-acquired businesses are rapidly introduced to the Groups Employee support and development safety philosophy, with detailed regulatory compliance audits Environmental protection and programme gap analysis.
Risk registers are compiled, and businesses are required to reduce their major health and safety Ethical business conduct risks to as low as reasonably practicable.
We intend that our corporate responsibility approach should be fully The Group has committed to substantial investments in embedded within our businesses, and our senior management bonus manufacturing facilities that will, in addition to improving productivity, plan incorporates specific objectives in each of the above areas.
improve the safety of the workforce by reducing the levels of risk.
Further details of our approach are set out below.
We apply particular attention to those facilities that compare unfavourably with their peers, and have put systems and processes in In the workplace place to facilitate the sharing of information across the Group.
Health and safety Our ongoing safety improvement activities are focused on Our policy and practices ensuring that our buildings, processes and products are as safe The Board recognises that the highest levels of safety are required as reasonably practicable for our employees and product users.
in order to protect our employees, whilst achieving growth and A Design for Health, Safety and the Environment programme was maintaining leadership in the Groups chosen markets.
The Board developed during the year, to identify opportunities for improving believes that all injuries are preventable, and a long term strategy the safety to users and environmental impact of our products at has been adopted to ensure that we continually improve our the concept and design stages.
The programme is currently being performance and reduce risk.
rolled out to all of the businesses.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for health, safety and The Group has an established relationship with Cranfield University, environmental matters across the Group.
The Group Director of both for the supply of employee training programmes and for the Safety reports directly to the Chief Executive, and is responsible development of simulation modelling to evaluate blast and thermal for the effective administration and implementation of the Groups effects from the ignition of pyrotechnic and other materials.
health, safety and environmental strategy.
The Group Director of Safety reports to the Group Executive Committee on the performance Our performance of the businesses against agreed objectives, and the Chief Executive Our lost time incident rate calculated using the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA rules showed a modest reports monthly to the Board on all key health and safety issues.
improvement from 1.20 to 1.13 incidents per 100 employees during The Board requires that all businesses systematically manage their the year.
Six of our sites reported no lost work days in the year, health and safety hazards, set objectives, monitor progress by which is an excellent achievement.
We are working closely with our regular measurement, audit and review, and take additional action other sites whose safety performance was not as satisfactory.
Each Managing Director is responsible for the management of health and safety within their business and for providing adequate resources to satisfy the Boards requirements.
All Managing Directors have health and safety related objectives incorporated within their annual bonus plan.
Managers in our businesses are required to enforce procedures, and to provide leadership and commitment to promote and embrace a positive health and safety culture.
We emphasise the importance of individual responsibility for health and safety at all levels of the organisation, and expect employees to report potential hazards, to be involved in implementing solutions, and to adhere to rules and procedures.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 31 Our historical lost time incident rate performance is shown below: Employees The Board recognises the valuable contribution that the Groups Lost time incident rate performance employees continue to make to its success, and aims to provide a working environment that reflects and rewards this.
The Group now 2.0 has over 3,400 employees based in seven countries.
Employment practices 1.5 The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of race, nationality, gender, sexual 1.0 orientation, marital status, religion or political belief, disability or age.
The Group is committed to meeting, at a minimum, the labour rights and legislation requirements in each country in which it 0.5 operates, and in practice, often exceeds these.
Our employment practices policies are introduced at newly-acquired businesses at the earliest opportunity after they join the Group.
0 Gender diversity 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Whilst we take all incidents seriously, we pay particular attention to those where employees are hurt due to an energetic event.
We had four lost time events following unexpected initiations during the Male 63% year: two at Technical Ordnance in the USA, and one each at Female 37% Chemring Defence Germany and Chemring Australia.
These events were fully investigated and engineering controls implemented to prevent re-occurrence.
A total of thirty five lost time incidents were recorded in the year, Ethnic diversity categorised as follows: Lost time incidents by category 12 White 76% 10 Non-white 24% 8 6 4 Development and training 2 We continue to address training and development requirements 0 for employees at all levels within the organisation.
During the year, the Groups senior management participated in a tailored management development programme, which was delivered by Henley Management College, and we are now considering how this will be rolled-out to the next tier of management.
All of our businesses consider training needs for their employees at a local level, in order to ensure that they have the right skill base in order A continued focus on near misses during the year resulted to deliver their five year strategic plan.
Group-wide reviews have also been undertaken of our sales and marketing and engineering in 2,521 near misses being formally reported and acted upon.
Employees are encouraged to report issues, however small, which resources, in order to identify the requirements for future recruitment then go through a rigorous corrective action process.
and development of our existing employees in these areas.
Our European businesses adopted a new people capability In our most serious accident during the year, an employee suffered the partial amputation of a finger in a press at our Derby, UK process for performance appraisal and management during the year, and this will be fully implemented in 2010. facility.
The incident was fully investigated and the equipment involved has now been eliminated from the manufacturing process.
Our first two undergraduate students completed their year in industry placement with our UK businesses during 2009, and we are aiming to extend the programme this year.
We are also considering how we can develop our graduate recruitment initiatives.
Succession planning, human resource requirements and the future organisational structure of the Group as it continues to grow are reviewed on a regular basis by the Board.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Strain Slip, trip, fall Energetic event Chemical splash Cut laceration Falling object RSI Ejected object Entrapment Impacted stationary object Insect bite Incidents Incidents per 100 employees 32 Business overview Corporate Responsibility Review continued Benefits Waste We aim to provide all of our employees with an attractive and Our total non-recycled waste generated in the year, excluding that competitive benefits package.
Almost all of our businesses offer generated by businesses acquired during the year, was as follows: occupational pension scheme arrangements and our US employees 2009 2008 tonnes waste tonnes waste receive health care.
A number of our businesses offer health screening services and other health-related initiatives such as Non-hazardous 1,576 1,027 stop-smoking clinics.
Hazardous 419 1,425 The Board is keen to encourage employees to join share schemes Total 1,995 2,452 in order that they can share in the future success of the Group.
We currently offer savings-related share plans to our UK and US The increase in the non-hazardous waste reflects the growth in the employees, and we are reviewing the options for the introduction of Group during the year and the expansion of our product ranges.
similar schemes in the other countries in which we operate.
The reduction in the hazardous waste reflects the first full year of recycling the caustic wastes generated by Alloy Surfaces, an Communications initiative which we reported on last year.
The Group pursues a policy of employee communication through meetings including team briefings and works councils and Many of our facilities are permitted to burn waste materials on site in-house magazines by which employees are made aware of the within closely controlled facilities.
We offer a collection service progress of the Group and the companies in which they work.
in the UK for time-expired marine pyrotechnics, including those We also engage with our employees through representative bodies produced by other manufacturers, but these are transferred to an and trade unions.
accredited third party disposal service.
Employee surveys are undertaken in relation to specific matters, The Group is currently investing in a new demilitarisation such as health and safety, from time to time.
facility in Italy, which will receive time-expired munitions for decommissioning and disassembly.
The individual materials will A Group magazine, The Chemring Eye, is published on a quarterly then be recycled back into the supply chain.
basis and distributed to all of our employees.
Energy and emissions In the environment During 2008 we collected detailed data on travel within the Group, Our policy and practices which revealed that this activity represented less than 3% of our The Board believes that environmental protection will help to overall carbon footprint from energy utilisation.
Energy utilisation secure the long term future of our businesses.
The Groups is therefore now our main focus of attention.
environmental policy states that we will control pollution, minimise Our total emissions during the year, excluding those of businesses acquired during the the quantity of material burnt at each site, consume resources year, in carbon dioxide equivalents were as follows: efficiently, and use materials that minimise the environmental 2009 2008 2007 impact of our operations.
Source tonnes CO tonnes CO tonnes CO 2 2 2 Electricity 36,334 29,128 21,556 We now have fifteen out of seventeen candidate sites certified to the environmental management system ISO14001.
We require all Gas 12,512 12,384 11,931 newly-acquired businesses to achieve ISO14001 certification within Oil 2,008 2,351 2,878 two years of joining the Group.
Total 50,854 43,863 36,365 Our ISO14001 programme requires that all sites have their own restated environmental goals and objectives, which are very much focused Note: We do not include emissions from our supply chain nor use or disposal of our on local aspects and impacts.
However, we continue to monitor key products in these calculations.
environmental data across the Group.
The Groups total emissions increased by 16% during the year, Land quality against an increase in revenue excluding current year acquisitions Our Scot facility, which is based in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, of 29%, which means that our overall carbon intensity reduced is located on a site which has superfund status under the US during the year as follows: contaminated land CERCLA regime.
A 4.6 million provision has been made in respect of the pre-acquisition environmental 2009 2008 2007 liabilities associated with the site, which the Board considers to be Total emissions tonnes CO 50,854 43,863 36,365 2 adequate see Note 25 of the financial statements.
Whilst there Group revenue million continuing has been little activity during the year, we continue to work with operations 458.3 354.2 254.7 external consultants to ensure that the legal obligations of the business in relation to this matter are fully satisfied.
Tonnes of CO per million of revenue 111.0 123.8 142.8 2 Incidents We are increasing our efforts to address energy conservation An environmental incident occurred at Chemring Countermeasures and thus indirect emissions in the future, and a detailed study on in the UK in May 2009, when a corroded pipe led to the loss renewable energy options was undertaken during the year.
All UK of approximately 3,000 litres of dichloromethane methylene sites have had independent energy audits, and all of our businesses chloride into the ground.
The Environment Agency was notified have emissions reduction programmes in place.
We have also immediately, and a fast response limited the environmental adopted a greenhouse gas emissions policy, which allocates consequences.
A soil vapour extraction plant has been installed responsibilities for reducing our direct and indirect emissions, to protect the local aquifer and the secondary containment and sets out our objectives in this area.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 33 The Chemring Energetics facility at Ardeer in Scotland is currently In the marketplace the only site that falls under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services However, the entire UK Group will be required to participate in the The Groups strategy is to become the world leader in the Carbon Reduction Commitment programme when it is introduced.
manufacture of energetic material products and countermeasures for the global defence market, and we are presently delivering During the year the Group participated in the Carbon Disclosure significant growth in this area though a combination of organic Project for the first time.
The scope of the Groups activities Water has significantly widened over the last few years, particularly with We commenced the detailed monitoring of water consumption regards to the supply of components and sub-systems for various 3 during the year.
We consumed a total of 1,762,000 m of water types of munitions, and there is increasing demand for the supply and will provide a progress report next year.
to our customers of third party products.
Consequently, the Board has adopted a Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services, which In the community provides guidance to all stakeholders on the products and services Helping others that the Group will supply, to which customers and to which The Board recognises that each of the Groups businesses has an countries, and sets out a clear definition of what we will not supply.
important role to play in its local community.
All Group businesses are required to comply with this policy, which The Board operates a charitable policy, which confirms its addresses both legal and ethical considerations with regards to commitment to support selected charitable causes with a focus certain products.
on the military and armed services, and those linked to the local Business conduct communities in which the Groups businesses operate.
At a Group The Group has adopted a Code of Business Principles, which level, charitable donations are considered on a monthly basis by the requires our employees, our businesses and all third parties who Executive Committee, and each business has its own locally held act on our behalf to comply with our standards of acceptable charity budget.
Examples of support provided during the year include: business conduct and applicable laws and regulations in all of the Donations to a range of charities including Help for countries in which we operate.
Heroes, Army Benevolent Fund, Supporting Royal Marines, The managing directors of each business are required to report SAMA & Falklands Veterans Association, Queen Alexandra to the Chief Executive on compliance with the Code of Business Hospital Home, various health and cancer charities, local hospitals Principles on an annual basis.
and schools, and ongoing support for the Mary Rose Appeal.
Ethics and anticorruption Sole sponsorship of the 7 Air Assault Battalion Royal Electrical The Group has committed to adherence with the European and Mechanical Engineers REME Royal Navy Field Gun Crew.
Aerospace and Defence Associations Common Industry Standards The Group is proud to be associated with the 7 Air Assault on Anti-Corruption, and we have reviewed and updated a number of Battalion, who provide support to the vehicles, weapons and our business processes across the Group with the aim of achieving aircraft of 16 Air Assault Brigade.
The soldiers support aircraft full compliance.
Significant progress has been made in the following in various areas of conflict around the world.
areas during the year: Sponsorship of the UK Aerospace Youth Rocketry Challenge.
The management of our European businesses and employees Continued sponsorship of a UK employee in his efforts to working within commercial, sales and marketing, finance and compete in his chosen sport of archery at the 2012 Olympics.
human resource functions have received training on ethics and anti-corruption.
In addition to making cash donations, the Group also encourages and supports employees who undertake voluntary work in the local We have adopted a new Group-wide policy and revised community, where appropriate.
During the year, our employees procedures on the appointment of agents and other third party donated their time and services on a wide range of projects, several representatives.
of which had an educational bias.
Approximately one-third of our agents have been subjected to The Group is involved with a number of educational initiatives, due diligence by external consultants, and the remainder have notably including the sponsorship of various local schools.
been covered by a detailed, internal due diligence review.
The Group has a partnership agreement with Cranfield University, New standard agreements are being entered into with all agents, under which the Group has committed to the provision of significant which reflect the requirements of the Common Industry Standards.
funding for students research activities over the next five years.
Policies and procedures on the giving and receiving of gifts and With regards to the impact of our manufacturing activities on hospitality have been adopted.
the local community, at locations where our operations may inconvenience neighbours through product proofing, we liaise with Our Code of Business Principles has also been updated to local residents to minimise any impact.
We are also cognisant of the incorporate the Common Industry Standards.
potential impact of our operations on the local environment, and Our US businesses have adopted an ethical compliance programme we are addressing this through our environmental strategy.
to satisfy US Government requirements for ethical training for employees, compliance audits, an employees hotline, and related investigation procedures.
The Group has a whistleblowing policy and procedures in place which enable all employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible improprieties.
These arrangements now reflect the requirements of the Common Industry Standards.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
