INTRODUCTION Big Yellow continues to establish sustainable practices in order to meet Climate Change objectives in the areas of energy efficiency, renewable energy generation, employee travel and merchandise material selection.
Secondary environmental objectives include waste and pollution reduction, water conservation and improved landscape biodiversity.
Overall responsibility for CSR is provided by the Chief Executive Officer, James Gibson, through quarterly CSR committee meetings chaired by the CSR Manager and bi-monthly board reports to all Directors.
Through this structure the CSR Manager continues to improve the social and environmental aspects of the Groups strategy in line with changing environmental legislation and commercial objectives.
CSR Policy A summary of Big Yellows CSR policy is available at bigyellow.
co. uk, and is shown within the Operating and Financial Review.
The Policy commits the Group to striking the balance between its social, environmental and economic objectives.
The aim of the Policy is to document Big Yellows sustainability objectives across all activities, as both a developer and a self storage operator.
In order to achieve these objectives the Board has once more committed significant resources to the environmental aspects of both its store development programme and its existing store portfolio.
Reporting This is the Groups second CSR report based on the social and environmental key performance indicators KPIs established in last years report.
These KPIs benchmark current performance and measure continued improvement over the years of measurement.
Based on benchmark data for the year ended 31 March 2009 the Group will set targets, where appropriate, for the year ended 31 March 2010, as indicated in the tables below.
Detailed case studies of Big Yellows sustainable developments and performance will be provided over the new financial year in the CSR section of the Groups website.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Below is a summary of our key CSR progress involving employees, customers, local communities and any other parties affected by our business operations.
Progress is measured for our most relevant social and environmental impacts.
Packing Materials Eco-Labelling Big Yellows cardboard packing materials have a recycled content ranging from 70% to 100%: plastic storage containers are predominantly made from recyclable polypropylene: and loose fill packing is made of a minimum 90% recycled polystyrene.
Charitable Giving A snap shot of Big Yellows charitable giving for the year ended 31 March 2009 revealed that 62% of our stores were providing space for 47 different charities and that 38% of these charities were health and child care related.
Health and Safety Big Yellow Construction Company Limited had no serious injuries during the year.
Any incidents were minor non-reportable accidents with on average one minor incident per store under construction in the period.
Employee Travel Survey During the year we conducted an employee travel survey.
Employee responses to our travel survey were an excellent 85%.
Our most significant CSR key performance indicators such as carbon emissions, energy efficiency, sustainable construction, health and safety, charitable giving and supply chain management are summarised as follows: Energy Usage A reduction in our stores energy usage and carbon emissions of 7.4% has resulted in an annual saving of over 100,000, indicating that the benefits of energy efficient lighting and renewable energy generation has started to take effect.
Carbon Emissions An overall reduction of total carbon emissions by 11.5% from last year was achieved for the Groups carbon footprint, which included a significant reduction in construction site diesel usage.
BREEAM The new Sheen Store achieved the highest Excellent rating on the Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Methodology BREEAM, in the industrial buildings category.
Energy Benchmarks Big Yellows new stores have been certified one level above expected energy efficiency benchmark for new buildings.
In the case of the Twickenham the store has achieved net zero CO emissions.
2 Considerate Constructors Scheme Under the Considerate Constructors Scheme 77.8% of our sites were above the average score for all registered sites in the UK, an improvement over last year.
32 Big Yellow Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 3.
STAKEHOLDERS Last year Big Yellow outlined its commitment to CSR by identifying its main stakeholders as its customers, local community, employees, suppliers, planning authorities and shareholders.
In future years the Group will seek feedback from its stakeholders on its services, management and performance reporting and review its CSR Policy accordingly.
Below is a summary of the initiatives that have been undertaken with each of the stakeholders.
Customers Big Yellow provides a high quality, safe, secure and convenient self-storage environment for residential customers who need more space to fide-clutter, extend or move home.
Big Yellow also provides space for office and workshop based customers, to assist new business start up or existing business expansion.
Big Yellow has made its customers aware of its CSR policy and has provided waste management guidance within the Guide to Self Storage which is given to all new customers.
Big Yellow has also drawn their attention to posters in our stores, giving them further guidance in these areas.
Packing Materials Eco-labelling During the year ended 31 March 2009 Big Yellow has sourced information for its customers on the environmental credentials of its packing materials including distances travelled from source.
All cardboard packing materials have a recycled content ranging from 70% to 100%.
Plastic storage containers are predominantly recyclable polypropylene and the collapsible type is 100% recycled polypropylene content.
Some types of shelving merchandise are made from recycled polypropylene or timber.
Loose fill packing material is made of a minimum 90% recycled polystyrene and all of our packing tissue paper is 50% recycled content.
Further review of suppliers for biodegradable loose fill packing material was researched.
All this information will be communicated to our stakeholders via Big Yellows website and sales literature in the coming financial year and reviewed on an annual basis.
Local Communities and Charitable Giving Big Yellow provides services, employment and charitable support to local communities within a close radius of its stores.
In accordance with the Groups evolving Giving policy, some storage space is provided for local charities at a discounted rate.
Space and time in kind has also been donated to disaster relief causes.
A snap shot of Big Yellows charitable giving at the start of 2009 revealed the following: 62% of our stores were providing space for 47 different charities: 38% of these charities were health and child care related such as Barnardos, Friends of Paediatric Intensive Care, The Childrens Kidney Trust and Early Years: Overseas charities included Band Aid and Tackle Africa: Religious based charities included the Salvation Army, English Churches, Jewish Womens Aid and the Society of the Revival of Islamic Heritage: and Environmental charities included The Bat Conservation Trust, The Peoples Trust for Endangered Species and the Norfolk Wildlife Trust.
During the year ended 31 March 2009 Big Yellow reviewed the ways in which it engaged with local communities to improve its giving policy.
In the last year the Group committed to the establishment of charity budgets for each of the regional grouping of stores.
Employees The CSR Manager has worked with Human Resources and Operations to raise employee awareness of the social and environmental impacts of their work.
A CSR Policy poster was distributed to all stores in 2008 and in the annual 2009 Spring Conference an environmental presentation was given to Area and Store Managers.
Employee inductions now include an introduction to the Groups CSR objectives.
In the year ended 31 March 2009 the Groups training work books were improved to raise awareness and set tasks on the environmental aspects of store operations.
Employee Work Travel Survey An intranet based employee work travel survey was designed and launched in the Autumn of 2008 covering questions on distances travelled to and from work, business travel during working hours and the different modes of transport used.
Employee responses to the survey were an excellent 85% indicating the level of interest and concern for travel and the environment.
The estimated total carbon footprint of employee travel has been increasing annually based on the new store development programme and increasing employment.
The estimated employee travel carbon footprints from 2007 to 2009 is shown below: Increase in Employee Travel Carbon Footprint 2007 2009 2007 2008 2009 Average Number of Employees 191 218 239 Estimated Annual Employee Travel Carbon Footprint 422 tCO e 482 tCO e 524 tCO e 2 2 2 Once the findings from the employee feedback have been reviewed in more detail by the Board of the CSR Committee we will be able to develop new strategies and reduce our environmental impact of our work travel footprint.
Big Yellow33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 3.
STAKEHOLDERS continued Stakeholder Health and Safety The Group has Store, Head Office and Construction Health and Safety Policies that are reviewed on a quarterly basis.
Accident books are used to record incidents and these are recorded centrally.
The number of accidents, injuries and near misses in stores are documented below: Big Yellow Stores Customers and Staff Health and Safety Financial Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 Prosecutions Notices 1 Near Misses 461 Fatal Injury Total RIDDOR 50 77 54 114 Number of Stores 37 43 48 54 RIDDOR Store 1.4 1.8 1.1 2.1 RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation 1995 minor incidents Customer minor injuries have been predominantly through handling of goods when putting them in or taking them out of self storage.
Staff minor injuries have been related to store management duties.
There were only a few incidents involving contractors and other visitors to the store.
For the year ended 31 March 2009 minor incidents increased, but no notices or prosecutions were served.
Health and safety risks are assessed by independent consultants for Store and Head Office.
Approximately six stores per year are audited by an external consultant and feedback has helped to reduce incidents against a rising number of store openings.
Head office and store staff are trained in first aid and all staff are retrained every three years.
An independent consultant has been instructed to conduct regular site safety audits in order to measure compliance, reduce minor injuries and near misses and maintain a zero tolerance on Construction prosecutions, notices and fatal injuries.
The number of accidents, injuries and near misses are documented below for 2,255 man days and a weekly average of 188 days.
Big Yellow Construction Company Limited Fit-out Stage Health and Safety Financial Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 Prosecutions Notices Fatal Injury Total RIDDOR minor accidents 5326 Number of Fit-out Projects 5666 RIDDOR Fit-out Projects 1.0 0.5 0.3 1.0 RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation 1995 Big Yellow Construction Company Limited had no notifiable injuries in the year ended 31 March 2009 and most minor accidents were related to cuts and strains.
Construction Design Management Regulation CDM training was completed in the year ended 31 March 2009.
Construction Supply Chain Survey In the year ended 31 March 2008 we selected our preferred main contractors and suppliers of materials, products and services for store development.
An environmental questionnaire was sent out to all main contractors and suppliers to obtain feedback on their environmental policies, management systems and performance.
A 65% response rate was achieved indicating performance improvement in the areas of environmental products and services.
This data provided evidence for higher Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodologies that were applied to some of our store designs in 2009 and beyond.
Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS All Big Yellow Construction Company contractors for demolition, shell and fit out were instructed to sign up to the Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS in the financial year.
Sites that register with the CCS are monitored against a Code of Considerate Practice, designed to encourage best practice beyond statutory requirements.
The main areas of performance assessment fall into three categories: the environment: the workforce: and the general public.
Site managers can gain a maximum of 5 points for each of 8 main categories and are responsible for site workers performance in the following areas: being considerate: environmental protection: maintaining cleanliness: being good neighbours: respectability: safety: responsiveness: and accountability.
CCS auditors visit the sites and assess each of the eight category performances for a maximum score of 40 points.
Reports are sent to the Construction Director and CSR Manager for review and actions: if required.
34 Big Yellow Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 3.
STAKEHOLDERS continued Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS continued Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS Performance 2007 2008 2009 2010 Target Percentage of Sites Registered 25% 100% 100% 100% Sites in Compliance with CCS 100% 100% 100% 100% Number of Monitoring Reports 2 17 18 Percentage sites average 50.0% 76.5% 77.8% 78% Average Score for all sites 26.3 30.9 30.8 30.0 Compliance with the schemes code above 24 points Achieving the UK average score of 30 points and above all registered sites in the UK After setting our 2009 target in April of last year, the CCS standard was raised in August 2008.
According to the CCS, a constructor who was working to the very highest standard could only expect to score 4.5 out of 5 points in each category.
Therefore the overall average score was expected to fall against a 10% rise in the standard.
As can be seen from the table above Big Yellow Construction effectively improved its performance compared with the previous year by maintaining its average score from the previous year.
All of our sites achieved compliance with the Scheme above mandatory legal compliance.
Also, 77.8% of our sites were above the average score for all CCS registered sites in the UK, an improvement of 1.3% over last year.
Environmental strengths included the communication of our CSR policy, environmental management plan, emergency spill response plan and waste management plans.
Overall, our highest scoring areas with 4 to 5 points out of 5 are the environment, cleanliness, being considerate and a good neighbour.
In addition to these improvements, one of our shell constructors, John Sisk & Son Ltd, achieved a National Award Standard of 35 points out of 40 at Sheen.
Local Planning Authorities Big Yellow is communicating the benefits of sustainable development through Local Planning Authority planning application statements and supporting reports on best practice in providing energy efficiency, renewable energy, travel plans, biodiversity, water conservation and waste management.
Local Planning Authorities are recognising the sustainable benefits of self storage in densely populated urban and inner city regeneration areas.
In some cases new or traditional businesses need to expand and these businesses would otherwise have moved out of the area if additional local storage space, work units or offices had not been provided at a reasonable cost.
Shareholders In the year ended 31 March 2009 Big Yellow received feedback from the Ethical Investments Research and Information Service EIRIS on its 2008 CSR report and satisfied their social and environmental standards for membership to the FTSE 4 Good index series.
Ethical investors use the FTSE 4 Good to identify and invest in companies that exhibit and benefit from both good economic and corporate responsibility practices.
Big Yellow also took part in the sixth Carbon Disclosure Project CDP6 in the year ending 31 March 2009.
The Carbon Disclosure Project CDP is an independent not-for-profit organisation aiming to create a relationship between shareholders and companies regarding the implications for shareholder value and commercial operations presented by climate change.
CDP provides a coordinating secretariat for institutional investors with a combined US $57 trillion of assets under management.
CSR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS During the review of Big Yellows store development program and operational activities the following environmental and social aspects were identified as having the most significant direct impacts, either positive or negative, on local communities and the environment.
The most significant impact was the carbon foot print of the operational stores due to the long term use of energy, compared to the shorter demands from store development and work related travel.
Big Yellow has calculated its equivalent carbon dioxide CO emissions using DEFRA conversion data June 2008.
These emissions 2 are caused directly and indirectly by its store operations, store construction and employee travel.
Operational Store Energy Consumption and Carbon Foot Print Big Yellow stores have two types of carbon emission.
Typical energy consumption is predominantly grid electricity for lighting, lifts, heating, cooling and ventilation, which cause indirect off site power station carbon emissions.
Stores with flexi-offices have additional gas heated areas which cause direct onsite gas combustion carbon emissions.
Work related travel emissions from private and public transport has been estimated by an employee travel survey conducted in the year ended 31 March 2009.
The store electricity consumption and carbon dioxide emissions per square metre of final occupied storage space have decreased by approximately 3.5% in the year ended March 2009.
The table below summarises the usage and emissions over the last five years: Big Yellow35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 4.
CSR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS continued Operational Store Energy Consumption and Carbon Foot Print continued Operational Store Electricity Use, CO Emissions and Carbon Intensity 2010 2 Year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Target Electricity kWh 10,706,850 11,965,366 13,382,599 13,899,604 12,866,186 Kg CO emissions 4,603,946 5,145,107 5,754,518 5,976,830 5,532,460 2 2 Kg CO m 33.7 33.1 33.8 34.8 33.6 -3.0% 2 Based on half-hourly meter readings 59% and estimated non half-hourly meter readings Using the DEFRA long-term marginal factor of 0.43 for Kg CO emissions 2 Taking into account a reduction in store occupied area, Big Yellow reduced its electricity consumption by over 1 million kWh and its carbon dioxide 2 emissions by 7.4% relating to electricity use reduction.
The carbon reduction over the year ended March 2009 was 1.2 kg CO m exceeding our 2008 2 2 target of 0.5 kg CO m. This reduction was due to the Groups new store development program of higher standards of insulation, air tightness, 2 energy efficiency and renewable energy generation.
It was also due to the completion of the programme for the installation of motion sensor lighting and the continuation of energy efficiency lighting installation across the whole store portfolio, which has further reduced energy consumption.
Energy Supplier Carbon Off-setting During the year, Big Yellow reviewed its carbon off-setting policy in the context of the Climate Change Act and the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC.
We have decided to change our strategy and not to continue purchasing electricity through our suppliers Green Tariff beyond October 2009.
Big Yellow has decided to transfer resources to invest in improving store energy efficiency instead.
Operational Stores Gas Use Carbon Dioxide Emissions Ancillary flexi-office services are sometimes provided alongside self storage service.
The use of natural gas for space and water heating in flexi-offices increased by 31%, causing carbon dioxide emissions to increase by 23.2 tCO e. However, the flexi-office contribution to the Groups total carbon foot 2 print is relatively small.
Operational Stores Flexi-offices Gas Usage Year 2008 2009 2010 Target Gas Energy kW hr year 366,523 479,354 N A Kg CO emissions 75,505 98,747 N A 2 2 Final Storage Area m 2,955 3,282 N A 2 Kg CO m 25.6 30.1 -3.0% 2 From CUC energy agent gas bills using the DEFRA June 2008 conversion factor of 0.206 for Kg CO emissions.
2 Construction Fit-Out Stage Carbon Dioxide Emissions Annual construction fit-out energy usage, over which Big Yellow has direct management control, depends mainly upon the number of stores being built, in any one year, the size of the store and the local site conditions.
Store fit out is the final stage of construction for which Big Yellow Construction Limited is directly responsible.
This year, the six stores being built that were under fit-out construction were measured using improved data collection for diesel consumption and grid electricity use.
Big Yellow Construction Company Limited Energy Use & Carbon Dioxide Emissions 2008 2009 Diesel Generator Grid Electricity Diesel Generator Grid Electricity Annual Fit Out Litres to KgCO kWh to kgCO Litres to KgCO kWh to kgCO 2 2 2 2 Sutton, Ealing, Barking, Balham, Fulham, Merton, 605,323 litres 135,699 kWh 2 & part of Kennington 47,026 m 1,592,000 kgCO 58,351 kgCO 2 2 Kennington, Sheffield, Sheen, Birmingham, Liverpool, 379,622 litres 211,756 kWh 2 Bromley, & part of Twickenham 40,766 m 998,406 kgCO 91,055 kgCO 2 2 Total Emissions 1,650,351kgCO 1,089,461kgCO 2 2 2 2 2 Total CO m 35.1 kgCO m 26.5 kgCO m 2 2 2 DEFRA 2008 Diesel conversion factor from litres to kgCO x 2.63 2 DEFRA 2008 Grid Electricity conversion factor from kWh to kgCO x 0.43 2 36 Big Yellow Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 4.
CSR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS continued Construction Fit-Out Stage Carbon Dioxide Emissions continued Total diesel fuel and grid electricity use measurement improved and we now have good procedures in place to measure and report on future energy usage on construction fit out.
Diesel use on average fell in 2009 due to the Liverpool and Twickenham sites using grid electricity.
Grid electricity usage was higher, but produces lower carbon dioxide emissions.
The use of on-site diesel creates approximately 15 times more carbon emissions than grid electricity.
In total a carbon emission reduction of about 34% was achieved and a carbon reduction per square metre of 25% achieved.
Overall construction fit out carbon emissions account for approximately 15% of the Groups total carbon footprint.
Summary of Big Yellows Carbon Footprint Calculating our carbon footprint has helped us prepare for the Climate Change Act and in particular the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC we will be compiling from 2010.
During 2009 we have obtained more accurate data, reduced some types of emissions and improved energy efficiency.
Carbon emissions based on employee travel survey completed in October 2008.
Expressed as metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent The total of Big Yellows carbon emissions from all of its activities has reduced significantly by 11.5% this financial year, taking into account improved data monitoring, energy efficiency within stores and less diesel usage on construction sites.
Although store flexi-office gas use increased, store electricity demand reduced effectively due to energy efficiencies and contributions from renewable energy technologies described below.
Future years should see a continued improvement in this trend through the installation of more energy efficient lighting, more accurate half-hourly meter installations and increasing use of onsite renewable energy in new stores.
Increasing carbon emission trends from employee travel and gas usage will be addressed in the current financial year.
Energy Performance Certificates In October 2008, legislation for the requirement of Energy Performance Certificates EPC was introduced.
To date, Big Yellows new stores have energy ratings based on the performance potential of the building fabric and its heating, ventilation, lighting and renewable energy installations.
The energy ratings given on the certificates reflect the intrinsic energy performance standard of the building relative to a benchmark which can then be used to make comparisons with similar buildings.
To date the most recent of Big Yellows new stores Twickenham, Sheffield, Edinburgh and Birmingham have been certified one level above expected energy efficiency benchmarks for new buildings.
In the case of the Twickenham store, a rating was achieved that was two ratings above the benchmark for new buildings and it has net zero CO emissions.
2 Renewable Energy Generation FY 2009 In the year ended 31 March 2009, four stores Barking, Balham, Fulham and Merton have been generating energy for most of the year and energy generation data has totalled 57,000 kWh, resulting in a carbon emission saving of 24.5 tonnes of CO equivalent CO te.
The solar photo voltaic 2 2 installations are approaching the 10% CO reduction targets set by the Local Planning Authorities.
To date solar photovoltaic energy has proved to be 2 the most reliable method of meeting Local Planning Authority energy and carbon dioxide reduction targets.
Ground source heat pumps have provided adequate heating to the reception areas in the winter season: while small scale wind turbines have not proven to be successful in urban environments, where the wind flow is turbulent and therefore less effective.
Renewable Energy Generation and CO Emission Reduction 1st April 2008 31 March 2009 Renewable Energy CO t e Store CO t e 2 2 2 Stores Energy Generation kWh Saving Totals Barking Wind Turbine 2,780 1.2 1.2 Balham Solar PV 11,238 4.8 GSHP 4,975 2.1 6.9 Fulham Solar PV 22,500 9.7 GSHP 6,816 2.9 12.6 Merton Solar PV 6,715 2.9 Wind Turbine 1,976 0.9 3.8 Totals 57,000 24.5 24.5 Renewable electricity generated x 0.43 long term marginal factor reduction of CO emissions from major power stations.
2 Big Yellow37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 4.
CSR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS continued Renewable Energy Generation FY 2009 continued A further three stores Kennington, Sheen and Bromley have been opened during the year with onsite renewable energy technologies, with specified capacities to generate a 10% reduction in emissions.
Renewable energy generated from these stores will be measure on a quarterly basis and also be used on site.
In the year ending 31 March 2010 Big Yellow will report total renewable energy generated and the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions achieved as a percentage of the total store emissions.
Consequently, Big Yellows renewable energy strategy is focussing on energy efficiency and solar photovoltaic technologies as the most reliable and hence economically viable solutions.
The following section summarises Big Yellows initiatives to reduce its carbon footprint and increase its environmental performance through store design, specification and the installation of renewable energy technologies.
STORE PLANNING, DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION Planning authorities are increasingly requiring environmental assessments of new building designs, specifications and construction.
In December 2008 the new Sheen Store achieved the highest Excellent rating on the Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Methodology BREEAM in the industrial buildings category.
The environmental performance of the Sheen store scored highest for building insulation, energy efficient lifts and lighting onsite solar photovoltaic and ground source heat pump renewable energy generation, provision of customer and employee transport packs time tables, cycle storage and facilities, water conservation low environmental impact material use, waste management and a five year landscape biodiversity management plan including bat and sparrow boxes, amongst other criteria.
These types of environmental assessments are required for several of our future stores and we aim for more Excellent and Very Good ratings in the future.
The tables below summarises all the environmental performance improvement features from our most recent stores developments.
Improvements in Sustainable Development & Eco-Efficient Store Operations Motion Sensor Energy Efficient Renewable Rain Water Improved 2007 2009 Lighting Lighting Energy Travel Plans Harvesting Green Roofs Ecology 1 Sutton 2 Barking Ealing 3 Balham 3 Fulham 4 Merton 3 Kennington Sheffield 5 Sheen 3 Bromley Birmingham Liverpool 1 Green wall 2 Wind turbine 3 Solar panels and Ground Source Heat Pumps 4 Solar panels and wind turbine 5 Excellent Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology BREEAM Rating, including 5 year biodiversity plan Motion sensor lighting is now standard in all Big Yellow stores.
Energy efficient lighting is standard in all new stores from Kennington onwards and we intend to roll this out to existing stores in the future.
Renewable energy technologies are installed in most of the new stores where economically viable as energy efficiencies can reduce demand by 30% or more.
Travel plans are implemented where traffic congestion in inner city or urban environments are an issue and transport plans can offer information on modes of transport other than the car.
Rainwater harvesting systems and sustainable urban drainage systems have been installed where a new store is adjacent to a flood risk area.
Green roofs, walls and landscape add opportunities for improvement in biodiversity lost to the former land use.
Energy efficient lighting in all future stores will have a significant effect on portfolio energy demand reduction combined with reliable solar photovoltaic renewable energy generation.
Big Yellow aims to keep its energy performance above national benchmarks for new buildings.
It also aims to benefit from new legislation in 2010, such as the Carbon Reduction Commitment carbon trading scheme and the Energy Act Feed-in Tariff payments for renewable energy.
