40 Business Review The British Land Company PLC People Directors Responsibility Statement Individuals are essential ingredients in our long term success.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: It is important that we retain and attract motivated and skilled a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with professionals able to deliver our strategy and work effectively International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the in a small and focused team.
EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the The business model is people light and asset heavy it leverages undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the work, skill and judgement of a relatively small staff over a large b the adoption of a going concern basis for the preparation of the value of efficiently financed assets.
The strategy and business financial statements continues to be appropriate based on the approach are designed to emphasise the human value added in foregoing and having reviewed the forecast financial position order to lift performance.
This is all the more important at a time of the Group: and of significant market dislocation which brings both threats and c the management report, or Business Review, includes a fair opportunities.
review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together Corporate Responsibility with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Our full Corporate Responsibility Report 2008 9 may be viewed that they face.
It is designed to be accessible and easy to navigate.
On-line reporting, rather than By order of the Board, Graham Roberts, Finance Director circulation of full printed copies, is part of our efforts to improve environmental performance.
Our Corporate Responsibility Key Performance Indicators provide a rigorous method of assessment of progress against annual targets in seven critical business areas and are independently audited each year.
Business Review Hands-on management This report contains certain forward-looking statements We continue to focus on the reflecting current views on our markets, activities and prospects.
active management of our By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and portfolio.
Actual outcomes and results may differ materially attention to detail is standing from any outcomes or results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements us in good stead.
made by or on behalf of British Land speak only as of the date they are made and no representation or warranty is given in relation to them, including as to their completeness or accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
British Land does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in British Lands expectations with regard thereto or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Supplementary information regarding the Portfolio Description and the Development Programme is available on our website www.
com The British Land Company PLC 41
