Section 2: Operating review CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR TOWARDS ALL OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND THE WIDER COMMUNITY IS FUNDAMENTAL TO CHLORIDES BUSINESS.
INNOVATIVE PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY Responsible behaviour towards all Providing a safe working of our stakeholders and the wider environment and encouraging community is fundamental to Chlorides health and safety awareness.
We seek to ensure that Maintaining fair and competitive we always act with integrity: that we employment practices, which manage our activities so as to control promote equal opportunities and our environmental impact: and that we develop the potential of our people: give priority to the health and safety of our employees and those affected by Opposing bribery and corrupt our activities.
The Chloride Board takes business practices: full responsibility for compliance with environmental, health and safety Being responsive to customer and ethical standards and the Chief needs, and providing the highest Executive is responsible for reporting standards of customer care: on these issues at Board level.
Treating our suppliers fairly and Our statement of business policies building long-term, mutually reinforces Chlorides commitment to: beneficial relationships with key suppliers: and Setting standards of environmental management, conservation of Supporting local communities resources and waste management through charities supported processes that meet or exceed the by our employees.
legal requirements in the countries where we operate: 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR ENVIRONMENT Chloride is committed to maintaining good environmental practice to minimise the impact of its activities on the environment.
We are also a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index.
Our policy is to comply with standards that match or exceed environmental legislation in all countries in which we operate, and to comply with We encourage initiatives which benefit ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ISO 14001 2004 issue environmental the environment, including the SYSTEMS management standards in our principal continued use of video and telephone The Group has five principal production operational sites.
conferencing in order to reduce air centres in Bologna, Italy: Lyon, France: travel.
Our energy usage at our main Chicago, USA: Pune, India, and operating sites continues to decrease Shenzhen, China.
These activities due to our energy recovery and mainly involve the assembly and recycling technology.
testing of electronic equipment: however the use of energy, water and hazardous substances is low.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 27 Section 2: Operating review CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY During 2008 2009 Chloride began to battery handling and working with measuring direct CO emissions electricity.
The Chloride Academy 2 from its principal sites.
CO emissions includes health and safety as an 2 during 2008 2009 were less than three integral part of its education tonnes per employee compared to programme.
We continue to focus industry standards of three to eight on minimising risk to service tonnes per employee.
Plans will be engineers while providing installation, developed in the coming year to commissioning and after-sales technical manage and reduce the CO emissions service in customers premises.
2 from all of Chlorides principal sites.
We have procedures in place to CHLORIDE ACADEMY BEDFORD HEALTH AND SAFETY minimise the exposure of our We recognise the primary importance employees to terrorist and other risks of ensuring the health and safety of while working in sensitive locations.
our employees and others affected All travel to areas deemed sensitive by the Groups activities.
Chlorides by the Foreign Ofce travel advice The principal sales and service sites policy is to manage activities so that service is subject to prior approval are in Southampton, Bedford and employees and others are not exposed by the Group Risk Manager.
Business Aberdeen, UK: Erlangen, Germany: to unnecessary and unacceptable risks Continuity policies developed in Bologna, Italy: Istanbul, Turkey: Madrid, to their health and safety, and to meet response to the threat of pandemics Spain: and Sydney, Australia.
All of or exceed the legal and regulatory also restrict travel to affected areas these production and sales and service health and safety standards in the in the event of such an occurrence.
sites, with the exception of India, have territories in which we operate.
been accredited with ISO 14001, 2004 During the year ended 31 March 2009, issue.
India has ISO 9001 accreditation Health and safety management working days lost due to accidents and will work towards ISO 14001 is embedded in the organisation.
in the workplace was 0.5 days per in due course.
As part of ISO 14001 The General Manager in each business employee compared to the overall requirements each site is required is accountable for health and safety industry of 1.2 days.
Health and safety to evaluate environmental risks and issues within his her business, and in plans are in place in all Chlorides sites measure performance on the key areas major sites there are designated senior to minimise and reduce accidents in of impact.
Performance measures are managers responsible for health and the workplace.
specic to each site enabling the focus safety.
Policies and procedures are to be maintained on their particular documented and regularly updated in EMPLOYEES areas of importance.
Compliance with our principal locations and employees The Group operates an equal ISO 14001 is certied by independent representatives are involved in opportunity policy and is committed certication bodies.
discussions of health and safety issues to providing recruitment and other through Works Councils or Health and opportunities regardless of age, sex, 90% of Chlorides turnover is generated Safety Committees on a regular basis.
sexual orientation, religion, race or by ISO 14001 compliant sites and most disability.
As at 31 March 2009 the of our components are purchased from Where health and safety issues are Group had 2,333 employees.
identied as significant risks, the Risk Groups employees are spread over Committee keeps under review the 15 countries and in the larger sites Where requested by the customer, actions taken to address the risk.
there are dedicated human resource Chloride undertakes responsibility for These, in turn, are reported to the managers reporting to the local disposing of used batteries at the end Audit Committee, along with statistics General Manager.
The Group Director of their useful life, typically five years.
Evaluation of Human Resources is responsible All waste batteries are handled through of health and safety and environmental for compliance on a global basis licensed waste contractors who recover performance is also an integral part with human resources policies.
It is and recycle any hazardous content, of the due diligence process on the the practice to encourage lines of and dispose of any such waste in acquisition of businesses.
communication at local level through accordance with applicable regulations.
appropriate means, such as works Health and safety training is provided councils, brieng groups, workshops as necessary, particularly in relation and newsletters.
28 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR UPS systems are designed for high energy efficiency and our 90-net system has been recognised by an independent laboratory as the most energy efficient double conversion product of its kind.
We are actively involved in industry bodies notably the European Committee of Manufacturers of Electrical Machines and Power JV MANUFACTURING IN CHINA The opening ceremony was animated by a display of acrobatic lion dancing.
Electronics CEMEP which considers The lions were fed red envelopes with money to bring good luck to the building.
The whole ceremony was carefully timed to ensure good luck for the venture.
the application of the EU Directive 2002 95 EC, Restrictions of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical Equipment the RoHS The Group is committed to developing CUSTOMERS Directive to UPS systems.
Although and motivating its people and, in the this directive, which requires the UK it participates in the Investor in CUSTOMER SERVICE reduction of substances such as lead People scheme.
There is also a Chlorides total power protection and cadmium in electronic equipment, programme to help employees solutions perform an essential role does not directly apply to UPS to acquire professional and technical in providing secure power to a wide systems, we are committed to avoiding qualications that are relevant to their range of safety-critical applications.
the use of non-compliant materials jobs.
The Chloride Academy, established These include emergency lighting where this does not compromise the in May 2007, provides enhanced in challenging environments such as operation and reliability of the UPS skills training to employees and 640 offshore drilling rigs and underground system.
Our low-power ranges have employees 27% of the workforce metro tunnels: hospital equipment: RoHS-compliant electronics and we successfully completed courses during passenger safety systems in airports: work with individual customers to the Academys second year of operation.
control centres for emergency services: meet their compliance requirements.
signalling on railway networks and Although currently there is no Limits of authority are in place to trafc management systems on major equivalent standard covering the restrict the size and type of contracts road networks.
USA, our Oneac subsidiary produces that individuals may sign, ensuring that all its low power products with significant contracts with suppliers, as Our solutions are an essential part of RoHS-compliant electronics.
well as customers and intermediaries, many renewable energy generation are signed off at an appropriate level projects, such as wind farms and solar SUPPLIERS in the organisation.
We have also Chloride believes in building long-term programmes include policies relating formed alliances with partners for the partnerships with its key suppliers.
to bribery and corruption in whatever supply of fuel cells where the only Chlorides joint venture with form and we have policies in place waste product is water and for rotary Phoenixtec Power Company, Taiwan with our agents and distributors to technology, in order to help our to develop a high-quality, low-cost ensure that any commissions paid to customers achieve their environmental manufacturing facility in Shenzhen, intermediates are legitimate and fairly goals.
We continually improve our China and with DB Power Electronics reect the value of services provided.
net, our in Pune, India continue to increase industry leading remote diagnostics our product and service offering in Chloride encourages open and honest software, is an important part of our our developing regions.
communication between employees solutions offering.
and management throughout the Supplier audits are carried out regularly organisation and provides a whistle PRODUCTS to ensure that our major suppliers blowing procedure which employees We ensure that our products meet remain nancially viable and that can use if they have serious concerns environmental regulations in the they have maintained their ISO 14001 about ethical or management issues countries where we operate and that accreditation.
Alternative suppliers that they feel unable to discuss directly new products are progressively more for all key components have been with local management.
Our 80-net and 90-net identied and audited.
