We recognise our responsibility to manage the environmental, social and economic Sustainability impacts of our business activities.
Our sustainability commitments are aligned and integrated with our strategic business priorities, representing an important Our sustainability element of the companys risk management strategy and offering the potential for significant value creation.
commitments are Work is now under way to integrate the commitments previously included in our aligned and integrated environmental and social policies into a single Sustainability Policy, which will be with our strategic publicly available on our website in 2010.
Our Sustainability Policy will be supported by two frameworks: the Sustainability business priorities Framework for Assets and the Sustainability Framework for Projects.
The frameworks, which are due to be implemented in 2010, will ensure that key sustainability issues are managed at all stages of the property lifecycle.
Governance We have implemented a sustainability governance framework which ensures continual monitoring of progress against our targets at both an operational and strategic level.
The groups sustainability policy is overseen by one of our directors, Mr Williams, who attends quarterly meetings with our sustainability consultants.
The consultants also have quarterly meetings with key individuals responsible for the delivery of targets.
Environmental issues Sustainability Social Economic issues issues Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 38 Responsibility Environment Sustainable building design is at the centre of our commitment to effective environmental management.
We aspire to BREEAM Excellent rating on all new developments with a minimum Very Good rating for all major refurbishments.
Both the Charlotte Green travel plans Building and Arup Phases II & III are currently awaiting certification and predicted to achieve in place for 55% of our Very Good and the pre-assessment of the Angel Building also indicated a Very Good rating is achievable.
Our current work to managed properties develop a Sustainability Framework for Projects will help us move towards BREEAM Excellent on future projects.
Tenant websites are now fully operational at 17 of our managed properties with a further nine due to go live during 2010.
These provide an effective tool for engaging with tenants on environmental issues and the tenant feedback has been positive.
We continue to engage with our tenants on key environmental issues such as energy and waste.
For instance, we held a number of Engineering Forums in our buildings to give tenants the opportunity to meet with the facilities managers and representatives from the engineering maintenance team.
Summary of progress in 2009 We have also developed Green Travel As in previous years, we continue to set Plans for 17 of our managed properties.
ourselves a number of targets to stretch Our current work to develop a sustainability our performance on key sustainability framework for assets will help us to ensure issues.
Performance against 34 targets, that initiatives which have been successfully where performance could be measured, implemented in one location can be rolled is set out below: out successfully across the portfolio.
Our environmental review and internal Summary of progress seminar series in 2008 highlighted a % strong employee view that climate change 15 should be a priority environmental issue for Derwent London.
In response, during 2009 we focused on improvements to 9 the energy performance of our buildings.
By achieving a B rated Energy Performance Certificate EPC for Arup Phases II & III and the Charlotte Building, we exceeded our 6 target to achieve at least a C rated EPC 2 for new buildings in excess of 3,000m.
70 As a B rating or higher is generally only awarded for exceptional air-conditioned offices, these buildings perform better than many central London buildings, for which a typical EPC rating is a C. We are also on track to meet our target for the Angel Building, which is currently Achieved under construction.
Our new buildings Partially achieved include energy efficient features such as Not achieved Not started displacement air conditioning and DALI lighting Digital Addressable Lighting Interface.
During the year, we have also reviewed Reflecting the nature of our targets for 2009, there were an additional 17 targets which the energy performance of our managed related to ongoing processes where it is not portfolio.
We appointed specialist consultants possible to measure an achievement level, to conduct detailed energy surveys of and these have therefore been excluded 1 Olivers Yard, the Davidson Building and from the analysis above.
Performance the Johnson Building, which identified a against all targets is detailed in our 2009 number of potential improvements for these sustainability report.
For our 2010 targets, buildings and broader recommendations we have focused on setting more specific for improving energy performance across and measurable targets which will allow the portfolio.
We are now in the process more transparent and accurate assessment of taking corrective measures, monitoring of progress.
the results and applying our findings to Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 39 Responsibility We have introduced a number of green clauses concerning environmental matters into our standard lease as a way of influencing tenant behaviour at properties that we do not manage.
see page 17 We are also working hard to ensure the sustainable use of materials in our G reen leases construction and refurbishment projects, and responsibly sourced timber continues introduced in 2009 to be a priority in all our projects.
Our pioneering White Collar Factory concept, launched in 2009, will help us to reduce our use of new materials and to reduce waste.
It provides a simplified specification: a flexible and adaptable space that can be tailored to tenant needs, rather than a high specification, fully glazed, air-conditioned other buildings, with the aim of reducing Category A office space.
Features such as the annual carbon emissions from our increased natural light and natural ventilation portfolio in 2010.
In 2009, this has already also help to reduce the buildings energy resulted in a 1% reduction in carbon demand and lead to improvements in user emissions per square metre across the wellbeing.
see page 22 We have taken this 2 portfolio to 85.15 kg CO m, and we concept and applied it to the design of the 2 anticipate further carbon savings in 2010.
We also provided a voluntary disclosure to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP Customers outlining our annual carbon emissions As part of our commitment to high standards and approach to carbon management.
of customer service, we implemented a The response is publicly available on the number of tenant-focused initiatives in 2009.
Our annual customer survey asked all tenants for their opinions on a range of property Average recycling rate Our successful programme of tenant management issues including matters engagement to increase the proportion of relating to security, works and repairs and waste recycled in our managed properties the environmental aspects of buildings in also continued in 2009.
Two visits to our operation.
With an encouraging 22% return waste contractors recycling centre were rate, key highlights where tenants stated attended by 16 tenants, and the topic excellent or good included 65% satisfaction 56% of waste and recycling was featured during with building design and main reception our tenant meetings.
We are pleased to and 75% satisfaction with rent and service compared to target of 40% report an average recycling rate of 56% at charge communication.
We have been the properties where we have control over working closely with building managers waste management.
This is a significant since the survey was completed to improvement on last year and above our implement a number of improvements target of 40%.
This year all 13 properties to our management, typically on for which we have control over waste maintenance concerns.
management achieved the target of 40%, compared to seven out of 12 properties Health and safety remains a core last year.
management priority in our managed portfolio.
We are pleased to report that there We have continued to install water meters in were zero RIDDOR Reportable Injuries, our managed properties and in 2009, water Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences usage increased marginally by 1% compared Regulations incidents at our multi-let to 2008.
This is largely as a result of the managed properties.
To maintain these installation of showers to encourage tenants high standards we have taken steps to to cycle to work.
However, usage is below introduce formal health and safety training the industry good practice guideline for for our property managers covering, 3 2 offices of 0.55m m, which we have set as amongst other things, procedures for our internal target.
We ensure that options dealing with reportable accidents, for recycling rain water are considered in major injuries and fire.
all new projects and aim to further reduce our water consumption across the portfolio.
In addition to monitoring water usage across our managed portfolio, we have also started to monitor water usage in our development projects with a view to reducing consumption where possible.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 40 Responsibility Suppliers Employees We are committed to treating our suppliers Employee turnover in 2009 was 7.4%, well with fairness and respect which is especially below the overall national turnover rate for important during times of economic the UK of 15.7%.
We believe this reflects uncertainty.
We continue to commit to pay our commitment to talent retention which suppliers within 28 days of invoice receipt.
is driven by a stimulating work environment The average head office payment period and competitive remuneration and benefits.
As our business continues to grow, the We also conducted a pilot survey with need for more formal HR processes and suppliers to gauge their feedback in procedures becomes an increasingly relation to Derwent Londons supply chain important priority.
In 2009, we implemented management practices.
The feedback a revised employee appraisal process to received from this survey was very positive, promote structured feedback as part of particularly in regard to our openness our employees professional learning and in communication and payment terms.
We achieved a 100% return Following this successful pilot, a more on appraisals at both the annual and extensive survey of supply chain management mid-year reviews and all requirements practices will take place in 2010. for training were met through external or internal courses or on-the-job learning.
2009 employee turnover: Communities We understand the importance of fostering Priorities in 2010 strong links with local communities.
Part of Targets form a key component of our this is working closely with contractors to sustainability policy, driving improvements in ensure minimum disruption and nuisance performance across all sustainability impact during construction works.
Our targets this year demonstrate a 7.
4% eligible for the Considerate Constructors greater degree of integration between social Scheme which assesses construction and environmental issues and a focus on sites in line with a good practice code measurable action.
The key targets for 2010 all achieved well over the good practice are as follows: threshold and our 2009 target of 32 out developing a sustainability policy to of 40, with the Angel Building scoring integrate the commitments in our current 36.5 out of 40 an exceptionally good site environmental policy and social policy: and the Charlotte Building and Arup Phases II & III both scoring 34 out of 40 creating a sustainability framework a very good site.
The Angel Building for projects to ensure that sustainability has subsequently been submitted for considerations are appropriately taken the Considerate Constructors Schemes into account at all stages of the design annual national award.
and construction process: creating a sustainability framework Our initiative to regenerate the Fitzrovia for assets to ensure that sustainability area of London, where we own over considerations are managed consistently one million sq ft of property, has also across the managed portfolio: seen significant progress over the past 12 months.
The Fitzrovia Partnerships implementing the recommendations primary focus this year has been to establish identified in our pilot study which representation amongst local businesses.
assessed the energy performance A full time partnership coordinator was of our managed portfolio: appointed during 2009 as well as a street strengthening tenant communication ambassador who will be a visible presence to encourage improved environmental in the area.
We continued our member performance at multi-let properties: recruitment drive and are pleased to report the addition of City Corporation.
Make improving health & safety management Architects were appointed to conduct a systems at multi-let properties: public realm study of Fitzrovia which will focusing on sustainable procurement help to prioritise improvements.
and supply chain management see page 23 practices: and liaising with, and showing consideration for, local communities during large and small developments.
A full list of our targets for 2010 will be included in our 2009 sustainability report.
Angel Building submitted for the Considerate Constructors Schemes national award Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 41 Responsibility
