30 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Our people Achievement of our strategic priorities is dependent upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain talented employees.
To facilitate this, our objectives are: to create an environment where employees are well motivated and have a strong belief in the Group, its strategy and its core values: continual improvement of the skills and competency of our employees at all levels and across all disciplines: the retention and growth of our people who are critical to the business: well constructed and fair reward systems which incentivise superior performance and align employees and shareholders interests: and development and use of appropriate employment practices across the Group.
Key to our achievement of these objectives is: regular and effective communication: a clear, performance orientated, remuneration process: and a structured staff development programme.
Throughout the year, there are various structured activities that help us achieve our objectives as set out below: Annual HR cycle for employees January February Market review and benchmarking of employee salaries.
February Groups sustainability objectives and targets for the forthcoming year are communicated to all employees.
Employees are informed of the year end performance review process and the focus of objectives and targets for the forthcoming year.
March Pre-performance review meeting held between Chief Executive, Company Secretary and Line Managers.
Year end performance review held between Line Managers and employees and review of development needs and proposed training.
Employees and Line Managers discuss and set personal objectives and targets for the forthcoming year.
Executive Committee review salary levels vs market review, performance against personal objectives and targets, proposed bonuses and proposed LTIP awards.
Quarterly Review formal presentation to all employees by the Chief Executive followed by a question and answer session.
April Remuneration Committee review of remuneration for Senior Manager salary levels, bonuses, LTIP awards and employee corporate bonus target.
Feedback from performance review from Line Managers to Executive Committee and proposed actions and review of employee training needs.
May Achievement of the Groups sustainability and objectives and targets for the previous year are communicated to all employees.
September Six monthly performance review of progress against personal objectives and targets held between Line Managers and employees and review of training undertaken and development needs.
October Feedback from performance review process from Line Managers to Executive Committee and review of action plan and review of training undertaken by Executive Committee.
November Quarterly Review formal presentation to all employees by the Chief Executive followed by a question and answer session.
Remuneration Development Communication 31 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials A significant proportion of remuneration for all employees is performance related, based on both corporate targets and personal objectives, to align the interests of our people with those of the Company and its shareholders.
We are pleased that our overall retention rate remains high at 97% per annum, excluding redundancies and retirements, with 18% of employees enjoying some form 97% of flexible working practices including reduced and variable hours.
overall retention rate The Company is committed to equal opportunities and formal performance reviews are undertaken every six months with a view to maximising employees potential and contribution and a formal training programme of both external courses and in-house seminars is provided.
The Company encourages career development through the provision of relevant training with funding and study leave to support professional development, including formal training for professional qualifications, external degrees or as part of a vocational training programme.
During the year 48,347 was invested in formal staff training providing 1,283 hours of training.
Training programmes provided during the year included business related topics, key risk areas and personal skills development.
Average period of service years 9 10 8 7 7 8 6 6 5 5 5 5 5 6 4 44 4 4 3 3 3 2 2 2 0 Executive Cosec Development Finance IT Invest Asset Directors Admin 2006 2007 2008 2009 Total number of training hours hours 400 353 341 309 350 307 288 287 276 300 230 223 212 250 197 189 200 137 128 122 150 93 95 86 84 82 72 70 64 100 8 50 0 Corporate Responsibility, Environmental Estates Finance Health and Safety IT Governance and HR Management 2006 2007 2008 2009 Meetings involving all employees are held on a quarterly basis to keep everyone up to date and involved in the Companys plans and activities and to act as a forum for the Executive Directors to answer questions.
Weekly meetings are held both across and within departments to ensure good communication throughout the Group.
Meetings with non-office based personnel are also held weekly to ensure their involvement and to encourage the sharing of best practice.
Where appropriate, key personnel from the finance, asset management and development teams are invited to provide their views to the Executive Committee at its weekly meeting on areas such as credit control, marketing to tenants, investment transactions and opportunities and development appraisals.
1,2 83 All employees receive a copy of the Companys Ethics policy which sets out the Companys core values and approaches in its relations with tenants, the local community, shareholders and other hours of training provided investors, employees, suppliers, and the government.
Employees are involved at all levels in the development of the Companys operating policies.
Progress against our sustainability objectives and targets set for our people for 2008 2009 and objectives and targets set for 2009 2010 can be found at: http: www.
co. uk corporate responsibility employees 32 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Risk management The Group views effective risk management as integral to the delivering of superior returns to shareholders.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the processes through which the Company aims to manage those risks are: Risk Mitigation Commentary Market risk Concentration of assets in Research into the economy and the investment and occupational Our market central London.
markets is evaluated as part of the Groups annual strategy pages 17 to 19 process covering the key areas of investment, development and Property markets are cyclical.
asset management and updated regularly throughout the year.
Performance depends on Prior to committing to a development the Group conducts a Development general economic conditions, detailed Financial and Operational appraisal process which pages 22 and 23 a combination of supply and evaluates the expected returns from a development in light of demand for floor space as likely risks.
During the course of a development, the estimated well as overall return returns are regularly monitored to allow prompt decisions on aspirations of investors.
leasing and ownership to be determined.
Constrained credit markets have served to put downward The Groups rents remain low by comparison to the market.
Case studies pressure on property valuations pages 6 to 13 Tenants are proactively managed to ensure changing needs and slowed occupational are met with a focus on retaining income, where appropriate, demand with the potential and maintaining a diverse tenant mix by industry sector and size.
for increased void levels Formal covenant procedures are completed on all new tenants and tenant defaults.
to ensure rent deposits or guarantees are secured where appropriate.
The impact of changes Through the use of experienced advisers and direct contact, Development in legislation particularly senior Group representatives spend considerable time ensuring pages 22 and 23 in respect of environmental that buildings are maintained and refurbished or redeveloped in Environment and the portfolio legislation and planning line with current regulations and changing tenant demands pages 35 to 37 regulations.
including, for example, changing environmental legislation requirements, in the most cost-effective manner.
Development Development Failure to obtain or delays in Planning applications are proactively managed.
The Company pages 22 and 23 gaining planning consents.
monitors changes in planning legislation and has strong relationships with planning authorities and consultants.
Market analysis including a good understanding of tenants Development requirements which influence building design and sensitivities pages 22 and 23 are included within the development appraisals.
Case study pages 10 and 11 The Company has resource dedicated to the letting of the developments supported by a strong network of specialist leasing agents.
Investment Difficulty in sourcing The Company has dedicated resources whose remit is to Investment management investment opportunities at constantly research each of the sub-markets within central page 20 attractive prices.
London seeking the right balance of investment and development Case study opportunities suitable for current and anticipated market pages 6 and 7 conditions.
Portfolio returns impaired by Business plans are produced on an individual asset basis to Investment management inappropriate recycling of ensure the appropriate churn of those buildings with relative page 20 capital.
Case studies pages 6 and 7 and pages 12 and 13 33 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Risk Mitigation Commentary Investment Inability to recycle out of The Company has dedicated resource to identify potential buyers Our market ex-growth assets at the latest even in thin markets.
pages 17 to 19 valuation due to credit market Investment management difficulties resulting in a limited page 20 pool of potential buyers.
Attracting and retaining the right people Achieving the Companys aims The Company has a remuneration system that is strongly linked Case study requires people of the highest to performance and a formal appraisal system to provide regular pages 6 and 7 calibre.
assessment of individual performance and the identification of Our people training needs.
pages 30 and 31 Reputation Health and safety Health & Safety and The Company has dedicated HSE personnel to oversee the pages 38 and 39 Environment HSE.
Companys HSE Management Systems including regular risk assessments and annual audits to proactively address key HSE Environment and the portfolio areas including energy usage and employee, contractor and pages 35 to 37 tenant safety.
Financial risks Our financial position Liquidity risk.
Cash flow and funding needs are regularly monitored to ensure pages 26 to 29 sufficient undrawn facilities are in place.
Funding maturities are managed across the short-, mediumand Note 14 forming part of the long-term.
The Groups funding measures are diversified across Group financial statements a range of bank and market bonds.
Strict counterparty limits are pages 78 to 81 operated on deposits.
Our financial position Adverse interest rate Formal policy to manage interest rate exposure by having a high movements.
pages 26 to 29 proportion of debt with fixed or capped interest rates through derivatives.
Note 14 forming part of the Group financial statements pages 78 to 81 Financial ratios are monitored and regularly reported to the Board.
Our financial position Breach of borrowing pages 26 to 29 covenants.
Note 14 forming part of the Group financial statements pages 78 to 81 Our financial position Non-compliance with REIT The Groups accounts and forecast financial measures are page 29 regulations.
regularly compared to REIT limits and reported to the Board.
