35 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Property industry Directors and senior management are encouraged to represent the Companys views and contribute towards the development of the property industry.
Toby Courtauld is a member of the Management Board of the Investment Property Forum and a member of the Policy Committee of the British Property Federation BPF.
Robert Noel is Chairman of the Westminster Property Association WPA, an association of property owners and their advisers in the City of Westminster and is on the Board of the New West End Company, a formal Business Improvement District encompassing Bond Street, Oxford Street and Regent Street.
During the course of the year WPA was actively involved in lobbying Westminster City Council, through a series of workshops, on the development of its Core Strategy as part of the Local Development Scheme, the key planning framework under which the Group will have to operate over the next decade.
In addition, it has had ongoing discussions with EDF on power supply and the Mayors office on planning policy as well as hosting a number of seminars on topical property issues for its members.
In June 2008 we joined the Considerate Constructors Client Partnership and have taken an active part in debating the direction of the Scheme.
Objectives and targets Great Portland Estates set a total of 43 CR targets at the beginning of 2008 covering the key areas of: our people: environment and the portfolio: tenants and the community: health and safety: suppliers: and investors.
81% of these were fully achieved.
If targets have not been achieved, where relevant, these have been included again for 2009 to emphasise our commitment.
Details of the Groups 2008 2009 and 2009 2010 objectives and targets can be found on the Companys website at www.
To ensure the highest level of achievement, where 81 % appropriate, elements of the Groups objectives and targets are also included within individual of CR objectives and targets employees objectives and targets.
were fully achieved Progress against CR objectives and targets C D B A A 100% met 35 C Less than 50% met 4 B 80% to 90% met 3 D Energy figures still to be verified 1 Environment and the portfolio The Group is committed to effective environmental management to ensure that appropriate environmental policies are set to assist in future proofing the Groups portfolio to meet rapidly changing legislation requirements and resulting tenant demands.
We regard regulatory compliance as a minimum standard.
The Groups Environmental Policy Statement is reviewed annually by the Board and may be viewed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk corporate responsibility environmental 36 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 The Environmental Policy Committee chaired by Toby Courtauld is responsible for reviewing the Groups environmental polices and procedures.
During the course of 2009, the Environmental Policy Committee: 198 identied the need to further develop its Sustainability Policy: hours of environmental and developed sustainability frameworks to ensure best practice for use by employees, consultants sustainability training provided and contractors covering energy, waste, materials, water, transport, ecology, tenants and the community and pollution which are designed to cover each of the Groups core operations of investment management, asset management and development though specic procedures required for sales and acquisitions, operations, planning and design, and construction: continued to review the way in which the Group procures energy: approved the Tenant Environmental Guide: ensured timely completion of Energy Performance Certicates across the portfolio: and instigated a formal environmental legislation register, identifying the aim of the legislation, its importance to the Groups operations, how the Group has ensured compliance or, where still to become law, what actions need to be taken to ensure the Group will comply.
During the year198 hours of environmental and sustainability training were provided to employees covering energy management, sustainability, climate change and benchmarking standards for developments.
Sustainability training is also included in the induction process for all new employees.
An Environmental Working Group EWG, chaired by Robert Noel as the Property Director and made up of senior representatives of each department, meets on a quarterly basis and reports to the Environmental Policy Committee and the Board annually.
The EWG monitors the Groups compliance with environmental legislation and best practice across the portfolio and agrees procedures to be followed on key environmental and sustainability issues.
Investment management Prior to each property acquisition an environmental due diligence report is undertaken with particular regard to environmental risk.
Mechanical and electrical surveys are also undertaken to identify plant and equipment inefficiencies.
Asset management The Groups Environmental Management System is controlled and administered by the Safety, Health and Environmental Manager and audited by external consultants on a regular basis.
Our Environmental Management System is designed to operate in line with ISO 14001 with procedures and checklists developed to address the Groups aspects and impacts.
During the year the management system was improved by incorporating an online task manager to assist the Building Manager checks of environmental compliance across the portfolio.
All contractors are 32% required to comply with the Groups environmental policy statement and external consultants also carry out environmental checks on all managed properties on an annual basis.
of energy purchased on green tariffs Energy and water consumption is monitored by external consultants and usage data is analysed on a monthly basis.
Energy and water consumption data, externally verified by Bureau Veritas, is also available from our website.
During the year our Energy Manager ensured that all properties had Energy Performance Certificates as appropriate and continued our efforts to improve on both energy efficiency and reporting across the portfolio.
An environmental guidance note explaining the Groups environmental procedures is distributed to all tenants on an annual basis to encourage them to adopt similar standards.
Following feedback from tenants to an environmental survey on the premium they would be prepared to pay for green energy, energy best practices and recycling initiatives, we have: increased energy purchased on green energy tariffs to 32% from 15% in 2008 : arranged for our Energy Manager to meet with interested tenants to provide them with details of their energy usage and give guidance on energy saving measures they could implement: and introduced recycling schemes into 26% of the portfolio on top of the 20% achieved last year and we continue to address how recycling can be increased through co-operation and co-ordination with our tenants.
