38 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 The Group has continued with its tradition of encouraging staff to be involved in, and of supporting, their charitable activities.
In particular, the Group targets charities involved in health, the homeless and the community, and, where practicable, allows temporarily vacant buildings to be occupied, at no cost, by charities seeking premises.
In partnership with Westminster Education Authority, through a Primary School Volunteer scheme, 18% of the Groups employees have participated for a fourth year in helping pupils at St. Vincents school in Marylebone to improve their reading.
Asset management Our asset management team aims to formally meet with tenants twice a year.
As a result of feedback from those meetings we have installed 154 cycle racks across 12 of our buildings.
For the year ended 31 March 2009, we also undertook a tenant satisfaction survey in order 154 to identify areas for improvement of the quality of services provided to our tenants including cycle racks installed across standards of security and cleaning, responsiveness of our helpdesk and building management 12 buildings team and quality of building services.
Whilst overall feedback was positive, one of our objectives for the coming year is to improve on our scores for each building.
Development Principal contractors on all developments and major refurbishments continue to be required to register our sites with the Considerate Constructors Scheme with Wells & More, W1 achieving scores considerably in excess of the national average.
As a result of our membership of the Considerate Constructors Scheme Client Partnership, we have been provided with regular feedback on our performance and where our contractors can improve to ensure best practice in minimising the impact of our developments.
Newsletters were produced on a regular basis to keep stakeholders appraised with progress on all our major development sites during the year at Wells & More, W1, Foley Street, W1 and Bermondsey Street, SE1.
Regular meetings are also held with tenants to provide feedback to contractors on performance.
Details of the Groups 2008 2009 and 2009 2010 objectives and targets in respect of tenants and the community can be found on the Company website at www.
co. uk corporate responsibility tenants community Health and safety Great Portland Estates is committed to managing health and safety to a consistently high standard.
The Group employs a Safety, Health and Environmental Manager who reports directly to the Property Director Robert Noel.
The Safety, Health and Environmental Manager has responsibility for overseeing all statutory health and safety compliance matters for the Group.
To assist compliance, the Group operates policies and procedures in line with ISO 18001 requirements coupled with a new health and safety management and monitoring system ensuring consistent and continual assessment of safety throughout the managed portfolio.
In addition, each managed property has its fire safety, water safety, asbestos management and disability access reviewed and audited on an annual basis by external consultants.
The Groups Senior Building Manager also carries out regular inspections to monitor compliance with the Groups health and safety procedures.
A Health and Safety Working Group which is chaired by Mr Noel meets on a quarterly basis and monitors performance, the achievement of key objectives, the results of safety audits and inspections, accidents and near misses, changes in legislation, the development of new 307 procedures, and the allocation of resources to health and safety.
hours of health and safety During the year 307 hours of health and safety training was provided to employees covering training provided general health and safety management, fire marshall training, first aid and construction skills certification.
In addition, induction training, which includes health and safety issues, is provided to all new employees.
39 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Investment management Prior to acquisition, detailed surveys are undertaken of new properties to ensure that, where possible, hazardous materials and health and safety risks are identified and are dealt with as soon as practicable on completion.
Asset management Contractor activities can pose a significant health and safety risk to the business and, therefore, the Group operates a contractor and consultant scheme designed to monitor contractor performance on site.
A Permission to Work system for contractors includes vetting of risk assessments, method statements and policies and procedures to ensure contractors are capable of working to the high standards set by the Group.
Major contractors have service level agreements as an integral part of their contract and scoring on health and safety performance is included within these agreements.
All accidents and incidents occurring in areas managed by the Group are recorded and reported and appropriate action is taken.
A formal investigation of all accidents is conducted by the Safety, Health and Environmental Manager.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, there was one reportable accident arising from Groups activities.
Health and safety statistics 2007 2008 2009 Number of RIDDOR reportable injuries 0 2 1 First aid injuries 8 8 6 Three day injuries 0 2 1 Work related fatalities 0 0 0 Number of Enforcement Agency prosecutions or fines 0 0 0 Number of prohibition notices 0 0 0 Employee accidents and incidents 2 1 3 Number of employee days off work from injury 0 0 0 zero Development number of employee days off At our construction sites, our Safety, Health and Environmental Manager liaises closely with work from injury CDM Coordinators and Project Managers to assist in ensuring that health and safety is managed effectively on site.
All consultants are required to complete a competency review in line with Health and Safety Executive guidance under the Construction Design and Management Regulations 2007.
Where building works are being carried out with tenants in situ, our Building Managers regularly attend site to ensure that health and safety concerns are brought to the attention of contractors and dealt with in a timely fashion.
Details of the Groups 2008 2009 and 2009 2010 health and safety objectives and targets can be found on the Company website at www.
co. uk corporate responsibility health safety
