| Business overview Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability During 2009 a Company-wide employee Highlights The Group has also appointed Business Ethics survey was undertaken to understand Appointments of Ethics Officers in and Compliance Officers BECOs for each employees attitudes and opinions on the business units.
Cobham business unit whose principal Groups business ethics programme, safety responsibilities include implementing the ethics Development of standardised approach climate and corporate strategy.
The results awareness training programme and providing to Safety, Health and Environment SHE.
indicated that employees had a good a sounding board for employees concerns.
Development of the Sir Alan Cobham Award understanding of the ethics programme, The BECOs are further supported by Divisional programme for rewarding outstanding that there is a positive safety climate overall Ethics Officers and the BE&CC that oversee employee contributions.
and that the Group needs to better the ethics programme and any issues raised Achieved 2010 energy efficiency target communicate the corporate strategy.
through the global ethics hotline.
The Sir Alan Cobham Award programme Additionally Cobham has signed up to, fully was introduced, focused on recognising the supports and is implementing two industry outstanding contributions made by Cobham Introduction standards on ethical conduct.
The first is the employees in embracing the Groups vision The focus in 2009 has been on integrating AeroSpace and Defence Industries Association and values.
There are five categories, one of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability of Europes ASD Common Industry Standards which is for CR&S.
CR&S into everyday business with a for European Aerospace and Defence.
This has included second is ASDs and The Aerospace Industries Cobham responded to the Carbon Disclosure developing the Groups human resource Association of Americas AIA Global Principles Project in 2009, achieving a Carbon Disclosure infrastructure, standardising management of Business Ethics for the Aerospace and Defence Industry.
Leaders Index CDLI score similar or better approaches and improving data gathering.
to the majority of the Groups sector peers.
During 2010 the emphasis will be on In addition, the approach taken by the Groups developing competencies, improving Safety, health & environment SHE SHE has visibility at the highest level within industry peers is being reviewed to identify processes and motivating employees to Cobham and is considered an essential additional opportunities for improved embrace CR&S.
30 element of the way business is conducted management of this important issue.
The Group SHE Committee Key focus areas has developed a standardised management A number of inquiries were received regarding The following focus areas are material to approach that is being implemented across Cobhams involvement with controversial the Groups vision and strategy: all Cobhams locations over the next two years, weapons such as cluster munitions or in accordance with an agreed plan.
The Groups position Business ethics: is that it does not make or sell cluster munitions Safety, health & environment SHE : and The next steps in the SHE programme include or anti-personnel mines and does not approve Stakeholder engagement.
developing a competency matrix, training the use of these weapons where there is any materials and performance objectives for all potential for civilians to be hurt or killed.
Business ethics employees, because training and education will Cobham is a leading developer of hand-held The Group pursues and will reward the highest be key components in raising awareness and and vehicle-mounted technologies that detect standards of ethical behaviour in all aspects of creating a high-performance work environment.
its business, considering ethical behaviour to be an asset to be valued, optimised and realised.
Stakeholder engagement Cobham supported the following organisations Cobham has developed a more rigorous in 2009: Cobhams Business Ethics programme is and proactive approach towards stakeholder managed by a Business Ethics and Compliance engagement.
This has included developing Help for Heroes UK : Committee BE&CC staffed by senior Cobham a register of engagements with key The Science Museum London : executives.
The Groups approach focuses on stakeholders which will help to define material Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum use of global ethics hotline and an updated issues more clearly.
During 2010 the Group New York : Code of Business Conduct Code.
The Code intends to take up membership of Business Schools in Aerospace UK : and covers required behaviour in matters of in the Community to focus on how the Young Engineers UK : personal integrity, stakeholder relationships engagement processes can be further and procedures for dealing with possible developed, including creating a CompanyData verification breaches.
At the end of 2009 a substantial wide employee volunteering programme.
Data is reconciled to account for acquisitions proportion of employees had received and disposals, and changes in foreign exchange ethical awareness training.
It is our intention to move towards independent data assurance in the future.
com | Business overview Strategic objectives 1 2 3 4 5 6 Be a leading Be in the top three Grow faster organically Materially enhance Develop a global Have an efficient subsystems supplier in each of our than the markets in growth through market presence organisation with with a comprehensive chosen markets which we operate strategic acquisitions with a unified brand a high performance range of distinctive and identity culture and technologies motivated people Strategic objectives Key focus areas and Objectives for 2009 Objective 2009 2008 Target performance indictors progress actual actual 1 2 3 4 5 6 Business ethics Appointment of Ethics Completed Completed in Completed All units Officers in business units all non US in all US units units Ethical awareness training Completed Substantially Substantially All for all employees completed for completed employees all employees for all US employees Sign up to industry Completed Signatory to Signed ASD All standards on ethical ASD and AIA common employees conduct Global industry Principles code 31 Health & Safety Fatalities Report on fatalities Completed Zero Zero Zero Major Accident Incidence Rate Develop a standardised Completed 670 260 Zero Number of accidents resulting management approach in more than 3 days absence Conduct safety climate Completed per 100,000 employees survey Recordable Incidence Rate Develop a metric for Completed 1.7 Not Zero Number of accidents resulting comparison with US applicable in more than first aid per peer group 100 employees Conduct safety climate Completed survey Environment Energy efficiency Participate in the Carbon Completed 953 1,255 1,049 MWh M turnover Disclosure Project survey Improve data reporting Completed process Waste efficiency Improve data reporting Completed 4.2 8.6 3.7 tonnes M turnover process Water use efficiency Improve data reporting Completed 123 266 113 3 m M turnover process Stakeholder engagement Improve stakeholder Develop key stakeholder Completed engagement processes engagement register for non-financial issues Conduct employee survey Completed Develop employee award Completed scheme including CR&S category Restated due to data reporting errors in 2008.
Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009
