54 Corporate responsibility By providing best-in-class levels of service, we can stand out from our peers and encourage occupiers and clients to choose us as their business partner.
We are committed to taking every reasonable step to ensure the health and wellbeing of our people, and the safety of everyone who comes into contact with our business activities.
We employ in the region of 700 people, whose wellbeing and professional development are crucial to our ongoing success and future growth.
By working with partners whose values and principles mirror our own, we can maintain our high standards and minimise risk.
We encourage two-way dialogue with existing and potential investors and analysts, to give them a better understanding of our business and to strengthen our relationships with them.
We create civic pride and a sense of community ownership through relationships with local government, education partners, community organisations and residents.
The way we design, build and run our properties impacts on the world around us, but through innovation and best practice, our developments can be leading examples of environmental sustainability.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 Report of the Directors P0180 Financial statements P81130 Investor resource P131144 Corporate responsibility 55 Why corporate responsibility CR matters We have a significant influence on the lives of many thousands of people across the UK, including employees, customers, suppliers, investors and neighbours.
That means we need to find a balance between the environmental, social and economic aspects of our activities so that the positive impact we have as a business is maximised.
Our vision is bringing property to life.
We go beyond bricks and mortar, through a mixture of good design, community engagement and first-class service, to create places where people choose to shop, are proud to work and want to live.
Put simply, we aim to be the partner, employer or provider of choice the sort of business people want to work with and for.
Awards and recognition We have been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index each year since its launch in 2000 and are now the global leader for sustainability in the Real Estate sector.
This year Sustainable Asset Managements Sustainability Yearbook 2009 awarded us Gold Class and sector leader status.
And Land Securities was again voted top in the property company category of the Britains Most Admired Companies survey, published by Management Today, December 2008.
Our CR strategy We manage our CR strategy and activities through an eight-strong CR Committee, with representatives drawn from across the Group.
Chaired by Angela Williams, our HR Director, the committee meets four times a year to agree policies, review progress against targets and set future objectives.
In January 2009, we sold our Trillium business.
This has given us the opportunity to step back and review our approach to CR, to rede ne our CR vision, and to focus on what we should achieve in 2009 10 and beyond.
We believe good CR practices make for a stronger business, so it is essential that CR is embedded in what we do and how we do it.
The targets we set will be challenging yet attainable.
By achieving them, we will improve our performance across the business.
Our new CR strategy will be published during 2009 and will be reviewed in the next Annual Report.
During 2008 09, our activities addressed the needs of the stakeholder groups and issues outlined on this page Customers, Health & Safety, Employees, Suppliers, Community, Investors and Environment.
The CR highlights content featured over the following pages focuses on three key areas, People, Buildings and Communities, while the CR performance section that follows analyses our CR targets and achievements.
View our Corporate Responsibility Report online at www.
com crreport09, which provides even more detailed information on our CR strategy and performance.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 56 Corporate responsibility Our CR highlights in 2008 09 We believe CR is about practical, responsible and sustainable action over the long term, using the expertise and dedication of our people to create buildings that are good for us as a company, for our customers and for the communities in which we operate.
People make property From architects to builders, and investors to residents, property is all about people.
At Land Securities, we aim to attract and retain the best, encourage and empower them to improve our business and the businesses of our customers, and support them in achieving their personal goals.
We also like to work with like-minded partners who share our values.
Great design doesnt guarantee great buildings It goes without saying that good design is crucial to a good building.
But a great one needs so much more: a feel for heritage, a respect for the environment and a supportive, collaborative owner that involves the community to ensure its properties deliver long-term rewards for occupiers, stakeholders and shareholders.
Modern buildings improve communities Thats a dangerous assumption, especially if its impact on a communitys character is overlooked.
Thats why we take a long-term view.
We take the time to develop partnerships so our properties have a positive impact on their locations, our presence is valued and we get involved in events that bring everyone closer together.
W e spend a lot of time engaging with local authorities and others to improve the social fabric of their communities.
If that process works well, we have a more sustainable investment, something vibrant, well-integrated and enduring for us and for local stakeholders.
Francis Salway Chief Executive Land Securities Annual Report 2009 Report of the Directors P0180 Financial statements P81130 Investor resource P131144 Corporate responsibility 57 People Our intention is to be the employer of choice in the property sector.
To do that, we must attract, recruit and retain exceptional employees who will add value to our business and our customers businesses.
And to do that, we need to help every one of our 700 employees to reach their full potential.
Equality 92% We are committed to equal opportunities and a diverse and inclusive workplace in which everyone is treated with respect.
Our adherence to the UN Declaration on Human Rights underpins all our policies, systems The number of employees and actions.
responding to our Employee Engagement Survey who are proud Learning and development to work for Land Securities The vast majority of our people have a learning and development plan in place, to ensure they develop the core skills and behaviours we need to be successful.
Almost every person who took training last year reported they were satis ed with the support they received.
82% Wellbeing Employee response rate Our wellbeing programme helps employees maintain tness and health.
Almost a quarter of our employees to annual survey have registered to use BUPAs Positive Health online tool, which enables them to undertake a health and wellbeing assessment and get practical advice on improving health, diet, stress, sleep and other lifestyle issues.
84% Employee engagement survey This year more than four out of five employees responded to our survey.
Their feedback suggests we are Employees have a learning and making progress across training, leadership, career development and community activities.
development plan in place What also came through from this years comments was that they like the people they work with and the jobs they do.
They feel empowered to make decisions, believe the company takes corporate responsibility seriously, and rate us highly on issues such as communication, strategy and vision.
Volunteering From paint pots to plant pots Because we believe volunteering supports personal development, builds community spirit and demonstrates During the year, employee volunteers from our CR principles at work, we actively encourage volunteering and offer extra time off in return.
This year, our Southern Retail team helped Kids 326 employees around 20% of our workforce, including Trillium took part in volunteering activities.
Company, a charity that supports vulnerable Wed like that to grow to 50% by 2010. inner-city children, to paint a mural at Lark Our regional grant programmes include our Capital Commitment Fund, which has helped 35 community Hall Primary School in Stockwell.
groups and projects in Southwark, Westminster, Tower Hamlets and Islington.
Activities include summer play Meanwhile, the Centre Management team schemes, community festivals, a trip to the seaside, homework clubs and anti-bullying workshops in schools.
at St Davids built a play area for young visitors to Greenmeadow Community Farm Bringing our values to life in Cwmbran.
And Retail Development employees created a garden and vegetable Annarose Hearsum, Gunwharf Quays Tenant Liaison Executive, has won the prestigious SCEPTRE Young patch at Kew Riverside Primary School Achiever of the Year Award for her work on the Striving for Excellence programme.
During this year-long in Richmond.
competition, retailers are assessed by mystery shoppers and their records scrutinised, to encourage a more positive and memorable customer experience.
Gunwharf Quays 2008 customer satisfaction survey revealed that 96% of the tenants surveyed would recommend us as a landlord, with Annarose speci cally cited by many for understanding their needs.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 58 Corporate responsibility R etail as a business is facing a Buildings challenging time and more than As a landlord, our remit stretches from providing our tenants with the ever needs to be supported by a best possible service through to safeguarding the health and wellbeing robust approach to CR, aligning of all who come into contact with our operations.
Were never complacent our approach with our customers about such matters and always strive to improve our performance, but with to ensure we all bene t. There are our Retail business winning the Property Managers Association 2008 no short cuts or areas that dont Landlord of the Year title, it looks like were heading in the right direction.
matter if we are to strive for excellence in all that we do.
Customer satisfaction Richard Akers Happy customers are crucial to our success, and we measure customer satisfaction on three levels overall Managing Director, Retail Portfolio satisfaction, willingness to recommend and communication.
In our latest annual customer satisfaction survey, conducted among 282 participants at 15 of our shopping centres, 97% of the tenants questioned said they would be willing to recommend us as a landlord, while all our scores for communication and responsiveness 9.2 either equalled or exceeded our highest to date.
Our score of 9.2 in the Corporate Health and safety Health and Safety Performance Index Like all responsible businesses, we have a commitment to ensure the safety of staff, tenants and visitors.
CHaSPI placed us third overall, from We have policies and procedures in place to underpin our daily activities.
We regularly report on RIDDOR a total of 115 other UK companies Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations accidents, events and near misses.
And we audited 153 properties last year, including those of our contractors and partners, to measure with more than 250 employees performance across the Group and ensure our legal and contractual obligations are being met.
Our commitment extends to reminding all employees of the importance of identifying and managing 5 risks at work.
In the last year this has involved: A dedicated health and safety week Consecutive Royal Society for the A personal health and safety e-learning course for all employees Prevention of Accidents RoSPA An additional course for line managers on managing health and safety.
Gold Awards The training forums and safety audits that Gunwharf Quays instigated were singled out for particular praise when it won the Gold Award for occupational health and safety from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Increasing investment, Accidents RoSPA.
reducing emissions Rather than investing in overseas projects to Cabot Circus, Bristol offset our shopping centres emissions, we are leads on sustainability using the money to lower their carbon footprint instead.
The 180,000 it would have cost to Cabot Circus has been singled out as a beacon for sustainability in the retail sector, winning five industry offset the 22 million kg of CO emissions from 2 2 awards since it opened in September 2008.
The 92,000m development uses natural ventilation, saving our centres is being used, pro rata, to improve around 5 million kWh of energy a year on heating and cooling.
Combined with one of the worlds most energy efficiency and cut utility bills through advanced IT systems, low-energy intelligent lighting and a rainwater harvesting system, this has helped initiatives like harvesting rainwater and to secure an Excellent BREEAM rating.
Cabot Circus Awards British Council of Shopping Centres BCSC MAPIC EG Retail Award for Best Shopping Centre Supreme Gold Award for 2008 of the Year BCSC Gold for large in-town retail schemes European Standard Parking Award for the safety BREEAM Retail Award and customer services features incorporated into its 2,600-space car park.
Asset management A development with a lower carbon footprint is: easier to gain approval for attracts tenants with the same values as us cheaper to run reduces the risk of non-compliance with ever-changing environmental legislation.
One of the biggest opportunities we have for reducing our carbon footprint lies in the way we manage our existing properties.
Our London operations are recognised as leading the sector in this area, sharing both standard procedures and best practice guidance with occupiers to improve standards, lower costs and reduce risks for both parties.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 Report of the Directors P0180 Financial statements P81130 Investor resource P131144 Corporate responsibility 59 One area where our London business leads the way is in devising energy management plans.
With every 99.72% development, we share such a plan with occupiers, and agree who is responsible for what aspects of energy performance.
For example, we developed a plan for Eversheds LLP, the occupiers of One Wood Street, so that Total waste recycled at Fremlin Walk they can minimise the impacts of their operations.
In turn, they will supply us with energy and water use shopping centre in Maidstone data, which we can use to shape future schemes.
We have also been working closely with the Better Buildings Partnerships Green Leases Working Group, which has developed a set of principles and recommendations that allow landlords and occupiers to reduce their buildings carbon footprint and improve their sustainability.
These guidelines are currently being trialled at New Street Square, EC4.
Waste Reduce, recycle, reuse all are viable options when it comes to managing waste, and all of our centres already recycle cardboard, wood, plastics and metal.
At Fremlin Walk in Maidstone we wanted to go one step further and recycle all the waste it generated and we are very nearly there.
For example, food waste from the centres restaurant and coffee shops now goes into biodegradable bags, which are mulched, turned into compost and used to fertilise produce and improve soil on local farmland.
This is a great replacement for expensive and environmentally impacting fertilisers, and its a wholly local operation.
With this food waste trial, 99.72% of all Fremlins waste is now being recycled, with the only shortfall being sanitary waste.
Sustainable materials To paraphrase Henry Ford, you can have a Land Securities building in any colour as long as its green.
All our projects are aligned with our ISO 14001-certi ed environmental management system, which ensures were operating within the law, and in line with our own policies and targets.
Externally, a BREEAM rating of Very Good is a minimum for us, but we like to push the boundaries further when we can.
By using sustainably sourced, low-impact materials and collecting rainwater for reuse, our Bristol and Livingston retail centres both achieved Excellent ratings in 2008, as did the renovation of Dashwood House in the City of London.
W ere not just interested in Communities building commercial properties: Strong relationships are the lifeblood of any community, and we work we also want to build communities.
hard to ensure we play our part as a long-term partner.
We start to forge That is why we have been these relationships well in advance of the planning process, because pioneering the use of art and other we want our schemes to foster a sense of local ownership and civic pride.
improvements to the public realm to transform sites such as Bankside Planning and consultation into places to be enjoyed by all.
We never undertake a major scheme without listening to those likely to be affected by it.
Residents can have concerns about disruption from building works or additional pressures on parking, but we take all views on And why we give financial support board and try to address them appropriately.
to many local groups and charities For example, our plans for the 2.5-hectare Victoria Transport Interchange development incorporated through our recently enhanced feedback from local residents, council representatives and the Greater London Authority, and were given the green light by Westminster City Council.
But even then, the project came in for considerable public scrutiny, Capital Commitment Fund.
so we held a four-day public exhibition including models, video presentations, traf c modelling and an Mike Hussey information pack to give everyone a chance to nd out more and in uence the final design.
Managing Director, London Portfolio Design and the public realm We feel strongly that our developments should improve and enhance the public realm, so we design schemes that incorporate eye-catching views and open vistas.
In the past, buildings were often designed to look 340,093 imposing and keep the public out, but that time has passed.
Todays schemes incorporate a mix of residential, Total charitable and community retail and of ce use so that they can be a productive place of work by day and a safe, restful home by night, investments and donations made as well as provide room to breathe, public access and even somewhere to shop.
Buildings can create a new sense of place and community, as illustrated by New Street Square, by Land Securities Group and its where an eye-catching combination of design and public art have created a more welcoming and accessible businesses in 2008 09 environment.
A public art strategy for the area was agreed back in 2005, and commissions from two artists have been installed since the schemes opening.
Jonathan Clarkes freestanding sculptures act as a focal point to draw the public through to the new pedestrian arcade, and provide elements to lean against or sit on.
Suspended from a canopy running the length of the arcade, Ron Haseldens Day and Night, Night and Day is a tapestry of curved neon lights, each of which can be programmed to change, through an in nite number of colours, by workers in the surrounding buildings.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 60 Corporate responsibility Each design is intended to stay in place for some time, providing a restful, silent work that gives the onlooker ARISE and shine time to re ect on it.
We are forging partnerships to help make our Meanwhile, at Cabot Circus, Bristol, visitors will see Twist, a 65-foot, windand solar-powered communities better places in which to live and illuminated tower that forms part of a city-wide public art programme, and at Princesshay, there are four work.
In Leeds, for example, we have provided permanent commissions celebrating the historical importance of Exeter.
100 financial grants to local groups through ARISE, a powerful charitable alliance between Space for art Land Securities and other socially responsible businesses.
The initiative is focused in south We are helping to address the shortage of affordable studio space in the capital through the Land Securities Leeds, where our White Rose shopping centre Studio Award.
This new, annual awards scheme will provide three promising young artists with rent-free is located.
Each company contributes 8,000 studio space in London for a year, a cash bursary and an exhibition featuring their work.
a year to a fund, which is then divided among organisations applying for financial support.
Create the 100th organisation to receive a Community investment Retail grant from ARISE has used its funds to provide Our retail schemes are a signi cant source of local employment, which can contribute to the vibrancy of the ex-offenders and homeless people with work community.
In Bristol, the development of Cabot Circus generated 3,500 construction jobs and over 4,000 experience, skills training and employment permanent posts, from cleaners and caterers to security staff and sales assistants.
By teaming up with West opportunities in food production.
at Work, we were able to provide job seekers with free con dence-building courses, CV and job application workshops, specialist retail training events, a dedicated vacancies website and the Cabot Circus Jobs Bus.
Mystery shopper surveys Shopping centres are also ideal places to give young people interested in retail careers a chance to develop their skills and knowledge.
For example, Buchanan Galleries, Glasgow co-runs a Retail Academy.
Four of our shopping centres scored an Participants are guaranteed work placements, interviews and other assistance by the centre and its retailers, exceptional 100% in mystery shopping and most go on to get full-time jobs.
The Retail Eyes Impressions scheme gave perfect scores to White Rose Our many other mentoring schemes and work placements include: in Leeds in two consecutive years, The Centre Supporting the Construction Youth Trust by hosting site visits for Diploma in Construction and the Built in Livingston, The Bridges in Sunderland and Environment students and holding career events, where students are able to discuss their plans with Princesshay in Exeter.
The national Young Enterprise scheme, where our Retail staff help young people to learn about business by running virtual companies.
500,000 Community investment through Our Community Link programme fosters close working relationships between our centre management teams our Capital Commitment Fund and key stakeholders such as schools, encouraging them to support curriculum-based activities by working alongside local businesses.
At White Rose in Leeds and Stratford Centre in London we also run study support over four years centres for students.
2,500 Community investment London Long-term commitment to communities underpins Land Securities investments in London.
Over the last four Visitors to our Victoria Transport years, Land Securities has contributed over 500,000 to its own Capital Commitment Fund, which has been Interchange exhibition used to help over 100 community groups.
In 2008, these included Westminster Befriend a Family, which used its grant to take 200 underprivileged families to Brighton for the day, giving vulnerable and disadvantaged children a chance to enjoy a trip to the beach many for the first time.
During the year a review was undertaken to identify areas of improvement for charitable giving which would enable the delivery of a strategic and coordinated approach, one that would help align our objectives with the wider aspirations for central London Local Authorities and the Greater London Authority.
The review also informed our decision to restructure the Capital Commitment Fund into two strands, one a ow through programme bene ting groups in Tower Hamlets, Islington, Camden and Southwark.
The second, the creation of the Westminster Fund, an endowment fund established with our community partner, the Capital Community Foundation, to bene t community groups for many years to come.
Our investment will now be targeted at the areas in most need and in support of the most vulnerable groups.
All charitable giving will be based on three thematic criteria Education, Housing Homelessness and Young people and will be assessed via a new Corporate Community Investment Panel.
In January 2009, St Johns and Clayton Square shopping centres in Liverpool joined a city-wide campaign to reduce road accidents involving children on bikes.
Working in partnership with the City Councils Road Safety Unit, the police, the re service and local radio, we enabled food outlets at both centres to hand out free high-visibility armbands and slap wraps designed to make children more visible in the dark.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 Report of the Directors P0180 Financial statements P81130 Investor resource P131144 Corporate responsibility 61 Our CR performance in 2008 09 Target % achieved Environment Re ecting economic conditions, Design all new Group developments to be 20% below the prevailing Building Regulation all schemes that were planned to commence on site were postponed.
requirements for CO emissions N A 2 Achieve a 5% reduction in the CO emissions associated with energy use in managed 2 of ce and retail premises, thereby reducing the cost of our commitment to offset emissions arising from energy use in our own occupied of ces, and common parts of shopping centres 92% Produce a case study analysis of energy and CO performance for the six properties 2 audited in 2007 08 which account for 30% of energy usage across the London Portfolio 100% Evaluate existing biodiversity conditions before commencing development and No scheme was at such an advanced demonstrate that the completed scheme improves the quality of the habitat and the stage that we were able to measure number of species of ora present N A biodiversity enhancements.
Achieve a minimum level of 20% recycled content by weight or value in every No projects were at the appropriate new development N A stage of design.
Monitor the performance at all occupied premises of grey-water recycling and rain water harvesting 100% Benchmark water usage across the London Portfolio and survey 50% of these sites for opportunities to reduce water consumption 100% Undertake a trial of the Forestry Stewardship Council FSC project speci c registration scheme at Trilliums Falkirk development to ensure the timber comes from sustainably managed sources 100% Reuse or recycle 85% of demolition and construction waste for projects covered by Site Waste Management Plans 94% Reuse or recycle 85% of of ce waste generated at our own Head Of ce premises 96% Increase the rate of recycling by an average of 5% across all managed shopping centres, with no centre falling below its 2007 08 recycling rate 86% Submit all new major of ce, retail warehouse premises and retail shopping centre developments for BREEAM assessment with a minimum target of very good 100% Ensure that every shopping centre develops and implements a site-speci c Environmental Management Programme 100% Due to the sale of Trillium Ensure that Trilliums managed PPP projects are certi ed to ISO 14001 within the scope the measurement was unable to be completed.
of its Environmental Management System N A Re ne the environmental benchmarking process for managed of ces and shopping centres to facilitate meaningful comparisons 100% Land Securities Annual Report 2009 62 Corporate responsibility Our CR performance in 2008 09 Target % achieved Procurement Recruit 10% of all new catering and cleaning staff into the Trillium supply chain through agencies which support disabled and disadvantaged people 100% Engage in regular meetings with the Top 10 Service Partners measured by contract value to agree a Joint Programme of community investment and volunteering 100% Benchmark the Top 20 category 2 suppliers measured by contract value to determine the extent of their compliance with the CR criteria in the Group supplier evaluation questionnaire 100% Community Exceed the value of community investment achieved in 2007 08 as measured by the Community Investment Reporting system, and ensure the system is used across the Group to record the full range of community-based activities 96% Supplement the Capital Commitment Fund of 150,000 by securing additional sources of external funding 100% Pilot a web-based learning system to deliver community-based safety awareness training Budgetary demands over the life of the to schools in communities in which the Group operates 25% project meant that this has been halted.
Develop a structured Work Experience programme in Trillium which can be made available to schools in the Trillium portfolio 100% Introduce, to a minimum of 10 Shopping Centres, a Childsafe Awareness Scheme giving assurance as to the safety and welfare of children in retail centres 100% Establish formal Community Link programmes at three retail development sites to support a range of training and skills development initiatives aimed at promoting local employment 100% Employees Ensure out-performance across the Group of the Expert Training Systems ETS benchmark on employee engagement 100% Contribute actively to local communities by encouraging 30% of the Groups staff to volunteer time and expertise through the Land Securities Foundation 100% Encourage 8% of staff to participate in charitable giving through the payroll 93% Ensure that at least 60% of staff, as measured by the Employee Engagement Survey, believe that Land Securities Learning and Development platform meets their individual needs and enables them to develop their careers 100% In support of our commitment to diversity, through the Employee Engagement Survey, measure staff perception of the statement our employee pro le re ects the communities in which we work 100% Land Securities Annual Report 2009 Report of the Directors P0180 Financial statements P81130 Investor resource P131144 Corporate responsibility 63 63 Our CR performance in 2008 09 Target % achieved Customers Achieve 90% overall customer satisfaction rating on the DWP Contract 100% As part of our partnership with DWP, ensure the joint Invest to Save initiative achieves in 2008 09 a 6% reduction in energy consumption against the baseline agreed with DWP 100% Develop a customer service improvement plan for each Public Private Partnership PPP This target was deemed non-applicable project managed by Trillium N A due to the Trillium sale.
Achieved on two out of five measures.
Increase to 3.8 the customer satisfaction ratings across the five key performance areas Although the other three saw improvements, identi ed by the London Portfolio in its 2007 surveys 40% progress was assessed at 40%.
Achieve an overall customer satisfaction rating of 3.8 in the annual London of ce portfolio survey 100% Achieve an overall customer satisfaction rating of 3.85 in annual shopping surveys undertaken by Retail 100% In response to customer requests develop and pilot a Sustainability Guide Draft guide produced, expected to be for retailers 75% published in 2009.
Investors Conduct separate surveys of investors and analysts in order to benchmark the quality of the Groups investor relations and to establish comparative data for future surveys 100% One meeting in the year with the Hold five one-to-one tailored meetings with Socially Responsible Investors SRIs economic downturn hampering the engagement process.
focusing on the aspects of the Groups CR programme which are of particular interest 20% Currently 11.5% of investors signed Increase from 10% to 15% the number of investors subscribing to e-communications up to e-communications.
To sign up for e-communications go to 30% www.
co. uk Health & Safety Certify one further workstream or business activity to the international standard OHSAS 18001 for Health and Safety Management Systems 100% Benchmark against the Health and Safety Executives Corporate Health and Safety Performance Index CHaSPI, and achieve a top 10% rating against its peers 100% Report monthly on contractor performance across all construction projects, collating information on fatalities, RIDDOR and non-RIDDOR reportable All Group businesses were monitoring injuries, near misses and lost days 75% by the end of the year Create an environment in which 50% of employees believe their health and wellbeing is supported 100% L La and nd Securi Securit ti ies es Annu Annual al R Re epor port t 20 200 09 9
