Governance Executive Committee The Executive Committee is the key management committee and comprises the executive directors of the Company, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Human Resources Director and the Group Managing Directors.
The committee normally meets monthly and is responsible for developing the Groups strategy and capital expenditure and investment budgets and reporting on these areas to the Board for approval, implementing Group policy, monitoring financial, operational and customer quality of service performance, health and safety, purchasing and supply chain issues, succession planning, and day-to-day management of the Group.
Meetings attendance The following table shows the attendance of directors in office at 30 September 2009 at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Richard Cousins 8 8 2 2 Sir James Crosby 8 8 4 4 2 2 Sir Roy Gardner 8 8 2 2 Gary Green 8 8 Steve Lucas 8 8 4 4 4 4 Andrew Martin 8 8 Susan Murray 8 8 1 1 2 2 1 Tim Parker 8 8 4 4 3 4 2 Don Robert 3 3 1 1 1 1 Sir Ian Robinson 8 8 4 4 2 2 This table shows only those meetings which each director attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
1 Tim Parker was re-appointed as a director of the Company on 1 November 2008.
2 Don Robert was appointed as a director of the Company on 8 May 2009.
A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups business Internal audit is given on pages 24 to 31.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an The internal audit function is involved in the assessment of the integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business documents quality of risk management and internal control and helps to promote the strategic objectives and the effectiveness of the Groups systems and further develop effective risk management within the business.
As part of the review, each significant business Certain internal audit assignments such as those requiring specialist and function has been required to identify and document each expertise continue to be outsourced by the Director of Internal significant risk, together with the mitigating actions implemented to Audit to KPMG LLP as appropriate.
A policy has been established manage, monitor and report to management on the effectiveness of regarding the recruitment of staff from Deloitte LLP.
Senior managers are also required to sign biannual Committee reviews internal audit reports and considers the confirmations of compliance with key procedures and to report any effectiveness of the function.
breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
Summarised results have been presented to senior management including to the Internal control Executive Committee and to the Board.
These processes have been in place throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2009 and In a highly decentralised Group, where local management have have continued to the date of this Report.
The Board has reviewed considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, a well the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the year designed system of internal control is necessary to safeguard under review and a summary of the principal control structures and shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
The directors processes in place across the Group is set out below.
acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of Control environment those controls.
In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Combined Code, an ongoing process had been established for internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
responsibility for the operation of the internal control and risk This process has been in place for the full financial year and up to management programme to the Executive Committee.
The detailed the date on which the financial statements were approved.
review of internal control has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
The management of each business is responsible for internal control The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the and risk management within its own business and for ensuring risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives, safeguard the compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Each business Groups assets against material loss, fairly report the Groups has appointed a risk champion whose primary role in such capacity performance and position and to ensure compliance with relevant is to ensure compliance by local management with the Groups risk legislation, regulation and best practice including that related to management and internal control programme.
The internal and the social, environmental and ethical matters.
The systems provide external auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted by the reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement Group towards its risk management activities so as to reinforce these or loss.
Such systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with internal control requirements.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 49
