Corporate responsibility We regard CR as a long-term, sustainable approach to business that seeks benefits for all our stakeholders, be they customers, employees, communities, suppliers, the environment or the Company and its Acting shareholders.
We support sound CR policies and practices for good business reasons.
Our commitment to CR is not simply a response to increased market attention to this area, but acts as a reinforcement of the way that our business operates on a daily basis.
The Board believes that the progressive integration of CR across the Group and responsibly the inclusion of broader social and environmental issues into our decision making will help us to achieve our business goals, act as a building block for growth in shareholder value and benefit the communities in which we operate.
Over the past year, we have continued to build on our Corporate Corporate culture Responsibility CR strategy.
Overall, Our values Our strong set of values define, collectively, what we believe in and are we have made good progress on our the basis of everything we do: CR journey and continue to drive Openness, trust and integrity further improvement across our Passion for quality Win through teamwork business, particularly in the areas Can-do of supply chain and environmental Responsibility performance.
In addition, and in Governance and ethics response to feedback from our Our structure is underpinned by the highest levels of corporate governance.
This empowers our local management teams to manage stakeholders, we have enhanced the their businesses to be competitive in their marketplace while operating scope of our performance reporting within a strict corporate framework with clearly defined parameters.
Our Code of Ethics sets out our social, ethical and environmental relating to people metrics.
commitment towards each of our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate.
We have a whistle-blowing programme called Speak Up which is managed by an independent company, so that our employees Online access can raise, in confidence, any concerns they may have about how we See our full Corporate Responsibility report conduct our business.
Following the successful roll-out programme, including the status of our CR performance at: Speak Up is now available to all of our employees on a global basis.
com CR09 Work continues throughout the business to raise employee awareness and regular progress reports are also provided to the Audit Committee of the Board.
Corporate Responsibility Committee As part of our overall commitment to good corporate governance, we operate a Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board.
Established in 2007, the CR Committee continues to provide direction and guidance on all aspects of business practice and responsibility ensuring consistent application everywhere we operate.
The Committee comprises Susan Murray Chairman from 1 November 2008, Sir Roy Gardner Chairman until 31 October 2008, Steve Lucas, Richard Cousins, Andrew Martin, Jane Kingston Group Human Resources Director and Mark White.
The Committees primary responsibilities include: endorsement of CR policies, overseeing occupational health and food safety performance, environmental practices, business conduct, the positive promotion of employee engagement as well as diversity and community investment.
A key focus of the Committee has been to improve the scope of our CR commitments and overall performance measurement.
A commitment to develop performance indicators We are making good progress along our CR journey and we want to update our stakeholders on the progress we are making.
As reported in 2008, we made a commitment to further develop our existing set of key CR related Key Performance Indicators KPIs and targets to our stakeholders.
This year, following consultation with key stakeholders, we have increased the scope of our CR metrics to include an additional People KPI, which we believe is relevant to our business model and will help drive our sustainability performance.
Our 2009-2010 commitments are set out on page 35.
See full details of our CR metrics and performance in our latest online CR report at www.
34 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009
