Governance Corporate governance including the report of the Audit Committee There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and this Control procedures has been extended to include private shareholders through the The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual Annual General Meeting and meetings with the United Kingdom basis and approves Group company budgets and strategies in light Shareholders Association.
Contact with institutional shareholders of these.
Control is exercised at Group and business level through the and with financial analysts, brokers and the media is controlled by Groups Management and Performance MAP process and monthly written guidelines to ensure the protection of share price sensitive monitoring of performance by comparison with budgets, forecasts and information that has not already been made generally available to cash targets and by regular visits to Group businesses by the Group the Companys shareholders.
Contact is also maintained, when Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Group businesses appropriate, with shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans approve and submit risk reports for the Board on a biannual basis, and policies.
The Groups annual and interim results, as well as all summarising the key risks facing their businesses and the controls announcements issued to the London Stock Exchange, are in place to manage those risks.
These reports, together with reports published on the Companys website at www.
on internal control and departures, if any, from established Group The Company issues regular trading updates and interim procedures prepared by the internal and external auditors, are management statements to the market and these, together with reviewed by the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee.
copies of presentations and interviews with the Group Chief The Group companies also submit biannual risk and internal control Executive and Group Finance Director, are and will be posted on assurance letters to the Group Finance Director on internal control and the Companys website.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is risk management issues, with comments on the control environment circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before such within their operations.
The Group Finance Director summarises these meeting and it is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be submissions for the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Audit proposed at general meetings.
All shareholders are invited to the Committee reports to the Board on any matters that have arisen from Companys Annual General Meeting at which they have the the committees review of the way in which risk management and opportunity to put questions to the Board and it is standard practice internal control processes have been applied.
to have the chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees available to answer questions.
The proxy votes for and The Board has formal procedures in place for approval of investment against each resolution, as well as abstentions which may be and acquisition projects, with designated levels of authority, supported recorded on the proxy form accompanying the Notice of Meeting, by post investment review processes for selected acquisitions and are counted before the Annual General Meeting and the results will major capital expenditure.
The Board considers social, environmental be made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on and ethical matters in relation to the Groups business and assesses each resolution on a show of hands.
The results are also announced these when reviewing the risks faced by the Group.
The Board is to the London Stock Exchange and are published on the Companys conscious of the effect such matters may have on the shortand website shortly after the meeting.
long-term value of the Company.
The external auditors of the Company and the Director of Internal Audit attend Audit Committee meetings Donations and receive its papers.
The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 47 to 48 and the Audit Committee members meet regularly The Companys Corporate Responsibility report is set out on with the Director of Internal Audit and the external auditors without pages 34 to 39.
The Groups charitable donations in 2009 totalled the presence of executive management.
There were no changes to the Companys internal control over financial At each Annual General Meeting held since 2004, shareholders have reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September 2009 passed a resolution, on a precautionary basis, to approve donations to that have affected materially, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure as such the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
terms were defined under the then relevant legislation not exceeding 125,000 per annum.
The Board has consistently confirmed that it operates a policy of not giving any cash contribution to any political Compliance statement party in the ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no The Company applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of intention of changing that policy.
The directors, however, propose to the Code for the period under review and has throughout the year seek renewed authority for the Group to make political donations and complied with the detailed provisions set out therein.
incur political expenditure as such terms are defined in sections 362 to 365 of CA 2006 of not more than 125,000 in total until the The Companys auditors, Deloitte LLP, are required to review whether Companys next Annual General Meeting, which they might otherwise the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the be prohibited from making or incurring under the terms of CA 2006 nine provisions of the Code specified for its review by the Listing and which would not amount to donations in the ordinary sense of Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect the word.
The authority sought by Resolution 15 in the Notice of such compliance.
No such report has been made.
Meeting will last until the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
Communications with shareholders Awards under employee share schemes The Company places considerable importance on communication In March 2009 options were granted under the Compass Group with its shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
The Management Share Option Plan over 5,377,627 ordinary shares Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are closely March 2008: 4,670,990 to senior employees of the Group at an involved in investor relations and a senior executive has day-to-day option price of 319.0 pence per share.
In September 2009 further responsibility for such matters.
The views of the Companys major options were granted under the Compass Group Management Share shareholders are reported to the Board by the Group Chief Executive Option Plan over 187,348 ordinary shares September 2008: 207,309 and the Group Finance Director as well as by the Chairman who to senior employees of the Group at an option price of 372.4 pence remains in contact with the 10 largest shareholders and discussed per share.
There are also rules in place for a discretionary share option at its meetings.
The Annual Report and Accounts are available to plan for senior employees and all-employee share plans in the UK and all shareholders either in paper form or electronically and can be overseas.
No grants were made under any of these plans during the accessed via the Companys website at www.
Further details regarding 50 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009
