20 Corporate responsibility report Corporate responsibility at Aegis Report on progress in 2009 We recognise that our future success depends on our taking into Social account the interests of our stakeholders, including our employees, clients, shareholders and the wider community and environment.
As a result of our first Group-wide survey on social and We are committed to the operation of a responsible business community activities in 2008, we set ourselves the target to model and to the development of ways to contribute to and improve upon our performance and develop a more coherent engage with the communities and environment in which we work.
community initiative across all our businesses.
In 2009, we further developed the Corporate Responsibility A network of champions across Aegis Media and Synovate strategy, first launched in 2008, across our businesses.
called Synovate CARES organises community initiatives in all The strategy is developed and implemented by a dedicated of our markets.
These champions volunteered for the role and Corporate Responsibility Team, with strategic oversight from both monitor and implement the global strategy in a way that the Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, which meets eight is locally effective.
Its remit is to set the Groups global Corporate In 2009, our champions organised a wide range of initiatives Responsibility strategy and monitor its implementation.
Overall that positively contributed to local communities.
These activities responsibility for Corporate Strategy rests with the Board.
included the donation of redundant of ce equipment to local Aegiss Corporate Responsibility strategy is designed to be exible, charities, using the speci c skills of our employees to the bene t respecting the international and diverse nature of the markets in of charitable organisations, and fundraising by our employees which Aegis Media and Synovate operate and to harness for speci c causes.
the entrepreneurial spirit of our businesses and employees.
Our 2009 survey covered all countries and businesses in the The strategy also recognises that corporate responsibility means Group.
Out of 74 countries, 31% reported to have organised different things in different places.
A common approach, a global community initiatives, with a total of 5,077 of our employees policy framework, centralised programme management and taking part.
This represented 33% of our employees in 2009. standardised tools help our businesses to focus on the overall Compared to 2008, employees involvement and activity purpose but we encourage our businesses to deliver the strategy levels have remained broadly constant.
in the way that best complements their local market, business sector and employees skills.
The estimated total value of community initiatives in 2009 was 1.46m, equivalent to 1% of pre-tax pro t. The approximate Country and of ce champions have been appointed to drive value of time donated by employees was 0.29m.
initiatives locally, with central support from the Corporate The approximate value of in-kind donations from our businesses Responsibility Manager.
This network of champions also measures was 0.85m and financial donations and funds raised were and reports Aegiss environmental and community impacts on a 0.31m.
This overall sum was substantially lower than that yearly basis.
A consistent and comprehensive internal reporting raised in 2008 2.7m, re ecting the challenging economic survey has been developed to measure community initiatives.
circumstances that many markets and businesses encountered We measured our environmental impacts in the European Union during this year.
using the Guidelines to Defra DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting Version 2.0, September 2009 and using 20% of the total value of employees community initiatives was the WRI GHG Emission Factors Protocol for countries outside of raised in the form of financial donations and cash raised: the the European Union.
Our calculations are based on the number of value of in-kind donations represented 59%, with the value full-time equivalent employees of year end 31 December 2009. of employees donated time representing the balance of 21%.
Compared to 2008, there was a clear shift away from pure financial donations to in-kind and time donations and the leveraging of our employees skills and knowledge for charitable purposes.
5,077 of our employees took part in community initiatives representing 33% of our workforce 21 Environmental Future targets As a result of the first report on Aegiss environmental impacts in Social 2008, we set ourselves a target to reduce our carbon footprint as a business by 20% by 2010 and to use the network of New target: champions to increase data accuracy and reliability.
coordinate community initiatives across Aegis Media and Synovate These champions, called Green Beans, organise environmental awareness raising campaigns amongst our For 2010, we intend to continue to build a clearer picture of employees and help each market to reduce our energy the extent of our employees and businesses engagement with consumption and business travel and their impact.
the communities they operate in and further embed community Examples of the steps taken during the year by Green Beans initiatives across our businesses.
Quarterly global themes will to ensure our businesses become more environmentally be used to reach all employees around social and community sustainable were: ensuring recycling practices meet the latest initiatives, each of which will be relevant and appropriate to the standards, switching to renewable energy sources, reducing local market.
The provision of materials, toolkits and activity ideas the consumption of energy through standby of IT equipment, by our Corporate Responsibility Team will ensure a coordinated and using sustainable procurement practices to select variety of community initiatives in 2010. reliable suppliers.
Environmental For the third successive year, we submitted our global carbon footprint to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Existing target reiterated: Reduce 2008 carbon footprint per full time employee In 2009, the data submitted covered 68% of our employees, and 32% of our global carbon footprint is based on by 20% by 2010 extrapolated and estimated data.
To ensure like-for-like For 2010, we will continue to work towards a 20% reduction comparison, we re-calibrated our 2008 data on a constant of our carbon footprint with 2008 as our baseline.
Reducing our carbon conversion basis.
This resulted in a higher baseline environmental impacts makes business sense: it delivers financial than previously disclosed but we are con dent that it is a ef ciencies as well as environmental bene ts.
Working in more accurate picture of our actual emissions for 2008. partnership with the Green Beans, our businesses will highlight Energy consumption and business travel were identi ed as the energy ef ciency to our employees and institute corporate best main drivers of CO2 impact, which was 44,946 metric tonnes, practice to reduce our environmental impacts in areas such as IT, or 3.09 metric tonnes per full-time employee.
Compared to business travel, stationery and waste.
2008, this is a signi cant increase.
Across Aegis Media and Synovate, energy use contributed 25,831 metric tonnes or 1.77 per full-time employee.
Business travel was measured to contribute 19,115 metric tonnes in 2009, or 1.31 metric tonnes per full-time employee.
On a constant carbon conversion basis, our carbon footprint increased by 14% compared to 2008.
This is mainly due to an apparent increase in our energy carbon footprint.
As local market evidence strongly suggests that both our energy consumption and business travel actually decreased in 2009, the increase in Aegiss carbon footprint can be attributed to increased reliability of and accuracy in the capture of emissions data across our markets and businesses.
Global carbon footprint We will continue to work 2008 towards a 20% reduction in 2009 our carbon footprint 3.09 2.70 1.77 1.40 1.30 1.3 1 Energy FTE Business Travel FTE Total FTE Additional information Financial statements Governance Aegis Group plc Business review 95 4094 2239 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate responsibility report
