DIRECTORS REPORT SuSTaInabIlITy REPORT SuSTaInabIlITy valuE Sustainability is fundamental to the way in which we do business.
For SEGRO, itisabout managing and balancing environmental, social and economic issues to addvalue to our business and reduce costs, so that SEGRO continues to be attractive to existing andprospective customers, employees and investors.
OuR STRaTEGy As part of our business plan, last year we developed a fiveyear sustainability HIGHlIGHTS 2009 strategy which focuses on opportunities to add value and reduce costs across 240 tonnes of carbon saved six key areas: 310,000 kWh of clean power were Resource efficiency: To use energy, water and materials responsibly, generated byphotovoltaic panels onour reducing, reusing and recycling.
Regeneration: To make a positive contribution to communities where 20,000 sq m green roof SEGRO has a presence.
Our new green roof at fide Hoek Safety: To maintain an excellent health and safety record by implementing Business Park inAmsterdam will reduce robustmanagement controls and careful auditing procedures.
flood risk, improve insulation and .
accessibility: To ensure our properties are accessible by more than one mode oftransport.
24,000 tonnes recycled We reused or recycled 96 per cent of Stakeholders: To listen to our stakeholders and respond to their development waste, diverting more than feedback tomeettheir needs.
Flexibility: To construct buildings that can be used by at least two kinds ofoccupier without significant structural alteration.
1.1 million SEGRO invested more than 1.1million Our strategy was informed by an independent survey of our customers, in charities and in local communities discussions with our employees and major stakeholders, consultation with where we have a presence.
experts and a review of our Sustainability Framework carried out by consultants.
Our Head of Sustainability, Claudine Blamey, continues to update the Board Safety award onsustainability regularly, reviewing performance and exploring material issues.
SEGRO won a British Safety Council International Safety Award.
OuR TaRGETS 81% customer satisfaction We report against our sustainability targets annually.
These comprise fiveyear 81 per cent of our Continental European targets for resource efficiency, regeneration and accessibility, as well as annual customers rated SEGROs performance targets for safety, customer satisfaction and human resources employees.
as good or excellent, an increase from By2014, we aim to: 72 per cent in 2008.
Construct buildings with 30 per cent better energy efficiency than basebuild.
Sustainability Framework Construct buildings with 20 per cent better water efficiency than basebuild.
We applied our new Sustainability Framework to all our major development Reduce water use by 20 per cent.
Improve energy efficiency by 30 per cent.
Sustainability award Reduce construction and demolition waste to landfill by 70 per cent.
SEGRO became one of the first Invest in all communities where we have a major presence.
developers to beawarded Haute Qualit Implement Green Travel Plans where we have a major presence.
Engage with customers to improve sustainability.
com 55 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT SuSTaInabIlITy REPORT CONTINUED RESOuRCE EFFICIEnCy We continue to improve energy efficiency by replacing This year, we became one of the first developers traditional lightbulbs with energyefficient alternatives, tointroduce Green Leases for industrial buildings in improving building insulation, and installing motion and Europe.
We are also working with a number of our existing daylight sensors.
From 2013, SEGRO will be required to occupiers on Green Memoranda of Understanding as start purchasing carbon credits to offset emissions from part of our efforts to save precious natural resources energy use, through the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
For more detail on We are working with our sustainability consultants to our performance data and progress against targets, analyse and understand energy use across our portfolio pleasevisit www.
com sustainability09 during 2009, and will be reporting data during 2010.
In 2009, our developments were forecast to achieve In 2009, we recovered more than 24,000 tonnes of 36percent better energy efficiency on average than development waste in the UK and Continental Europe.
current standards, exceeding our target.
We achieved We also recycled 334 tonnes from minor works at savings by specifying energyefficient design features ourproperties.
and renewable energy sources such as groundsource heating and cooling at Winnersh Triangle near Reading and EnergyPark Vimercate near Milan.
This will cut costs forour occupiers and protect capital value, as well as being good for the environment.
Our new developments are set to use 14 per cent SuSTaInabIlITy valuE less mains water on average than standard offices, thanks tothe installation of watersaving design Lean energy use lower energy costs features such asdualflush toilets and lowflow taps, as well as rainwaterharvesting schemes.
At Marly Lean water use lower water costs La Ville, La Courneuve andGonesse near Paris, new rainwaterharvesting systemsreduced water use by Lean materials use less waste morethan 10 per cent.
56 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 The Harris office building, Winnersh Triangle, UK Community investment 2007 2009 m 1.20 1.16 1.05 0.90 0.83 0.75 0.64 0.60 0.45 0.30 0.15 0 07 08 09 Cash Property and premises Employee time REGEnERaTIOn In 2009, we actively supported a number of local communities where we have a major presence, includingBirmingham, Heathrow, Manchester, Portsmouthand Slough.
At the end of 2009, our employees chose ActionAid as The SEGRO Young Artists Programme entered its second our Charity of the Year for 2010 and will carry out a range year in 2009, with the number of schools involved rising of fundraising events to support Indias street children.
Students and teachers benefited from willmatch funds up to 50,000 for this deserving cause.
the experience of working with a professional artist as they prepared artworks on a world of work theme.
We donated 199,984 to registered charities in the UK, These were then exhibited at the RSA in London.
as well as providing them with use of space valued at 921,753.
We made no political donations during the year, in line with our policy not to contribute to political parties.
In October 2009, SEGRO was given the goahead for the first phase of plans to regenerate the Slough Trading Estate.
Of local people surveyed, 94 per cent stated that they supported our 20year Masterplan, which is expected to create more than 4,000 new jobs and will contribute 100 million to the local economy each year.
We are also developing a skills, training and recruitment facility to help local people tobenefit from these jobs.
SuSTaInabIlITy valuE Local investment protect local capital value Local training fewer skills gaps for occupiers www.
com 57 SEGRO Young Artists Programme at St Bernards Catholic School in Slough DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT SuSTaInabIlITy REPORT CONTINUED SaFETy aCCESSIbIlITy We take our commitment to health and safety very In 2009, a number of our major properties and seriously.
We review our policies, procedures and standards developments implemented Green Travel Plans including on a regular basis to ensure that our properties and Heywood Distribution Park near Manchester, Slough developments offer a safe environment for our employees, Trading Estate and Winnersh Triangle near Reading.
As part customers and suppliers, as well as for other visitors.
of our redevelopment of the Slough Trading Estate, we will In 2009, our high standards in managing health and be introducing a new transport hub, a dedicated Transport safety risks were recognised with a British Safety Council Manager and incentives to encourage cycling and car International Safety Award.
Proposed initiatives include additional bus services around the Estate, and to local stations and residential During the year, we expanded our Health and Safety areas, as well as new pedestrian routes and enhanced Management System to include Continental Europe.
system has been designed to be accredited to ISO 18001 standards, and was audited by our health and safety advisers, with any minor issues addressed in an action plan.
SuSTaInabIlITy valuE We also completed the rollout of our internetbased training programme, extending it to employees Accessible properties lettable properties inContinental Europe and to all new employees.
Safe workplace safe workforce In 2009, we visited our health and safety advisers inall those countries in which we operate, to identify opportunities to raise performance for the people who work at our properties and developments.
We also continued to work closely with our suppliers during development and refurbishment, as these represent the greatest risk area of our business operations.
Suppliers providing high risk services are only admitted to our approved supplier list if they meet our high health andsafety standards.
We continue to measure workrelated fatalities, reportable incidents and instances of noncompliance with health and safety legislation in accordance with local regulations.
Total incidents for SEGRO employees 2007 2008 2009 UK only Groupwide Groupwide RIDDOR 1 1 2 NonRIDDOR 10 7 5 TOTAL 11 8 7 RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations UK Accident Incident Rate 2007 2008 2009 Employees 455 455 952 Construction sites 2,500 1,102 280 Accident Incident Rate Number of reportable incidents per year x 100,000 A verage number of employees personnel onsite 58 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 Continental European customers UK customers rating good or excellent % rating good or excellent % 100 100 90 90 84 81 80 81 81 80 80 78 76 77 77 76 76 72 73 70 70 69 68 67 67 66 63 62 63 60 60 55 50 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 As an Performance Property Building Communication As an Estate Building Property occupier of SEGRO management occupier management team 2008 2006 2009 2007 2008 There will be a further independent survey of our Continental There will be a further independent survey of our UK customers European customers in 2011. in 2010.
STakEHOlDERS Customers Employees We are committed to equality of opportunity in all of We are pleased to report that our second independent our employment practices.
We welcome applications for customer survey in Continental Europe revealed an increase employment by people with disabilities, considering each in satisfaction.
This reflects our efforts to raise property applicant on the basis of their merit and ability to carry out management standards, work more closely with our the function required.
If an employee became disabled, we customers and improve consistency between countries.
would make every effort to ensure that their employment We have also delivered service charge savings of more than with us continued, arranging appropriate adaptation and 6 per cent on average, by renegotiating contracts withour training.
Promotion and training opportunities for people suppliers.
We will continue our efforts tounderstand with disabilities are consistent with our Groupwidepolicyon and meet our customers needs.
equal employment opportunities, diversity andinclusiveness.
In the UK, we were ranked in the top quartile of the We keep employees informed about issues affecting RealService Best Practice Index, for the third consecutive their employment and our performance by regular year.
We introduced a specific role in each business unit email and monthly briefings from the Chief Executive focused on driving even better service charge value for our and other Executive Directors.
We believe that open customers.
We also appointed new Operations Managers to employeemanager discussions on performance develop provide customers with a single point of contact for both employee potential and business results.
Employees are encouraged to participate in training courses We engaged with more than 50 customers on sustainability to further their own development.
In 2009, we provided our during the year, hosting workshops and discussion groups, employees with 3,410 training hours, equivalent to more as well as carrying out sustainability audits at a number than one day per person.
We also carried out a sixmonth ofour properties.
Ecoficiency campaign to encourage our people to think Investors andact sustainably.
We continue our efforts to maintain the highest standards in Periodically, we conduct employee surveys to measure investor relations, encouraging open dialogue and building employee engagement and identify areas which may long term relationships to meet investors needs.
There will be an employee engagement we held more than 130 sessions with investors, attending survey in 2010. road shows and conferences in the UK, Continental Europe and the USA.
Employees can participate in our success through our allemployee share schemes and Groupwide employee bonus plan.
com 59 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW
