| | 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EPCs and BREEAM Code for Sustainable Through its contractor management Homes.
The Group supports and implements procedures, including checklists and Corporate these requirements wherever practical.
Recent supporting information, the Group requires project managers to dispose of waste studies have now highlighted the importance responsibility of embodied energy contained within the fabric appropriately, to segregate and recycle where of existing buildings, recognising the overall possible and to collate information on waste The Board recognises the importance of environmental benefits of extending the useful quantities produced.
Owing to the variation in social, environmental and ethical matters in lives and efficiency of existing buildings rather projects, the extent of the work undertaken at the conduct of the Groups business.
each site, and the absence of any industry benchmarks for construction waste, it is not The Group has a well embedded corporate Almost all of the Groups buildings are within considered meaningful to present absolute waste responsibility process and this is its sixth year of Conservation Areas and many are Listed.
Within data within the audit.
However, the process reporting since the initial report in 2003.
The these constraints, the Group seeks to refurbish encourages site managers and contractors to Groups approach to corporate responsibility buildings in a sympathetic manner reusing adopt responsible waste practices and provides is that it is essential that it be seamlessly existing timber and original building fixtures the Group with details of waste quantities integrated into its overall corporate strategy.
The Group is not a attributable to its activities.
A sample of two The Group acquires and manages properties significant user of timber and designers and sites were audited for good practice against in the West End of London in Conservation contractors are encouraged to reuse as much duty of care for waste management and were Areas, refurbishes the buildings and obtains as possible during refurbishment work.
When confirmed to be operating satisfactorily.
changes of use where appropriate and in doing installing new fixtures and plant, consideration so seeks to extend the useful life of its buildings.
is given to environmental sustainability as well Environmental strategy - as building regulations.
The Board receives regular reports on corporate Longmartin joint venture responsibility and matters are taken into For the small amount of timber that is The Longmartin joint venture project is due account in annual corporate and personal purchased, the aim is to source sustainably for phased completion beginning in early 2010 targets set by the Remuneration Committee.
sourced products, particularly those certified to and will include photovoltaic cells and solar the Forestry Stewardship Commission FSC or water heating panels to supplement power The following report is a summary of the 2008 Programme for the Endorsement of Forest supplies with a renewable, low carbon source.
- 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report which is Certification PEFC schemes.
The Group has available in full on the Groups website together Whilst the Group does not require the formal set internal targets for 50% to be sourced from with the Action Plan against which the Group certification of schemes to the Building sustainable supplies and for all hardwood to be was measured.
The 2008 2009 Corporate Research Establishments Environmental sustainably sourced.
The Group has not achieved Responsibility Report was prepared by RPS, Assessment Method BREEAM, the subits target of 50% in the year to 30 September the Groups external consultant.
The Groups contractor checklists are designed to follow 2009.
This is due solely to the absence of full policy, which is updated annually, is also the principles of the scheme and to encourage chain of custody details in some cases, so the available on the Groups website.
environmental factors to be considered during proportion sustainably sourced is likely to have design, specification and refurbishment works.
This includes Key achievements The Longmartin scheme is being formally all formally certified timber plus sourcing of The Group is a constituent of the FTSE4 assessed under BREEAM: Phase C former timber from suppliers which have confirmed Good Index, which acts as a guide to socially NCP Building has already achieved a Very that a high proportion of their timber is from responsible investment, and continues to be Good certificate and the remainder is sustainable sources, but where full chain of listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
expected to achieve the target.
custody details were not provided.
The Group has also retained its listing in the Kempen SNS Smaller European Index, the Environmental strategy During refurbishment projects, it is recognised first sustainable index for smaller European property management that the principal issues that require companies.
It was listed in the Carbon management are minimising local environmental In the day-to-day management of the Groups Disclosure Projects CDP Carbon Disclosure impacts, particularly noise and dust, managing portfolio, energy consumption and waste Leadership Index.
This index comprises the construction waste and sourcing materials.
management are the key environmental issues.
top scoring 10% of companies in the FTSE 350 In the year: The Group continues to monitor energy based on analysis of the responses to CDPs Eighteen refurbishment schemes of a consumption in the common parts of its 2009 questionnaire which focused on capital value of above 75,000 have been portfolio where it has direct responsibility.
greenhouse gas emissions, emissions registered with the Considerate The use of energy within the managed reduction targets and risks and opportunities Constructors Scheme.
In 2009, the Groups property portfolio is the responsibility of the associated with climate change.
target to maintain at least 80% of sites tenants, with the exception of certain common achieving a score of 26 or above was met Environmental strategy areas such as stairwell lights and shared when considering the results of an initial facilities.
Generally energy use is restricted to investment and refurbishments and follow up visit where undertaken : lighting so the environmental impact is small.
The Groups strategy is to invest in and The Groups Corporate Responsibility Policy is refurbish existing buildings.
This is in line with An increase in electricity usage, and included within tender documentation for Government policy for maximising the re-use consequently carbon emissions, has been subcontractors with guidance provided for the of existing development land and buildings recorded during the year.
For the majority of specification of materials, waste management which consume a lower level of resources than the portfolio this is has arisen as a result of a and checklists for legal compliance.
All were demolition and construction of new buildings.
reduction in vacant space particularly with updated in late 2008 to reflect new legislation properties coming into full use in the Opera Significant regulatory emphasis is being and best practice, and with the aim of Quarter.
Within Chinatown, an established placed on carbon emissions of dwellings improving the data collection process: area of the portfolio, the increase in usage throughout their operational lifetime, with A new initiative considered suitable for some results from improved data avoiding the need emphasis on improvements in the Building of the Groups schemes and already installed for the estimation of some data required in Regulations, Energy Performance Certificates at one of the properties on Berwick Street is past reporting years.
Green tariffs for the the installation of bird boxes.
This is intended managed portfolio are not currently to improve the potential biodiversity within considered to be financially viable, but this the limitations of a central city area.
Within will be reviewed annually.
the Longmartin scheme green roofs will be incorporated, together with bird and bat boxes: There have been no notifiable environmental incidents within the portfolio for the year 2008 - 2009.
SHAFTESBURY PLC | | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2009 53 The Group provides an EPC to all prospective Shaftesbury in the community Employment issues tenants to demonstrate the predicted energy The Groups policy is to align its charitable The Group employs nineteen staff including performance of the building.
Due to the nature support and community involvement with its executive Directors.
The Corporate of the portfolio within conservation areas, with areas of investment in Londons West End.
Responsibility Policy contains policy statements a number of Listed buildings, the vast majority Support is provided to a number of on equal opportunities in employment and of the Groups buildings are unlikely to achieve organisations involved in the arts, theatre and procedures for reporting concerns regarding a high energy rating using the standardised music together with support and involvement non-adherence to the Groups ethical standards approach.
Furthermore, whilst the Group with community groups and charities which which incorporates the Groups whistle endeavours to improve energy performance are addressing important local issues.
The policy statements are when carrying out refurbishment, there are addition, the Group continues to work closely supported by full operational policies.
Flexible constraints as to what can be undertaken with with local statutory bodies to maintain and working for staff is accommodated according Listed buildings and in Conservation Areas improve the local environment.
The welfare, safety with restrictions on factors such as cavity and training of employees is also a key priority.
wall insulation, double glazing and visible The Group has long established relationships renewable technologies and it may not be with several organisations which are directly The Group actively encourages staff training possible to improve materially performance.
The Group also and skills development and involvement in the However, actual energy consumption is low.
provides financial support and advice to the development of the Groups business, National Campaign for the Arts, the Art Fund, Corporate responsibility policies and targets In the managed portfolio, responsibility for the Association of British Orchestras, the and community activities.
Employees receive waste disposal lies with the Groups managing Donmar Theatre, the Royal Shakespeare a basic salary together with a contribution of agents although the volumes generated are a Company and the Theatres Trust.
Other 17.5% of salary into a pension and health and result of the tenants activities.
Through the organisations which the Group has supported life insurance.
All members of staff are eligible provision of shared waste facilities the Group during the year include: the London branch of to participate in the Groups bonus and long encourages tenants to maximise recycling.
the Samaritans located in Carnaby, the term incentive schemes.
Hungerford Drugs Rehabilitation Project There are currently four sites within Carnaby Corporate responsibility objectives located in Chinatown, the Soho Family and Seven Dials where the Group is directly for 2009 - 2010 Centre, the Soho Green Charity, the London responsible for waste management.
Although Chinatown Chinese Association, Chinatown there has been an increase in the total volume The Group has set an Action Plan for 2009 - Arts Space, the Chinatown Working Party, the of waste disposed, which reflects the 2010 which is set out in full on the Groups Seven Dials Trust, the Yellow Earth Theatre increased number of tenants using the facility, website.
The Group has the following key Company and The Tennis Foundation.
In the proportion of waste recycled has shown a objectives: addition, the Group has partnered extensively steady increase over the past three years.
Continue to engage with key investors and with Barnardos during the year on a number Waste is not currently quantified in Chinatown.
benchmarking agencies as appropriate: of fund raising projects.
However, the Group continues to work closely Ensure all refurbishment schemes above a The Group recognises that its villages must with Westminster City Council to manage the specified capital value are signed to the offer safe, well-maintained and welcoming issues that are specific to the area such as Considerate Constructors Scheme and environments if they are to continue to appeal controlling the problems of fly tipping and continue to achieve 26 40 above the to tenants, their staff and customers, and disposal of food and oil waste.
This is particularly challenging A leaflet explaining the principles of the Aim to achieve a Very Good BREEAM in these central locations where visitor Groups environmental policy developed to score for the Longmartin joint venture: numbers are high and trading hours are often raise awareness of tenants of environmental long.
The Group continues to work closely with Continue to invest only in brownfield sites: issues is given to all new tenants.
Westminster City Council, Camden Council, Continue to maximise the reuse of materials, the Metropolitan police and other bodies to especially timber, as part of the refurbishment Environmental strategy Groups office develop practical solutions to local issues, process.
Where new timber needs to be The Groups only office is small and the supporting initiatives such as CCTV, improved sourced aim to purchase a minimum of 50% environmental impact is low risk relating to street cleaning and waste disposal, and from certified sustainable sources: energy consumption, resource use and waste environmental improvements.
Continue to monitor water use in Carnaby and production.
During the year, the Group has partnered local Seven Dials and investigate opportunities for authorities and charities to promote and provide installing water meters in the Berwick Street Health and Safety issues financial support for street and lighting part of the portfolio: Health and Safety is an important aspect of improvement works in Carnaby, Covent Garden Continue to monitor the waste management the Groups business and operations.
Overall and Chinatown which will improve public safety strategy for Carnaby and Seven Dials in responsibility rests with the Board and the and accessibility.
The Longmartin joint venture order to encourage recycling by tenants: Chief Executive has day to day responsibility has provided substantial contributions to the for ensuring that the Groups Health and Investigate options within Berwick Street for street improvements on Long Acre.
A number Safety Policy is adhered to.
Health and Safety a central recycling point: of other schemes are scheduled for the year is identified within pre-tender documentation Improve biodiversity through use of bird ahead, not just in Covent Garden.
The Group and is monitored on each site by site managers nesting boxes at appropriate locations: supports and endorses the Soho Action Plan, and project managers.
The Groups managing the Chinatown Action Plan and the Covent Promote initiatives in Chinatown to improve agents oversee health and safety matters Garden Action Plan.
recycling: throughout the Groups portfolio.
Continue to support local community groups The Group maintains active and effective During the year, there was one Prohibition and be proactive in mentoring charitable relationships across all aspects of its business Notice and one Improvement Health and and other organisations.
and especially with its tenants and service Safety Notice served on subcontractors.
both instances the issues were resolved to the satisfaction of the Health and Safety Executive.
On behalf of the Board Jonathan Lane Chief Executive 1 December 2009 SHAFTESBURY PLC
