Corporate social responsibility statement Accidents per 100,000 employees Cranswick takes its responsibilities to employees, 20,000 2,200 customers, Shareholders and the environment very 18,000 2,000 seriously.
We increasingly recognise that a balanced and committed approach to all the aspects of Corporate Social 16,000 1,800 Responsibility will bring benefits to all of the Companys 14,000 1,600 stakeholders and will strengthen our business position and credentials to facilitate future sustainable growth and 12,000 1,400 development.
10,000 1,200 Workplace 8,000 1,000 2005 2006 2007 2008 The Group aims to recruit, train and retain employees Total recorded accidents LHS RIDDOR reportable accidents RHS who are valued for their contribution and able to fulfil their potential in meeting the business objectives of their Employee training is an important factor in maintaining a operating unit.
The Group companies each have their own safe and efficient workplace, and the Company encourages and supports appropriate development of all staff.
The strategies for retaining staff, including the provision of Group has entered a partnership with the East Riding competitive terms, conditions and share options.
College to help strengthen its training in Food Safety, Health and Safety and HACCP, and over 1000 employees The Group employs 3,541 permanent members of staff are currently involved in NVQ training at various levels.
compared with 3,428 the previous year.
Permanent staff levels are supplemented to take account of promotional Environment or seasonal activity by a further 1200 agency personnel.
Careful auditing of the supplying agencies is carried out to Following the review of our environmental credentials ensure adherence to best practice, and for food handlers all in 2007, this year has been dedicated to identifying supplying agencies are required to be registered under the improvements and actioning them at a site level.
Base year Gangmasters Licensing Act 2004.
2007 data has been reviewed and our carbon footprint recalculated for 2008.
Process changes at key sites have The business takes the health and safety of its employees resulted in a fall in the comparative carbon footprint very seriously and is committed to high levels of training by 15%, and we are confident that in the medium term to ensure that our factories and processes remain safe we will deliver energy efficiency improvements and and fulfilling places to work.
Health and safety is reviewed landfill reductions to help us meet our carbon reduction regularly at board level, and each site has NEBOSH trained commitments.
managers to take local responsibility and carry out risk assessments, training, accident investigation and reduction Environmental progress at site and Group level is activities.
This information is centrally logged into a database measured and reported to the Board against performance which is managed, coordinated and reported on by the Group benchmarks for energy efficiency, water usage, and landfill, Health and Safety Manager.
Sites are internally audited to relative to production tonnages.
As awareness of both the ensure that standards are maintained and improved, and the environmental and cost benefits of these improvements Group has committed to accredit all operating sites to meet grows, so does the impetus for change.
Operational directors the British Standard 18001 Occupational Health and Safety are measured against the benchmarks and best practice Management Systems over the next three years.
information is centrally coordinated and communicated around the Group, and discussed at Board level.
Accident rates have shown a decrease over the past four years, and we remain focussed on further reduction in both We continue to work with the Carbon Trust and Envirowise reportable accidents under RIDDOR and total accident rates.
to bring external expertise to the Group.
Longer term Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 35 environmental initiatives and innovative solutions to Key to our food quality is ensuring that our raw materials waste and energy use are now being evaluated.
One site meat, ingredients and packaging are traceable to source has been identified which would support the development and where raw materials are identity preserved we will of wind energy and anaerobic digestion offers a further challenge the supplier to prove their traceability systems environmentally attractive route, either in-house or to our satisfaction.
The approval of our raw material through partnership.
suppliers is centrally controlled and involves independent third party audit or approval by our own Group Technical Our waste stream to landfill has now been significantly Services team.
We are committed to clear informative reduced through Waste to Energy Schemes five sites labelling which allows consumers to make informed have shown a double digit fall in landfill per tonne of purchasing decisions.
production over the last year.
One site in particular has reduced its landfill by over 90% by this route.
As these Cranswicks success has been built on the strength and health and biocomposting schemes are further developed, of the British pig market and the Group has always been a other sites will have a low carbon option for disposing staunch supporter of the British farmer.
Producer groups of an increased proportion of conventional landfill and development initiatives with retailers, farmers and or rendering material.
All sites are now recycling waste agricultural colleges are all aimed at improving the business cardboard and plastic.
relationships throughout the pig production chain to bolster the market against increasing worldwide competition.
Reductions in packaging weights continue through a combination of reduced material thickness and a move The Group does not have a formal policy with regard to away from cardboard sleeves towards printed films.
payment of suppliers, but it does agree individual payment terms appropriate to their market sector and makes every The Cranswick plc website www.
co. uk has endeavour to meet those agreements.
Sites are separately been expanded to cover the environmental initiatives we managed and encouraged to source locally where it serves are taking, entitled Greenthinking.
We encourage an open the Companys best interests.
For instance, approximately approach to these issues, and a question and answer element 70% of our contracted pigs are sourced within 50 miles and contact facilities are provided to help interested parties of our pork processing unit near Hull.
Central purchasing find the appropriate detail at the desired level.
agreements for major purchases of raw materials and consumables are increasingly being implemented to take Three sites are now certified under the international best advantage of the prevailing markets.
standard for environmental management, ISO14001, with a fourth preparing for accreditation.
For the first time we We register all our production sites on the SEDEX scheme will participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project for 2009 website to enable our customers and suppliers to share www.
net in common with over 70% of the ethical data and assist in continuous performance FTSE350 companies.
Market place Community As a business we recognise our responsibilities to create We encourage our sites to involve themselves in charitable and produce food and other products which are safe, legal activities and participation includes sponsored marathons, and wholesome.
All our food production sites have been cycle rides and other fund raising activities.
Overall some independently audited against the requirements of the 75% of our employees live within 10 miles of their place BRC Global Standard for Food Safety and approved to a of work, so local involvement particularly in rural locations Grade A standard.
Our customer base is heavily focussed can be very beneficial.
on the major retailers and other suppliers into them, both of whom audit and monitor our performance to exacting Cranswick are significant employers in many areas of the standards.
Food safety continues to be paramount and country, and we recognise that as well as being a benefit qualified technical personnel at site level are centrally to the community, we can also be an imposition on our coordinated to ensure that our products and processes immediate neighbours.
Through consultation we aim to meet the increasing demands of our customers.
be sensitive to their needs and take positive steps to limit vehicle movement, noise, odour and other nuisance to coWe aim to offer our customers a range of products exist with and benefit the local economy.
For example, which are ethically acceptable and sustainable.
We have as part of the redevelopment of our pork processing site, actively reduced the level of salt in our products to comply with FSA targets and declare nutritional Guideline Daily we have put in new roads to relieve traffic flow into the Amounts GDA on our branded ranges and own-label outskirts of the village and planted acres of trees to reduce products for our retail customers and we also make a the visual impact of the site.
number of products which are targeted as healthy eating options such as low and reduced fat, including a range for By order of the Board Weight Watchers.
Where allergens are present these are Malcolm Windeatt declared on pack and our range includes products which Company Secretary, are gluten free.
18 May 2009 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 36
