DMGT and Corporate Responsibility 33 DMGT and Corporate Responsibility Reported here is a summary of our Key developments in 2009 activities in this area.
There is a dedicated section on the Group website, www.
DMGT donated 700,000 to charity co. uk, with further information available in 2009. that is updated regularly.
Groups Carbon Footprint reduced We welcome your feedback.
Please send to 110,700 tonnes of CO. 2 any comments to: investor.
Introduction Building schools in Operating through a large number of Responsibility for this area lies with the developing countries global businesses, DMGTs activities are Corporate Social Responsibility Hobsons has worked with educational diverse, with each separate business Committee, a sub-committee of the Board charities for nearly a decade to help providing important channels of which is the forum at which corporate build schools and educational facilities communication and media focus to responsibility is discussed.
The to provide young people in developing different sections of society throughout countries with the learning and life skills Committees remit is to oversee DMGTs the world.
they need to achieve their potential.
environmental, waste, sustainability, employee, customer, supplier and The Group owes much of its success to For the last five years, the company has community practices.
The Board has the entrepreneurial ability of its worked with the charity Plan policies in place on equal opportunities, management teams.
Our businesses International and together they have built whistle-blowing, health and safety, the schools in countries including thrive by allowing local management to environment and in July adopted a Group Guatemala, Kenya, Vietnam and Bolivia.
make local decisions in a local context, Code of Conduct.
Overall responsibility for while benefiting from the global outlook CSR at Board level lies with the Chairman In 2009 Hobsons Plan fundraising and financial resources of the wider efforts helped the Techiman community of the CSR Sub-Committee, Mr Dutton.
Amongst other of these policies are set out on the DMGT activities they raised funds and travelled Intranet.
The success of DMGTs businesses owes to Ghana to help build a new primary so much to understanding and engaging school block with six classrooms, a Environment with the communities that they serve.
This library, and a teachers office: Our main focus is managing the impact of constructed a water storage facility: and allows them to identify the issues relevant our printing centres five in the U. K. and raised funds for computer equipment.
to their customer base and to campaign two in Hungary.
This approach delivers impacts are waste generation benefits to a broad range of stakeholders.
particularly waste newsprint, energy use 5 years measured as part of our Carbon Footprint, The aim of this report and paper purchasing.
The following report provides more detail dmgi has worked with the charity Plan of divisional activities focused around key International for 5 years.
The direct environmental impact from our impact areas of Corporate Responsibility office-based divisions is relatively low.
CR : Our offices around the world practise Environment paper recycling: there are also schemes Waste in place for the recycling of plastic, glass, Sustainability toner cartridges, mobile phones and IT Employees equipment.
All printing centres have Customers environmental management policies.
The Suppliers use of energy, newsprint, ink and plates Community and waste disposal have cost implications and are, therefore, managed for reasons of good business sense, as well as to reduce their environmental impact.
Newsprint production waste, as a percentage of total newspaper output, has fallen this year.
Newsprint production is measured and reported to divisional board meetings on a monthly basis.
Target percentages for waste paper This is based on restated figures resulting from an update are set for each product printed.
This of the emission factors used to calculate DMGTs emissions and the consideration of structural percentage varies according to certain changes that took place in the past years.
com 2009 DMGT and Corporate Responsibility 34 criteria, such as the numbers of copies As a result of both the emission factors required and edition changes.
Actual update and the consideration of structural waste volumes are compared against changes, DMGTs historical emissions budgeted levels, with the results reviewed have changed since last year.
The monthly review at the appropriate board following table summarises the changes: level.
dmg world media original calculations Carbon neutral exhibition Revised emissions 119,300 121,500 121,600 DMGTs carbon footprint considering structural The Big 5 has this year been taking We have employed ICF International to and emission factors significant strides towards becoming carry out a Carbon Footprint Analysis changes Dubais first carbon neutral exhibition.
This exercise has been Working with EcoVentures, the Middle undertaken every year since 2006 using This year, we calculated that the Groups Easts top emissions reductions firm, the the widely recognised GHG protocol Carbon Footprint was 110,700 tonnes of leading international building and CO methodology developed by the World, a decrease of about 10,800 tonnes 2 construction show is aiming to restrict Resource Institute and the World 9% compared to the baseline 121,500 its environmental impact by having any tCO Business Council for Sustainable.
About 15% of this total corresponds 2 emissions associated with the event Development.
All DMGT divisions and to Scope 1 emissions, 62% Scope 2 reduced to net zero.
countries of operations are covered.
The emission sources included in the Carbon Building on EcoVentures greenhouse The reduction in emissions comes from gas assessment dmg world media, Footprint are the following: through a combination of internal the fact some offices and printing sites emissions reductions and the purchase closed during the year and that printing Scope 1 emissions: direct emissions of offsets, is reducing carbon emissions output has decreased.
But it also reflects Buildings gas and fuel in specific emission-reduction projects new travel policies and energy efficiency consumptions in other locations to counteract the measures that have been implemented Company owned vehicles unavoidable emissions generated by across the Group in particular in printing Refrigerant gas losses the event.
facilities which represent an important part of our footprint.
Scope 2 emissions: indirect emissions resulting from the use of electricity DMGT is committed to reducing its 1st emissions and we have embarked upon a Scope 3 emissions: other indirect The Big 5 aims to become Dubais comprehensive strategy to manage our emissions first carbon neutral exhibition.
The Group has Business travel air, car, rail committed to reducing its Footprint by Outsourced delivery activities 10% from the baseline year of 2007 by the end of 2012.
This year, we updated the emissions factors used to calculate DMGTs emissions based on the latest figures Sustainability provided by the GHG protocol methodology We believe that the issues surrounding and the U. K. Government guidelines.
As sustainability offer our businesses part of this process, we have revised opportunities, aligning our interests with previous years footprints as per the those of society as a whole.
continually investigating how to employ more sustainable practices.
Due to a number of structural changes that took place within DMGT recently, we Employees also revised the baseline 2007 and the DMGT is an equal opportunities employer historical emissions so as to reflect and is committed to creating a positive disposals and acquisitions that have working environment for employees occurred since the baseline has been within the Group.
DMGT is organised into a established.
number of autonomous businesses, each with their own policies and practices across a range of employee issues.
Training and development is taken seriously across DMGT.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2009 DMGT and Corporate Responsibility 35 As in recent years the Group has had no Internal communication fines or prosecutions for health and safety A variety of approaches to staff failures over the last 12 months.
communications exist within the Group, including: While the Chief Executive has overall A Group-wide intranet, DMGT Connect, responsibility for health and safety supported by numerous intranets matters throughout DMGT day-to-day within each business responsibility is devolved to the managing A DMGT Chief Executive blog, begun in Risk Management Solutions directors of each division.
October 2009 Regular communication events and Earthquake research project briefings Customers Researchers at Risk Management Face-to-face meetings Solutions have begun a two-phase Editorial standards project to address the humanitarian Programmes related to specific key There are a number of standard-setting impacts of future earthquakes on six of events such as major changes in bodies that have established codes to the most at-risk South American capital operations or equipment which DMGTs consumer media divisions cities.
The objective of the first phase of Regular staff e surveys in many of our adhere.
the project is to quantify the businesses, providing employees with humanitarian and economic risk for each opportunities to suggest areas of The main code for the Groups U. K. of the capital cities.
This will be provided improvement.
newspapers is established and monitored in the form of expected losses for a specific likely scenario earthquake and by the Press Complaints Commission.
The in a probabilistic format exceedance Health and safety newspapers also adhere to the Code of probability curves.
Impacts to be A health and safety policy applies across Practice of Newspaper and Magazine quantified include: total economic DMGT, endeavouring to ensure the health, Publishing.
dmg radio complies with the losses, potential fatalities, potential safety and welfare of its employees, and Australian Communications and Media serious injuries, and the number of all others who could be affected by its Authority Codes of Conduct and the displaced households.
Commercial Radio Codes of Practice and quantitative analyses are designed to Broadcasting Services Act.
provide objective and comparative data Across the Group there are many on humanitarian impacts for the various cities.
The projects goal is to focus examples of good practice, health and Responding to reader, viewer attention on what is an increasing safety management systems, the use of and listener needs problem throughout South America and independent consultants and initiatives Remaining in touch with the diverse much of the developing world.
In the focused on business-specific health and groups who make up our communities so second phase they plan to implement safety risk areas.
An example of health as to reflect their interests and champion mitigation solutions through and safety good practice is at Associated partnerships with public agencies, NGOs their causes is critical to DMGTs success.
Newspapers, which has a policy designed and other local stakeholders to promote to work with OHSAS 18001 the actions that lead to life safety and reduce Reader, viewer and listener satisfaction is Occupational Health and Safety Standard.
monitored and handled in a number of ways, including timely responses to Health and safety is particularly critical in complaints, readership surveys and other our printing press facilities, all of which processes to receive feedback actively Six have appropriate policies, and ongoing from customers.
management and monitoring of South Americas most at risk capital programmes.
cities will be the focus of RMSs earthquake research project.
com 2009 DMGT and Corporate Responsibility 36 DMGT and Corporate Responsibility Continued Within the established editorial Community framework, editors and journalists have Community involvement is integral to our the freedom to operate as appropriate.
business, as well as to the personal Compliance with editorial standards is motivation of our employees.
We donate strictly monitored within the divisions in money, time and in-kind donations such several ways, including compliance as radio airtime and advertising space, committees, editorial responsibility, and staff actively give time to activities, compliance audits and training.
including fundraising and acting as Associated Newspapers trustees.
Suppliers Financial Mail Womens Forum We are aware of the responsibility we have The use of media channels and activities The Financial Mail Womens Forum was along the supply chain, in particular for for fundraising is driven through formed in 2001 to help as many women newsprint, one of our largest purchases.
participation in the communities that we as possible reach the highest ranks in British business and to support them We continually review the environmental serve and the concerns and contributions with the most relevant news and credentials of paper suppliers and the of our audience.
features coverage, advice and sourcing of their products.
The network Group charitable donations are allocated for senior women in business, politics, Where virgin fibres are used in paper by a Charities Committee at DMGT, as well the arts and public service is an offshoot manufacture, we require that the forests as being made on a smaller scale by of Financial Mail on Sunday and meets are certified either by the Forest divisional and local management.
It is one of the most highly Stewardship Council or the Pan European Committee prefers to make donations to regarded initiatives of its kind in the Forestry Commission, both of which run media and local charities where there is country and works closely with a series of other womens organisations.
schemes that provide credible guarantees an employee representative who will that the product comes from well sponsor and report back on the impact the Realising Financial Mails mission to managed forests.
improve financial education, FMWF is publishing a newsletter for the 12,000 DMGT sources its paper mainly from women who leave prison each year to European mills, all of which hold the provide basic personal finance environmental management standard information as well as offering ISO14001.
In line with the Newspaper inspirational stories of achievement by Industry Materials Committee policy, the former offenders coupled with a wide range of advice.
The website will provide Group sources 64.1% of its virgin fibre template letters for the women to products from managed sources.
download to help with job and bank account applications and FMWF hopes to Some of our businesses have a Supplier establish a nationwide network to help Policy: for example Landmark them fill in the necessary paperwork to Informations policy states that the apply for benefits and schooling for their company believes in sourcing goods and children.
Financial problems are a factor services from suppliers who operate in an for the vast majority of women in prison, ethical way.
A&N Media aims to acquire and offering a guide for those completing their sentences is a practical goods and services from reputable contribution towards reducing the companies with a sound financial and causes of re-offending.
ethical background, ensuring where possible goods are obtained from sustainable sources.
We aim to work with organisations that 12,000 share our principles and aspirations.
women leaving prison each year could benefit from FMWFs financial newsletter.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2009 Board of Directors 37 Board of Directors and secretary 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 1 THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE CHAIRMAN 6 P M DACRE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 11 D J VEREY, CBE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE Aged 42 Aged 61 DIRECTOR Lord Rothermere was appointed to the Board in 1995 Paul Dacre was appointed to the Board in 1998, having Aged 58 and appointed Chairman in 1998, having joined the joined the Group in 1979.
He has been editor of the Daily David Verey was appointed to the Board in 2004 and Group in 1994.
He is a non-executive director of Mail since 1992 and editor-in-chief of Associated chairman of the Audit Committee on 31st July, 2009.
He Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.
Newspapers since 1998. is a non-executive director of LMS Capital plc and was formerly chairman of the Blackstone Group U. K. and 2 M W H MORGAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE 7 P M FALLON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR chairman of Lazard, London.
AGED 59 IRISH: Aged 63 Martin Morgan was appointed to the Board as Chief Padraic Fallon was appointed to the Board in 1999.
He is 12 K J BEATTY EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Executive and became a non-executive director of chairman of Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.
He Aged 52 Euromoney Institutional Investor plc on 1st October, joined Euromoney in 1974 as editor and was managing Kevin Beatty was appointed to the Board in 2004, having 2008, having joined the Group in 1989.
He was director from 1985 to 1992. joined the Group in 1996.
He is chief executive of A&N previously chief executive of dmg information.
Media and managing director of Associated 8 C W DUNSTONE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE Newspapers.
He was managing director of Northcliffe 3 J P WILLIAMS FCA FINANCE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR Newspapers between 2001 and 2004.
Aged 56 Aged 45 Peter Williams was appointed to the Board as Group Charles Dunstone was appointed to the Board in 2001.
13 N W BERRY INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE Finance Director in 1991, having joined the Group in He is founder and chief executive of the Carphone DIRECTOR 1982.
He is an alternate director of Euromoney Warehouse Group plc.
Aged 67 Institutional Investor plc and a non-executive director Nicholas Berry was appointed to the Board in February of Ibis Media VCT plc.
He is chairman of Stancroft Trust with wide DIRECTOR experience in media and investment in emerging 4 J G HEMINGWAY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR PORTUGUESE: Aged 72 markets.
Aged 78 Francisco Balsemo was appointed to the Board in John Hemingway was appointed to the Board in 1978.
He is chairman and chief executive of IMPRESA, 14 D H NELSON, ACA NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR He is an independent solicitor.
S. G. P. S, chairman of the European Publishers Council Aged 46 and a former prime minister of Portugal.
David Nelson was appointed to the Board on 1st July, 5 D M M DUTTON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 2009.
He is senior partner of Dixon Wilson, Chartered Aged 67 10 T S GILLESPIE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Accountants.
David Dutton was appointed to the Board in 1997.
He CANADIAN: Aged 71 advises the Group on property matters and is chairman Tom Gillespie was appointed to the Board in 2004.
15 N D JENNINGS, FCA SECRETARY of dmg information.
He is a former senior partner of Ogilvy Renault and Aged 50 has advised the Group on legal matters in Canada for Nicholas Jennings was appointed Company Secretary many years.
in 1999, having joined the Group in 1988.
He is also responsible for investor relations.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Finance Committee Member of the Risk Committee www.
