Business review Our people Employees by location % We employ a total of 108 people across our principal operating locations, with 35 staff based in Aberdeen, 20 in Oslo and 53 in Cairo.
In addition, the Group has a shared responsibility Egypt UK for the 255 staff of East Zeit Petroleum Company Zeitco, the Norway 108 Egyptian joint venture run by the Group and Egyptian General employees Petroleum Corporation.
The core employee base however remains relatively small, and the Group recognises the importance of ensuring that we retain, maintain and develop a highly motivated workforce.
Emphasis is therefore placed on a number of key employment principles: Employees by gender Key employment principles Male Promoting a culture of responsibility and accountability Female Rewarding people and performance by offering competitive compensation and benefits Employees by contract Full time Providing and maintaining a safe environment for all employees and promoting high standards of health and safety Part time Equal opportunities to all employees without discrimination Employees by age Flexibility in employment arrangements 21-30 Ongoing skills development 31-40 41-50 Open two-way communication is encouraged 51-60 60 Approximately one third of the core work force are female and, particularly in the UK and Norway, almost 7% of staff work on a part-time basis, predominantly providing flexibility to manage child care arrangements.
Also, apart from the three core nationalities, the Group employs a further Employees by nationality five different nationalities, reflecting both the global nature of the oil and gas business and the British geographic diversity of the Groups activity.
Norwegian Reliance on such a small core team, demands an experienced workforce.
This is borne out by the age demographics of the employee base that shows two-thirds of all employees are in the French 31-50 years of age category.
German Responsibility for employees rests with the local management rather than a central Group Egyptian function.
This allows the local cultural issues to be appropriately managed, and the necessary development and performance programmes to be structured according to the needs of the local US business activity.
Senior staff recruitment, remuneration and reward require to be agreed at the Australian Group level.
Danish 28 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 a highly focus on motivated core skills development team dedicated maximising industry personal potential professionals 29 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview Business review Our people continued Norway in focus In June 2007 Dana acquired all the outstanding shares of Ener Petroleum ASA, accessing a well established company with a 45% interest in the producing Jotun field and an expanding exploration portfolio in the prolific Norwegian Continental Shelf NCS.
In 2008 the Norwegian team was enhanced with the recruitment of several highly experienced sub-surface professionals and pre-qualified as an Operator on the NCS.
Now with a team of 20, Dana has significantly strengthened its position in Norway.
Building our business in 2009 and beyond: strong production from the Jotun field Fulla gas discovery Jetta oil discovery addition of 2 licences in 20th round May 2009 addition of 8 blocks in 6 licences in APA awards January 2010 Storkollen Dana 25% prospect spudding Q2 2010 30 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Rune Skogen MBA left Chief Finance Officer Rune joined the Company in 2007 with 15 years experience with a number of companies, including Total and Endeavour.
John M Dahlen MBA centre Country Manager & CEO With 33 years industry experience, John co-founded Ener Petroleum ASA and previously held CEO positions in Northern Oil, PGS Nopec and DNO.
Claus Frimann-Dahl BSc right Chief Operating Officer Also a co-founder of Ener, Claus has 23 years technical and management experience with Phillips Petroleum, Norsk Hydro and Amerada Hess.
Performance Professional HS&E Team building management training training and cultural The Company has Dana stresses continuous Rolled out the HS&E Frequent staff gatherings are implemented a performance professional development management system to all held to communicate key management system and through active use staff and arranged basic business messages including performance of technical courses and awareness training thereon Off-site team building events contracts and personal seminars seeks to promote Arranged HS&E induction are held plans.
Salary adjustments creativity and being in the courses for all employees and bonus payments are forefront of state-of-the-art performance based technologies.
The technical All personnel passed Risk team consists mostly of very Assessment training experienced geologists and HS&E incident investigation geophysicists supported TOPSET training arranged by several engineering for key personnel professionals from subsurface to topsides First aid training performed by safety delegates Emphasis is put on leading-edge interpretation Safety day arranged for all techniques to get more out personnel focusing on first of subsurface data aid, nutrition and stress awareness Advanced tools are used to spur initiative and creativity in each professional 31 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
