Business review Corporate & social responsibility The Group has budgeted to spend The Company also continues to support As Dana grows and approximately 100,000 on an annual basis staff who are actively involved in charitable develops, the Company and and during the year the focus of giving was organisations and activities including local its employees recognise again in areas where a significant difference football and cricket clubs, organising local can be made as a result of either direct fun runs and charity balls.
their collective and individual involvement, or supporting high quality During 2009, Dana increased its focus on the responsibilities as corporate organisations with funding.
Specific examples issue of carbon emissions and their impact of Danas involvement in the last year are: citizens.
This has created on global climate change.
As most of Danas a strong corporate culture The Company continued its support of interests are in assets operated by others, the Aberdeen Foyer, a highly respected and Dana has relatively few staff, its direct underpinned by ethical values charity established in 1995 to prevent and carbon emissions are relatively low, hence which we apply wherever we alleviate homelessness and unemployment the opportunities for mitigation are limited.
amongst vulnerable 16-25 year olds living in However, Dana has undertaken a number of operate and with whomever North East Scotland.
The charity continues initiatives in relation to carbon emissions as we meet.
to thrive, making a real difference to the follows: prospects of many young people.
Dana now operates in seven Improved video-conferencing facilities Donation to VSA Young Carers charity in Aberdeen and encouragement to use countries, employing national specifically to fund week long residential video and tele-conferencing will lower staff and carrying out work outward bound courses in the Scottish carbon emissions with the added benefit highlands for hugely-deserving young of reducing staff travel and their time away activities close to local carers who, as a result of their dedication to from the office and home.
The Company the wellbeing of family members, often miss Carbon offsetting of business flights across recognises the potential out on the fun and excitement of childhood.
Emissions were calculated at impact of its presence and Financial support for local sporting clubs to 275.2 tonnes of carbon and 295.3 tonnes encourage and facilitate healthy life choices of carbon dioxide.
To offset this impact takes its responsiblities for children and young adults.
and also provide additional positive to people and their living investment, 715 trees were purchased A continuation of the monthly provision of environments very seriously.
through the Carbon Footprint initiative for food parcels for some of Cairos poorest tree planting in Kenya.
environmental values and actively promotes sustainability to local communities in an Fielding of a team in the annual BG Egypt area which may otherwise be challenged.
Not only did they enjoy a superb team-building Continued involvement in the Carbon experience, but they also raised $15,000 Disclosure project including, for the first towards CAREs work in Upper Egypt.
time in 2009, disclosure of Danas results.
Local support for NGOs and schools in the Risk assessment of potential impact of villages neighbouring the onshore drilling climate change on the Companys business.
The Company also commits to achieving Following discovery of possible burial efficiency gains wherever possible including mounds along the transportation route ongoing participation in projects in Egypt to our onshore Taj-1 well at Bouanane, to convert to gas power generation from Morocco, Dana committed to support diesel generation, drilling of water wells the archaeological mapping of those to minimise transportation of water to cultural sites.
production sites and, in the UK, seeking to further reduce oil in produced water from Norway donations continued Danas focus the Hudson facilities.
on healthy lifestyles for children, funding the purchase of musical instruments for local school bands, equipment for local football clubs, a bandy team and a water polo club.
Donations also funded training for a local dance group, altogether engaging several hundred children.
32 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 encouraging raising funds healthy choices for local charities with support for local sports clubs carbon helping young offsetting with tree carers enjoy the planting in Kenya outdoors 33 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
