CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Overview People We believe that Corporate Responsibility is where businesses Providing a working environment that is conducive to the take responsibility for the impact of their activities on recruitment and retention of the widest possible range of talented customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, communities staff.
Offering them a safe and healthy place of work.
We wish and the environment.
This is beyond the statutory obligation to be recognised as a good employer aiming to reward people to comply with legislation, with businesses voluntarily improving fairly and to provide equality of opportunity, personal development or minimising the impact of their operations.
As a specialist electrical retailer, we are well placed to manage an Communities effective approach to Corporate Responsibility that pursues profitable Working for our customers and local communities, contributing growth while enhancing our brand equity.
to community activities in the areas we serve.
Currently, our activities are locally driven, reecting customer demands and market sensitivities.
We are, however, developing a common Supply chain approach with minimum standards for all the Groups businesses.
Customers increasingly expect that retailers should have procedures During the year we established a dedicated Corporate Responsibility in place to ensure that the products they sell have been ethically team comprising senior managers from each of the operating produced from beginning to end.
Chaired by the Groups Company Secretary, the team meet on a quarterly basis to share best practices and develop practical Many of our electrical products are sourced through the major performance measures that can be adopted by all the businesses international brands who have their own strong ethical and in the medium term.
Best practices shared during the year included environmental policies in place.
training lms, after-sales service from the call centres and the promotion of energy efficient product ranges.
We do not have significant operations or retail outlets in countries that present a material risk from bribery or corruption, poor labour All the Groups initiatives fall into four key areas: standards or protection of civil or political rights.
However, some of our suppliers do.
We are determined that the respect for human Supply chain rights in our own operations should be matched by the companies Improving labour, environmental and social practices in the Groups and organisations with whom we do business.
supply chain, by ensuring that our suppliers and business partners are made aware of our requirements and take all reasonable steps Whether we are dealing with major brands or sourcing from elsewhere to ensure they are met.
we ensure that our products have been tested for safety, health and environmental issues.
At the same time our policy is to work Environment in partnership with our suppliers to help them reduce their impact on Improving the Groups use of energy, the impact of our transport the environment and to manage the challenges of sustainable growth.
eet and our use of bulk materials such as paper and packaging.
By minimising waste, increasing energy efficiency and reducing The Group sources its own-label products from factories that are our consumption of materials.
committed to improving workers welfare and reducing environmental LESS ENERGY, LOWER COST The Group has responsibility for helping customers understand the energy consumption and associated costs of product use and actively promotes and markets energy efficient products that minimise emissions of CO. Year-on-year sales 2 figures demonstrate the increasing demand for this information as sales of A-rated fridges and freezers rise.
The Group was also the first retailer in the UK to test the energy efficiency of all the televisions, DVD players and computers it sells and then promote the better performing products in both stores and online.
14 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 impact.
We believe that every link of the supply chain should benefit In addition, we were the first retailer in the UK to test the energy from the trade in our products.
efficiency of all the televisions, DVD players and computers we sell and then promote the better performing products in both stores and online.
We have two kinds of audit procedures which are designed to ensure proper environmental standards in our factories and to monitor the We also aim to reduce the amount of packaging we use and quality of our products in this respect.
These are known as the Factory ensure that it can be recycled.
We collect all waste packaging when Audit and the Final Random Inspection.
During the year the number delivering a household appliance unless the customer requests of Factory audits for new suppliers rose to 77 and the number of otherwise.
In France, Holland and Belgium we have specialised inspections increased to 3,050. equipment that compresses all polystyrene packaging collected from customers homes to make it easier to be recycled.
We have an experienced quality team based in China which carries out regular factory audits to ensure that they meet the strict social, In France, packaging waste is also collected from the warehouses environmental and supply chain standards we require.
We know the and after sales service centres and last year alone we recycled identity of all our suppliers and where their products are being made.
The dedicated team has been strengthened during the year with the As a further environmental measure, we are consciously trying to appointment of an additional senior manager so that it can also carry minimise the emissions from our transport operations.
We have out random inspections of goods before shipments are made to ensure modied our logistics operation to achieve a more efficient use of the that quality standards are being maintained.
They also coordinate transport eet.
We also make use of satellite navigation systems to new product development which includes working between quality improve our delivery schedules.
This not only reduces the distance engineers in Shenzhen and our quality assurance laboratory based our vans travel but also provides our customers with more predictable in the UK.
Environment The ongoing rapid development of new technology creates increasing As a specialist electrical retailer, we have a relatively low direct high levels of hazardous electronic and electrical waste which is the environmental impact, but we still wish to minimise the environmental background for the introduction of the WEEE Directive.
Its aim is to impact of all our operations throughout the Group.
We also want to minimise the impact of electrical and electronic equipment on the ensure that neither our products nor our operations adversely affect environment when those products eventually become waste.
In order the health of our customers, our employees or the community at large.
to sell products within the EU manufacturers must now demonstrate compliance with the new regulations.
This means that electrical retailers We actively promote and market energy efficient products that minimise must extend their take back facilities to cover all categories, including emissions of CO.
Figures for the past year show that we are again smaller appliances such as kettles and microwaves.
2 selling an increasing number of A-rated fridges and freezers.
This demonstrates the success of our in-store customer information and the professional advice our sales staff provide.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 15 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY As a specialist electrical retailer with integrated stores, warehouses and home delivery platforms, we have been offering for many years, as part of our customer service, many of the requirements the regulations introduced.
In France we have an award-winning recycling programme for end of life products that has been in operation for over 20 years.
People As a specialist retailer committed to the best customer service, one of .
Wehavesome27,000 employees across Europe and we want them all to have satisfying and rewarding careers within the Group.
By respecting and valuing our employees we engage their talents and abilities to the fullest extent.
GROUP CR POLICIES We have platforms for our employees to be heard, and we value their input on how the business is being run.
Our communication channels As a specialist electrical retailer the Group is well include regular workers councils where issues are discussed with placed to manage an effective approach to corporate representatives from across the organisation.
We also have many other responsibility that pursues profitable growth while forums for discussion and we regularly conduct employee surveys which enhancing brand equity.
allow management to take a wide range of viewpoints into account.
Currently, activities are locally driven, reflecting Our training programmes to provide our people with the opportunities customer demands and market sensitivities but to develop their skills, achieve rewarding careers within the Group and the Group is developing a common approach with better serve our customers.
By assessing their abilities and ambitions minimum standards for all the Groups businesses.
we gain a better understanding of their specic training needs.
We are A dedicated corporate responsibility team closely monitoring the number of training days we provide to ensure comprising senior managers from each of the that we are meeting our goals, and we are pleased to report that these operating companies is now established.
Chaired have increased over the past year.
by the Groups Company Secretary, the team share best practices and develop practical performance We promote health, safety and welfare for both colleagues and measures that can be adopted by all the businesses.
customers across all our sites, and we have a team of advisors who monitor and report to our Company Secretary on these issues.
We have Best practices shared during the year included established key performance indicators for accidents at work and the training films, after-sales service from the call centres number of accidents is being steadily reduced year on year.
and the promotion of energy efficient product ranges.
We have established a written Code of Conduct which outlines the ethical standards we expect from all employees of companies within the Group.
This includes both permanent and contract staff and any external consultants or suppliers we retain.
Communities As a group, we have more than 700 stores, warehouses and regional and head ofces across 12 European countries, and we are committed to working with the many communities this represents.
We work in partnership with outside organisations to address a number of longstanding social issues and we support a range of different charities on a regional basis.
In France we have a long-standing reputation for helping the disadvantaged.
Through our ENVIE programme over 6,000 previously long-term unemployed have been trained in the repair of electrical products.
During a two-year programme, trainees practice on endof-life products collected from customers.
Once repaired, these are then sold from ENVIE stores at heavily discounted prices.
Also in France we annually donate 38,000 to the Fondation Pasteur Weizman for medical research and 70,000 to Telemaque, which helps young people from disadvantaged homes pursue their education.
16 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 In the UK we raise money for the Make a Wish foundation through a wide range of employee initiatives and schemes.
We have been working together since January 2006 and to date have raised 450,000.
In Holland we signed a three-year contract in 2008 with the World Wildlife Foundation WWF for a total of 450,000.
In return for supplying necessary funds for the foundation, we use the WWF logo to promote energy efficient products in our stores.
In Belgium and France we raise funds through the sale of toy models of our after-sales service vans.
While in the Czech Republic we plant a tree on behalf of every customer who purchases goods over the value of 50.
This is helping rebuild a community that was destroyed a few years ago when a major storm attened thousands of trees.
Performance criteria As part of our commitment to Corporate Responsibility, we have set targets and objectives that we expect our companies to meet and we review their appropriateness regularly.
To help us assess and monitor progress against these targets, we use key performance indicators in non-financial areas.
The focus for the past two financial years has been: 1 The number of days spent on staff training As a specialist electrical retailer, it is important that we create a working environment that is conducive to the recruitment and retention of talented staff who have excellent customers service skills and product knowledge.
2 The number of accidents or injuries to staff The provision of a safe and healthy place of work for our staff is a primary concern and key responsibility.
3 The percentage of energy efficient, A-rated products sold Energy label ratings on fridge freezers help our customers choose more efficient models.
A-rated products use the least amount of energy thereby benefiting both our customers and the environment.
4 The number of tonnes of packaging waste collected and recycled Through our distribution channels and warehouses we can efficiently collect our customers waste for recycling.
12 months to 12 months to 30 April 2009 30 April 2008 Staff training 83,023 64,352 Accidents injuries 1,995 2,021 A-rated products 89.3% 81.6% Package waste tonnes 49,763 40,641 Percentage of fridge freezer sales which are A-rated.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 17
