41 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility fide La Rue is committed to sound Corporate Following its review of Lord Woolfs Responsibility CR policies and business recommendations, the Board will itself practices as part of its business strategy.
take responsibility for reputational matters The Corporate Responsibility section while the process for appointing sales of the website www.
com has agents and consultants will be centralised more information about CR in fide La Rue.
and the General Counsel & Company Secretary will be responsible for ensuring Accountability and Management that proper due diligence has been done.
Processes Continued training of relevant employees The Board is ultimately responsible for has been undertaken and will continue to assessing the effect potential CR issues be a significant feature.
may have on fide La Rues business and setting appropriate policies for the Group.
The Companys whistle blowing policy Details of the Board structure and of its and procedures enable employees who Committees are set out on pages 52 to 57. have concerns about the application of The Chief Executive is the Board member the Code or business practices within with designated responsibility for CR.
the Group to raise them internally or The Operating Board is responsible for anonymously through an independently the day to day management of these run telephone helpline.
The Board and Operating Board Audit Committee receive details about receive monthly reports on CR issues.
any issue raised and how it has been They are also discussed in the quarterly followed up.
Each year the Audit Committee Risk Committee meetings.
reviews the policy and procedures.
The Environment, Health and Safety Employees EHS Steering Group, chaired by the Following the divestment of the Cash Company Secretary, is responsible for Systems Division, the Group now employs setting EHS strategy for the Group, approximately 4,000 staff in 24 countries.
responding to regulatory developments, See page 24 for KPIs.
developing appropriate procedures and disseminating information on With the smaller, more focused Group good practice to Group businesses.
structure, the leadership team is concentrating on the benefits and synergies Policies and Procedures Business of greater collaboration and process sharing Code of Conduct the Code across the businesses.
Under the umbrella fide La Rues Business Code of Conduct, of One fide La Rue, teams are working on revised in September 2007, is the action plans in six key areas: Our Customers, cornerstone of its approach to Corporate Our Innovation, Our Performance, Our Responsibility.
All employees must receive Contribution, Our Communication and a personal copy of, and comply with, the Our People.
It defines fide La Rues core values and principles for doing business, dealing The Operating Board continues its talent with issues such as share dealing review process whereby at least three times procedures, competition law, compliance a year senior line managers or functional rules, ethical dealings with governments, job holders, as well as new talent within the customers, suppliers and third parties, Group, are identified and reviewed so that protecting the Groups assets, avoiding succession planning is managed in a conflicts of interest, health and safety and structured way.
The Code is supplemented by more detailed policies and procedures Group communication processes have and by training relevant employees.
The been reviewed and continue to promote Code, policies and procedures are also on employee involvement through a policy the Companys intranet as well as being of communication and consultation by the publicly available on the Companys leadership team and business managers.
Managers must ensure that their Senior managers are engaged in a series staff are properly briefed on the Code and of site communication and work shadowing fide La Rues policies and procedures.
New initiatives to broaden business understanding induction processes have been rolled out and engagement with employees.
In addition together with more in depth training of to the Company newsletter, the intranet and senior managers and the sales force in more traditional house notices, the Chief relation to third parties and avoiding Executive issues a regular electronic article conflicts of interest.
on key business issues to all employees who have the opportunity to respond directly to him.
42 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Continued Following the second employee survey The Groups web based HR management undertaken in 2007, focus groups have system continues to add value throughout been actively building on the high scores the Group, streamlining core HR for levels of engagement with customers, management processes and enhancing focus on results and delivery of products the HR management reporting capability.
and services, as well as implementing many initiatives combining charitable To the extent permitted by relevant local giving, team building and social events.
laws, the Group monitors data on staff All businesses have been engaged in diversity to help it review policies and improving their recruitment and promotion improve best practice.
processes both as a result of survey feedback and the need for increased Charitable Donations manning at a number of sites following Donations for charitable purposes the introduction of 24 7 working.
For amounting to 144,000 2008: 79,000 example, Overton Mill runs a formal were made during the year.
This included apprenticeship scheme in mechanical and a donation of 75,000 in Kenya following electrical engineering and instrumentation the civil unrest in early 2008. which includes outside training.
The Group has launched a major leadership The fide La Rue Charitable Trust also aims development initiative which is being to direct funds to appropriate causes introduced across all sites with positive where fide La Rue operates, emphasising feedback from participants.
Local surveys educational projects promoting relevant of progress against survey topics are skills, international understanding or showing encouraging results and a further relieving suffering.
Customers fide La Rues productivity programme The customer survey programme, Net My Contribution continues to generate Promoters, is now an accepted tool more than one idea per employee across for all four business units for getting the Group.
The programme, now in customer feedback.
its fifth year, is being relaunched as Our Contribution to place even greater Suppliers emphasis on teamwork and cross fide La Rue continues to apply a consistent functional and cross business collaboration set of procurement policies and processes and productivity improvement.
The most to deliver accountability, sustainable value significant initiatives will be recognised at for money and continuous improvement the 4th Spotlight event which will be held while enabling the Group to fulfil its legal in Malta in September 2009. and financial obligations and effectively manage risk.
In particular, we expect our fide La Rue is committed to the fair and suppliers to share our CR values and equitable treatment of all its employees commitment to ISO standards for EHS in recruitment, training, promotion and performance based on the SA8000 global in terms and conditions of employment social accountability standard.
The EHS irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, risk management and business continuity religious beliefs, age, colour, ethnic or racial processes of many major Tier 1 suppliers origin, nationality, disability or trade union have been audited with a positive response membership.
If an employee becomes to requests for improvements.
disabled when in the Groups employment, full support is given through the provision FTSE4 Good Index of special training, equipment or other fide La Rue is also a member of the FTSE4 resources to facilitate continued employment Good Index, the responsible investment wherever possible.
All managers are index calculated by Global Index Provider required to ensure that employees FTSE Group.
understand their responsibility for the active implementation of the Groups Further details can be found on the policies.
fide La Rues Human Rights, Corporate Responsibility section of Equal Opportunities, Anti-Harassment the Companys website.
and Stress policies are available on the Companys website.
43 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility in Action The Group encourages its employees to participate in community projects.
Kenya computer recycling Sri Lanka house Overton Mill Water Recycling Project and school exercise books fide La Rue Lanka employees decided Water is vital to the cotton preparation Employees at the Kenya factory have to donate a group prize to a good and banknote paper-making process been involved in a number of community cause rather than spend it on an at the Overton site.
This project aims help programmes.
One such scheme employee event.
to recycle and reuse water in as many involves the donation of redundant areas around the mill as possible computer equipment to disadvantaged At the time a temporary worker at the without affecting product quality.
schools in poor urban and rural areas.
site was living in a timber shack with his wife and three children so the The Effluent Treatment Plant can divert Personal computer usage is growing employees put the money towards some of the final discharge of effluent rapidly in Kenya but, due to lack of funds, building this family a permanent water through a filtration process for little provision is made in schools for pupils home see below.
The remainder to use computers and there are no options of the water is cleaned before being for disposing of old equipment.
The In addition to personal financial donations, discharged into the River Test see below Nairobi site is involved in the Computers matched by the Company, employees which is a protected Site of Special for Schools Kenya CFSK initiative which also helped build the house and donated Scientific Interest SSSI.
arranges the collection, refurbishment and books and clothing.
donation of used computer equipment The whole of the paper stock preparation to disadvantaged schools.
area including the linter processing plant now runs on recycled water.
There are In addition, the Nairobi factory provides two paper-making machines that can local schools see below with exercise run on recycled water as well as using books made from recycled nonrecycled water for the cooling processes watermarked paper.
Previously this and for sealing vacuum pumps.
In paper would have been destroyed.
addition, most of the steam condensate is returned back to the boiler house for Both these initiatives help schools reduce reuse, resulting in a reduced need for their costs and reduce waste in Kenya.
chemicals and in energy and water savings.
The volume of recycled water that is used every year is improving with further benefits to be realised in the future.
See page 25 for more information on our environmental performance.
44 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Continued Progress against 2008 2009 EHS Significant EHS Activities in 2008 2009 objectives The Group continued to invest in lifting equipment and in providing training to All risk assessment programmes reduce lifting and carrying injuries as reviewed part of our Manual Handling risk reduction programme.
Two more sites achieved OHSAS 18001 certification The four day IOSH Managing Safely training course is provided for first line Manual Handling risk reduction managers and supervisors whilst many programmes implemented senior executives have also attended recognised health and safety training.
Tracking of carbon measurement initiated Other EHS key actions have been: Compliance to SA8000 principles professional skin awareness and skin validated in main supply chains care programmes at the larger, higher risk sites: completed Some progress made safety reviews of machinery and No progress the implementation of improvements identified to reduce machinery risks initially at the larger sites but to 2009 2010 objectives be rolled out to the smaller sites in 2009 2010: Implement an updated road risk management programme all business units reviewed to validate compliance with SA8000 Social Implement an updated travel risk Accountability principles and all main management programme suppliers are now asked to comply with this: Continue with our carbon measurement and aim to reduce our impact environmental awareness training on waste recycling, energy and our duties of care regarding the environment: replacing Ozone Depleting Substances within our site refrigeration systems by system replacement or ODS substitution: calculating Currencys carbon footprint: One gross tonne of banknote paper is 3.04tCO e. 2 abstracting water from Overtons boreholes rather than using mains water reduces the on site carbon footprint by 1200tCO e per annum.
2 45 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Environment, Health and Safety to ISO14001 for their Environmental 14064.
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is We continually strive to minimise our Management System and OHSAS 18001 the most widely used international accounting adverse impact on the environment for their Health and Safety Management tool for government and businesses.
The and to safeguard the health and safety System in a phased programme.
Twelve Level One footprint calculation includes the of those affected by our operations.
out of 14 manufacturing sites of the combustion of fuels, that is: natural gas, See KPIs on page 25. current business have achieved and fuel oils and purchased grid electricity and are maintaining ISO14001 certification owned transport energy consumption.
Over Our Environment Health and Safety through regular external audits.
This 50 per cent relates to gas or electricity used assurance comprises setting appropriate year Holographics and Kenya achieved at Overton Mill.
policies and applying good practice OHSAS 18001 certification so that through our operating management there are now 12 18001 certified sites.
The Board receives confirmation Our key performance indicators on that the business units comply with Group Employees are also widely involved pages 24 and 25 show slight increases policy and applicable local laws through in the continuous improvement of EHS against a background of significantly external and internal audits, reports and processes.
At Interlock 2008, our annual improved productivity and awareness.
measurement against action plans and EHS Conference, there was a Group Our Reportable Injury Rate for the benchmarking processes.
competition for the best environmental ongoing business has reduced this improvement project in which all of the year.
None of our operations has been These reports provide the necessary manufacturing sites participated.
prosecuted for infringing any EHS laws information to manage our EHS risks or regulations during 2008 2009. and to develop effective improvement CO Footprint for Currency 2 programmes.
The management systems In order to set a baseline against which to Full copies of our EHS policies are available define how the EHS risks are identified measure future improvements Currencys on our website, or from the General Counsel and controlled and who is responsible carbon footprint was independently & Company Secretary, details of which are for so doing.
