Corporate responsibility review Detailing our accountability for our actions Environmental Waste Recycling debenhams is committed to reducing the amount of waste generated by its activities.
we seek to divert as much waste away from landll through a number of recycling schemes.
Stores in 2009 the number of stores that backhaul cardboard and plastic waste to our distribution centre dC in peterborough for recycling increased from 78 to 140. a new cardboard baler was installed in peterborough in october 2008 which has allowed more stores to we regularly return their waste for baling rather than relying on compactors or skips make donations at a local level.
waste studies have revealed that the amount of waste of toys to CrChe passed to landll as a result of implementing backhauling drops by as faCilities at our much as 80 per cent as the bulk of store waste is card and plastic.
suppliers faCtories around the world.
In 2009 we sent toys to in addition to backhauling waste to the dC, all stores also action some factories in India, China form of recycling using multi-stream recovery units.
amount of total waste recycled in this way increased by 3.2 per cent whilst the amount of general waste sent to landll decreased by 15.6 per cent.
we are increasing the percentage of hangers which are either re-used or returned to the dC for recycling.
as part of our hanger Introduction initiative, we are now working with our supplier to reduce the amount of hangers that as a retail business, debenhams activities can we grind for recycling impact the lives of millions of people: our by introducing a new customers, our employees, the communities in programme of re-use.
Debenhams activities can impact which we operate, those who work in our supply chain and their own communities.
in addition, Distribution Centres the lives of millions of people our potential impact on the environment is in 2008 a target to move we have aRESPONSIBILITY significant.
we have a responsibility to all these to 98 per cent of dC people and to our planet to try to have a positive waste recycled was to them and to our planet.
impact upon them and to take their needs set.
this target was met into account when we make decisions about in 2009 and we look to our business.
improve this further where possible.
we believe that the management of and accountability for how we live up to this responsibility should be embedded into our business activities recycling points have been installed at all three dCs and individual waste bins removed from all ofces.
rather than a centralised corporate responsibility function.
a crossfunctional corporate responsibility steering committee meets regularly, Head Office chaired by nikki Zamblera, who is debenhams hr director and has a recycling initiative was introduced in head ofce locations in 2008 executive responsibility for corporate responsibility issues.
which encourages the recycling of many waste streams including paper, glass and cans.
our corporate responsibility work falls into three main areas.
first, environmental which covers waste management and recycling and Carrier Bags energy usage, including our carbon footprint reporting.
secondly, following the introduction of 100 per cent recycled carrier bags in ethical trading which includes information on our factory approval 2007, we are continuing to nd ways to reduce the number of carrier and audit programme, our purchasing practices and our involvement bags used by our business that meet the needs of both our customers with the ethical trading initiative.
the third category is workplace and the environment.
overall, this has resulted in a 3.1 per cent and Community which covers employment practices, learning and reduction on last years volumes.
more focus has been placed in staff development, disability awareness, health and safety and community training on the use of the right size bag, resulting in a 9 per cent and charity engagement.
22 Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 tv presenter trisha goddard wearing a t-shirt designed by Julien maCdonald and sold in support of breast CanCer Care Many Designers at Debenhams also designed exclusive T-shirts to support this worthwhile cause for which Debenhams has raised nearly 2 million in recent years.
23 Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 2 the business Corporate responsibility review continued reduction in the use of the largest bag, and on asking customers if they aea are leaders and trusted advisors in the eld of environmental require a bag with their purchases.
these reductions fall in line with consultancy, operating in the uk, europe, the usa and China.
the latest government voluntary initiative to reinforce the message to they are the leading provider of advisory services to the uk our customers about only using bags where necessary.
government and work extensively with the eu and major private sector organisations.
they are internationally renowned with expertise in air to supplement the plastic bag reduction, we have continued our range quality and climate change, carbon management, resource efficiency of reusable shopping bags featuring the bags dont grow ontrees and the environmental impacts of transport.
since april 2008, aea logo and have sold over 184,000 units.
has been defras principal technical consultant for the CrC scheme and will be advising defra as the government develops the regulations Transport and Logistics for the scheme.
debenhams logistics eet within the uk and ireland is operated by dhl.
in september 2008, new vehicles and trailers were introduced Debenhams Carbon Footprint 2009 to improve the efficiency of the logistics eet further.
high cube 2008 saw debenhams publicly report its environmental impacts in trailers are also being employed to reduce the amount of trafc terms of ghg emissions for the first time.
emissions were reported required to move stock within the dC network.
for a base year spanning the 2007 calendar period.
since then, we have continued to implement procedures in order to monitor and report we are committed to avoiding the use of air transportation whenever our carbon footprint.
the greenhouse gas protocol Corporate possible.
the majority of own bought product is brought into the uk standard has been adhered to for our footprint calculation.
having already reduced air freighting to a significant degree in the previous year, in 2009 the amount of product air freighted almost three notable changes have been implemented since the carbon halved and is now less than 5 per cent.
footprint was reported last year.
Print Operations 1. the reporting year has been changed from a calendar year to the debenhams print department is registered to use fsC and pefC debenhams financial year ended 29 august 2009. reporting has paper to produce certied printed material.
these standards provide been altered in such a way in order for emissions performance assurance that the timber content of the paper is sourced from a legal to be aligned and better understood against the background and sustainable source.
last year the print department became the first part of the Company 2. the footprint boundary has been widened to include emissions to achieve iso14001: 2004 environmental management system sources from store and distribution centre waste, refrigeration gas certication.
this demanding, internationally recognised standard from food services and waste water.
ensures that we can be confident that all the work undertaken by the department is produced in such a way that the environmental impact 3. ghg emissions sources other than Co have been included where 2 of production is minimised.
these are multiplied by the relevant global warming potential they possess in relation to Co and are included in the 2 Carbon Footprint and Energy Usage total footprint as Co equivalent Co e. 2 2 debenhams recognises the ever-growing threat that climate change presents.
we strive to acknowledge and mitigate our greenhouse gas the results of the footprint calculation are conveyed in the table ghg impacts and risks, continually escalating the importance of overleaf using the denition of emissions scope supplied by the sustainability within the business and ensuring that we continue to greenhouse gas protocol.
the previously reported 2007 footprint succeed in a competitive marketplace.
data has been recalculated to account for improved accuracy with carbon conversion factors and also the inclusion of methane and the environmental consultancy aea was commissioned to provide nitrous oxide that occur in trace amounts during fuel combustion.
the a breakdown of carbon emitting activities throughout the business footprint calculation is also given for the 2008 calendar period in order and to understand how each activity contributes to the overall for emissions reporting to span a coherent passage of time.
2007 2008 2008 2009 Co e tonnes deductible 2 for green electricity 7,408 47,221 119,030 the total carbon footprint for financial year 2009 has been Scope 1Direct Emissions From Own Sources.
scope 1 emissions calculated as 188,873 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
it is clear encompass a companys direct ghg emissions that arise from sources electricity emissions dominate debenhams carbon footprint, that it owns or controls e. g. boilers, furnaces, eet vehicles.
comprising nearly 90 per cent of the total emissions.
fossil fuel gas and oil and eet fuel are the second and third most abundant Scope 2Purchased Electricity Indirect Emissions.
scope 2 ghg sources of carbon emissions as a result of debenhams activities, emissions account for energy that is purchased and consumed by the contributing 5.1 per cent and 4.3 per cent of the emissions company.
scope 2 emissions physically occur at the facility where the respectively.
all remaining sources within the footprint scope energy is generated, most commonly at power stations.
contribute less than 3 per cent of the total footprint.
scope 3 ghg emissions account although a number of assumptions were required to complete certain for all other indirect emissions that are a consequence of the activities datasets, statistical analysis indicates certainty within the overall of the company but that occur from sources that are not owned or footprint calculation is high, with an error margin of just 2 per cent.
at debenhams, our primary focus will always be to reduce our direct when reporting emissions, it is essential to disclose total scope 1 carbon footprint.
however, we realise we can only go so far in and 2 emissions where possible.
at debenhams, we also report our reducing our environmental impact before we will need the assistance scope 3 emissions in order to demonstrate our commitment of indirect measures.
therefore, our strategy involves the purchase of to environmental reporting and to gain further clarity of our business emissions-free renewable electricity as a means to offset the impacts on the environment.
from the above table, it is clear that environmental impact of our consumption.
as a result, this year we have scope 3 emissions are relatively minor in comparison to scope 1 and indirectly reduced our emissions by 119,030 tonnes Co e, representing 2 emissions, which combined total 98 per cent of the footprint.
2 a reduction on our gross carbon footprint of 63 per cent.
nevertheless, scope 3 emissions reductions are targeted where it is feasible to do so.
25 Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 2 the business Corporate responsibility review continued Historical Emissions Comparison reporting period.
this is determined by the smaller ratio for stationary there is a positive outlook with regards to ongoing carbon emissions against the total premises oor area.
emissions did increase slightly over the 2008 calendar year but activity in the 2009 financial year remedied Conclusions this and emissions were a full 3 per cent lower on a scope-for-scope there is a positive outcome with regards to ongoing carbon basis than when calculated for the 2007 calendar year.
this reduction performance within debenhams.
emissions did increase slightly over is largely due to improvements within store electricity usage and the 2008 calendar year but activity in the current financial year has transportation of goods by the dhl eet.
remedied this and emissions are now a full 3 per cent lower on a scopefor-scope basis than when calculated for the 2007 calendar year.
this additionally, through the purchase of electricity on green tariffs, the reduction is largely down to efficiency improvements, particularly total net emissions reduced by 53 per cent in financial year 2009 from within store electricity use and goods transportation by the dhl eet.
2008 levels and by 62 per cent from the 2007 baseline.
to complement this encouraging conclusion, the ratio of emissions in future emissions reporting, the carbon emissions can be compared per turnover is now less than previous years, indicating tighter control against the newly established benchmark gure for the 2009 financial of carbon emissions in line with Company growth.
this will provide consistency in emissions reporting and will also efficiency for all premises is now greater on the whole than in historic allow for a better analysis of the variation between all emissions scopes reporting periods.
Energy Usage Emissions Intensity reducing the amount of electricity used in our business is clearly a understanding the context behind uctuations in emissions can be key part of our energy strategy given its significant contribution to our assisted by use of emissions intensity ratios.
an intensity ratio defines carbon footprint.
the magnitude of emissions in relation to a key variable.
by using intensity ratios, the relative carbon performance can be better Stores understood in line with uctuations in core business activities.
a number of stores were identied last year as having energy usage above the good practice benchmark.
work has been undertaken in the most useful ratios to assist in understanding the basis of emissions 2009 to address this.
three of these stores supply electricity to other variation are those in relation to turnover, the number of stores in third-party stores in the shopping centres in which they are located.
operation and the total oor area of buildings.
these metrics are we are taking steps to separate the electricity usage of our own store displayed in the table beneath for all reported years.
from the third-party stores to ensure we can monitor our own consumption effectively.
action plans have been introduced in all other 1 1 2 2007 2008 2009 stores and their energy usage has reduced as a result.
emissions per m turnover 82.7 83.5 79.0 a real success story is the substantial energy efficiency improvements scope 1 and 2 emissions per observed when looking at electricity use in stores that had remained operational store 1,199 1,182 1,184 open for an entire year.
this provides a much clearer picture of the 2 stationary emissions m 0.100 0.103 0.098 real efficiency within stores over the various reporting periods, without skewed gures resulting from ongoing store openings and closings.
the calculated efficiency benchmarks across the three reporting 2 financial year.
years are displayed in the table below and these are compared to established benchmarks.
when comparing emissions with financial performance, it is clear carbon efficiency in 2009 saw a marked improvement on previous it is apparent that specic energy consumption has been steadily years.
this is against a background of turnover growth.
it should be improving and measures well against published benchmarks.
in noted that turnover reported for the 2007 and 2008 financial years has particular, electricity use in mixed fuel stores betters the existing best been aligned to the calendar year and, therefore, results are indicative.
nevertheless, this analysis provides a good means of making a comparative assessment and can be improved upon in subsequent best 2 kwh electricity m 2007 2008 2008 09 practice financial reporting years.
open stores only electric 248 239 216 209 although emissions rose on an absolute basis in 2008, this open stores mixed fuel 197 193 178 194 can be partly attributed to an increase in store numbers.
in actual fact, emissions per operational store were the lowest in 2008 calendar taken from Cibse guide f: energy efficiency in buildings.
year than the other reported periods.
however, efficiency of energy use over all debenhams premises was the greatest over the current 26 Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 finding energy efficient lighting solutions for our stores is an 2010 Energy Usage Projects important part of our energy strategy and a number of initiatives are based upon our planned projects, the findings and recommendations ongoing.
during the past year switching circuits have been rectied to from aea, our focus for 2010 will be: allow much more control over lighting, particularly overnight, thereby contributing to lower electricity usage.
replacement lights and lighting controls: trials are underway of lower wattage tungsten halogen and led more efficient refrigerators and dishwashers: lamps and are progressing well.
the jewellery cabinet lighting trial designed to reduce the energy consumed and heat generated by these completing the installation of amr metering: and displayshas been completed and a cost-effective solution will be rolled out in due course.
upgrading and networking heating and cooling controls.
New Stores References our target is to reduce the energy usage of new stores by 30 per cent 2009 guidelines to defra deCCs ghg Conversion factors for compared to the total store portfolio.
the five stores opened in 2009 Company reporting.
achieved this target with the average energy usage of these stores being 34 per cent lower than that of all stores.
new stores are built with Cibse 2004, Cibse guide f: energy efficiency in buildings.
energy efficiency in mind, using construction materials wherever possible which aid energy efficiency and installing energy efficient wbCsd and wri 2004, greenhouse gas protocol.
a Corporate heating and air conditioning systems.
in addition, low energy led accounting and reporting standard.
lighting is used wherever possible.
Green Energy Ethical Trading in october 2008, debenhams signed a landmark two-year deal with scottish power to supply all its uk stores and properties with Ethical Sourcing electricity provided by wind power.
scottish power supplies us with 35 our sourcing strategy is part based on the concept of right product, mw of green energy a month which is enough to light and heat right country.
through this, we endeavour to source products in the 50,000 homes.
the power source is the black laws wind farm near appropriate countries.
our commitment remains to ensure our shotts in scotland.
products are made in ethically compliant factories.
our suppliers and manufacturers are required to adhere to our Code of Conduct and Raising Awareness of Energy Efficiency for Employees their compliance is regularly monitored to ensure that everyone encouraging our employees to take responsibility for their energy involved in manufacturing products for debenhams can work in a usage both at work and at home is an important way that we can well-maintained, safe and caring working environment.
we believe our reduce our impact on the environment.
customers have a right to expect every product we sell to be produced in safe and free environments, compliant with our Code of Conduct, the storewide energy efficiency programme which uses the magazine and that all workers are treated with dignity and not exploited or style e!
publication as its principal communication tool continued discriminated against in any way.
to good effect in 2009. the programme rewards both individual employees and stores for success in energy efficiency initiatives.
in the Ethical Trading Initiative two programmes run during 2009, 80 stores were rewarded in the debenhams has been a member of the ethicaltrading initiative eti winter period and 105 in the summer period.
since 2001. the eti was established in 1989 and is a tri-partite alliance of companies, non-governmental organisations such as in 2009, an energy savings newsletter has been distributed in employee oxfam, labour behindthe label and fair labour organisation and payslips containing, amongst other things, news about the Companys trade unions such as the leather and textile federation.
it aims to energy programmes, tips for energy saving measures at home and improve the lives of workers in global supply chains by promoting special offers and incentives.
responsible corporate practices that support this goal.
the eti specialises in developing approaches and implementing codes of the head ofce energy awareness initiative do the right thing is practice that address supply chain labour conditions.
the eti is now in its second year.
a competition was held between head ofce funded by member contributions and a grant from the uk locations to see which could reduce its energy consumption the most, department of international development.
debenhams works with the winner achieving a 12 per cent reduction.
the eti and is involved in projects such as overtime in China and decent working practices.
27 Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 2 the business Corporate responsibility review continued Factory Approval and Audit following managements visits to overseas factories to review debenhams has continued to develop and strengthen its robust compliance, we continue to send several cartons of new toys as a factory approval process.
the level of data collection and analysis for donation to several crche facilities.
in 2009 we sent toys to children each factory is now more comprehensive than last year.
as part of this in india, China and bangladesh.
approval process, the submission of an ethical social Compliance audit, conducted by an internationally recognised third-party Decent Work Project monitoring company, remains.
however, the introduction of our during the course of 2009 we have engaged with one of our major nominated monitoring partner, socit gnrale fide surveillance suppliers in China in a project with the eti called decent working sgs, has increased the communication and support for our practices.
this is the first time any tri-partite group has successfully suppliers and factories.
the specic audit tool we require sgs to use rolled out this pilot project.
the eti, wintop of China our partner for all our audits is called smeta.
this is recognised by the eti and manufacturer, China womens working network a hong kong ngos and the additional advantages to us are that this tool requires based ngo, are working together along with union collaboration a standardised approach with set rules, therefore giving us maximum from hong kong and academics from the hong kong university.
the main aims of the project are to establish a mechanism for we do not pass or fail existing factories.
instead our approach is to sustainable labour management dialogue within the factory according monitor and maintain standards by working together with our to the practical circumstances of the factory and the expectations of suppliers and their factories.
different parties and to seek ways to improve the work environment through the mechanism of sustained labour management dialogue.
the process of identifying non-compliance throughout our supply chain has again signicantly improved, allowing us to lter and reject the following is a summary of the experience and shared views of the as necessary at an earlier stage.
no purchase orders can be placed with project so far from the owner ofwintop: The ETI DecentWork project a new factory until it has been approved by debenhams Compliance intends to support employers and employees at the factories to design and team and a code reference has to be live in order to activate an order.
build a sustainable mechanism for dialogue within the factories and to provide continued support after the initial training.
The objectives are to in 2009, we rejected 75 factories from coming into the business for not seek ways to improve the work environment through the mechanism of meeting our Code of Conduct.
sustained labour management dialogue and to raise workers participation and awareness for the labour law, occupational health and safety and build during the year we also had to disengage two suppliers permanently their confidence and ability to solve labour management issues.
The progress from the business for continually failing to meet our Code of Conduct.
of the project up to date is that we have 24 workers who have registered to become worker representatives and we will soon start to provide appropriate in addition to introducing new factories, which are fully audited, as training for them.
I believe the ETI DecentWork project will benefit both the part of supply Chain factory management we continue to review and workers and the factory, given a better communication between the workers deactivate factories that are no longer manufacturing our own buy and the management.
It helps to solve problems through employer-employee product.
this has resulted in 446 new factories being brought into the discussions and helps the factory to improve the productivity and business and 1,438 factories being deactivated.
management in order to give room for the improvement of working conditions.
At the same time, it helps to strengthen employeesapproval and our core hub areas account for over three quarters of our business.
commitment to the factory, reducing turnover.
the largest two areas are China and india where 77 per cent and 89 per cent of our factories respectively are audited with the remainder this project will continue into 2010 and as a pilot project for the in work-in-progress as part of our ongoing programme.
100 per cent group learnings will be shared amongst eti members, ngos and of our factories in bangladesh, the uk andturkey have been audited.
unions with further development for continuing projects rolled out, which we hope to encourage further into our Chinese supply chain.
all third-party audits are now unannounced, within a given two week window, and the number of unannounced visits by debenhams senior Purchasing Practices management has increased.
we believe that one of the best ways to ensure our ethical sourcing goals are met is to embed them into the purchasing process.
otherwise, as a result of reviewing the audit findings, corrective action plans are as noted in reports by oxfam, Cafod and acona, purchasing practices tracked and monitored within the agreed time scales for remediation.
can undermine the effectiveness and impact of ethical trading we work closely with our suppliers to deliver the required actions and programmes by inadvertently restricting suppliers abilities to uphold this is supported globally by sgs.
an example of this was a seminar labour standards.
by analysing our end-to-end processes in depth, conducted with sgs for our China suppliers in hong kong, which we were able to make changes to our purchasing practices, outlined our audit requirements and provided information on the most such as critical path management system improvements and staff common issues found in China and ways to address them.
we have also introduced expert training sessions specically on the elements of ethical auditing and pre-factory set up processes, 28 Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 which all employees can attend.
in addition to this, the standard card paper.
information sheets are available for customers on all our Company hr induction for all new staff includes a more in-depth products providing details of ingredients for allergy or other customer overview of our procedures and requirements.
we are also continuing preference purposes.
to run our london College of fashion buying school programme.
in may 2009, further brieng sessions with our buying teams took Workplace and Community place to reiterate our requirements, standards and overall ethical trading position.
part of these training sessions specically covered Our People the importance of purchasing practices and the impact they have on debenhams had an average of 26,800 employees during 2009 2008 the workers.
average: 24,200. most of this increase is accounted for by the large number of new store openings in the second half of 2008 and the first as part of the eti purchasing practice project we are meeting with an half of 2009. in light of growing unemployment in 2009, we were ngo in october 2009 with the eti to engage and discuss our next pleased to be able to create new jobs around the uk through the steps for further development of our purchasing practices work.
opening of new stores, including some 325 jobs at our new agship store at westeld london which opened in october 2008.
Ethical Products debenhams operates within a framework of policies relating to the labour turnover decreased from 41.7 per cent in 2008 to 29.7 per cent composition of its products, ranging from animal testing to conict in 2009, an improvement only to be expected in light of the difficult diamonds.
these policies can be found in full on our website economic environment and increasing levels of unemployment although www.
we have taken some positive steps to increase employee retention.
Customers are increasingly looking for products made from organic 76 per cent of our employees are female.
28 per cent of our people and fairtrade materials and we are meeting this demand by increasing have more than five years service, 16 per cent have more than ten the number of organic and fairtrade options available in both our years service and 4 per cent have more than 20 years service.
designer and core product collections.
debenhams is committed to ensuring that every individual connected designers at debenhams brand rocha.
John rocha is our agship with the Companywhether employee, applicant, customer or other brand for the use of organic cotton and includes organic ranges across third partyreceives fair and equitable treatment, regardless of their all departments in the store including womenswear, menswear, differences.
these include but are not restricted to: childrenswear and home.
additional organic cotton products were introduced into these ranges during 2009. gender: in other brands, organic cotton products include red herringt-shirts race: and sleepwear in womenswear, underwear and loungewear in menswear, babywear in childrenswear and bedding in home.
these ethnic or national origin: ranges have been expanded during 2009. religious, political or philosophical beliefs: fairtrade cotton remains strong within menswear with sales increasing year-on-year under the maine new england fiveg brand.
this disability: perfect combination of sir steve redgrave and fairtrade has offered customers an exclusive, contemporary casual collection.
it is available marital or civil partnership status: in 116 stores across jersey, shirts, denim, knitwear and outerwear.
based on the success of the existing fairtrade ranges, there will be sexual orientation: further expansion into new areas for spring summer 2010. gender reassignment: and in our food services business, all coffee served in debenhams restaurants and cafes used douwe egberts good origin coffee age.
which is certied by global ngo utz kapeh as being derived from 100 per cent sustainable sources which protect both the interests of the policy helps us create a culture of respect and tolerance, a wider the workers who produce the beans and the environment in which and more diverse talent pool from which we can recruit the best they are grown.
in addition, all tea used is endorsed by the ethical possible people for our business and supports our corporate tea partnership.
we use free range eggs, which resulted in debenhams reputation by ensuring we give excellent customer and employee being awarded the good egg award by Compassion in world experience.
we recognise that few people would deliberately breach farming.
we also recycle used cooking oil into bio-diesel and use the policy, however, it is possible to do so unintentionally.
we therefore sandwich wrappers and napkins made from 100 per cent recycled require everyone to familiarise themselves with its contents.
29 Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 2 the business Corporate responsibility review continued we are committed to ensuring equality of opportunities for all our Store Managers employees.
through our equal opportunities policy we aim to create our highly successful finishing school was launched during 2009 to an environment that offers all employees the chance to use their skills help deputy store managers make the final step to their first and talent.
we are committed to supporting all our employees to achieve an NVQs acceptable balance between their work and personal life.
where during 2009, the romford store undertook a pilot programme in appropriate, we offer a number of exible contracts to suit the conjunction with havering College to offer a national vocational different needs of employees.
we recognise there are times when an Qualication nvQ level 2 qualication to employees on the sales employee may need to take time off work due to personal situations oor and in food services.
the debenhams sales advisor competencies and have a number of policies in place to support employees through formed the basis for the qualication and all 22 candidates achieved such events including maternity, paternity and adoption leave, exible their qualication within a six-month period.
working and a career break scheme.
a level 2 qualication is the equivalent of 5 gCses and as the Learning and Development majority of those taking place in the trial did not have educational we have a great reputation for developing our people and providing qualications the process has been hugely motivating for the opportunities for employees to learn and develop is a crucial factor in individuals concerned.
a further 28 people are now going through the our future success.
in the fast moving retail environment employees training and assessment with one person taking a level 3 a level need to have a exible suite of skills.
we offer a wide range of training equivalent nvQ.
in terms of results, the absence level for the nvQ courses and programmes which encourage individuals to expand their group is running at 2.3 per cent compared to the stores rolling annual skills and reach their full potential.
Comprehensive competency-based absence of 4.1 per cent.
training programmes are offered to provide clear paths for progression for those wishing to pursue a career in all our areas of operations.
a the programme has been very well received by the participants.
tracy dedicated learning and development team works closely with stores faires of the romford store said: Achieving NVQ Level 2 has been and head ofce to ensure that both the potential and aspirations of nothing but a positive experience for me.
It has given me more confidence our employees is maximised.
and enhanced my current level of training.
The NVQ experience has given me the hunger to learn and develop more from life and work.
I am excited we are closely involved in skills development for the retail sector as a about where my learning will end.
whole and nikki Zamblera, debenhams hr director, is on the board of skillsmart retail, the government skills sector Council for the as a result of this pilot we have joined forces with skillsmart retail industry, having served two years as vice Chairman.
to run a trial in ten stores across england where the labour market is challenging.
the trial, which commenced in september 2009, highlights of the learning and development programme in will involve at least 25 people in each store working towards a 2009 include: level 2 qualication.
Senior Management during the trial we will measure the labour turnover and absence a new programme for senior head ofce buyers and merchandisers to rates for the trainees versus the store.
we believe trial stores will prepare them for promotion to divisional head and senior executive see increased commitment from staff and higher motivation level was introduced in 2009. levels, particularly from those who may have missed out on other academic opportunities.
a similar programme was run for our most talented and experienced store managers to help them develop the skills they will need to longer term we believe that this qualication will support the become senior store managers.
this is a vitally important programme development of the potential supervisor population.
as we continue to grow our store portfolio.
Disability Awareness Buying and Merchandising we are continuing to improve the accessibility of our premises for a number of junior and assistant buyers embarked upon the buying employees, customers and visitors.
school which comprises technical and behavioural modules including range planning, garment technology, margin and profit, disability awareness is an important component of the induction negotiation skills, making an impact, managing upwards and programme for all new store staff and training is given on customer presentation and management skills.
the buying school also links care for disabled people.
back to our corporate responsibility policy by ensuring that our up and coming buyers are fully versed in our purchasing policies.
we provide information on accessibility matters relating to our stores via www.
this includes information such as: 30 Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 designated parking spaces: location of accessible entrances: passenger the main source of funding is a donation from the Company but lift facilities: location of accessible toilet facilities: availability of many stores and head ofce departments hold fundraising events for personal shopper services: collect-by-car arrangements: and details of the dra.
during 2009, the second annual fundraising day was held accessible customer collection points.
with stores and head ofce departments running numerous events including cake sales, book and dvd sales, rafes and dressing up days.
we are also continuing to develop our website, www.
com, to improve accessibility and when considering any change to the Celebrating Success website we go through a process that includes the needs and with people so critical to our success, we are rigorous in ensuring that considerations of anyone with disabilities.
contributions are recognised, large or small.
our Celebrating success policy encourages managers and colleagues to acknowledge the efforts debenhams welcomes applications for employment from disabled of others and each year culminates in the annual Celebrating success people.
as part of our policy on equality of opportunity, decisions awards where the best of the best are honoured for their outstanding on recruitment, training, promotion, pay, terms and conditions and achievement in customer service or behind the scenes.
leavers are based solely on objective, job-related criteria and personal competence and performance.
this year, annual winners from every store and each head ofce division spent the day relaxing at altontowers before being joined by during the past two years we have reviewed and, where appropriate, the executive directors and other senior managers for an evening of amended all hr policies with support and guidance from the celebration and recognition.
a disability Champion has been appointed in the hr team to ensure our policies and procedures are Health and Safety in line with both our legal obligations and business needs.
nigel palmer, retail operations director, chairs the Company health and safety committee, which meets quarterly and is made up of we seek wherever possible to make reasonable adjustments to ensure representatives from all areas of the business.
the findings of these that an employee who becomes disabled during the course of his or meetings are communicated throughout the business.
in addition, her employment is able to continue working effectively.
this includes: there are interim meetings of a smaller group also every quarter on providing equipment or altering working arrangements: providing operational issues.
additional training: reallocating on a temporary or permanent basis some of the employees duties to other members of staff: transferring debenhams employs an environmental health and safety manager, a food Quality assurance manager and product technologists to the employee to a suitable alternative role: and adjusting working times.
manage the application of policies and procedures in general health any such adjustment will be monitored and reviewed on a regular and safety, food safety and product safety.
in relevant circumstances basis to ensure it is continues to be effective.
the Company also appoints consultants, with appropriate expertise, to advise on specic safety related matters.
debenhams is a member of the employers forum on disability which seeks to enable companies to become disability confident by debenhams has specic partnership arrangements with two local making it easier to recruit and retain disabled employees and to authorities: luton borough Council on matters of general health serve disabled customers.
and safety and westminster Council on matters of food safety and trading standards.
Employee Consultation Forum ECF the eCf is a group of elected representatives from all areas of the in addition to the Company committee, every store also has a health business that meets annually with members of the board.
the purpose and safety committee.
the minutes from these meetings are published of these meetings is to allow our employees the opportunity to receive to the store and reviewed by the environmental health and safety information about debenhams and to be consulted on certain parts of manager.
each store also has an elected store safety representative, our business activities.
the representatives elected by stores also meet who is a member of the committee.
during the year on a local basis to discuss regional business issues and to prepare for the national annual meeting.
the maintenance of safety standards and the performance of key health and safety tasks form a major part of the risk management Debenhams Retirement Association DRA review.
the outcome and remedial actions required after risk the dra is a registered charity established to provide help and management inspections are followed up by the store manager, sales support to any of the retired employees in receipt of pension who need director and the risk management team.
there are currently over 5,000 pensioners and the charity keeps in touch with them using a network of pensioner support debenhams believes that the key to maintaining a safe environment for ofcers who each cover specic areas of the uk.
helplines are both employees and customers is through training on general safety provided for those in need and funds grants are available to pensioners for all employees when they are initially employed and through a to buy essential items or in emergency circumstances.
programme of training on new developments, policies and trends.
31 Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 2 the business Corporate responsibility review continued in addition, debenhams recognises the training needs of specic roles Customers and accordingly provides bespoke training: training is provided for: keeping in touch with our customers and understanding what they think about debenhams is paramount to achieving our goals.
two new technical service advisors and selling support managers on the initiatives were launched in 2009 to help us do this.
management and supervision of health and safety through attendance on approved Chartered institute of environmental Customer Feedback health courses: a new Customer experience feedback programme was launched in all stores at the end of June 2009. a message on every till receipt invites food services sales managers through intermediate food hygiene customers to visit a website where they ll in a survey to tell us about courses and in-house training on the principles of haCCp and its their instore experience.
in the first two months of the programme implementation in debenhams food operations: 28,000 customers gave us their feedback on every aspect of the debenhams customer experience.
all food handlers on basic food safetya computer based programme accredited by the riph: as well as providing the store manager with a score for how their store is performing, we capture additional feedback on Company issues technical services advisors on basic electrical competence such as store environment, brand reputation and product range.
there delivered by the institute of electrical engineers: is immediate recognition for members of staff providing exceptional service, and an opportunity for store managers to engage with basic electrical safety for employees working in the lighting dissatisfied customers.
Customers are also given the opportunity to department: opt-in for future marketing promotions and to join the debenhams design team.
those working in the loading bay on safety considerations associated with their work environment: and whilst 65 per cent of customers were extremely satisfied with their visit to debenhams, and 73 per cent of customers say that were better the loss prevention teams on conict resolution, restraint and than other retailers, the programme has identied some areas for personal safety.
improvementin particular store presentation and layout, availability and food services.
as part of the major own bought space expansion that took place in the second half of the year, significant emphasis was placed on providing The Design Team the correct information, instruction and training for stores to enable the design team is a group of debenhams shoppers who take part them to properly prepare for the project.
in online research, also called a customer research community or an online customer panel.
debenhams records and reviews its performance in relation to the number and nature of the accidents reportable to enforcement launched in october 2008, there are now 10,000 members who take authorities.
despite the expanding size of the business, and therefore part in regular online surveys, discussion boards and polls, giving the increasing customer footfall in the Companys premises each year feedback on all aspects of debenhams including products, stores, in excess of 15 million, the results set out below continue to service, website and marketing.
to date, the design team has demonstrate an encouragingly low level of reportable accidents.
been involved in over 30 projects including the development of beauty Club, instore ordering, new brand reviews such as womens Accidents Statistics for Customers and Staff mantaray, bluezoo and rocha.
John rocha sonas and new department developments such as sports and leisure.
85 09 the design team is fully managed in-house by the Customer and 27 strategy development team which allows customer feedback to be Staff generated quickly and cost effectively and therefore gives the customer 111 08 a voice in more decisions within debenhams.
44 Customers design team members are encouraged to participate with gift card 108 07 prize draws and they enjoy hearing how their feedback is changing 25 debenhams in regular email newsletters.
as one member says: By taking part in the Design Team surveys and helping Debenhams to meet customer expectations hopefully everyone will be a winner!
32 Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Community to date debenhams has employed over 150 people through lep Community Projects schemes.
the schemes are particularly important at the time of new through its stores, debenhams is involved in a wide range of local store openings.
one region where lep has been particularly projects which help to provide direct support for the communities we successful is north wales with the stores in bangor, llandudno and are part of.
having already been recognised for their work in this area in 2008, debenhams north wales won the for several years we have been involved with local projects through recruitment innovation award at the 2009 lep awards.
the award business in the Community bitC and scottish business in the citation detailed how we have developed novel ways to nd new talent Community sbitC.
as a result of this initiative, the opening in the community and retain employees.
store manager peter rodgers programme for a new store now includes a team building event for said: The LEP has helped us reach the job market in a way that wouldnt the store management team which benets local people and helps the be possible with traditional recruitment methods.
Weve found so many team to recognise and start to understand the specic needs and issues great employees.
We dont favour these candidates, we just take away the of their own local community.
for example, a project took place ahead of the opening of the great debenhams was runner-up in the getting backtowork award which focused on James mcgreachan, one of the employees who has joined yarmouth store in october where over 60 members of the new team us as a result of the lep in north wales.
took part in a beach clean onyarmouth beach in conjunction with the marine Conservation society.
after a days hard cleaning, the team then Charities enjoyed the yarmouth beach olympics.
the event was so successful debenhams is a strong supporter of charities at both a national and that the store will be repeating it to celebrate its first anniversary.
in 2009, we have been working with home-start trafford, a charity one of our key national charities is the breast Cancer Campaign based in trafford, manchester which helps local families going which we have supported for a number of years, raising through difficult times.
home-start recruits and trains volunteers who nearly 2 million to date through the sale of special products and provide support, friendship and practical help in the families own instore events.
the charity needed help in establishing a clear strategy and its scheme manager has requested outside mentoring support.
nicola our clothing brand mantaray is a proud supporter of the marine debney, debenhams learning and development manager, debbie Conservation society mCs.
our support for the mCss work for Curran, senior store manager for ourtrafford park store, and Janine clean seas, sustainable sheries and protected sea life is not just allen, regional training manager, have supported the organisation financial.
we are also helping in more practical ways by encouraging in a number of ways.
nicola facilitated a strategy day for home-starts employees and customers to take part in voluntary beach cleans and board and helped it to develop its future plan.
debbie is acting as surveys, helping to clear the uks beaches of the tide of litter currently mentor to scheme manager kathryn eckersley and Janine is helping endangering the life of coastal wildlife such as seabirds, dolphins, kathryn to prepare development plans for both herself and her team.
Getting People Back toWork other charities we have supported in 2009 include the nspCC and as a large employer, we are keen to ensure employment opportunities its irish equivalent ispCC, devon and warwickshire wildlife trusts, are made available to all sections of the community, including those Childrens hospice association, Children first, running the deep who have been out of employment for some time.
one of the ways we and muscular dystrophy eire.
do this is through our involvement with local employment partnerships lep which were set up by the government in 2007 stores nominate local charities to receive the proceeds of events linked with the aim of raising the employment rate and reducing the number to the arrival of santa instore for Christmas.
of working people dependent on benets.
a key part of the lep scheme is the Jobs pledge through which employers work to offer our head ofce in taunton supports a wide range of local charities opportunities to people who are at a disadvantage in the labour and in 2009 these included local schools, sports clubs, animal charities, marketsuch as lone parents or those on incapacity benetso long childrens homes, old peoples homes, hospitals, hospices and medical as they engage with the support available and are ready, willing and charities as well as supporting the charitable undertakings of individual able to work.
support is provided by agencies including Jobcentre plus members of staff.
and the learning and skills Council.
33 Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 2 the business
