com Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities A responsible approach to our stakeholders and the wider operating procedures are in place to ensure that all contaminated community is seen by the Board to be fundamental to the Group.
waste is disposed of under strict controls.
Furthermore, all exhaust The conduct of the Group towards social, environmental, ethical air is fully filtered from the manufacturing unit before discharge.
and health and safety issues is recognised to have an impact on our reputation and the implementation and improvement of policies DVP EU is legally obliged to submit an annual report to the Danish and systems is ongoing.
Ministry of Environment in respect of its environmental impact.
DVP EU therefore monitors a number of impacts including: The Board takes ultimate responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility CSR and continues to be committed to l Annual energy consumption: In 2008 energy consumption developing and implementing appropriate policies to create and totalled 1,471 MWh compared to 1,420 MWh in 2007.
The maintain long-term value for Shareholders.
Sound business ethics increase is primarily due to an increase in staff numbers which help to minimise risk, ensure legal compliance and enhance has entailed use of extra office space which required lighting Company efficiency.
The need to review and manage risks to and heating.
3 the short and long-term value of the Company arising from CSR l Water: In 2008 water usage totalled 2,584 m in 2008 3 is recognised by the Board and it considers that it has received compared to 2,530 m in 2007.
Although there has been a adequate information to review these risks and has not identified slight increase in usage compared to the previous year, over a any risks to the business that could affect its future value.
five year period the usage has remained relatively stable.
l Waste: During 2008 a total of 11.1 tonnes of plastic and metal Environmental Policy was recycled compared to 17.3 tonnes during 2007 and 13.7 The Group recognises the importance of good environmental controls.
tonnes of paper and cardboard recycled compared to 11.8 It is the Groups policy to comply with and exceed environmental tonnes in 2007. legislation currently in place, adopt responsible environmental practices and be committed to minimising the impact of its operations on the During 2008 2009 Dales Pharmaceuticals has implemented and environment.
embedded the lean manufacturing strategy into its operations, thereby assisting the business in achieving a decrease in the time between The Company is in the process of establishing an Environmental placement of the customer order and end product shipment.
This has Committee the Committee which will be chaired by Ed Torr involved a high level of employee training and to date approximately the nominated Director responsible for environmental policy.
A 120 Dales Pharmaceuticals employees have achieved NVQ level 2 representative has been chosen from each of the business units for Business Improvement Techniques.
Management time spent in to sit on the Committee and it is intended that they will meet four respect of training is intense and it takes nine months to train each times a year.
Terms of Reference are currently being drafted and it is individual to achieve the NVQ qualification.
Approximately 40 hours envisaged that the Committees remit will centre on two main areas: over a six week period of the training is carried out within a classroom 1 the implementation of environmental policies at local business environment covering the theory whilst the rest of the time is spent level: and 2 assisting the Board in its commitment to Corporate on project work.
Currently 16 projects have been completed and Social Responsibility.
The activities of the Committee will be reported presented by the trained employees, with all 16 projects delivering on in future Reports and Accounts.
Dales Pharmaceuticals will continue to deliver the lean manufacturing process during the 2009 2010 financial The Group is a registered member of a compliance scheme in year and thereafter until all employees have been trained.
respect of the Waste Packaging Obligations Regulations.
The implementation of the lean manufacturing strategy into the business has provided concrete results to date: specifically the In addition, National Veterinary Services operates a recycling time taken for a product to travel through the manufacturing cycle programme which ensures that all trunking depots see page 27 known as the Process Time has reduced from an average of 55 return their general waste to the main depot at Stoke-on-Trent.
Further, stock moving through the manufacturing The general waste is then sorted for collection by third party waste packing process known as Work in Progress has also reduced management companies.
During the 2008 2009 financial year corresponding with an increase in sales.
approximately 288 tonnes of cardboard were recycled, as were 27 tonnes of plastic, 14 tonnes of paper and 2.4 tonnes of Dales Pharmaceuticals is continuing to work towards achievement aluminium cans.
of its ISO 140001 status: the gap analysis which was carried out at the end of the 2007 2008 financial year highlighted a number of Dales Pharmaceuticals also actively monitors its recycling rates and embedded procedures within Dales Pharmaceuticals which would during the 2008 2009 financial year recycled approximately 13 tonnes assist in achieving the standard.
The analysis also highlighted a of glass, 42 tonnes of cardboard and 7 tonnes of plastic.
number of procedures requiring implementation and these are now Dales Pharmaceuticals also continues to comply with, and exceed, in the process of being drafted.
Dales Pharmaceuticals hopes that effluent discharge standards into local water supplies, which the ISO 140001 standard will be achieved during the next financial is regularly monitored by Yorkshire Water Authority.
Standard year and continues to work towards this.
59 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities continued National Veterinary Services fleet policy ensures that CO emissions Social Responsibilities 2 are taken into consideration when procuring new delivery vehicles Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC has maintained its investment in the in order to ensure that low emission vehicles are sourced.
Generally, Corporate Membership Scheme for the Staffordshire Wildlife Trust delivery vehicles are replaced every three years via leasing agreements the Trust throughout the financial year.
and alternative fuel vehicles are always considered on the replacement anniversary: in the past year LPG and electric vehicles have been The continued support provided by the Company has assisted considered.
During 2008 2009 National Veterinary Services procured the Trust in a number of environmental and local community a number of new delivery vehicles which have been fitted with speed programmes: limiters which will assist in reducing the amount of fuel consumed by l A new car park has been built and improvements made to the fleet and should also assist in reducing carbon emissions.
The the Boardwalk at Jacksons Coppice and Marsh, Eccleshall average miles per gallon in respect of the HGV fleet as at the end of 20 acres of semi-natural ancient woodland and marsh in June 2009 was 9.74 compared with 8.86 for the end of June 2008.
The Trust hopes these improvements will allow respect of the Transit fleet, average miles per gallon at the end of June greater visitor access to the nature reserve.
2009 was 32.46 compared with 31.82 for the end of June 2008. l Work has also taken place to improve the visitor centre The Group continues to review its environmental controls and experience at The Wolseley Centre the Trust Headquarters encourage its own staff, suppliers and customers to achieve similar near Rugeley.
l Three new Wildplay Officers have been appointed to the Trust.
The new officers will assist in delivering environmental activities to under 15s in the East Staffordshire and Tamworth areas by Picture courtesy of Staffordshire providing residential and training courses.
Wildlife Trust l A new visitor centre has also been opened at Westport Lake, near Tunstall, Stoke-on-Trent enabling the Trust to increase the number of educational opportunities it can offer to people in the local area.
The business units assist a number of local community projects and below is a selection of what has taken place during the 2008 2009 financial year: NationWide Laboratories has, for a number of years, forged links with local schools by offering a number of work experience placements to students.
One of the schools with which NationWide Laboratories has close links is Arnold School in Blackpool which The Boardwalk at Jacksons Coppice and Marsh, Eccleshall teaches children between the ages of 2 and 18 years of age.
Arnold School has placed students with NationWide Laboratories Picture courtesy for the past three years.
The placements usually take place twice of Staffordshire a year and last for a week at a time.
NationWide Laboratories Wildlife Trust feels that by offering such placements to pupils it provides the opportunity for students to understand and appreciate working life whilst allowing the schools to strengthen ties with local businesses.
The students always find the work experience interesting and rewarding and NationWide Laboratories are always well prepared to look after the students Lee Sobey Work Experience Co-ordinator at Arnold School The new visitor centre at Westport Lake, near Tunstall 60 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH www.
com National Veterinary Services also distributes, free of charge, damaged dog and cat food to charities each year.
During the financial year approximately 40 tonnes of dog and cat food has been supplied to charities free of charge.
A number of local dog and cat charities are identified by National Veterinary Services and these are generally charities involved directly with the care of animals: it is ensured that such stock is not provided to charities where the damaged product would be sold on to third parties.
DVP UK is a sponsor of a charity called Help the Street Cats of Morocco HSAM which it has been involved with since 2006.
During the 2008 2009 financial year DVP UK provided products necessary to assist in the neutering of 120 Moroccan street cats as part of a larger animal welfare programme led by HSAM.
HSAM is a UK-based charity which aims to improve the welfare of street animals in Morocco and also to reduce the feral population.
DVP UK regularly provides the charity with donations of products, predominately from its anaesthetic range.
Robert Brocklehurst, work experience placement student from Arnold School, Blackpool During 2008 2009 DVP UK has also donated 2,000 worth of Canaural to Battersea Dogs & Cats Home and Dogs Trust.
In 2008 Lise Seiersen, a Veterinary Nurse from Harrogate, travelled to Botswana as part of a team organised by Worldwide Veterinary Each year DVP EU nominates a Danish charity to which they donate Services to spend three weeks neutering dogs for the Maun Animal DKK 3,000.
For the year under review DVP EU chose to donate the Welfare Society MAWS.
MAWS is a charity in Botswana which money to the Danish Breast Cancer Foundation.
offers free neutering and treatment of dogs and cats belonging to people who could not otherwise afford to treat their animals.
National DVP EU also provides support, in the form of obsolete and short Veterinary Services donated consumables for Lises trip from their Valu dated products, to a number of animal protection funds.
In particular, Range, which included gloves, giving sets and drapes.
such support is provided to: l The Animal Protection Fund Inges Cat Home which provides shelter and care to homeless cats: l Cat Protection, Denmarks oldest and largest specialised organisation for cat welfare: and l Greeks Dogs, a Danish charity which specialises in assisting stray cats and dogs in Europe.
Finally, for a number of years DVP EU has sponsored three children through an organisation called SOS Childrens Villages.
The three children sponsored live in Kenya, India and the Philippines.
DVP EU donates DKK150 a month to the charity for the sole purpose of providing care, food and schooling for the three children.
Business Ethics The Board expects all of the Groups business activities to be Photograph courtesy of Lise Seiersen conducted in accordance with the highest standards of ethical conduct and in full compliance with all applicable national and MAWS depends entirely on international legislation: in doing so we aim to maintain a reputation for acting responsibly and with integrity.
donations to continue their work so NVS kind donation of gloves and giving sets were much appreciated and put to immediate use when we started work at MAWS clinic Lise Seiersen Veterinary Nurse 61 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities continued During the 2008 2009 financial year the Boards expectations in Any material health and safety issues or incidents which occur respect of business conduct has been formalised into a policy are discussed in detail at the both the monthly Divisional Board known as The Code of Business Conduct the Code.
The Code Meetings and the PLC Board Meetings.
The discussions include aims to set a standard of conduct which applies throughout the details of the incident that took place and also details of any Group and ensures, amongst other things, that: remedial action which has been taken in order to mitigate or prevent a recurrence of the incident.
Twice a year a comprehensive l All third parties are treated fairly, openly and honestly: health and safety report is presented at each of the Divisional l Our employees do not accept or offer bribes, facilitation Board Meetings and then reported to the PLC Board Meeting the payments or other inducements: and following month for discussion and review by the Directors.
l Employees must avoid direct and indirect conflicts of interest and where this is not possible, the employee must follow As mentioned in the 2008 Report and Accounts, a transport risk the procedure set out in the Code in order to ensure that the review committee has been established to assess risks relating employee is removed from the position of conflict as soon as to the vehicle fleet and establish control procedures This includes possible.
a quarterly licence check of all individuals who are able to drive company vehicles, an investigation into all accidents and a This Code is in the process of being rolled out through the disciplinary procedure for speeding offences.
In future years written confirmation of adherence to the four times a year and issues raised by this committee are reviewed Code and notification of any conflicts, by all relevant employees, will by the Board as part of a health and safety review which takes take place annually.
A Whistle-Blowing Policy is also in place whereby employees Simon Evans is the nominated Director responsible for Health and may report, in confidence, any suspected wrongdoings within the Safety policy.
business where they feel unable to discuss any such issue directly with local management.
The policy was reviewed during the year by Employees the Audit Committee and extended to include all employees within It is the Groups policy to encourage employee involvement as the Directors consider that this is essential for the successful DVP EU.
The Group keeps employees informed of performance, developments and progress by way of regular Details of the policy are contained within the Dechra Pharmaceuticals team briefing sessions and notices.
The manufacturing site, Dales PLC Employment Handbook which was updated during the Pharmaceuticals, is registered with Investors in People and 2008 2009 financial year further details of which can be found below operates a Works Council.
A copy of the policy can also be found on the Company website at www.
Dales Pharmaceuticals also takes on a number of apprentices each year via the Modern Apprenticeship Scheme.
Such employees are Open and honest communication is always positively encouraged assisted in achieving National Vocational Qualifications as part of their between employees and management throughout the business.
apprenticeship, usually work-based but also involving literacy and numeracy modules.
As mentioned on page 59, approximately 120 Health and Safety Policy employees have achieved NVQ Level 2 for Business Improvement The Group attaches great importance to the health and safety of Techniques as part of the implementation of the lean manufacturing its employees and the public.
The management are responsible strategy into Dales Pharmaceuticals.
and committed to the maintenance, monitoring and promoting of a policy of Health and Safety at work to ensure the care and It is the Companys policy to provide equal recruitment and other well-being of its employees and on-site visitors.
All of its sites are opportunities for all employees, regardless of age, sex, religion, registered with the British Safety Council.
The Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled people, where they adequately fulfil the requirements Each unit within the Group has an active Health and Safety of the role.
Committee comprising representatives from both management and employees.
The workforce nominates employee representatives.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy These committees meet on a regular basis to carry out a review of whenever practicable to provide continuing employment under the risk assessments and standard operating procedures as well as Companys terms and conditions and to provide training and career investigating any concerns raised by individual employees.
site has the requisite number of employees trained in Health and Safety legislation.
The Group has encouraged employees to share in the growth of the Company through eligibility to participate in the SAYE Scheme.
