Profile Society Environment Economy Governance 5 Our priorities What sustainability The huge variety of issues we face means to us requires that we focus our eff orts where we can use our resources and expertise to make the most positive diff erence.
Our priority areas are those that concern our stakeholders, those that present Voted Britains Most signifi cant business risks, and those Admired Company that support our immediate by our peers, Diageo A sustainable business is one whose communities or business partners was commended or are most closely in tune with for leadership in success is enduring.
We believe such responsible drinking Diageos values, policies or strategy.
long-term achievement comes only Alcohol in society by playing a full part in the communities In major businesses, deliver a in which we operate.
For us, its part of being a good responsible drinking initiative corporate citizen.
We use the term and evaluate its eff ectiveness A truly sustainable to describe our relationship with Engage employees in living our society, a relationship in which our responsible drinking policy business responsibilities towards our Participate in constructive Diageos enduring success is in the S ustainability is good stakeholders, communities and the industry consultations with interests of all with a stake in the business because it environment are balanced by the WHO on alcohol abuse business.
To achieve it, we need rights conferred on us by society to protects the fi rm and its great relationships with our trade freely and be treated fairly.
Community investment cash fl ow, and ultimately employees, business partners and Invest 1% of operating profi t as a commercial other stakeholders.
We need to each year in community and Measures of operate in prosperous, healthy enterprise thats what its social programmes performance communities in which our brands about for the long haul.
Focus on developing countries meet consumers needs and in and disasters, engaging Paul S Walsh, Performance indicators allow us which alcohol has a valued place.
employees with initiatives Diageo chief executive, to monitor progress in our priority And we need reliable supplies of May 2008 areas and provide stakeholders ingredients and other materials Employee development with a balanced picture of what and a healthy environment in Develop authentic and These are all very diff erent issues.
Diageo has achieved as a corporate which to operate.
Some, such as maintaining great inspirational leadership citizen.
We also seek opportunities, Shortcomings in any of these Develop outstanding relationships with our stakeholders, through independent assessments areas present our business with risk.
are within our power to tackle.
people managers of corporate citizenship among Without employee talent and Maintain a talent pipeline Others are more challenging.
While our peers, to compare ourselves high-performing business partners, fi nding a lasting solution for the that sustains our ambition with other companies.
We give we risk losing out to competitors.
Raise levels of employee lack of water in some developing examples of such comparisons Without economic opportunity in countries or a fi x for climate change engagement on page 35. our communities, consumers may may seem daunting tasks we are, In determining which be less able to aff ord our brands.
after all, just one company we Environmental management performance indicators we should Should health risks go unchecked, Continuously reduce impacts believe we have a responsibility to use, we referred to the Global the families of our employees, play our part and that, working on climate change, water Reporting Initiative, measures used suppliers and consumers could be resources and waste with others, we can make a by socially-responsible investors endangered.
If alcohol beverages meaningful contribution.
Develop sustainable packaging and peer companies.
We aim to are consumed irresponsibly, some As a minimum, we work to keep the list of indicators relevant people could see our business as address our own impacts on Economic contribution to our stakeholders by engaging part of the problem.
Without clean Build total shareholder return society and the environment with them on a continuing basis.
water, our breweries and distilleries for example, through programmes Promote high standards A list of the performance indicators could suff er along with the of governance, compliance that reduce our own greenhouse that we use, and where they are communities in which they are gas emissions or ensure our brands and transparency addressed in this report, is given on located.
And if the climate should are marketed responsibly.
Our the website in the form of a GRI change signifi cantly, it could commitment to continuous Value chain content index.
threaten supplies of the water and Promote our standards improvement in these areas is set crops we need to make our brands, out in our comprehensive range throughout our value chain among many other consequences.
Consider the social, of codes and policies.
In some instances, we go beyond our own environmental and economic risks and opportunities of major operations to help develop or support our communities in need procurement decisions for example, by responding to natural disasters or working Consumer choice Provide consumers with useful long-term to meet pressing social problems.
information about our brands Develop ways of measuring and reporting quality Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 6 6 6 6 130 Diageo responsible drinking initiatives in more than 40 countries We benefit from great relationships in our communities and the wider society.
We work to raise awareness about responsible drinking and aspire to change consumer attitudes and behaviour We address pressing needs and support development in our communities W e develop our employees and engage them in our journey towards sustainability Playing a full role in society Picture: In Africa, Diageo s 1 Million Challenge aims to bring clean water to a million people a year until 2015 page 11
