Profile Society Environment Economy Governance 19 Environmental sustainability Management and policy The Diageo executive environmental working group, which is chaired by the managing director of Diageo Supply and includes functional leaders from Our new across the business, is responsible environmental policy refl ects our for setting strategy.
We take the commitment and We have set ourselves stretching precautionary approach of the stretching targets Rio Principles our actions on for improvement targets to reduce our impacts the environment are planned on the environment, for the in the light of current scientifi c Measurements of our most knowledge and do not depend signifi cant impacts the use of benefi t of the planet, our on having absolute proof of energy and water, and the communities and our business.
production of solid waste, liquid This year, the working group effl uent and greenhouse gases Being less dependent on fi nite resources such as fossil fuels launched a new environmental are our primary indicators of and fresh water especially in areas where it is scarce supports policy that makes clear our performance.
We collect usage the long-term prosperity of our business.
There are a number commitment to achieve and emissions data monthly from of steps in this journey to environmental sustainability using sustainability, with a focus not only all 104 production sites and energy and water more effi ciently, switching to resources that on our own operations but also annually from around 40 large are naturally replenished, and, by fi nding ways to re-use or on stewardship of our value chain.
offi ces, aggregating the results recycle our by-products, eliminating waste that may damage Implementation is guided and both as totals and to track the environment.
monitored at our production sites environmental effi ciency as ratios by an environmental leadership relative to production volume.
team and in the area of sustainable We aim to keep employees packaging by a specialist working informed about our environmental group.
The policy is supported by progress and involved in achieving O ur vision is that some our risk management standards, our ambitious goals.
The United day all Diageo brands which set out criteria for Nations World Environment Day compliance.
will be sourced in June was a great opportunity All production sites are to focus on the issues.
Teams of sustainably, produced required to have an environmental Diageo volunteers in markets sustainably, delivered management system EMS and across the world marked the day to the customer and 88% of these were assessed by taking part in activities such as consumer sustainably this year as fully or mostly planting trees, cleaning or restoring implemented.
EMSs at 19 sites, in packaging that has the habitats, removing rubbish and representing 42% of production raising money.
Many of the projects smallest environmental by volume, are certifi ed to the were described in GREENiQ, a new footprint, and that all international standard ISO14001.
Diageo newsletter that keeps Diageo employees will Our offi ce buildings have employees up to date with our work in sustainable a much smaller environmental environmental programme.
footprint than our production sites.
We have worked to promote Offi ces with more than 50 environmental awareness and Roberta Barbieri, employees, which altogether Diageo global environmental improvements in our industry and project manager contribute around 1-10% of beyond.
Our involvement with the Diageos total impact, are Beverage Industry Environmental tasked with improving their Roundtable allows us to share environmental performance experience with others in our and raising employee awareness sector and agree consistent of environmental issues.
approaches to measurement and reporting.
Our environmental targets By 2015 Progress to date Greenhouse gases down 50% down 2% Wastewater at water-stressed sites down 50% Water effi ciency up 30% up 3% Polluting potential down 60% down 13% Waste landfi lled down 100% down 66% Targets and progress are compared with 2007 performance.
