Profile Society Environment Economy Governance 7 Alcohol in society We want to make a real contribution to creating Training in our a more positive role for marketing code, alcohol in society, minimising as at this session in Bangkok, is an the harm from misuse and essential part of many peoples promoting the social benefi ts jobs in Diageo of responsible drinking.
code to help keep it at the forefront Alcohol has been a common source of pleasure for of eff ective self-regulation.
Our centuries and plays a traditional role in ceremonies and code now integrates new guidance family celebrations in many societies.
We are proud that so and enhanced compliance many people choose Diageo brands for simple enjoyment requirements and clarifi es or to accompany great times in their lives.
We all know that requirements and accountabilities.
most consumers drink responsibly, but a minority misuse One of the strengths of the Products and practices alcohol and cause harm to themselves and to society.
Diageo code is the way that its We use marketing techniques The misuse of alcohol is a complex issue involving underpinned by our compliance, to inform consumers about our physiological, psychological, social and cultural factors.
Most review, training, and control brands and to compete for market experts acknowledge that to reduce it requires multiple infrastructure.
This is an area where share.
We hope to be more approaches including eff ective, enforced regulation, we have shown leadership in our successful than our competitors by information campaigns and individual interventions.
industry and gained particular attracting adult alcohol beverage The good news is that long-term integrated stakeholder approval.
consumers to Diageo brands and programmes can change attitudes and behaviour.
For Training on our marketing by encouraging them to trade up example, our experience with designated driver campaigns standards is part of the induction within the ranges we off er.
We is that they can lead to widespread acceptance of the programme for relevant new aim to carry out these activities to practice and potentially reduce road accidents.
Marketing and the highest standards and have We aim to maintain high standards of responsibility innovation teams and agencies enshrined such principles in the in our own activities and promote these strongly in our regularly attend refresher courses Diageo marketing code for the industry.
In addition, through partnerships with government on interpretation.
These workshops guidance of our colleagues and the departments, advocacy groups and others, we apply our are complemented by e-learning external agencies that help devise best creative talents and resources to try and change materials.
peoples attitudes to alcohol and reduce its misuse.
Assurance that the As well as covering traditional Many participants in the debate legislators, development or marketing methods, we have standards for educators, NGOs, medics, parents, individuals, drinks of a brand meets the codes marketing through new media companies, the wider hospitality industry and the media requirements is aided by the use such as mobile phones, websites have a role to play in reaching what must be a common of SmartApprove.
This online and social networking channels.
We believe our own contribution is most tool co-ordinates sign-off by our A core function of this code is to powerful in the following three strategic areas: marketing, legal, intellectual help marketers limit underage property and corporate relations exposure to our internet or Products and practices colleagues and records the process.
mobile-phone advertising Set world-class standards in our industry for responsible So far, we have introduced for example, by enabling parents marketing and provide consumers with information SmartApprove in 35 countries: to block underage access to our about our brands it will be implemented further brand websites by the use of next year.
Since inception, nearly Programmes nanny tags.
10,000 marketing projects have Working either directly or in partnership with others, run We also work within been reviewed through programmes that raise awareness and seek to change frameworks established by external the process.
attitudes and behaviour bodies for example, the Common Each year, in each market, Standards for Commercial Policy and partnerships we complete a self-assessment of Communications of the European Advocate and facilitate the development of evidencecompliance against the marketing Forum for Responsible Drinking based public policy on alcohol code, and audits are carried out EFRD and the Discus Code of on a sample of businesses and Responsible Practices.
Common Standards, as well as the Discus code, include guidance on digital marketing that builds on Diageos expertise in this area.
This year, after consulting internal and external stakeholders, we revised the Diageo marketing Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 8 Alcohol in society Programmes There is no single universal defi nition of responsible drinking.
However, people generally have a sense of what it means to them, and know that abusing alcohol can lead to harm.
We support programmes that aim to increase awareness about responsible drinking and aspire to change The 250th anniversary peoples attitudes and behaviour.
Guinness pint glass is Last year we launched the the fi first in the UK with responsible drinking website alcohol unit information DRINKiQ.
com to raise the debate and help inform the public.
D iageo is to be Consisting of a global site and commended for 16 country sites, DRINKiQ aims We have run Guardian developing [the DRINKiQ to bring together the best Angel campaigns in programmes not only our own website].
It is well done 15 countries.
If you for anyone with an interest in drink, dont drive was and our hope is that they the strong message promoting responsible drinking will continue to push in Central America and minimising the misuse responsibility eff orts of alcohol.
If we become aware of a potential forward within their On the site are experts views, We took an breach of our code, we make anti-drink-drive facts about alcohol, responsible company and within changes to bring the project message to drinking tips and an outline of the beverage alcohol motorists at 89 into compliance before it can Diageos approach to this important service stations industry.
com in Kenya violation slip through this process, The US National was awarded best in class for Alcohol Beverage we investigate it, take remedial corporate community partnership This year we led or supported Control Association action and seek to ensure that by PR News and was judged the over 130 such initiatives in over 40 something similar doesnt happen best health and wellness website countries.
The Diageo Responsible The DRINKiQ.
No complaints from the by the International Academy of Drinking Fund, which had resources complemented by a separate public about our marketing were Visual Arts.
this year of 400,000, provided programme of interactive upheld this year see below.
fi financial support, backed up by awareness-raising sessions with expert guidance.
Our businesses the same name.
The programme usually contribute further funding has now been presented to more to projects in their markets and than half of Diageo employees in Complaints about advertising manage them with partners such all parts of the world.
As well as as government agencies or other keeping them informed for their Members of the public can complain about marketing activities they groups with specialist expertise.
own benefi t, we also want to equip think dont meet high standards.
In many countries there are bodies, Tackling drink-driving is the our people with the information some of which specialise in alcohol beverage marketing, that review goal of Diageos Guardian Angels and confi dence to be eff ective such complaints in the light of their own codes of practice.
Here we campaigns, which are designed to ambassadors for responsible report complaints upheld by the Alcohol Beverages Advertising Code remind consumers that drinking drinking and for Diageos role in ABAC in Australia: the Advertising Standards Authority for Ireland ASAI : sensibly and, in particular, tackling misuse.
the Advertising Standards Authority ASA and the Portman Group in the nominating a driver when they The programme has also been UK: and the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States Discus.
go out is a matter of personal shared outside the business for responsibility and not one that example, with customers and should be left to their guardian regulators.
In Australia, 1,500 Complaints upheld angel.
2009 2008 2007 external stakeholders attended We launched the idea in DRINKiQ sessions this year, while ABAC, Australia Diageo brands Venezuela three years ago.
Since in the UK we presented the All alcohol beverages 7 8 3 then, we have run campaigns in programme to a meeting of the ASAI, Ireland Diageo brands 1 14 more countries in Latin America Society of Occupational Medicine.
All alcohol beverages 1 1 1 and Asia.
In Costa Rica, the initiative In June we opened a new was supported by the San Jos ASA, UK Diageo brands 1 responsible drinking zone under government and many local All alcohol beverages 17 4 5 the DRINKiQ banner at the businesses.
Following activation Portman Group, UK Diageo brands Guinness Storehouse, Irelands in China, 77% of consumers number one visitor attraction.
All alcohol beverages 10 4 2 questioned said they would be We support practical Discus, USA Diageo brands 2 more likely to consider their programmes in many of our All alcohol beverages 5 12 15 drinking behaviour after seeing markets to tackle particular the campaign.
All members brands plus non-members spirits brands.
examples of harm from alcohol misuse for example, drink-driving, underage drinking and the behaviour of consumers in bars.
Profile Society Environment Economy Governance Alcohol in society 9 The fi first of a two-part campaign in Athens, through which, with road safety partners, we aimed to raise awareness of drink-driving and the alternatives available, You give the message reached over 24,000 consumers directly and more via a website.
In research after the campaign, 29% of respondents said it helped them reconsider how they would get home after a night out.
Screenings of our The second part, Drive your friends, Drive Dry campaign reached 12,000 consumers in peer reviewed in the United States made responsible person, while 2,100 participated while researchers from Oxford drinking a main The National in an on-line competition.
Brookes University are helping the theme of the 2009 J&B Bartender Contest Met, South Africas www.
gr local teams ensure that all the pilots in Thailand promotes biggest horse-racing responsible serving share the same methodology.
social event practices At Christmas and Easter we ran www.
org Safe Drive campaigns in three Ghanaian regional capitals to remind We support the strict enforcement We have supported pilots of the Well-trained pub and bar staff are road users particularly bus and taxi of legal age limits on the purchase Strengthening Families Programme in a good position to infl uence drivers not to drink and drive.
Staff and consumption of alcohol.
that deals with 10 to 14-year-olds in the attitudes and behaviour of and other volunteers distributed During the year we supported the UK, Spain and Poland, for some consumers and to deal with fl yers at 15 transport stations, sensitively-designed initiatives in years.
This year we extended our situations of misuse.
We support reaching an estimated 5,200 drivers many countries to help address the support to cover pilots in Greece, programmes that help bartenders with the messaging.
in partnership with the National acquire skills in responsible serving The campaign we aired on In the USA, we helped the and Kapodistrian University of and in coping with drinkers who national TV and local radio stations Responsible Retailing Forum Athens.
The programme, which have had enough.
in Kenya and Ghana featured develop a new way of reducing aims to reduce the problems Our employee alcohol policy Guinness ambassador and Chelsea alcohol sales to those under the associated with alcohol misuse sets out the standards we expect football midfi elder Michael Essien legal purchase age.
Pilot studies and other behavioural problems in from our people, both in and out urging consumers to Stay Onside conducted in three cities indicated adolescence, has been rigorously of the workplace where they act in the lead up to Christmas by not that the model may signifi cantly drinking and driving.
In Nigeria, improve ID-checking and refusal our radio campaign against of underage sales.
org in both English and pidgin.
The Drive Dry campaign run by brandhouse, our joint-venture business in South Africa, was based on research into why some men choose to drink and drive and what messages might persuade them to stop.
The fi findings led to a series of hard-hitting advertisements that aimed to bring home the consequences of drink-driving, overcoming the belief that it wont happen to me.
In follow-up research, 89% of respondents said they were more likely to consider not drinkdriving after seeing the campaign.
Johnnie Walkers sponsorship of F1 Team Vodafone McLaren Mercedes has continued to provide energetic focus to our eff orts to F1 Champion Lewis discourage drink-driving around the Hamilton visited the T he Join the Pact world.
In many markets we have Diageo offi ces in anti-drink-driving included in our events the Mumbai to launch the Join the Pact opportunity to sign up to a pact campaign was campaign in India never to drink and drive, endorsed by brilliantly conceived, motor-racing celebrities who have highly progressive, served as Diageo responsible socially conscious and drinking champions during the year.
Moodie Report on Diageos Singapore campaign, 2008 Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 10 Alcohol in society We believe in engaging with the I highly appreciate medical profession on alcohol issues Diageos and Metro to raise awareness among clinicians Reals commitment and patients.
In France, our business to enforce the legal Mot Hennessy Diageo, with medical experts, devised a training purchase age for programme for doctors on the social alcoholic beverages.
and clinical aspects of alcohol.
This initiative is more Questionnaires given before and eff ective than the after the training showed that the creation of new laws.
programme had increased doctors as ambassadors for Diageo and its knowledge of alcoholism and Detlef Parr, MP and drugs values.
We urge our employees, commissioner of the Liberal other issues.
where they can, to support our party, Germany, endorsing We sponsored the British Liver awareness-raising activities our joint 18 initiative with Trusts leafl et Alcohol and liver perhaps by volunteering on Metro Real supermarkets disease.
Written by experts, the campaigns.
Many colleagues took We donated leafl et is distributed via the Trusts part in our Guardian Angels more than 200 helpline and is widely available in UK initiatives in many countries.
In last breathalysers doctors surgeries.
years global values survey, 93% of to the police Diageo was the fi first alcohol We remain committed to the responding employees said they in Thailand beverage company in the USA to charitable organisation the thought Diageo was eff ective in support the training of doctors in Drinkaware Trust in the UK and promoting responsible drinking.
screening and brief intervention SBI contribute to its funding.
A true techniques to reduce hazardous social marketing partnership Policy development drinking among their patients.
The between the beverage alcohol and partnerships Medical Society of the State of New industry and civil society, the York found that, after SBI training, Drinkaware trustees include In Asia we supported an alcohol We partner with government 88% of its members planned to representatives of producers departments, civic organisations and policy workshop in Vietnam, screen their patients for alcohol and retailers as well as health hosted by the Ministry of Health the media to encourage stakeholder misuse compared with 62% before.
endorsement of responsible and attended by government, To encourage the wider use of SBI The Trust plays a signifi cant role NGOs, academics and the industry.
drinking and our eff orts to change techniques, this year we fi nanced in the public debate and in attitudes and reduce alcohol misuse.
We work to encourage the the training of other front-line changing attitudes to alcohol.
adoption of marketing codes across These eff orts are more eff ective clinicians nationally by the Institute where an appropriate legislative our industry.
For example, through for Continuing Healthcare Education.
the Beer Sectoral Group in Nigeria, framework is in place.
Such a system of national policy on alcohol clarifi es we helped develop a harmonised code that all member companies the issues and may address systemic problems, allowing our initiatives to have adopted.
For example, This year we participated in eff orts to discourage drink-driving consultations with the World Health Social aspects organisations can yield greater benefi ts in a Organisation on ways in which our country where clear laws are industry could contribute to Over the years, we have helped establish many social aspects organisations properly enforced.
reducing the harmful use of alcohol.
These are industry-funded bodies that tackle alcohol misuse and We support governments in The contact, which was both direct promote responsible drinking.
We have worked with SAOs to develop codes setting alcohol policy frameworks.
along with other companies and of responsible marketing and raise awareness.
The countries covered by In many African countries, including through the Global Alcohol SAOs in which we are involved accounted for 70% of Diageos business by Ghana, Kenya and Uganda, we Producers Group, formed part of sales in 2009. supported policy development, a consultation by WHO for the involving government ministries, development of its Global Strategy Diageo memberships of social aspects organisations NGOs, civil society and our industry to Reduce Harmful Use of Alcohol.
in a transparent process mediated by We made a number of constructive DrinkWise, Australia www.
au the International Centre for Alcohol suggestions on the actions our Educalcool, Canada www.
industry is currently taking and Forum-psr, Czech Republic www.
cz In November we contributed could additionally take to reduce GODA, Denmark www.
dk to the sixth Africa Resource Bank the harmful use of alcohol and EFRD, European Union www.
org conference in Kenya, at which expressed our commitment to work Entreprise & Prvention, France www.
com more than 40 policymakers and with public health bodies that share academics from across Africa our outlook.
mx conference reached agreement STIVA, Netherlands www.
nl on a legal purchase age, the position ARA, South Africa www.
co. za of non-commercial home brews, FAS, Spain www.
org sports sponsorship and underage TBAF, Taiwan www.
We hope to see legislation The Portman Group, UK www.
uk covering these issues soon.
com The Century Council, USA www.
