Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 14 Inclusion and diversity Developing We seek to maintain a diverse our people workforce in which the diff erent contributions made by all employees, through the variety of their personalities, experiences and perspectives, creates a stimulating and rewarding working environment.
Having colleagues from many diff erent backgrounds At our Cameroon gives us deeper insights into brewery, employees consumer needs and enhances celebrated the our relationships with all our opening of a new stakeholders.
restaurant for all grades Investing in employee development Gender diversity by level % women increases the capability of our 2009 2008 2007 workforce, empowers our people, Board 30 20 18 Senior managers 27 25 24 creates value and spreads wealth Other employees 35 35 35 through the community.
Total workforce 34 34 34 Diageo exerts signifi cant social and economic impact on our communities Our aspiration for diversity by creating opportunities for employment.
Developing our people and By 2011 Progress to date providing an attractive and stimulating working environment for all helps Women senior managers From 24% to 30% 27% foster the great relationships between our businesses and their employees Target is compared with 2007 fi gure.
that are essential to achieve Diageos stretching ambitions.
There are a number of independent assessments of companies from Our policies set out our and consultations, massage and an employees point of view.
We have increased our participation in these commitment to treat people fairly, acupuncture.
rankings this year and have entered schemes in all regions.
Diageo businesses both at recruitment and during their In Venezuela, where disabled were judged to be within the top ten in 11 of the rankings.
They include undertakings people have often felt excluded to advertise vacancies routinely, from the business world, we Great places to work assessments O ur people want Diageo encourage suitable internal devised a programme for qualifying Diageo businesses in top ten candidates, and assess people employees, adapted according to to do the right thing.
Each They want to feel proud Central America and Caribbean The proportion of women colleague has a coach to help them when they talk to their Colombia in senior management a key with the offi ce environment and friends and family about Great Britain demand diversity indicator has risen from ways of working.
We In the USA, Diageo became Ireland demand it is such a large part hope to increase this to 30% by 2011. the fi first company in our sector Portugal Opportunities for career to achieve a 100% score in the of their life.
Singapore progression are determined only on Corporate Equality Index.
The result, Paul S Walsh, Diageo South Africa brandhouse the basis of ability and performance.
up from 95% last year, came through chief executive, Spain We aim to create opportunities that an increased focus on enhancing interviewed by Uruguay Management Today, are attractive to a wide range of our human resources policies.
May 2009 Venezuela suitably qualifi ed candidates and The Human Rights Campaign compatible with a variety of Foundation, part of the nations lifestyles.
Where roles lend largest advocacy group for gay, themselves to fl exible working, lesbian, bisexual and transgender many Diageo businesses off er GLBT Americans, produced the options such as career breaks, varied index and recognised Diageo as locations, school-term working, one of the top companies for compressed-time working, fl exible supporting employee equality.
retirement, job sharing, annualised In achieving the result, we hours and fl exible compensation.
benefi ted from the participation At our service centre in of the Rainbow Network, a group Budapest, Hungary this year we of Diageo employees in North took several initiatives to support America also now established in our colleagues work-life balance.
Britain, which advances awareness These included a kindergarten of workplace equality and GLBT programme to help those returning issues, and also seeks ways to from maternity or paternity leave: promote our brands to GLBT fi tness activities such as spine consumers.
gymnastics and yoga, subsidised The chance of working abroad sports: a healthy eating programme: is attractive to many of our people and opportunities for health checks and brings benefi ts to Diageo.
Profile Society Environment Economy Governance 15 treatment and return to work, ensure that we understand the cause of the accident and share lessons learned with relevant Diageo sites.
We set ourselves the targets of reducing accidents by 15% in both 2008 and 2009 which we have achieved and halving the Colleagues at our total between 2007 and 2011 Bushmills distillery a target which we have also spent Zero Harm Diageos year already reached.
Day on activities stigma attached to accessing HIV long leadership to promote safety At more than half of our prevention and care.
It encourages performance at the plant production plants we celebrated a programme has employees to take responsibility year without any lost-time accidents helped prepare 900 for their own health and to show While encouraging local employees senior managers to at all.
Local charities received 3,000 leadership to others.
lead the next stage to progress to leadership positions to mark this achievement at our The programme is non of the companys where they are suitably qualifi ed, Baileys plant near Belfast, as the development discriminatory, voluntary and we also provide opportunities for site had pledged 250 for each confi dential, and has four elements, overseas postings.
pandemic to ensure business all of which are free of charge: assignees worked away from home continuity: planned for the care we promote behavioural change at some 58 locations this year.
To Employees health of our people and their families: through education and by maintain diversity among assignees, launched an education campaign: distributing condoms we encourage employees from The activities involved in peoples and provided for over 70,000 courses we encourage employees and outside the UK to take up overseas jobs at Diageo should not harm of Tamifl u by free or subsidised their families to enrol for routine secondments.
This proportion has their health.
To monitor any impact prescription for all Diageo employees counselling and HIV testing grown from 33% to 59% over the on employees wellbeing and and their families, subject to local we urge HIV-positive individuals last six years.
recommend corrective action, regulatory and practical constraints.
to acknowledge their status and our Occupational Health Service seek treatment Safety at work conducts surveillance as a matter of we provide counselling, clinical Capability and best practice or as required by local management of opportunistic Our goal is to create a zero harm development laws.
For example, programmes infections, palliative care and culture in which everything may cover colleagues working in anti-retroviral drugs for life.
During the year we completed a reasonable is done to prevent noisy areas, in laboratories or with comprehensive programme of safety incidents.
Our vision is of no grain dust at production sites.
We leadership development for around fatalities, no injuries and no harm also off er educational programmes 900 senior Diageo managers.
coming to anyone on our premises, covering topics such as healthy The importance of this and other summed up by the tagline heart advice, manual handling initiatives in developing our people Everyone going home safe, every techniques, support to travellers was recognised when our CEO Paul day, everywhere.
and guidance on avoiding malaria.
Walsh received the highly regarded The basics of achieving this In Africa, we work to reduce Hunt Scanlon Global Human Capital are set out in our occupational the impact of HIV Aids on our Leadership Award for 2008. health and safety policy, which is employees, their families and our The specifi c behaviours, skills supported by risk management business partners through our Live The Living Well and knowledge that we need from standards that defi ne the minimum Life programme of workplace programme was our employees to help meet our requirements for controlling risks launched at our initiatives, community involvement ambitious objectives for the business and reducing the likelihood and Runcorn, UK and partnerships.
Live Life takes a are set out in the Leadership packaging plant severity of accidents.
holistic approach to health and with a day of Standard, which describes the When an injury occurs we wellbeing and aims to reduce the exercises in qualities we expect of senior work to support the person through healthy living managers, and the Diageo Safety performance Capabilities, which show what 2009 2008 2007 we expect of all other employees.
Typical of the initiatives taken in our Accidents per 1,000 employees Both help our people to be African businesses was Cameroon, successful by defi ning winning Europe 5.1 8.4 11.1 where 30 coaches supported a behaviours and qualities.
International 4.0 10.0 15.6 programme of voluntary testing.
The key to developing Diageo North America 23.2 29.3 38.0 On World Aids Day, there was a people is Partners for Growth P4G, march-past to show all employees Asia Pacifi c 1.4 2.0 5.0 our performance review and the Diageo approach: Welcoming, Total 7.4 12.4 16.5 goal-setting programme.
The aim counselling, assisting everyone of P4G is to build on employees thats our commitment!
Fatalities 4 1 individual strengths and overcome With the possible threat of any barriers in order to achieve Accidents resulting in lost time of at least a day, beginning the day after the accident.
pandemic fl u to our people, North America fi gures include employees who returned to work on restricted or lighter their aspirations and realise their their families and our business, duties following an accident: without these the fi gure for 2009 was 19.3 2008: 14.9. potential.
The emphasis is on honest, a dedicated management team continuing conversations between evaluated the risks and put plans Our safety target employees and their managers in place to respond to an outbreak.
By 2011 Progress to date discussions that support their Working with medical experts, we Accidents per 1,000 employees down 50% down 55% progress towards achieving business planned the actions we would take Targets and progress are compared with 2007 performance.
at each alert level of an escalating
