Profile Society Environment Economy Governance 11 Water of Life Investing in With special resonance for our our communities business, which depends on a reliable supply of clean water, we support projects that help people without access to water or that advance environmental conservation.
Access to water is essential for Projects in development.
It improves health Cameroon, like this As in the past, our success in the future and school attendance and creates one at Kassalafarm, economic opportunity, yet an delivered water will depend on the prosperity of the supplies to 116,400 estimated 400 million people in communities in which we operate people in four Africa lack this basic amenity.
In communities response to a UN challenge to and the strength of our relationships companies to adopt a Millennium with them.
Development Goal MDG see page 13, three years ago our Supporting long-term sustainable The Diageo Foundation businesses in Africa committed to initiatives in our communities set aside half of their community The Foundation is funded entirely advances their development, investment budget itself 1% of by Diageo.
It makes grants in engages our employees, builds operating profi t to provide one support of projects or causes our reputation and enhances our million people with access to water proposed by Diageo businesses relationships with other stakeholders.
every year until 2015. and externally.
In 2009, the Our record of community The Diageo 1 Million Challenge Foundation received 516 such investment goes back many decades.
will make a signifi cant contribution proposals and, following Today, our fi financial commitment is to to MDG 7, which is to halve the assessment against its selection invest 1% of Diageos operating profi t proportion of people without criteria, approved 16 new projects in social projects.
In 2009 our total sustainable access to safe drinking for assistance.
Together with investment of 23.4 million actually water by the same date.
In Nigeria payments committed in previous amounted to 1.0% of operating profi t. alone, we completed seven years, in 2009 the Foundation made Most of this came from Diageo projects during the year to provide payments totalling 1.2 million.
businesses around the world in the water to 450,000 people.
Each A Water of Life Acknowledging that it cannot form of cash, in-kind donations and project amounted to a mini water project is helping hope to address every social issue, volunteer time.
It also included grants to protect works comprising a deep borehole, the Foundation provides focus for from the Diageo Foundation and East Taihu Lake, storage tank, treatment plant and our community investment near Shanghai support for the community aspects distribution network.
programme by defi ning areas of responsible drinking projects.
described in this section where This year, altogether we provided we can make the most diff erence.
water for 1.6 million people in Working in partnership Targeting developing Africa, bringing the total number We run community programmes countries in Africa, Latin America, of benefi ciaries from the 1 Million in partnership with external Asia and Eastern Europe, as well as Challenge to date to 3.2 million.
organisations that have specialist awarding grants, the Foundation We plan a full independent study local knowledge.
Projects aim to acts as a catalyst for: of the social impacts of the achieve well-defi ned objectives, encouraging contributions programme in the coming months.
for example to: from Diageo businesses and Last year we ran a pilot project address local needs and respect external sources A mini water works near New Delhi to harvest rainwater completed this year cultural sensitivities engaging Diageo employees and recharge an abandoned at Iju, Nigeria, understand the impacts of the in fundraising, giving and borehole to provide a sustainable provides water for project on the community volunteering water source for the community.
100,000 people from strike a balance between our aims developing partnerships with More recently, with our project 21 fetching stations and those of our project partners NGOs and other external bodies partner, we have begun to build make the benefi ts sustainable providing expertise and support The 1 Million Challenge 50 rainwater harvesting sites in and avoid over-dependence on for establishing and managing India which are planned to gather People provided with water in 2009 external support eff ective projects.
Kenya 466,000 raise awareness among opinion We joined forces with the Nigeria 450,000 leaders, community audiences UK charity law requires that the WWF in China to help protect East Uganda 248,330 and our own employees.
Foundation does not directly Taihu Lake, which provides 17% Ghana 220,000 promote Diageos commercial of Shanghais water needs.
Its independence is the of the two-and-a-half-year project responsibility of trustees, appointed Ethiopia 34,615 is to improve the quality of the by the Diageo board from our regional water supply, establish Sierra Leone 18,000 businesses and functions, who fl ood controls and preserve local Tanzania 2,000 approve new projects and work biodiversity.
Madagascar 1,822 with external advisers and Total 1.6 million not-for-profi t organisations with specialist expertise.
Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 12 Investing in our communities In a series of Buchanans Skills for Life Forever concerts in Latin America, Colleagues We support projects that help Sir Elton John Our partnership with Young from our Dublin unemployed or disadvantaged helped raise funds brewery restored Entrepreneurs Start Up in Indonesia people start new businesses or for Diageos the garden of aims to inspire young people with prepare for the world of work.
Such Learning for Life a community the possibilities of entrepreneurship programme education centre projects contribute to economic and provide them with support in development in the communities starting their own business.
After from which our employees, introductory workshops, 77 highconsumers and business partners potential entrepreneurs were L earning for Life off ered come and so ultimately contribute trained to develop their business me more than a job: to the sustainability of our business.
plans and mentored in how to be In Latin America we consulted it gave me the chance successful in a range of sectors.
widely before deciding how we to build a career and In Vietnam, our joint venture could eff ectively tackle some of provide my family with with the Saigon Childrens Charity the most pressing needs in our has for two years provided training a better life.
Alerted to the high to disadvantaged young people Working with the levels of illiteracy and the large Cntia Cruz, graduate Korean Red Cross, and helped them fi nd jobs in hotels, of Diageos Project proportion of school drop-outs Diageo volunteers restaurants and shops in Ho Chi Retailer, now working in the region, our response was prepared kimchi at Carrefour, Brazil Minh City.
The four six-month traditional pickled to devise the Learning for Life courses covered confi dence vegetables for programme which we launched boosting areas such as attitude 100 deprived families this year.
Now in its fi fifth year, the Diageo in Seoul and grooming as well as specifi c Learning for Life is a three-year Keep Walking Fund Awards in professional, IT and English scheme through which we aim to Taiwan help realise the dreams of language skills.
Of the 163 students improve the lives of 50,000 those taking action to benefi t the who enrolled, 124 have graduated underprivileged people by disadvantaged in society.
providing them with the skills they 400 applicants, a panel selected need to participate and compete in nine winners with varied ambitions Local Communities society.
The programme has been for example, developing teaching partly funded by Buchanans methods in remote communities, Our employees may be proud to This year, in response to requests Forever concerts, which this year supporting organic agriculture and work for a company that invests in from employees for new ways featured performances by Sir Elton developing support groups for community development: but to help our communities, John and James Blunt an example haemophilia patients.
There were many want to be directly involved we launched Giving for Good, of cause-related marketing by the fi five cash awards to help winners as volunteers or fundraisers and we a website that will rally Diageo popular Scotch whisky brand.
develop their project and fi five do what we can to support them employees to raise funds for a Learning for Life courses, run bursaries for travel and study at the in their eff orts.
This year they spent diff erent good cause each year.
in partnership with educational and University of Cambridge.
The Keep 4,530 days 2007: 10,000 days For the fi first 12 months, the training organisations, focus on four Walking Fund helped earn Diageo participating in activities all over focus is on a number of schools and areas of competency tourism, the Outstanding Foreign Firm Award the world.
clinics close to Kampala, Uganda retailing, the arts and hospitality from the Chamber of Commerce for Many employees chose whose water supply is not suitable fi tting well with Diageos business.
our special contribution to Taiwans World Water Day to support our for drinking.
On the Giving for Good Over six months, participants economy, social welfare and communities through co-ordinated website, employees can donate receive 400 hours of instruction in environmental care.
activities in support of our Africa money either their own or funds entrepreneurship, interpersonal Water of Life programme.
There raised through sponsorship or team relationships, computer skills and were 30 Make a Splash events in events to buy 10 water fi lter kits, business management.
20 countries for employees and each of which can provide clean Learning for Life kicked off their families to enjoy, including water for up to 25 people for a year.
with a retail course for 30 people half marathons, fun days and water By the end of June, 4,590 kits had in So Paulo, Brazil.
Our aim for the conservation games.
More than been pledged for the cause.
fi first cohort of graduates is that, 100,000 was raised and donated with a certifi cate granted by our to the 1 Million Challenge and partner Anhembi-Morumbi other community water projects.
University, 80% will fi nd sustainable employment as a result of their Learning for Life tuition.
Profile Society Environment Economy Governance Investing in our communities 13 The Millennium Development Goals At the turn of the millennium, UN members agreed a vision for the world in 2015 with less poverty, hunger and disease, improved Evaluating community survival of mothers and infants, investment better education, equal We can respond quickly opportunities for women and We use the London Benchmarking to natural disasters such a healthier environment for all.
Group LBG model which we Analysis of community as Hurricane Gustav which They pledged to aim for eight investment 000 hit the USA this year helped pioneer in 1994 to put a Millennium Development Goals realistic, conservative value on our By focus area MDGs to help achieve this vision.
community investment inputs Disaster Relief Halfway to 2015, the UNs 2008 and to measure not only the 5 1 4 MDG report shows that, while When disasters aff ect the immediate benefi ts outputs of progress has been made, some communities in which we live and our activities but also their lasting 3 goals are likely to be missed unless work and we can help, we respond benefi t impacts.
additional action is taken urgently.
with emergency relief, long-term As recognised by the UN, the reparation and support for our private sector has a part to play in employees fundraising.
Diageos With the Bridge Foundation By category primary contribution comes from in North America, we constantly 2 the economic activity of our watch for events that could put 5 1 4 businesses, which are particularly 1 12,049 Local Communities people in harms way.
As Hurricane 2 7,158 Community aspects signifi cant in the economies of Gustav headed for the Louisiana of responsible drinking some developing countries.
Nearly coast in September 2008, we 3 2,448 Skills for Life one-fi fifth of Diageos production shipped several huge generators to 4 1,709 Water of Life sites are in such countries, 5 41 Disaster Relief Mississippi and Louisiana to power accounting for 61% of our global police and rescue services.
2 brewery output and providing 3 By region more than 5,000 jobs.
Wherever our brands are made, local sourcing 1 Y our eff orts have helped 4 of raw materials and services 1 7,400 Thalidomide T rust to show what we can 2 7,366 Our businesses spreads the positive impact of our community projects 3 accomplish when we operations within the economy.
3 7,158 Community aspects come together as one A further contribution comes of responsible drinking through the tax levied on our 4 1,050 Diageo Foundation during times of need.
5 431 Management costs products and businesses.
In Bobby Jindal, Governor addition, we promote equal of Louisiana, responding 2 opportunity and minimise our to Diageos relief eff orts following Hurricane Gustav, environmental impacts, and our September 2008 community investment contributes 1 14,313 Eur ope 2 4,592 Int ernational towards particular MDGs for 3 2,979 North America example, by providing access to When a devastating earthquake 4 1,521 Asia Pacific clean drinking water see page 11, hit Chinas Sichuan province, we working against HIV Aids see page Includes charitable launched an employee fundraising 15, helping young people into donations of 7.4 million programme.
In support of 2008: 7.1 million to the employment see page 12 and longer-term reparation, we worked Thalidomide Trust promoting local agriculture see with the WWF at four Sichuan page 30.
Our initiatives were nature reserves to replace water recognised at the 2008 Africa pipes and cisterns that were Investor Awards when Diageo destroyed by the earthquake.
Africa was runner up for its support The project will restore water of the MDGs.
supplies to about 10,000 people in the local farming community.
Community investment Target 2009 2008 2007 Total 000 23,405 23,861 20,697 Proportion of operating profi t 1.0% 1.0% 1.1% 1.0% Through Giving for Good, our new global giving site, Diageo employees donated water fi lter kits for schools and clinics in Uganda
