Profile Society Environment Economy Governance 7 Alcohol in society We want to make a real contribution to creating Training in our a more positive role for marketing code, alcohol in society, minimising as at this session in Bangkok, is an the harm from misuse and essential part of many peoples promoting the social benefi ts jobs in Diageo of responsible drinking.
code to help keep it at the forefront Alcohol has been a common source of pleasure for of eff ective self-regulation.
Our centuries and plays a traditional role in ceremonies and code now integrates new guidance family celebrations in many societies.
We are proud that so and enhanced compliance many people choose Diageo brands for simple enjoyment requirements and clarifi es or to accompany great times in their lives.
We all know that requirements and accountabilities.
most consumers drink responsibly, but a minority misuse One of the strengths of the Products and practices alcohol and cause harm to themselves and to society.
Diageo code is the way that its We use marketing techniques The misuse of alcohol is a complex issue involving underpinned by our compliance, to inform consumers about our physiological, psychological, social and cultural factors.
Most review, training, and control brands and to compete for market experts acknowledge that to reduce it requires multiple infrastructure.
This is an area where share.
We hope to be more approaches including eff ective, enforced regulation, we have shown leadership in our successful than our competitors by information campaigns and individual interventions.
industry and gained particular attracting adult alcohol beverage The good news is that long-term integrated stakeholder approval.
consumers to Diageo brands and programmes can change attitudes and behaviour.
For Training on our marketing by encouraging them to trade up example, our experience with designated driver campaigns standards is part of the induction within the ranges we off er.
We is that they can lead to widespread acceptance of the programme for relevant new aim to carry out these activities to practice and potentially reduce road accidents.
Marketing and the highest standards and have We aim to maintain high standards of responsibility innovation teams and agencies enshrined such principles in the in our own activities and promote these strongly in our regularly attend refresher courses Diageo marketing code for the industry.
In addition, through partnerships with government on interpretation.
These workshops guidance of our colleagues and the departments, advocacy groups and others, we apply our are complemented by e-learning external agencies that help devise best creative talents and resources to try and change materials.
peoples attitudes to alcohol and reduce its misuse.
Assurance that the As well as covering traditional Many participants in the debate legislators, development or marketing methods, we have standards for educators, NGOs, medics, parents, individuals, drinks of a brand meets the codes marketing through new media companies, the wider hospitality industry and the media requirements is aided by the use such as mobile phones, websites have a role to play in reaching what must be a common of SmartApprove.
This online and social networking channels.
We believe our own contribution is most tool co-ordinates sign-off by our A core function of this code is to powerful in the following three strategic areas: marketing, legal, intellectual help marketers limit underage property and corporate relations exposure to our internet or Products and practices colleagues and records the process.
mobile-phone advertising Set world-class standards in our industry for responsible So far, we have introduced for example, by enabling parents marketing and provide consumers with information SmartApprove in 35 countries: to block underage access to our about our brands it will be implemented further brand websites by the use of next year.
Since inception, nearly Programmes nanny tags.
10,000 marketing projects have Working either directly or in partnership with others, run We also work within been reviewed through programmes that raise awareness and seek to change frameworks established by external the process.
attitudes and behaviour bodies for example, the Common Each year, in each market, Standards for Commercial Policy and partnerships we complete a self-assessment of Communications of the European Advocate and facilitate the development of evidencecompliance against the marketing Forum for Responsible Drinking based public policy on alcohol code, and audits are carried out EFRD and the Discus Code of on a sample of businesses and Responsible Practices.
Common Standards, as well as the Discus code, include guidance on digital marketing that builds on Diageos expertise in this area.
This year, after consulting internal and external stakeholders, we revised the Diageo marketing
