Profile Society Environment Economy Governance 19 Environmental sustainability Management and policy The Diageo executive environmental working group, which is chaired by the managing director of Diageo Supply and includes functional leaders from Our new across the business, is responsible environmental policy refl ects our for setting strategy.
We take the commitment and We have set ourselves stretching precautionary approach of the stretching targets Rio Principles our actions on for improvement targets to reduce our impacts the environment are planned on the environment, for the in the light of current scientifi c Measurements of our most knowledge and do not depend signifi cant impacts the use of benefi t of the planet, our on having absolute proof of energy and water, and the communities and our business.
production of solid waste, liquid This year, the working group effl uent and greenhouse gases Being less dependent on fi nite resources such as fossil fuels launched a new environmental are our primary indicators of and fresh water especially in areas where it is scarce supports policy that makes clear our performance.
We collect usage the long-term prosperity of our business.
There are a number commitment to achieve and emissions data monthly from of steps in this journey to environmental sustainability using sustainability, with a focus not only all 104 production sites and energy and water more effi ciently, switching to resources that on our own operations but also annually from around 40 large are naturally replenished, and, by fi nding ways to re-use or on stewardship of our value chain.
offi ces, aggregating the results recycle our by-products, eliminating waste that may damage Implementation is guided and both as totals and to track the environment.
monitored at our production sites environmental effi ciency as ratios by an environmental leadership relative to production volume.
team and in the area of sustainable We aim to keep employees packaging by a specialist working informed about our environmental group.
The policy is supported by progress and involved in achieving O ur vision is that some our risk management standards, our ambitious goals.
The United day all Diageo brands which set out criteria for Nations World Environment Day compliance.
will be sourced in June was a great opportunity All production sites are to focus on the issues.
Teams of sustainably, produced required to have an environmental Diageo volunteers in markets sustainably, delivered management system EMS and across the world marked the day to the customer and 88% of these were assessed by taking part in activities such as consumer sustainably this year as fully or mostly planting trees, cleaning or restoring implemented.
EMSs at 19 sites, in packaging that has the habitats, removing rubbish and representing 42% of production raising money.
Many of the projects smallest environmental by volume, are certifi ed to the were described in GREENiQ, a new footprint, and that all international standard ISO14001.
Diageo newsletter that keeps Diageo employees will Our offi ce buildings have employees up to date with our work in sustainable a much smaller environmental environmental programme.
footprint than our production sites.
We have worked to promote Offi ces with more than 50 environmental awareness and Roberta Barbieri, employees, which altogether Diageo global environmental improvements in our industry and project manager contribute around 1-10% of beyond.
Our involvement with the Diageos total impact, are Beverage Industry Environmental tasked with improving their Roundtable allows us to share environmental performance experience with others in our and raising employee awareness sector and agree consistent of environmental issues.
approaches to measurement and reporting.
Our environmental targets By 2015 Progress to date Greenhouse gases down 50% down 2% Wastewater at water-stressed sites down 50% Water effi ciency up 30% up 3% Polluting potential down 60% down 13% Waste landfi lled down 100% down 66% Targets and progress are compared with 2007 performance.
Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 20 Environmental sustainability Our supply business in Scotland achieved the Carbon Trust standard, an award that certifi es we have measured, managed and genuinely reduced our carbon footprint rather than offsetting emissions.
Our bioenergy investments at the Cameronbridge and Roseisle distilleries as well as many smaller carbon-reducing projects throughout Scotland new thermostats: upgrades to steam pipe installations: and steam recovery were cited as reasons for Colleagues in Solar panels at Energy and Canada have so Huntingwood, the award.
climate change far planted 8,000 Australia provide all trees to help create of the electricity used The release of greenhouse gases healthier spaces for by the sites offi ce everyone to enjoy notably carbon dioxide generated by burning fossil fuels There are also opportunities, can cause climate changes, which Targets most particularly a competitive present considerable risks to our advantage, if we respond to these Last year, we set the targets for business and to the world.
issues more eff ectively than others improvement we hope to achieve Unchecked, these risks may work in our industry.
Most of our targets refer through physical phenomena such and opportunities we face in more to total measures of impact, Our supply operation as changing temperatures, more detail in our response to the annual in Scotland achieved rather than measures relative to frequent extreme weather events, Carbon Disclosure Project.
Although this may water scarcity or rising sea levels, cdproject.
net Trust standard mean that we have to reset our or through secondary eff ects such targets in future in the light of any as ecosystem changes or shifts Our target is to cut our total The regulation of greenhouse gas signifi cant changes to the business in human populations.
The risks greenhouse gas emissions by emissions through structures such for example, acquisition of include impacts on agriculture, 50% between 2007 and 2015.
This as the Emissions Trading Scheme additional production capacity disruption of our own operations exceeds the 25% reduction by 2050 in Europe provides a fi financial we believe that tracking total or those of our commercial that the Stern Review on the incentive for companies to reduce impacts is the more meaningful partners, and changes to the Economics of Climate Change, their climate impacts.
In 2008, the way of quantifying the real nature or distribution of consumer published in 2006, suggested will seven Diageo sites in Ireland and environmental benefi ts of demand for our brands.
be needed to stabilise carbon the UK included in phase two of our initiatives.
dioxide levels in the atmosphere.
the scheme reported total carbon The exception is water use At six of our vineyards and emissions within our allocation, Sources of energy TJ where we target an improvement other facilities in the USA, we have resulting in around 38,000 surplus, in water effi ciency the amount 12,350 12,206 replaced the lighting with new tradable allowances, the majority 11,693 of water we use for each litre of 11,010 fi ttings that are around twice as of which we sold.
10,636 production refl ecting the fact that effi cient.
The change will save Working with travel agents water is an irreplaceable ingredient about 260 tonnes of carbon and airlines, we have continued in our products.
emissions a year through reduced to improve reporting on business Lower production volumes electricity consumption.
We this year have contributed to lesser At St Jamess Gate, Dublin recorded 35kt of greenhouse gas total impacts, though this isnt the fi tting a recirculation chiller in the emissions from business travel whole story as most of our targeted fermentation plant made use of the during the year 2008: 41kt.
effi ciency measures have also natural cooling capacity of brewing One of the ways we aim improved.
One headline measure water to reduce the cooling to reduce this fi gure is by Diageo greenhouse gases as a requirement of the plant, so videoconferencing as an alternative proportion of total world emissions 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 reducing carbon emissions from to travel.
Last year, we installed has improved from 0.003% to Eciency MJ litre of product the brewery by nearly 900 tonnes advanced video studios in London, 0.002%, due to our eff orts and to 3.6 3.5 3.5 3.6 3.8 a year.
The elegant solution was Norwalk and Singapore and this a continuing increase in global recognised by a Sustainable Energy year built new facilities in six Indirect energy, green emissions from human activity.
Indirect energy, standard Our challenge in the future will Other fuels be to maintain downward pressure Diesel Fuel oil on our impacts as production of Gas our brands gathers pace.
Indirect energy includes electricity and a small amount of steam.
Includes electricity generated from renewable or low-carbon-emitting sources.
Profile Society Environment Economy Governance Environmental sustainability 21 Greenhouse gas emissions kt COe 2 745 749 741 730 701 370 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2015 target Eciency COe g litre of product 2 247 228 222 222 223 Indirect Direct At Beaulieu Vineyards Greenhouse gas emissions by region kt COe 2 in California, new barrel programme encourages water 2009 2008 2007 washers and recycling effi ciency, the assessment of our Europe 356 380 380 techniques have saved plant has improved from one star 3,800 cubic metres of International 242 247 235 water a year in 2001 to fi five stars by 2008.
This North America 119 106 107 year the site won an award for Asia Pacifi c 13 16 19 We plan to reduce the amount of sustainable business processes, the wastewater at these sites by 50% third year the quality of its water between 2007 and 2015. management has been recognised.
As a certain amount of water An innovative design at is inevitably required to make our Huntingwood allows the site to Water management brands, we consider water wasted reuse water in vacuum pumps, A reliable supply of water is a better measure at these sites saving over 18,000 cubic metres a essential to our business we use than water used the target we year.
The idea is now being adopted it as an ingredient and also for announced last year for driving by other Diageo sites.
Water innovation in water recycling An integrated approach to resources are under pressure from technologies.
water use at our brewery in Jamaica development in many parts of the We aim also to enhance our is expected to save 218,000 cubic world and climatic changes may overall water effi ciency across all metres a year.
We declared Red restrict availability still further in the sites.
Our target is to reduce the Stripe Water Week in March to mark future.
We have completed a water amount of water used to make the introduction of new watersurvey at each production site to each litre of product by 30% effi cient cleaning equipment, a identify where technology and between 2007 and 2015. new water recycling project, tighter ways of working can be improved Achieving this will require management of leaks and more to achieve best practice in water contributions from many plants.
metering to help us understand management.
In Korea we found that using 10% the water requirements of each Ten Diageo production sites less water to rinse bottles could be of the brewery processes.
The are located in areas where the UN just as eff ective.
In Huntingwood, Jamaica Chamber of Commerce predicts that water supplies will be Australia, where the local water recognised this work with their under stress in the next 20 years.
utilitys Every Drop Counts 2008 Environmental Award.
3 3 Water used million m Sources of water million m 2009 2008 2007 24.6 24.4 24.3 23.4 22.6 Ground: boreholes 11.5 11.8 11.7 Mains: town supply 10.4 11.2 11.0 Surface: rivers and lakes 1.5 1.4 1.9 3 Water used by region million m 2009 2008 2007 Europe 10.7 11.8 11.5 International 10.0 9.1 9.6 North America 2.4 3.2 3.1 Asia Pacifi c 0.3 0.3 0.4 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Efficiency litres litre of product 8.1 7.3 7.4 7.3 7.2 Target for water efficiency by 2015: 5.2 litres litre of product Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 22 Environmental sustainability from 5.9 to 2.2 grammes per litre of beer, largely due to this initiative.
Large reductions in waste have been made at our UK beer packaging plants at Runcorn waste to landfi ll has been zeroed while our Belfast facility is aiming Materials and recycling for a 98% reduction this year.
These achievements were recognised Most of the materials we buy are when the plants were awarded the either ingredients or packaging Business In The Community Big materials.
Ingredients such as Tick award for eco-effi ciency for grain, grapes, hops and milk are the second year.
generally agricultural in origin and Three sites of our American we aim to procure them from wine business were recognised sustainable sources.
Some The new bioenergy plant by the state of California for their packaging materials such as glass, at Cameronbridge is part eff orts in reducing waste.
Beaulieu plastics, paper and metals include of a development that will Vineyard recycled 3,500 tonnes, divert spent grain and a recycled element.
For example, wastewater to make the diverting barrels, pallets, used the green Gordons gin bottle is site largely selfsuffi cient grapes, glass, metals and paper made from around 90% recycled in electricity from the waste stream.
Sterling glass and this represents a saving Vineyards kept 1,200 tonnes of of more than 2,000 tonnes of waste out of landfi ll through carbon dioxide emissions a year Wastewater polluting power BOD kt reduction, reuse, recycling and at the bottle factory compared 35.3 composting, while our Sonoma with using basic raw materials.
bottling plant recycled more than The largest category of waste 30.8 a tonne of cork and 120 tonnes from our plants is whats left of 26.9 26.2 25.9 of other materials.
The By continuing this work, we bulk of this is currently converted aim to reduce landfi lled waste by into animal feed or composted for 100% to zero by 2015. use as mulch on farmland.
Most 12.3 other waste such as rejected packaging from bottling sites and offi ce wastepaper is also Solid waste landlled kt recyclable and is reprocessed 45.4 where local facilities exist.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2015 With the philosophy that target Eciency BOD g litre of product waste isnt rubbish, its just an 33.8 8.7 8.4 9.2 10.5 8.2 unused resource, we have made 26.1 big strides in fi nding alternative 25.0 uses for solid waste.
This year, we To minimise environmental year, sending effl uent from our reused or recycled 98% of the damage, we treated most effl uent brewery for treatment at the new 15.5 waste from our sites, an increase to remove much of the organic works will prevent more than from 88% over the last two years.
matter, either at our own treatment 300 tonnes of organic material At our Amherstburg plants 39% of volume or by reaching the River Suir.
00.0 packaging plant in Canada, all of sending it for treatment at a Through such improvements, the solid waste, previously destined 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2015 municipal facility 36%.
We spread we aim to reduce the polluting target for landfi ll, is now sent to a waste a further 2% as a fertiliser on power of effl uent from our plants Eciency grammes litre of product to-energy plant and used to agricultural land.
The remainder by 60% between 2007 and 2015.
Through this fl owed untreated to water, mostly change, we keep approximately to the sea.
Such outfl ows from our 250 tonnes of waste out of landfi ll plants are subject to consent by each year.
environmental authorities and their In Africa, reducing landfi ll impact on ecosystems is monitored.
can be challenging as recycling New and improved treatment markets are underdeveloped and plants are now in operation at many in some cases non-existent.
In sites, while new facilities at Achimota Kenya we re-use the vast majority in Ghana and Douala in Cameroon of our beer bottles, replacing the are being constructed.
In Waterford, labels when they come back to the Ireland, we supported the local brewery.
The label pulp cannot be authority in building a new water recycled into paper due to its treatment plant for the town.
In a full residual caustic soda from the washing process so we send it as an energy source to a local cement works.
With around 850 tonnes of paper a year diverted away from the waste stream, the site has reduced what it sends to landfi ll Profile Society Environment Economy Governance Environmental sustainability 23 Hazardous substances and spills Some of our processes employ hazardous materials such as caustic soda used for cleaning which are disposed of after use by This years gift specialist contractors.
In the year, packaging for Crown we disposed of 1.2kt 2008: 2.7kt Royal Canadian of hazardous waste in total.
whisky was fully At our brewery in Dundalk, recyclable and lighter than before, saving Ireland, we have commissioned a 13 tonnes of material new caustic soda recovery plant.
The plants technology, which Reducing the weight of containers, results in annual savings for our even by a few grammes, can divert business of 30 cubic metres of tonnes of waste from reprocessing caustic soda, 130 tonnes of steam or landfi ll and save energy when and 1,350 cubic metres of water, transporting our brands.
In the last is being shared as a case study few years we have taken many with other brewers via the Irish steps towards more sustainable Environment Protection Agency.
packaging for example: There were 35 2008:27 non-.
We removed the dividers from compliances with environmental cases of spirits bottles, with consents during the year.
Where annual savings of 740 tonnes practicable, we work to minimise of cardboard by next year such events.
For example, at one Supplying bars with Blossom Hill site, there were three occasions wine on draft saved 225 tonnes when the effl uent exceeded of glass permitted levels.
In response, we Moving some pre-mixed brands installed a new holding tank and a from bottles to cans in Europe new on-line meter this year to allow saved 630 tonnes more control of wastewater before Lightweighting 315 million it is sent to the city treatment plant.
Other emissions cans saved 187 tonnes of There were in addition 22 aluminium and 1,250 tonnes 2008: 17 spills or other incidents Over the last four years, we have of carbon emissions that may have had environmental reduced the amount of ozoneIn Kenya, discarded By lightweighting bottles and implications.
The priority in each beer cans are crushed depleting halons present at using thinner shipping canisters and smelted and the case was to limit any immediate our manufacturing sites in recycled aluminium in India, we have saved 97 tonnes damage by cleaning up the spill, fi re-extinguishing equipment used to make sufuria of glass and paper following which we took measures by 72% and CFCs, used as cooking pots At our Carneros wine packaging to reduce the chance of the refrigerants, by 93%.
site in California, changing to incident occurring again.
Through the use of fuels Sustainable packaging a recyclable label backing has this year, our activities resulted saved 75 tonnes of waste in the emission of 1.2kt 2008: 1.3kt A secondary environmental Biodiversity A redesigned returnable impact from waste occurs when of nitrogen oxides, which are a Guinness bottle for Africa saved Some of our sites include or are precursor to ozone formation, consumers fi nish with our bottles, 3,000 tonnes of glass close to conservation areas or rare cans and other containers.
Using acid rainfall and oxygen depletion Excluding laminates from habitats and particular care is taken in water habitats, and 1.3kt 2008: Diageo guidelines, our designers holiday season packaging in the not to disrupt species or ecosystems aim to make our packaging more 1.4kt of sulphur dioxide, a USA made it 100% recyclable.
Wastewater from our precursor to acid rainfall.
and more sustainable for brewery in Kilkenny, Ireland goes to example, by not combining When spirits are maturing, the local authority for treatment the evaporation of some of the materials that waste contractors before being discharged into the fi nd diffi cult to separate.
alcohol from the barrels is essential River Nore, a designated special area to create the desired fl avour.
Most of the packaging of conservation due to its notable materials we use are recyclable and Alcohol is water-soluble and habitats and aquatic species.
We biodegradable and much of the this year we committed to printing now send effl uent monitoring data a recyclable symbol on primary vapour is removed from the air to the local authority by telemetry by rain.
We estimate that, this year, packaging with the words on an hourly basis to help maximise Please recycle.
32kt 2008: 29kt of alcohol the effi ciency of treatment and evaporated from the millions minimise impact and risk to the river.
of barrels of whisky and rum Our Chateau Magnol vineyard in maturation warehouses in in France is close to a nature reserve Scotland, the USA and Australia.
which is home to the European pond terrapin, a threatened species.
Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 24 24 Because our business thrives in prosperous, well-governed markets, we do all we can to develop and support such economies W e maintain good relationships wit h governments on tax compliance and public policy issues W e build value for shareholders We work to enhance approaches to corporate citizenship throughout the value chain 2 1.
2 b n Returned to shareholders in dividends and share buy-backs since Diageo was formed 12 years ago Contributing to economic Picture: The new growth Diageo distillery on St Croix will supply all the rum for Captain Morgan in the USA and provide a major stimulus to the US Virgin Islands economy page 25
