12 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate and social responsibility Meeting the needs of clients, shareholders and engaging all our employees whilst considering the communities and environment in which we work has been one of our key priorities over the past year.
Introduction Funeral Directors Diploma and Membership of the BIE Meeting the needs of our clients, shareholders and engaging British Institute of Embalmers.
In addition, the Group has all our employees whilst considering the communities and five members of staff who are accredited NAFD tutors and environment in which we work has been one of our key three BIE training specialists.
priorities over the past year.
We aim to achieve our business objectives in a caring and responsible manner by considering The Group provides additional support to staff development the impact of our activities and we develop business through its Welfare Trust, which provides funds for practices and procedures that reflect this.
professional training and hardship grants.
The Trust has approximately 1.6 million available for future use.
Within the Dignity Group, Richard Portman, Corporate Services Director, is accountable for corporate and social Dignity publishes a quarterly in-house magazine, Dignity responsibility and under this remit, he identifies major Express, which is supplemented by monthly news bulletins issues and reports these to his fellow Board members.
to keep all employees informed of what is happening within This is done by either regular Board updates in the case the Group.
Dignity Express is also circulated to the Groups of Health and Safety or ad hoc reports when required.
News, useful information and background on the Group is also available to staff via a dedicated Supporting our staff employee website.
Our employees are critical to the continued success of Dignity and staff turnover remains low within the Group.
Health and Safety The average length of service for staff is seven years with Effective heath and safety management is critical to many staff having served for considerably longer.
There is the Group and a key priority of the Directors.
Its operations an equal split of male and female staff and the average age are conducted at all times in such a way as to ensure, of our employees is 46 years.
We are committed to high as far as is reasonably practical, the health, safety and standards of employment practice and aim to encourage, welfare of all our employees and all persons who may retain and develop successful employees.
In early 2010, the Board of Directors adopted a Code of Dignity is committed to the prevention of accidents and Conduct which applies to all staff within the Group.
This regularly reviews and updates procedures and training with defines and explains the standards of behaviour that the a view to ensuring that staff minimise any risks associated staff of Dignity are expected to adhere to.
The Code of with their role.
Conduct is also published on the Dignity plc investor website www.
The Group has a full-time Health and Safety Manager who is dedicated to these issues and is supported by a The Group provides direct support to employees through Health and Safety Consultant and Health & Safety Officer.
both in-house training and external training courses.
Regional Health & Safety Officers have been appointed External training includes both relevant job training and in each of the geographical trading areas and the tutoring for professional qualifications.
These professional manufacturing facility also has its own Health and Safety qualifications include the NAFD National Association of Manager.
All of these managers and officers are either We are supporting our staff through on-going training and development The Group have supported me with all my training and development needs, enabling me to be successful in achieving qualifications with the British Institute of Embalmers.
I am now offering complimentary tuition to those Dignity employees where it is appropriate to their role at the Leicester School of Embalming.
Left: Jason Garner, Senior Embalmer, Ginns & Gutteridge, Leicester.
13 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 We are implementing health and safety initiatives In 2009, Dignity continued to implement its Health and Safety training programme ranging from a one-day introduction course to the four-day IOSH course.
32 of the Groups senior and middle managers have been trained to IOSH Managing Safely Certificate standard over the past 12 months.
Right: Trainees from left to right: Naveed Razak, Office Manager Property : Stuart Cox, Corporate Communications Manager: Jason Barnes, Ledger Manager: Diane Prescott, Head of Marketing Pre-arrangement at Plantsbrook House, Sutton Coldfield.
Trainer David Bilton of WCS Ltd. NEBOSH National Examination Board in Occupational then transported to specialist disposal centres.
The Safety and Health qualified or are scheduled to take installation of the new equipment has been managed these examinations.
There are also 90 Health and Safety so as to ensure there is minimal disruption to our usual Co-ordinators embedded into the business.
In 2009, Dignity continued to implement its Health As part of the investigation into the options for installing and Safety training programme ranging from a one-day a new drainage system at Surrey & Sussex Crematorium, introduction course to the four-day IOSH Institution of it was decided that the system could also be used for water Occupational Safety and Health course.
Water is now extracted from the land drainage Richard Portman was trained to IOSH Managing Safely network at times when the water table is high and stored Certificate standard in addition to 32 of the Groups senior for times of need, such as the summer.
This enables the and middle managers.
50 per cent of junior managers have crematorium to maintain a watering regime that keeps the also been trained to Level 2 Health and Safety Certificate Gardens of Remembrance looking attractive throughout the standard.
This programme will continue in 2010 to enable year.
As with the mercury abatement project, the sensitivity all managers, where appropriate, to have an understanding of the site required that all work was completed with of their health and safety responsibilities.
deference to existing interment plots and families using our facilities.
During 2009 Dignity published its Health and Safety manual and distributed this to all locations.
All raw materials used in the manufacture of our coffins are sourced from well-managed and sustainable sources.
Environment In 2009, Dignity gained FSC Forest Stewardship Council Our business continues to have a low environmental accreditation for our veneered coffins, which account for impact and its activities are not expected to give rise to any 23 per cent of demand.
Consequently, 91 per cent of the significant environmental risk over the next twelve months.
coffins used by the Dignity business are now manufactured from FSC accredited timber at the Groups facility in East Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we Yorkshire which provides 46 jobs in an area of high all live is an important concern for Dignity and all areas unemployment.
of the business operate in accordance with the Groups environmental policy.
We recognise the impact of our In 2009, Dignity submitted its data to the Carbon Disclosure operations on local surroundings and our aim is to reduce Project that measures disclosures from large UK companies this and operate in an environmentally friendly manner.
and Dignity aims to reduce its future carbon footprint.
Dignity will invest a total of approximately 7 million in Dignity has reduced its Pre-Need print wastage by 77 per its crematoria to conform to the government directive to cent this year.
This was achieved by more accurately reduce mercury emissions from crematoria by 50 per cent managing stock levels and reprint volumes.
Specialist technology has been installed to filter out the mercury gasses emitted during The Group and its employees undertake to act whenever cremation and collect it in dedicated drums, which are necessary to meet or exceed the standards of current We are minimising our impact on the local environment As part of our commitment to the environment, at Surrey & Sussex Crematorium we installed a new land drainage system which could also harvest water, enabling it to be extracted at times when the water table is high and used to water the grounds during the summer.
This initiative helps the crematorium to maintain a watering regime that keeps the Gardens of Remembrance looking attractive to visitors throughout the year.
Left: Trevor Thorpe, Head Gardener, Surrey & Sussex Crematorium, Crawley using the water harvesting system.
14 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate and social responsibility continued The Dignity websites have been completely redesigned with a new look, a new structure and lots of new content.
co. uk has been redeveloped so that it can be used as an information service by the families we serve and potential clients.
co. uk, has also been redesigned to help investors, potential business partners, journalists and others looking for financial information on Dignity to find what they are looking for.
environmental legislation and continue to review the hospice movement, supporting over 240 local hospices in policies, systems and services to this end.
All waste their vital work caring for people with terminal illnesses.
generated is properly disposed of in accordance with current legislation and steps are taken to recycle waste There were many fund raising initiatives held nationwide wherever this is practical.
during the year including memorial services, tea parties, car washes and dinner dances whilst some athletic employees In our communities raised money by taking part in sporting challenges such as Everyone at Dignity is extremely committed not only to Race For Life, the Great North Run, Malvern By Moonlight making a real difference to our clients but also to improving and Race the Sun.
the welfare of all who live within the communities we serve.
To demonstrate our values and principles our staff support Dignity staff have elected Childrens Hospices UK as our hundreds of local initiatives, good causes, clubs and events corporate charity for 2010.
Over 1,000 employees took part every year.
By listening to and understanding the needs in the decision making process to choose which charity to of local communities our staff are able to respond by support.
Childrens Hospices UK is the national charity that providing help where it is most needed.
gives a voice to and support to all childrens hospice services and their vision is for every child and young person who For example, our funeral directors in Ebbw Vale helped is not expected to reach adulthood to have access to the to develop a memorial garden for the families of local highest standards of care and support close to home.
miners and F C Wood in Kent worked with the local Gurkha There are 41 childrens hospices in the UK and they provide community to establish the first burial ground in the UK for care for approximately 20,000 children each year.
There are also many bowling and football clubs that have benefited from sponsorship and financial In September, Dignity employees raised over 4,400 for support during the last twelve months.
Once again Dignity Macmillan Cancer Care by being part of the Worlds staff from across the UK took part in the Easter Egg challenge biggest coffee morning event.
and collected 3,200 chocolate gifts to distribute to those less fortunate.
The heroes of our armed services were commemorated in November with window dressings and numerous poppy We believe in encouraging our staff to communicate appeals raising much-needed funds for the Royal British regularly with clubs, social groups and good causes by Legion.
Rotherham Crematorium held its first Armistice providing advice and practical support for those who want Day Service, which was attended by local dignitaries and to give something back to their local community.
over 50 members of the local Royal British Legion and Veterans Association.
Supporting charities Thank you In 2009, Dignity employees continued to raise funds Our four charity fairground organs continued to be a vital for the staff elected charity Help the Hospices.
This aid in fund raising activities and in 2009 almost 68,000 worthy cause is the national membership charity for the was raised for a variety of national and local charities.
We are providing support in our local communities Everyone at Dignity is extremely committed to not only making a real difference to our clients but also to improving the welfare of all who live within the communities we serve.
To demonstrate our values and principles our staff support hundreds of local initiatives, good causes, clubs and events every year.
Left: Helen Griffiths, Business Manager, Greater Birmingham area with Chaplain Stuart Charrington.
15 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
