Directors Report: Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Review CR management framework DSGi takes its responsibilities to The Group Finance Director, Nicholas Cadbury, is the executive director with responsibility for Corporate Responsibility CR its stakeholders seriously, aiming matters.
The Group has also appointed a Corporate Responsibility Committee CR Committee, which is chaired to have policies and procedures by the Company Secretary and General Counsel and also in place which balance the comprises other senior executives who have responsibility for risk management, logistics, supply chain, UK operations, expectations of our customers, Group communications, human resources, marketing and property.
The CR Committees remit is, in consultation with shareholders, employees and the Board, to set the direction for the Groups CR efforts and the wider community.
initiatives, agree action plans prepared to realise the opportunities and mitigate the risks identified and track progress on actions Set out in this review is a description of how we assess through an agreed set of key performance indicators KPIs.
and act upon social, environmental and ethical issues The Board considers CR matters, including relevant risks relevant to our business together with details of how and opportunities, at least annually.
Minutes of meetings of we measure our performance in this area and examples the CR Committee are circulated to the Board and Executive of some of the action we have taken during the period Committee, so they can keep up to date with the action under review.
Our goal is to achieve continuous being taken in this area and any issues which arise.
The CR Committee met four times during the period under review and a summary of key matters discussed is listed below: evaluation of the Groups risks and opportunities and identification of areas where the CR Committee needs to enhance reporting or control mechanisms already in place: re-evaluation of the CR KPIs of the Company, to align with the wider business interests of the Group and with those of stakeholders: evaluation of the CR Committee membership and realigning the membership to have CR Committee members with accountability for each of the KPIs: and FIVES is our bespoke customer service assessing the reporting structures in place and determining training programme.
Since launching FIVES changes to be implemented when gathering information in we have seen our customer satisfaction rates improve.
This report covers the following six areas: Page CR management framework 28 Identification of risks and opportunities 29 Workplace 30 Marketplace 31 Environment 32 Community 33 28 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders engagement of employees through the provision of Identification of risks and opportunities rewarding workplace environments and careers, assisting in the ongoing improvement of customer service levels: The last 12 months have been a period of significant challenge to the Group as the global recession has impacted on the provision of safe and reliable own-brand products, consumers and the business.
During the period under review achieved as a result of our expert technical knowledge, the Renewal and Transformation plan, unveiled in May 2008, with products sourced from manufacturers who are has been rolled out across the UK and is being implemented audited against our ethical requirements: and within the wider Group as appropriate.
The CR Committee an appropriate community giving policy, which reviewed the CR objectives in light of the plan and has complements our interaction with the communities endeavoured to align the CR agenda with meeting the five in which we work.
A member of the CR Committee has been identified as Risk management accountable for each of the priorities together with individuals During 2008 the CR Committee carried out a review of the outside of the CR Committee who have responsibility for the risks and opportunities for the Group in the CR area which relevant area.
was subsequently approved by the Board.
The aim of the review was to ensure our CR focus is on the most appropriate KPIs matters to the evolving business.
Following the review of the risks and opportunities referred to above, the Group also reviewed the KPIs which were The review considered both short and long term risks and being monitored in the CR area and agreed a revised set opportunities and their potential operational and value impact of KPIs to enable the Group to monitor performance against on the business and resulted in an agreed set of priorities the priorities it had set.
which are: The environment related KPIs have been established in to improve operational energy efficiency and forward line with the DEFRA document Key Performance Indicators: planning: Reporting Guidelines for UK Business and with the five to reduce our impact on the environment, and to raise stated aims of the BRC initiative A Better Retailing Climate.
revenue and reduce costs, through improved waste The Groups largest business is its retail business in the recycling: UK & Ireland and the Group is collecting all of the KPIs listed to add to and promote the customer proposition in below in respect of the UK business.
Data for other countries relation to product reuse and recycling: is collected where available and the intention is to extend collection of data for all of the KPIs to the wider Group over time.
the provision of a safe and healthy environment for customers, employees and visitors to our sites: Our agreed KPIs are as follows: 1.
Staff diversity age, gender and ethnicity of employees 2.
Health and Safety employee accidents and injuries 3.
Performance on ethical supply chain audits 4.
Waste electrical equipment collected and recycled from customers 6. Business waste recycled 7.
Contributions to the community DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 29 Directors Report: Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Review continued Retail Academies programme has been extended to cover Workplace each of the UK brands.
This assists in the delivery of vital training across the UK.
FIVES training is also a key factor in With approximately 40,000 employees, our employees are measuring customer satisfaction, which is discussed below.
our greatest asset and we are committed to high standards of employment practice.
We aim to reward individuals fairly Diversity and are committed to providing equality of opportunity, We value our colleagues and their right to be treated with training and development and a safe workplace, in addition respect.
We are committed to treating our employees equally to developing initiatives which encourage innovation.
and fairly and we actively pursue a diversity policy.
The UK & Irelands policy on Equal Opportunities states that no Policies employee should suffer discrimination in respect of disability, The Group has a comprehensive set of human resources gender, sexual orientation, age, religious belief, race, colour, policies, which cover matters such as reward recognition, nationality, marital status or for any other reason.
This policy health and wellbeing, promotion and development and applies to the recruitment, training and career development of working policies.
The aim of these policies is to set out all colleagues.
The policy is communicated to all employees our responsibilities and obligations to our employees, via the HR intranet site and is reviewed regularly to ensure its whilst demonstrating our commitment to be an employer efficacy.
Additionally, the Group keeps records of the ethnic of choice.
These policies, given the location of our stores origins of new and existing employees and recruitment and and subsequently employees, are normally communicated promotion decisions.
The policies are regularly reviewed and comply with current regulation.
Health and Safety The Group has implemented a Health and Safety policy Training and development across all of its operations which meets at least the minimum We seek to promote career development with our colleagues legal requirements of the countries in which it operates and regardless of location.
The Group provides its employees with emphasises the principles of good safety management.
Each access to relevant training and development schemes through jurisdiction has a framework within which the Group fulfils its in-house training and is committed to undertaking formal obligations and assists our colleagues in maintaining a healthy performance and development reviews on a regular basis.
During the past 12 months we have launched our bespoke Within the UK & Ireland, regular Health and Safety audits customer service training programme in the UK, FIVES, and are carried out on the stores, warehouses and offices of the over 20,000 colleagues have received training on it.
Each location has a nominated individual responsible based on the principle of understanding our customers needs for Health and Safety and for ensuring a safe environment for completely, giving them solutions and helping them to make our colleagues.
Through active reviews of policy and focused superb choices.
FIVES gives us easy-to-use tools to explore risk assessment and monitoring, the number of reported our customers needs and give them a consistently fantastic accidents has decreased over the last three financial years, experience wherever they shop.
Building upon the success making the working environment for our colleagues safer of the PC World Retail Academies which has coached over and decreasing costs to the business accordingly.
8,000 colleagues on FIVES and Winning New Revenues, the Staff diversity: age, gender and ethnicity of employees Health and Safety: employee accidents and injuries 2008 09 2008 09 2007 08 2006 07 Female 33% Number of accidents Male 67% or injuries reported 1,298 1,556 2,146 Full time 52% Rate of accidents per Part time 48% 1,000 employees 48.89 55.21 Ethnic minority non-national 10% Aged over 50 6% Average number of employees 38,460 Data for the Group.
The method of recording information on staff diversity has changed.
As a result, Data not available.
comparative information on a consistent basis is not available.
Full time equivalents, excluding employees related to discontinued operations.
30 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Communication Customer satisfaction The Group places considerable value on the involvement Customers are at the heart of everything we do and this of its employees and is committed to providing effective year we have agreed a new CR KPI, relating to customer communication on matters which may affect our colleagues satisfaction.
Our performance in this area is measured and on the development and performance of the business.
across a number of interfaces, including our stores, service, This communication takes the form of Group-wide initiatives, after-sales, internet and technical support departments.
such as John Browetts weekly diary a feedback forum We have based our assessment of the level of customer where colleagues can ask John Browett and other executives satisfaction on research from customer feedback from questions directly about the business, together with local mystery shopping activities based around our FIVES initiatives for communicating within individual businesses, training programme.
Most recently, we have been carrying including updates from business directors, daily store out customer exit surveys, to measure customer satisfaction meetings and divisional heads of business blogs.
with stores, service, pricing and range.
Our primary aim under the Renewal and Transformation plan is to focus on Marketplace the customer and to deliver an unbeatable combination of value, choice and service.
Monitoring customer satisfaction The Group is both a customer and a supplier: the Group is not just about ensuring that the customer receives excellent seeks to ensure that the high quality, choice and service service, but also drives the range and merchandising available we demand from our suppliers is delivered to our customers.
to customers, the layout of the store and the quality of goods We take the lessons learnt from our experiences and adapt available.
The programme is designed to focus the store on them to make sure we deliver a great customer experience.
delivering a great shopping trip experience.
FIVES training is designed to empower colleagues to deliver great service: Ethical Sourcing it encourages our colleagues and gives them confidence Our focus on the need to supply products from businesses when dealing with the customer.
that meet the requirements of our Ethical Sourcing policy remains strong.
In order to ensure compliance with our policy, Where stores are not delivering high customer satisfaction we audit all new factories and reassess existing factories on scores, members of the Retail Academy team can assist in a two to three year cycle.
Additionally, our sourcing team will ensuring FIVES training has been implemented appropriately.
carry out random spot checks on suppliers to ensure ongoing Performance, and as a consequence customer satisfaction, compliance.
Ethical Sourcing forms part of the curriculum typically increases.
All our store managers are measured and within our online buyer training tool, which was introduced rewarded on delivery of excellence in customer service it is during the period under review.
a key measure of the business.
The current performance information relating to customer satisfaction has been collated since the beginning of 2009 and comparative data is not available.
The Committee will monitor this KPI and would aim to provide data externally over time.
Performance on ethical supply chain audits 2008 09 2007 08 2006 07 Meets requirements 22 20 14 Minor improvements required 66 66 51 Major corrective action required 5 53 Delisted 4 83 Total factories audited 97 99 71 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 31 Directors Report: Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Review continued 4.
Engaging in the public policy debate and support the Environment Government in meeting its climate change goals.
We seek to minimise the environmental impact and carbon 5.
Reporting our achievements transparently and consistently.
footprint associated with our operations and stores.
To do Full details of the initiative can be found on the BRC website this we look at initiatives to improve our energy and transport at www.
uk efficiency and by focusing on reducing both our, and our customers, waste.
Waste recycled The Group is committed to reducing the impact of packaging During the past year we have seen a considerable amount waste associated with its products.
This ambition includes of preparation taking place for forthcoming legislation due minimising packaging and also increasing the volume of to come into effect in the short to mid term.
For example, materials recycled through its activities.
the Regulation, Evaluation & Authorisation of Chemical Substances REACH Directive is being phased in over a In response to the introduction of the Waste Electrical three year period from June 2008 to implement new controls and Electronic Equipment Directive WEEE, the Group also regarding the use of chemical substances.
We have been in continues to offer various routes for the collection of end of touch with all of our suppliers regarding the implementation life electrical goods.
We continue to offer the UKs first and and their compliance with the regulations.
This approach is only free in-store and home collection recycling service as enabling us to identify knowledge gaps in the supply chain part of our standard customer service.
This scheme is run and also helping us to understand any downstream implications within our existing carbon footprint and has proved to be of the changes that need to be made.
There are a number of projects under way relating to This service is the subject of ongoing communication with the energy consumption of electrical products.
We have store colleagues and continuing education of customers, been actively contributing to the debate in this area, with through refreshing our point of sale materials on this service the aim of thoroughly understanding the requirements and across the UK.
their associated implementation time lines but also with an During the year the CR Committee agreed to set a new KPI ambition to influence the outcome.
We are keen to ensure that to monitor the amount of business waste recycled throughout legislators understand the market and its supply chain and the Group.
Reporting has commenced in this area and the CR also, of course, the consumer as regulations are implemented.
Committee will be reviewing performance in the year ahead.
Additionally, during the year, the CR Committee signed up Group carbon emissions to the British Retail Consortium initiative A Better Retailing The Group is also taking action to reduce its carbon footprint, Climate.
This initiative has five stated aims which the CR in particular, relating to the carbon emissions derived from Committee has agreed to implement across the UK & Ireland our buildings and fleet.
The reduction in carbon emissions and then the wider Group.
from our business has the benefit of both driving down These aims are: costs as well as reducing the environmental impact.
The CR Committee has also agreed KPIs in this area which it monitors 1.
Reducing the direct environmental impact of our business.
Throughout the period under review, the Groups Property 3.
Helping our customers, staff and suppliers to reduce their team have looked at ways of reducing the costs incurred to environmental impacts and vulnerabilities.
the Group through the operation of our buildings.
32 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Business Overview Business Overview Performance Review Operating Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders led to a review of the energy efficiency of the buildings, the All pupils have access to and are using shared online energy sources used to power the buildings and the carbon resources, email and, in some cases, live communications.
footprint of the property portfolio.
The information relating to Following the launch of the project the local authority also carbon emissions from buildings has only been collated since decided to support Bitterne Manor as a pathfinder school the beginning of 2009 and comparative data is not available.
to encourage others to follow suit.
The CR Committee will monitor this KPI during the coming In the coming year we are planning to continue our focus year and would aim to provide data externally over time.
on community activities that bring real benefit to local The Group has an ongoing programme to look at ways of communities through the use of technology.
reducing the environmental impact, and associated cost, of Contributions to the community the UK fleet which includes continual monitoring and review Our level of charitable giving, as reported below, includes of fuel efficiency levels.
In driving efficiencies in this area, the significant donations to our partner charities from the DSGi UK team has reduced the carbon emissions year on year and Foundation the Foundation, as well as store and employee will continue to review this element proactively going forward.
grants and charity badge sales.
During the period, the Company made a donation of Community 200,000 to the Foundation for charitable activities.
The figures shown in the table below for contributions to the The end of this financial year sees the conclusion of the three community include donations made by the Foundation and year Switched on Communities campaign working in partnership include charitable donations made by employees, the sale with AbilityNet, Eco-Schools, the e-Learning Foundation of charitable products in our stores and other fundraising and Foyer Federation.
The campaign to increase access to activities carried out by our colleagues.
technology and training has been a great success and also a great shared learning experience for all those involved.
Looking ahead to 2009 10, the business plans to continue along the Switched on Communities theme, encouraging Over 18,000 individuals have benefited from the Switched stores to engage locally with charitable organisations that on Communities partnership with AbilityNet this year.
These share our ambition to improve access to technology.
individuals have benefited in a variety of ways, for example, Information and guidelines for colleagues will be made from using an online assessment tool, one-to-one assessments available through our intranets.
on how to ensure their IT equipment best meets their needs or using factsheets available on frequently raised issues.
This reporting period has seen a full scale review of our CR activities, and we feel confident that we have agreed and Bitterne Manor Primary School, situated in a diverse community embarked upon an appropriate path, considering the current in Southampton, was awarded a grant via the e-Learning tough financial climate and issues important to the business.
Foundations link with the Switched on Communities campaign.
The school wanted to get all its pupils up to the same level in terms of ICT skills, but realised there were dramatic differences in home access amongst families.
Bitterne Manor has had support from its local PC World Store and, through the project, pupils at Bitterne Manor have been provided with a learning package for example, a laptop with a range Nicholas Cadbury of educational software to use both at home and school.
The figures above include donations made by the Foundation and include charitable donations made by employees, the sale of charitable products in our stores and other fundraising activities carried out by our colleagues.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 33
