Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility report This section provides the highlights of our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR activity.
Our commitment to CSR means that we consider our impact on the environment, our employees, and the communities in which we operate and all other stakeholders in everything we do.
We therefore operate our business responsibly from the way we run our head of ce and commissaries and how we stipulate our franchisees run their stores, to how we support our local communities and the products we source.
We are striving to raise awareness across the business of the importance of these values in order to create a more cohesive CSR programme.
Therefore, in January 2009, we decided to formalise the way we look at and measure our CSR contribution by joining Business in the Community BITC.
BITC has undertaken the first stages of a CREATE programme, aimed at identifying areas of good CSR practice within our business and those areas where there is room for improvement.
The CREATE programme looks at CSR in four key areas community, environment, workplace and marketplace.
Community As a company, we are very conscious of the role we play in our communities.
Our franchisees are all charged with Delivering More in their local area.
There are a number of ways to do this supporting local charities, getting involved in local groups and events, and running tours and pizza making workshops for local schools are just some examples.
Activities undertaken this year by franchisees include selling pizzas at school fetes to raise money for school equipment, supplying pizzas to local hostels and homeless shelters, participating in police schemes for problem teenagers and even taking shopping round to customers who are unwell and trapped by the snow!
Moving forward, as part of the CREATE programme, BITC has suggested that we embed these strategies into franchisees business plans and make them part of a wider staff development programme.
We have relaunched the Delivering More programme during the year and we provide a quarterly prize for the store that we feel has gone the furthest in making a difference to their community.
In addition, we actively promote those stores that make a real contribution through our in-house magazine, Slice.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 25 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility report continued On a wider front, we are very anxious to make sure that Environment we are seen as good neighbours wherever we do business.
We recognise that reducing energy consumption makes This culture of responsible growth sees Dominos working sound business sense, because it saves us money and hard with planners and local residents to ensure we minimise enables us to help in our own small way to tackle the our impact on the social environment in terms of noise, effects of climate change.
We therefore continue to look at odours and traf c by using a high speci cation of ventilation, ways to improve energy ef ciency in our business to reduce encouraging our customers not to generate litter and by both consumption and energy costs.
only cooking our products in an oven, thereby creating odours similar to a bakery.
In 2008, we formed a dedicated Environmental Group to establish a Company-wide approach to reducing energy Dominos undertakes a programme of charitable giving consumption and waste.
Raising staff energy awareness both at a corporate level and through its franchisees and has been a key goal of this group and it has already stores.
Our main corporate charities are Special Olympics improved recycling within our head of ce and continues GB in the UK and Barretstown, a charity for children with to promote green initiatives across the Company.
The serious illnesses in the Republic of Ireland.
We have Environmental Group includes representatives from all supported Special Olympics GB for four years and have departments across the organisation, meets on a regular an agreement in place to support it for at least another basis, and communicates its activity through the Company two years.
Special Olympics provides year round, localintranet and our in-house magazine, Slice.
level sports training for people with learning disabilities as well as local, national and international competitions.
Working with a local company called TEAM, we calculated our carbon emissions in September 2008 and identi ed As well as the two main charities, we support a number areas where they could be reduced.
We will be re-calculating of charities local to our headquarters in Milton Keynes, our carbon emissions in 2010 to see what progress has including the Milton Keynes Community Foundation and been made.
Ride High, a riding programme for disadvantaged children.
The total amount donated to charity by the Company Our distribution eet is compliant with Euro V emissions in 2009 was just under 50,000.
Currently, we do not standard and we use route planning software to minimise measure the amount donated by our franchisees and their mileage, an on-board system that encourages drivers to store teams.
drive in a manner that minimises fuel consumption, and Saltron to improve diesel quality and reduce emissions.
We also run a programme encouraging staff to donate Many of our franchisees have switched their delivery a day to charity and this year we had record take up.
vehicles to low emission cars and one franchisee is even Projects undertaken included painting dog kennels for the trialling an electric car, while others use bicycles.
HULA animal charity and cutting and retur ng a maze for the Milton Keynes Parks Trust.
We aim to keep our food waste to a minimum and our three deliveries per week allow our franchisees to quickly adapt to changes in demand.
We constantly review our packaging to see where potential improvements can be made.
Our boxes are already made from 80% recycled cardboard and are 100% recyclable.
Our environmental policy The Group recognises that its day-to-day operations impact both in progress and planned.
The Group will continue to the environment.
It is committed to delivering great tasting, put in place projects to reduce its carbon footprint.
hot pizzas and will aim for continuous improvement in all aspects of its environmental performance, while continuing The Group has an internal environment group whose to deliver a great service to its customers.
purpose is to investigate ways of reducing carbon emissions and implementing these wherever possible.
The Group is committed to monitoring its carbon emissions.
It has already implemented a number of projects, which have reduced its carbon emissions, and has further projects 26 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Where we build new stores, they include energy saving We actively participate with local schools to encourage devices such as light detectors and the Company is currently the development and skills of young people.
Activities this working on a number of further energy saving initiatives year have included work experience placements, school including the introduction of the next generation pizza tours within a number of our stores, working with schools ovens, which can deliver gas savings of between 25% and local education teams to encourage attendance at and 50% on average.
We are also undertaking trials on additional revision classes and adult learning sessions, and systems designed to minimise electrical usage on store providing judges and advisors for a Dragons Den style lighting and early indications are that this may lead to a initiative in Milton Keynes.
In addition, our new commissary at West Ashland, Milton Marketplace Keynes, which will become fully operational during 2010, During the year, we made a number of commitments to the is built to the BREEAM Buildings Research Establishment Food Standards Agency, particular with regards to the salt Environmental Assessment Method Excellent rating the and fat content of our products.
We are working with our highest attainable standard.
suppliers to reduce the amount of both salt and fat in the coming years and we are committed to reporting our Going forward, we are considering joining the Princes May progress to the Food Standards Agency.
We have a Day Network representing businesses that are committed reduced fat mozzarella option for our customers, which to taking action on climate change and we are looking at is promoted on our menu and we are, to the best of our how we can better report on the impact our activity is knowledge, still the only major pizza delivery company to having on our carbon footprint.
In 2009, we launched a new website, Workplace www.
co. uk, to communicate to our Dominos is an equal opportunities employer and is customers improved information about the food we offer, committed to investing in team member advancement its composition and origins.
A large part of the site is through a broad range of learning and development dedicated to our Food Guide this includes extensive initiatives for corporate employees, franchisees and nutritional and allergen information on our pizzas and side in-store teams.
orders and we add any new products to it as soon as they appear on the menu.
As part of our work on allergens, we We regularly communicate with our staff, franchisees and are currently investigating the possibilities of a gluten-free store teams through our intranet and portal systems and base suitable for coeliacs.
We encourage two-way communication and there is a Team Member Care Line for During 2009, we joined Sedex, the supplier ethical data store employees who may have issues with their franchisees exchange, to allow us to better vet the suppliers we use or that they cannot resolve directly.
We have a code of conduct may use and ensure that they operate to a code of conduct which promotes honest and ethical behaviour throughout in line with our own high ethical standards.
In addition, our the business and a comprehensive whistle-blowing policy.
suppliers work closely with their chosen farmers to ensure animal welfare is to the required standard.
We have also made it compulsory that franchisees must have a people management system, approved by us, to ensure We launched three halal stores in 2009 and, in all cases, that all the necessary and up-to-date policies, procedures they are accredited by the Halal Food Authority HFA.
and documentation are in place and that franchise business One of the key reasons for choosing the HFA is that it partners are operating best practice in human resource allows the stunning of animals prior to slaughter.
management and are protected in terms of employment law and health and safety.
We have outsourced the HR processes and health and safety requirements to a leading Going forward human resources and health and safety consultancy, which We will continue to work with BITC to improve and measure manages the service and monitors service levels.
our CSR activity and we look forward to further reducing our carbon footprint and creating an even more cohesive CSR strategy that underpins all our business activities.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 27 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
