BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW DS Smith is committed to maintaining high standards in the way we conduct our business.
The safety of our employees is our principal concern.
OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH AIMS 2008 09 ACTIONS AND PROGRESS HEALTH AND SAFETY Ensure the safety of our staff Group-wide think safe... be safe!
campaign continued, focused and others affected by our on particular safety topics operations our top priority Local initiatives targeted at key safety issues for each business Reduce the number of Lost time accidents down 14% accidents Accident frequency rate down 16% Accident severity rate down 4% Businesses use audits and benchmarking processes to measure performance and highlight areas for improvement Extensive training programmes undertaken aimed at analysing and reducing risks and changing attitudes and behaviour ENVIRONMENT Reduce the impact of our Developed further our services to provide the optimum packaging  solutions for the end-use Contribute to optimising Expanded further our major recycling capabilities resource usage and waste Invested to produce high-quality lightweight paper throughout our supply chains Reduced environmental impact, partly due to lower activity and partly due to improved performance Energy usage down 10% CO emissions down 8% 2 Water usage down 8% Total waste generated down 6% EMPLOYEES Attract, retain and motivate Training and initiatives carried out to reinforce implementation good people of employee-related Key Corporate Values Enable our employees to Increased level of communication to ensure awareness of fulfil their potential business plans and objectives Employee surveys in parts of the Group Training and development programmes to meet our businesses and employees specific needs COMMUNITY Develop and maintain Businesses work closely with local schools and colleges INVOLVEMENT good relations with our Involvement in a range of community activities local communities Participate in liaison groups and hold open days Support good causes in local communities 30 www.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING OUR PRINCIPLES AND APPROACH TO HEALTH AND SAFETY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DS Smith is committed to ensuring that throughout the Group the safety of DS Smith is committed to providing good sustainable returns for its investors our staff and others affected by our operations receives the highest priority.
while maintaining high standards in the way we conduct our business.
The Accordingly, safety at work is the first fixed agenda item at all main Board, safety of our 11,000 employees, working at over 100 locations worldwide, executive committee and divisional review meetings.
Providing a safe is our principal concern.
We also pay close attention to the fulfilment of workplace and ensuring safe working practices are not only legal and our responsibilities towards the environment and to how we interact with ethical responsibilities for the Group but are also essential elements for our employees and local communities.
This review presents information on achieving our aims of attracting and retaining a high-quality and well these high priority aspects of corporate responsibility CR for the Group.
motivated workforce and in carrying out our operations productively and cost-effectively.
Responsibility for the safety of our people is regarded as a The Board considers risks to the Groups shortand long-term value arising key aspect of the role of management at all levels.
Managers are provided from CR matters as part of its regular review of the key risks to the Groups with training to assist them in fulfilling this responsibility.
It ensures that the Group has in place effective policies and systems for managing any significant CR risks and it receives regular We give particular attention to communicating with our people about the reports on performance.
The Group Chief Executive is the Director importance of safety at work and involving them closely in initiatives aimed responsible for CR matters and he reports to the Board on these.
It is the at finding ways to improve safety on our sites.
Our campaign, launched in responsibility of the Divisional Chief Executives and General Managers autumn 2006 under the slogan think safe be safe!, continues to be a key of the individual businesses to communicate and to apply the policies, to feature of our drive to raise further employees awareness of their individual ensure compliance and to review procedures, taking account of local responsibilities for preventing accidents.
Supplementary Group-wide legislation and potential risks.
Divisional Chief Executives are required initiatives, focusing on particular safety topics, have been implemented to annually to attest that the companies for which they are responsible have reinforce the central theme.
Our businesses use the core campaign material complied with relevant Group and divisional policies.
as a basis for introducing programmes which concentrate on the safety issues which are most relevant to each business.
Many of our businesses have The Groups Key Corporate Values define the way in which we require our recently focused particular attention on reducing accidents caused by people and businesses to operate.
In summary, all employees are expected manual handling activities and by slips and trips.
In the last year, Severnside at all times to act ethically and with integrity, to treat their colleagues fairly, Recycling and St Regis, which both operate sizeable transport fleets, equitably and with respect, to work safely and to protect the environment.
have taken various initiatives aimed at reducing road traffic accidents.
Our Key Corporate Values statement is reinforced by more detailed policies on health and safety, the environment and other relevant Information on safety performance, including statistics related to our topics: these documents may be viewed on the Groups website at: performance indicators, is reported to the Board quarterly.
The Group has a Workplace improvement targets against the indicators, which reflect the nature of their Malpractice Policy, under which employees may report in confidence any .
In2008 09,  perceived wrongdoing within the Group on matters relating to safety, the on safety was reflected in a 14% reduction in the number of accidents that environment, unethical business conduct or breaches of Group policies, %reductionin the law or other regulations.
This policy is reinforced by a confidential the accident frequency rate, which measures lost time accidents in proportion Employee Concern Helpline and e-mail facility which we aim to make to the number of hours worked.
There was a 4% improvement in the accident available to our employees worldwide as local legal and regulatory severity rate, which measures the hours lost as a result of all accidents as a issues are resolved: to date it has been extended to over 70% of our percentage of the total hours worked.
We continue to focus on addressing the employees, located in nine countries.
Any concerns reported are underlying reasons for the lower level of improvement in the latter indicator, appropriately investigated.
which particularly reflects the number of relatively minor accidents after which employees take a longer time to return to work.
DS Smith continues to be selected as a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK Index of companies deemed to meet globally recognised corporate Our businesses benchmark their performance on safety against other Group responsibility standards.
DS Smith is also a constituent of the Kempen businesses and through the use of external data.
This process enables them SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index for smaller companies deemed to have to identify areas for increased attention.
Site health and safety audits by high social responsibility standards and practice.
internal specialists and external consultants are also used to measure SAFETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LOST TIME ACCIDENTS ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE ACCIDENT SEVERITY RATE Number of accidents resulting in lost time Number of lost time accidents permillion Working hours lost as a result of accidents of one shift or more hoursworked as a percentage of hours worked DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 31 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED corrugated packaging operations in 2008 09 was 100% recycled paper.
The remainder was made from virgin wood pulp, sourced from producers who obtain their wood pulp from sustainable forestry sources, and is required by certain customers for its particular strength and appearance characteristics.
A key benefit of paper recycling is that there are carbon savings from diverting waste paper from landfill.
A recent study by the UKs Waste & Resources Action Programme WRAP concluded that recycling one tonne of paper rather than sending it to landfill avoids the equivalent of 1.4 Our think safe... be safe!
campaign Severnside Recycling collects used tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions.
has raised awareness of safety across paper packaging from industrial and the Group.
The Groups paper collection and recycling operations play an important role in meeting the EU and UK government objectives for the recycling of packaging waste, as prescribed in the EU Packaging and Packaging performance and highlight areas for improvement.
Investigations are carried Waste Directive and the UK Packaging Waste Regulations.
Under the out of all accidents and situations that might have resulted in accidents to Directive, the UK is required to recycle at least 60% of all paper packaging: ensure that we learn from these incidents and prevent recurrence.
Our it is well ahead of this target, with 80% of paper packaging being recycled in 2008, and DS Smith is the largest contributor to this reprocessing.
businesses undertake extensive programmes of training on safety matters.
In addition to focusing on the most significant specific risks for their Packaging and the environment operations, and the techniques of risk assessment and root cause The conservation of resources and the lowering of the amount of waste analysis, these programmes also aim more broadly to change being disposed of in landfill are important aspects of caring for our unsafe attitudes and behaviour.
As a result of this, there is increasing pressure from society and government to reduce the overall quantity of packaging in use and ENVIRONMENT to increase the proportion of packaging that is recycled.
The Group Protecting the environment is an important feature of DS Smiths business.
recognises its responsibility to contribute to the conservation of resources We continually seek to reduce the impact of our own operations on the and we are fulfilling this responsibility through both the provision of environment and to contribute to reducing energy usage, greenhouse packaging products which enable our customers to meet their environmental gas emissions and waste throughout our supply chains.
The Groups objectives and the development of our recycling services.
leading UK position in recycling of paper and packaging makes a major Although packaging receives a lot of attention in the media, it plays an contribution to conserving resources and reducing landfill waste.
Our important part in making modern lifestyles possible and its significance Packaging products are made from recycled raw materials wherever it is should be seen in perspective.
Packaging is just one, often relatively minor, practicable and our Packaging businesses use their expertise in packaging aspect of the total environmental impact of a product: ten times more energy design to assist customers and retailers in optimising the use of resources goes into the production of the food and goods that it contains than into and reducing waste in their supply chains.
In corrugated packaging, which the packaging itself.
In the UK, packaging of all types accounts for less is fully recyclable, we are at the forefront of the trend to use lightweight than 5% of total landfill waste and approximately 20% of household dustbin paper to lower the weight of packaging used.
Spicers offers its customers 1 waste : approximately 60% of the packaging of all types used in the UK an increasingly large selection of products which are made from recycled 2 is recycled.
materials, are recyclable or have other environmentally beneficial features.
We continue to carry out work to evaluate not only the carbon footprint Our packaging businesses work with their customers to develop packaging of our own packaging products but to understand better the role of our of the optimum specification for the required end-use.
Most packaging packaging in the total life cycle of the product for which it is used.
performs the valuable functions of protecting products, reducing product wastage, enabling more efficient and lower-cost handling and transportation Recycling and, in many cases, contributes to lowering the environmental impact of The Groups operations make a major contribution to the corrugated the supply of goods.
The choice of the most appropriate packaging material packaging recycling process.
In the UK, Severnside Recycling is the and pack design for a particular product depends upon a wide range of largest collector of waste paper and an increasingly significant collector factors including the nature of the product itself, how the total supply chain of plastic and other materials for recycling.
It sources waste paper and for the product operates and the requirements of retailers and consumers.
other recoverable materials from major supermarkets, other retailers and Corrugated packaging, the Groups principal packaging product, is industrial operations and is providing the waste collection services for 100% recyclable and in the UK over 80% of all corrugated packaging is Tesco plcs front-of-store automated recycling centres which are being 3 recycled.
Although corrugated packaging is not generally reused, it is a located at an increasing number of its stores.
Severnsides growth into fully recyclable packaging material that is produced predominantly from the integrated recycling and waste management market has been further recycled paper in what is essentially a loop system, which is described in underlined by a contract with Marks & Spencer plc, in line with its Plan A more detail on page 15.
Used corrugated boxes are recycled into paper: principles, to deliver waste and recycling services across their retail and this paper is converted into boxes which are packed with goods: retailers distribution network.
or consumers discard the used boxes which are then collected for recycling All of the paper produced by the Group is made from recycled waste paper.
and delivered to the paper mill to be turned into paper once again.
St Regis is the UKs leading recycler of packaging waste and largest Corrugated products are playing an increasingly important role in the producer of recycled paper, while DS Smith Kaysersberg is a significant pursuit of sustainable,  packaging.
The Group recycler of waste paper in France: in total the Group recycled 1.4 million has been at the forefront of the trend to lower the weight of corrugated tonnes of paper in 2008 09.
77% of the paper used by the Groups packaging used through the use of lightweight paper and improved box 1 Source: Industry Council for Packaging and the Environment INCPEN 2 Source: Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA 3 Source: Confederation of Paper Industries CPI 32 www.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING design.
DS Smith Packagings suite of PackRight tools enables the analysis The Group had a number of minor environmental incidents during the year, of all the factors relating to a particular pack to ensure that it is fit for following which prompt corrective action and steps to prevent any recurrence purpose, makes the supply chain efficient and reduces environmental were taken and, where necessary, the appropriate agencies were informed.
In many instances our design and technical expertise enables the The  customer to reduce the weight of raw materials used in a pack as well as Ltd in relation to alleged breaches of Higher Kings Mills Pollution Prevention to pack the goods more efficiently: this reduces transport costs and thereby and Control PPC permit that occurred between December 2005 and March the carbon emissions per unit.
The charges primarily relate to the training of staff, record keeping and the operation of the plant: an independent investigation has indicated In circumstances where packaging is designed to be reused many times, that these breaches did not result in any significant environmental impact.
plastic returnable transit packaging may be required by customers if the The circumstances surrounding all environmental incidents are investigated packaging can be readily recovered, transported and cleaned for reuse.
immediately and, when appropriate, the findings and lessons learnt Plastic bag-in-box packaging is increasingly being used to contain liquids are communicated throughout the Group as part of our drive to reduce in bulk as well as for consumer use.
It has significant benefits for storing such incidents.
and transporting beverages and other liquids hygienically and securely, and can substantially extend the storage life of products, thus reducing The Groups paper manufacturing operations account for over 80% of the product wastage.
Bag-in-box packs are, in many instances, environmentally Groups environmental impact, particularly because their manufacturing superior to alternative packaging formats: they use space efficiently and process uses large quantities of energy and water.
The UK paper mills are relatively lightweight compared with bottles or drums so they may are regulated through PPC permits under which they each have specific reduce the overall energy usage in the supply chain because they can improvement programmes and targets.
St Regis overall compliance with be transported and stored more efficiently.
its environmental permits fell to 94% in 2008 09 2007 08: 98% principally due to lower performance of the effluent treatment plant at Our Packaging businesses continue to carry out work to evaluate the Higher Kings Mill.
Management actions taken have already improved carbon footprint of their products.
This work is enabling us to collaborate compliance significantly at the site with further improvements expected with other companies in our supply chain on analyses of the total in 2009 10.
St Regis is a key participant in the UK paper sector Climate environmental impact of products that use our packaging.
DS Smith Change Levy CCL Agreement with the Department of Environment, Food Packaging and Severnside Recycling are working together to help large  supermarket chains and other businesses to reduce the amount of waste consumption reduction targets.
St Regis met its target for the year to they send to landfill and improve their environmental performance with September 2008 and is on course to meet its next target for the year regard to packaging.
Environmental management and regulation The Groups UK and French paper operations are subject to the terms The environmental performance and activities of the divisions are reviewed of their respective national schemes for implementing the EU Emissions at the Group Environment Committee, which meets three times a year and Trading Directive.
We expect the Groups emissions to be slightly below is chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
Under the terms of the Groups our emissions allocations during EU ETS Phase 2.
The effects of subsequent Environment Policy, which may be viewed on the Groups website, each phases from 2013 onwards are likely to be more onerous, being dependent of our sites is required to implement an environmental management system upon the details of the emissions allocations and the market price of carbon EMS which is appropriate to its activity.
Of our total operations, 37 under future phases of the scheme.
have been identified as having higher potential environmental impact, due to their size or type of activity: 36 of these are accredited under St Regis Kemsley and Wansbrough Mills have obtained certification under the internationally recognised ISO 14001 EMS standard and the one the Forest Stewardship Councils chain of custody standard.
Although remaining operation is in the process of working towards this standard.
initially set up to provide assurance that forestry products use material The Groups other 46 operations, which are required to have in place a that comes from responsibly managed sources, this standard has been simplified EMS, appropriate to their lower level of potential environmental extended to include products such as recycled paper which are made impact, review and improve these systems regularly, often with the assistance from recovered raw materials.
As part of their EMS, many Group businesses have Environmental performance procedures in place for assessing their suppliers environmental policies Our businesses continue to take action and invest in order to reduce and management systems, as appropriate.
During the year, we employed independent consultants, Bureau Veritas, to review our environmental data collection and reporting process in order to ensure the robustness and accuracy of the Groups environmental performance indicators.
This review concluded that overall there was a good level of process control and reporting at the sites but identified some areas for improvement, particularly in relation to the conversion factors being used for converting energy usage into carbon emissions.
The recommendations of Bureau Veritas have been implemented.
As a consequence of this, and the inclusion of data for New Thames Mill, acquired in February 2008, some of the data reported for 2007 08 has been restated so that it is comparable with the data for 2008 09.
The Bales of waste paper are taken into Severnside is also a major collector Groups overall environmental performance in 2008 09 is shown in the the new stock preparation plant at of plastic waste for recycling.
A fuller report on our environmental performance is Kemsley Mill.
available in the Corporate Responsibility section of our website.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 33 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED 1 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2008 09 2007 08 2 Energy consumption Gigawatt hours 3,247 3,606 Megawatt hours 000 revenue 1.54 1.73 3 Carbon dioxide CO emissions 2 Scope 1 direct emissions 000 tonnes 274 318 Scope 2 indirect emissions 000 tonnes 653 689 Total Scopes 1 and 2 emissions 000 tonnes 927 1,007 Kilograms 000 revenue 440 484 Water usage Million cubic metres 11.4 12.3 000 cubic metres 000 revenue 5.4 5.9 4 Waste management Waste recycled 000 tonnes 135 167 Waste sent to landspread 000 tonnes 130 117 Waste-to-energy 000 tonnes 102 119 Waste sent to landll 000 tonnes 71 63 Total waste generated 000 tonnes 438 466 Kilograms 000 revenue 208 224 % of total waste sent to landll 16% 13% Methodology: The Group aims to collect and report its environmental data in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHGP, to the extent that this is currently practicable.
The figures reported above include data from all of the Groups wholly-owned or majority-owned operations and sites worldwide.
The methodology used is consistent for 2007 08 and 2008 09.
1 The Groups data for 2007 08 has been restated from that reported in the 2008 Annual Report.
The restatement is due to: a the inclusion of data for New Thames Mill which was acquired in February 2008 and was not included in the previously published 2007 08 data but has now been included for the full year 2007 08, b recalculated figures for CO emissions using the latest available national 2 factors for converting electricity usage to CO emissions, and c the provision of additional detail in the waste data.
2 2 The energy figures relate to the usage of gas, electricity, coal, fuel oil, LPG and steam used on the Groups sites, and diesel fuel for freight transport used in the Groups own vehicles.
3 The CO emissions have been calculated using the energy data, as defined above.
The energy data has been converted into CO emissions using the same conversion factors for both 2007 08 and 2 2 2008 09.
The factors used for converting gas, coal, fuel oil and diesel usage into CO emissions are as published by the UK Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA in the 2008 2 Guidelines to DEFRAs GHG Conversion Factors.
The factors used for converting electricity usage are the national figures for each country in which the Group operates sourced from the International Energy Agency Data Services via the UK Carbon Trust: these factors therefore reflect the mix of fuels used for electricity generation in each country.
As required by the GHGP, Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO emissions are reported separately.
Scope 1 direct emissions are those arising from combustion of fuel in installations or vehicles owned by the Group: Scope 2 indirect emissions are those 2 arising from bought-in energy i. e. electricity or steam where the combustion has been carried out by another company.
The 2008 09 Scope 1 emissions included 60,000 tonnes 2007 08: 69,000 tonnes of CO which were associated with the production of electricity which was sold to the grid from one of our CHP plants.
Scope 3 emissions from sources external to DS Smith but involved in the 2 supply chains for the Groups products and services are not included.
4 The waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations: they do not include waste that is collected from external sources for recycling within our paper and plastic packaging operations.
The data on waste identifies separately: a the amount of waste that is conventionally recycled in the manufacture of other products, b the quantity of waste cellulose fibre, generated in the paper-making operations, which is recycled through agricultural use as landspread, c the quantity of waste that is used for energy recovery at our waste-to-energy plant, and d the waste that goes to landfill.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT FROM BUREAU VERITAS UK LTD We have worked with DS Smith Plc to provide an independent Bureau Veritas encourages DS Smith Plc to continue to improve opinion on the Environmental Performance Indicators presented on performance indicator data collection by extending the capture of this page of DS Smiths 2009 Annual Report.
Having completed a environmental data at all of its operations and to utilise the available process incorporating site visits, document review and interrogation information to determine a set of targets to drive environmental of associated management and reporting systems, it is our opinion improvement at a Group level.
that the presented performance indicators provide a fair and A full verification statement including our methodology, basis for our accurate representation of DS Smith Plcs performance.
opinion, additional recommendations, limitations and a statement of DS Smith Plc should be commended on their approach to Bureau Veritas independence can be found on the DS Smith Plc performance indicator data collection, which is consistent across the website www.
divisions with a clear understanding of the processes demonstrated by both divisional and site managers.
It is clear that DS Smith Plc June 2009 is constantly looking to improve these processes: both via internal mechanisms, and as demonstrated in the proactive manner in Bureau Veritas UK Ltd which the Company engaged Bureau Veritas on this project.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING The Group consumed 10% less energy in 2008 09 compared with the The Group is committed to applying equal opportunities in all recruitment and previous year.
This reduction was principally due to lower activity levels employment practices.
It is also committed, as a minimum, to meeting the across the Group but also reflected improved energy efficiency at some of labour rights and legislation requirements in each of the countries in which our businesses.
The Groups lower energy usage in 2008 09 resulted in it operates: in practice the Group often exceeds the local and international an 8% reduction in total emissions of CO.
The Groups total water usage requirements.
As DS Smiths operations are almost entirely located in member 2 was 8% lower than in 2007 08.
Although we reduced the total amount of countries of the OECD, human rights matters are not perceived as a waste generated by our businesses by 6%, the proportion sent to landfill significant Group risk.
increased slightly to 16%: this was principally due to higher levels of waste The annual turnover rate in the Groups workforce worldwide of circa being produced at Kemsley Mill, partly associated with the start-up of the 4 10% compares favourably with the UK national average of circa 17%.
converted paper machine at New Thames Mill, which could not be Recruitment and retention of employees is not a significant issue for most of processed in the waste-to-energy plant.
the Groups operations but the situation varies depending upon the alternative Energy efficiency employment opportunities in any particular location and the skills required.
Our two largest paper mills, at Kemsley in the UK and Kaysersberg in Our divisions and businesses communicate with, and consult, their people France, which account for approximately 65% of the Groups energy throughnewsletters, intranets, briefingmeetings, localworkscouncils, national usage, have on-site combined heat and power CHP plants.
These CHP employee forums and a European Works Council.
Many of our businesses facilities provide energy more efficiently, with lower CO emissions and 2 have increased the level of internal communications in light of the present at significantly lower cost than if it were to be sourced from the external difficult economic environment to ensure that employees are aware of the grid.
In addition, Kemsley Mill recycles, in the form of energy recovery, businesss plans and objectives.
Employee surveys have been carried out a substantial proportion of the reject material, such as plastic and in a number of parts of the Group.
Generally the results of these have been polystyrene, which enters its process mixed in with the waste paper and positive: action has been taken to address any particular issues that have is separated out during paper manufacture: the mills own waste-to-energy been highlighted.
plant efficiently recovers the energy to produce steam for use in the mills operations.
We are investigating the potential for installing a sustainable Training and development programmes are carried out by the Groups energy plant at Kemsley Mill to reduce the mills reliance on fossil fuels.
businesses to meet their specific needs for raising operational performance The proposed fuel for this plant is hard-to-recycle materials, sourced and career development.
The individual training and development needs of and pre-treated offsite, which might otherwise go to landfill.
employees are met through a variety of schemes including: management , : DS Smith Packaging, which in 2008 became the first UK corrugated support for study for external vocational and professional qualifications: packaging producer to be accredited under the UKs Energy Efficiency and schemes for coaching and mentoring managers, using external and Accreditation Scheme, lowered its energy usage per square metre sold by internal resources.
2% in 2008 09 through its division-wide energy management system and a wide range of energy reduction projects.
Both DS Smith Packaging and COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT DS Smith Kaysersberg have achieved substantial improvements in their We seek to develop and maintain good relations in the local communities in energy efficiency through programmes of process improvements on their which we operate: this is particularly important as in many of the locations corrugator machines.
where we operate we are one of the largest employers.
As well as providing significant employment opportunities, we aim to make positive contributions EMPLOYEES to our communities and build a reputation as a good neighbour and , retainandmotivate employer.
Our businesses work closely with local schools and colleges good people, and enable them to fulfil their potential.
The Group ensures that providing training, mentoring, work experience placements and other the divisions have in place appropriate structures, procedures and resources opportunities for pupils to learn about industry and business.
The Group to implement the employee-related aspects of the Groups Key Corporate is involved in a wide range of other local community activities including Values, which include: providing fair opportunities for employment to all: sponsorship of community projects or sports teams and provision of treating everyone with dignity and respect: not tolerating any form of adult skills training.
Our businesses participate in liaison groups with harassment or discrimination: ensuring advancement is based on merit: local residents, particularly at locations where there is a need to review and providing appropriate training and development opportunities.
Our ways in which we can reduce any inconvenience to neighbours from our businesses carry out training and implement various initiatives aimed at operations as a result of traffic movements, odour or noise.
Some sites hold reinforcing our values and policies in this area.
open days to foster relationships with their local communities.
The Group supports charitable fund-raising activities through cash contributions and in the form of products and services or staff time.
The majority of the modest amount of money donated by the Group is given by individual operating units, principally to good causes in their local communities.
Donations by the Group headquarters are principally focused on helping young disadvantaged people become involved in business and working life.
Box design can contribute to reducing Spicers range includes many environmental impact by minimising environmentally beneficial waste and increasing the efficiency products which are promoted of transportation.
4 Source: Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 35
