Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction Among the key features of Aggrekos worldwide This report describes the policies and procedures that Health and Safety Policy are: the Board has put in place to ensure that Aggreko operates in a safe, ethical and responsible manner, ensuring that health and safety issues are at which protects the environment as well as safeguarding the forefront of considerations when we design the health and safety of its employees, its customers, our equipment: and the communities in which it operates.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks that ensuring that our equipment is built and are considered significant is summarised under the maintained to the highest standards: heading of Internal Control on page 52. training and educating our staff worldwide The nature of our business is that we work in many in the safe operation of our equipment: and different countries, often in remote and difficult environments, with equipment and substances which, ensuring that health and safety issues have if improperly handled, are potentially dangerous to the appropriate level of focus throughout the people and harmful to property and the environment.
We frequently operate in response to natural or man-made disasters, where the infrastructure has been Aggreko has created its own Global Environmental badly damaged and where operating conditions are far Health and Safety Management System GEMS from ideal.
Over time, therefore, we have developed which has been implemented throughout the business.
a comprehensive range of operating procedures and At the core of GEMS is a Best Operating Practice processes to ensure that we minimise any risk of harm document that is published in 8 languages English, to people or to the environment.
French, German, Dutch, Spanish, Italian, Norwegian and Singhalese and made available to every Aggreko Health and safety employee worldwide.
The Best Operating Practice is Aggreko puts health and safety at the very heart updated in the light of experience and incidents.
Most of our equipment is heavy, electro-mechanical equipment which is moved around GEMS incorporates a comprehensive reporting system frequently.
Compressors and generators respectively which is designed to ensure that the Company knows produce high-pressure compressed air and high of every incident, and can learn from it.
A uniform voltages, either of which can be harmful to people accident and incident data collection procedure if mishandled.
is implemented worldwide, and from this we can measure our performance and benchmark our Aggrekos policy is to implement common health operations.
Performance measures are reported at a and safety operating procedures worldwide.
Whether business unit level on a monthly basis.
Any serious operating in the Australian bush, the Saudi Arabian incident is immediately reported to the Executive desert or in downtown Manhattan, our operating Director responsible for the business unit concerned.
procedures are the same high standard.
Meetings of the senior management of each region are held regularly: at each of these an Executive Director will normally chair the meeting, and incidents reported under GEMS are discussed.
On a quarterly basis, the Executive Director responsible for Health and Safety, George Walker, reports to the Board.
42 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report Safety The Group continues to operate team briefings Our business involves the frequent movement of throughout its business to keep employees informed of heavy equipment which, in its operation, produces developments and plans, both in their own operations lethal voltages and contains thousands of litres of fuel.
and in the Group as a whole.
Employees have access Rigorous safety processes are absolutely essential if we to the Aggreko Resource Centre, an intranet based are to avoid accidents which could cause injury to people system, which provides them with a wide range of and damage to our reputation and property.
Safety information on the activities of the Group around the processes are also a basic benchmark of operational world.
The annual and interim results are publicised discipline and there is, in our view, a close correlation extensively throughout the business and are made between a well-run business and a safe business.
The main KPI we use to measure safety performance The environment is the internationally recognised Frequency Accident Set out below is an explanation of the terms Rating FAR which is calculated as the number of lost and abbreviations used in this section.
time accidents multiplied by 200,000 being the base for 100 employees working 40 hours per week, 50 weeks CO2 Carbon Dioxide.
per year divided by the total hours worked.
A lost time EPA Environmental Protection Agency.
accident is a work related injury illness that results SCR Selective Catalytic Reduction.
in an employees inability to work the day after the g kWh Emissions in grams per kilowatt hour.
The Groups performance during 2009 did not show LWA Sound power level at source.
an improvement over previous years but is much better MW A million watts.
than the benchmark statistic reported for US rental and leasing industries published by the US Department of NOx Oxides of Nitrogen.
This measure is also Particulate In general this term relates to visible smoke.
included under Key Performance Indicators on page 27.
Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, Tier 4 US Federal Government target emission reduction levels.
FAR was as follows: Year ended 31 December Environmental Policy 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Aggrekos equipment is designed to function in all FAR 0.76 0.46 0.50 0.75 0.98 continents and all types of terrain.
By careful design and use of the most suitable technology, we also aim to minimise the environmental impact of that Employees and equal opportunities equipment.
Aggreko makes available to its customers Aggreko is committed to promoting equal opportunities equipment and solutions that are designed to comply for all, irrespective of disability, ethnic origin, gender with applicable laws, regulations and industry standards or any other considerations that do not affect a persons wherever we operate in the world.
In effect, this means ability to perform their job.
they comply with the laws, regulations and standards of some of the most stringent jurisdictions in which The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career we operate and, therefore, far exceed the levels development and promotion of employees are based required in many others.
on the suitability of the individual and give those who are disabled equal treatment with the able bodied.
The two major environmental issues we deal with in Where appropriate, employees disabled after joining our business are emissions-to-air from our equipment the Group are given suitable training for alternative the vast majority of which is diesel powered, and the employment with the Group or elsewhere.
safe handling and disposal of fuel and oil.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Our Environmental Policies are managed in a similar In an increasing number of countries, air quality way to safety.
They comprise: regulations stipulate emission standards with which new equipment being sold must comply.
Generally ensuring that environmental issues are at the countries allow equipment already operating to forefront of considerations when we design our eet: continue to do so for its useful life.
The US EPA has introduced the ensuring that our equipment is built and earliest and most stringent regulation in this area, maintained to the highest standards: introducing reduction targets for emissions of NOx and particulate in Tiers, starting with Tier 1 in 1996, training and educating our staff worldwide moving to Tier 4 final around 2014.
The EPA in the safe operation of our equipment: and requirements have therefore been the main driver of new generator development.
The following graph ensuring that environmental issues have the illustrates the reduction targets for emissions under appropriate level of focus throughout the the EPA regime.
Emissions-to-air: exhaust gases and particulates NOx and particulate reduction targets Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product of hydrocarbon fuelled engines.
Over the years, as 0.6 Tier 1 engines have become more efficient and legislation to limit emissions around the world has become 0.5 stricter, emissions have reduced sharply.
Aggreko works in co-operation with the manufacturers 0.4 of diesel engines in order to meet new emission requirements in a timely manner.
0.3 The principal contribution we can make to reducing Tier 3 emissions to air is in maintaining our equipment in Tier 2 0.2 good order, and introducing engines into the eet with good emissions performance.
0.1 Tier 4 final Tier 4 interim 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 NOx g kWhr During 2009 we introduced the first two products with Tier 3 engines into the US market.
Subject to manufacturers ability to introduce the necessary technology into volume production, we expect that in 2010 the majority of engines we build will be certified to at least Tier 2.
44 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Particular g kWhr Directors Report Tier 4 emissions Alternative energy sources Development is underway of diesel generators to In addition to the work we have undertaken meet up coming Tier 4 standards for mobile generators.
developing natural gas-powered generators, we are In 2008 a significant project was undertaken in Chile constantly reviewing product technologies, looking to deliver the lowest level of NOx yet stipulated by a for advances that we can adopt within our product standard.
Seventy of Aggrekos project machines were portfolio.
These include: fitted with an advanced SCR that reduced NOx by 90%.
Similar technology will probably be required Bio-fuels Across many of our markets we have to meet EPA Tier 4 requirements in the US and in seen the emergence of Bio-diesel as an alternative Europe shortly after.
We are currently working closely energy source.
These fuels are compatible with most with engine manufacturers to develop appropriate of our generator eet, either in a blended or pure solutions for these requirements.
Bio-fuel can reduce CO2 emissions, given that the crop that derived the fuel has absorbed CO2 Aggreko natural gas generator development from the atmosphere.
While we will continue to We are constantly exploring new ways of reducing support customers who wish to run our equipment emissions, and have completed the development of on Bio-fuels, our main concern with this energy a new gas-fuelled temporary power solution, which source is sustainability of the sources of production, has significantly lower levels of emissions see below.
and the environmental impact of certain production methods.
Consequently, we are not actively Tier 1 engine Gas engine Reduction promoting Bio-fuel use in our business.
NOx 6.9 g bhp-hr 1.0 g bhp-hr 87% Particulates 0.4 g bhp-hr 0.1 g bhp-hr 75% Fuel Cells Whilst we keep a close watch on the development of Fuel Cell technology, we do not currently see any commercial application in our Natural gas presents a competitive advantage over business.
This may change as technology improves other energy sources.
It is seen as economically more and costs reduce.
efficient because only about 10% of the natural gas produced is wasted before it gets to final consumption.
Renewables At present, it is hard to envisage In addition, technological advances are constantly the application of renewable energy sources to improving efficiencies in extraction, transportation large temporary power generation projects.
While and storage techniques as well as in equipment that we have, for example, reviewed the application of uses natural gas.
battery technology in combination with a diesel generator to provide hybrid power, which can Natural gas is considered an  improve efficiency and reduce fuel consumption, clean fuel, offering important environmental benefits technology is not yet advanced enough to enable when compared with other fossil fuels.
The superior us to pursue a hybrid renewable option.
We do environmental qualities over coal or oil are that however foresee a role for our products in supporting emissions of sulphur dioxide are negligible and that systems and grids which rely upon renewables, the level of NOx and CO2 emissions is significantly where seasonal restrictions can occur.
Where the gas fuel is essentially a by-product of production or is derived from a biological source, a CO2 and greenhouse gas reduction is realised.
This helps to reduce problems of acid rain, ozone or greenhouse gases.
In many of Aggrekos target markets natural gas is effectively a stranded resource.
Aggrekos service allows for generation of power from this valuable resource on a more exible and scalable basis than existing solutions.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Emissions-to-air: carbon dioxide Another potential source of environmental damage All of Aggrekos core activities release CO2 into the is in the disposal of consumables such as engine oil atmosphere to a greater or lesser extent.
In our Local business, these are normally significant impact arises from power generation in returned to our service centres where they are safely Aggreko International owing to the intensiveness of disposed of.
In our International Power Projects our activities in providing temporary power stations.
business, site-specific arrangements are made to Any generation of electricity using hydrocarbon ensure the safe handling of these items.
fuels inevitably causes the release of CO2 and the performance of Aggrekos equipment is comparable Reporting of fuel spills is handled in a similar way to to other equivalent power sources.
Aggreko is actively safety incidents, with monthly reporting at regional researching the availability of alternative mobile power level, and quarterly reporting to the Board.
sources that will reduce the level of CO2 emissions: until an economically viable alternative becomes Noise available, the level of emissions will mirror the level Aggreko has built a competitive advantage through of our business activity.
The actual amount of CO2 an equipment eet that minimises external noise.
released by our engines is driven by the usage our This is done by the use of custom-built acoustic customers make of our equipment on rent: an engine enclosures as well as high performance isolation running 24 hours day will emit much more CO2 than and attenuation systems.
Aggreko continues to work an engine used for a few hours a day.
These patterns closely with its suppliers and local university research of usage can vary widely from country to country and departments in order to develop its expertise in this from year to year.
We estimate that customers using field.
As a result, our equipment is able to achieve Aggreko engines produced an average CO2 emission the following performance standards that are well rate of 0.65 tonnes of CO2 per megawatt hour.
below the maximum levels permitted by current European legislation.
Petroleum spills and the safe disposal Size of generator Certified noise level Sound Power LWA of waste fluids Aggreko Aggreko Aggreko and its customers handle a considerable Maximum Standard Premium quantity of diesel fuel and the occurrence of fuel Prime power EU limit Product Product spills is an area that the Group monitors very closely.
30kVA 96.47 92.0 78.0 The measure used by management to measure the 60kVA 96.77 93.0 80.0 performance of the Group in handling fuel is the 125kVA 97.10 94.0 83.0 Petroleum Release Rating PRR.
This is calculated 200kVA 97.30 94.0 91.0 as litres released to ground, divided by the cumulative 350kVA 97.55 92.0 90.0 average MW on rent.
The PRR performance over Note: A reduction of 3 LWA in the certified noise level equates the past three years has been: 2009 a rating of 0.49, to an audible noise level that is approximately 50% lower.
Our equipment has been specifically designed to Refrigerant minimise the risk of uid spillage through features In accordance with the timelines and accords set out such as a save-all base, double-walled storage tanks by the Montreal protocol Aggreko has phased out and fail-safe valves.
A PRR score of 0.09 has been CFC plant from its temperature control rental eet set by the Group as a target for 2010. and is in the process of phasing out HCFC plant: we have introduced HFC production models in all areas.
46 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report Social Responsibility Donations Policy During the financial year the Group contributed Aggreko has a policy of encouraging local teams to 189,459 2008: 163,148 in terms of cash, employees engage with the communities in which they work, and time and other services to a range of charitable, each year they undertake innumerable initiatives to help community and disaster relief organisations.
Of this the disadvantaged or those affected by natural disasters.
total 48,900 2008: 76,014 was donated to registered UK charities.
One such initiative is Book Aid International, a charity promoting literacy in developing countries, No political donations were made during the with which we signed a funding agreement in 2006. financial year 2008: nil.
We have undertaken to provide them with 40,000 each year, to enable them to provide books and Business ethics other educational material to schools and libraries Ethics Policy in Africa.
Aggreko has a reputation for delivering innovation, performance and solutions.
Also at the heart of our The wide variety and diversity of the books supplied long-term success is something less tangible and less is of enormous value to Book Aid International easily illustrated with figures or case studies.
This partners, who can reach out to many communities key element is integrity and honesty in our business and meet the information needs of key target groups, dealings, a factor that contributes to our long-term including the poorest people.
Whenever possible, relationships with customers.
All Aggreko employees, partners undertake activities to promote books and as well as consultants and agents who we work with, reading within their networks.
These can include are expected to behave ethically in their work, and major initiatives, such as the East Africa reading tents our expectations of them are set out in a Corporate project, or smaller bespoke activities for the visually Ethics Policy.
The objective of the Policy is to make impaired, or reading awareness days.
All activities are Aggreko a good company to work for: to maintain aimed at ensuring the target groups are aware and able our reputation for exceptional customer service and to access the books made available, and that a culture ethical business dealings: to compete ethically: and of reading begins to develop.
to ensure the business is managed to a consistently high standard.
Further discussion of our policies for Building on our donations since 2006, in 2009 Aggreko handling ethical risks is set out under Principal Risks contributions to Book Aid International funded the and Uncertainties on pages 30 and 31. purchase of 18,845 books.
These were distributed in Cameroon, Kenya, Namibia, Tanzania and Uganda, Employees who suspect any breaches of the Corporate which all rank in the bottom third of the worlds Ethics Policy are encouraged to speak up, and their poorest countries and where adult literacy rates are confidentiality and position is protected if they do so.
generally in the range of 66-69%.
In most classrooms it is common for books to be shared between 10 pupils See our Corporate Responsibility website and frequently more.
Beyond the classroom, access Further information and copies of the Environmental, to books is often limited to an elite few, and when Health and Safety Policy and Corporate Ethics available the average cost of a book is often up to Policy are available at www.
com investors one months wage, putting them far beyond the reach .
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47
