30 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 q CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Safety is our No.
1 priority and a clear imperative Corporate responsibility and for every airline, including easyJet.
We recognise the risks associated with operating an airline and how we operate underpins our work tirelessly to ensure the safety of our customers, our people and our shareholders investments.
long-term prospects and our At easyJet we believe people make the difference: by treating our people well, they will be more future financial performance.
customer-focused and better represent the easyJet brand and that in turn will drive greater customer Safety, customer satisfaction, satisfaction.
people and the environment all In order for aviation to have a long-term future, we must minimise our environmental impact, ensure matter to our business.
that environmental impacts and the evolving regulatory environment are considered in all key business decisions and continue to invest in a fleet of young and fuel-efficient aircraft.
Safety and our customer proposition are key strategic priorities and are covered in detail on pages 8 to 9 and 12 to 13 of this publication and therefore this Corporate Responsibility report focuses on our approach to people and environmental management.
People Our business is only as good as the people that The we recruit, train and retain.
Our people strategy is underpinned by the cornerstones of talent, engagement and organisational design and aims big 5 to ensure that, through strong leadership, we have the right skills in the right place at the right time, Our values: thereby creating an environment where people Our employees are perform better for us than they would for anyone driven by our core else.
We recognise that having the right skills, values of safety, experience and culture directly influences our teamwork, pioneering, performance across all of our strategic objectives.
Our ethos is expressed through five values: safety our No.
1 priority no compromises, teamwork well get there faster together, pioneering breaking the mould to find new ways and new opportunities, passionate were ambitious to be the best we can be and integrity we mean what we say, and do it!.
Recruitment Our employer brand remains a key strength we received over 45,000 hits on our website for opportunities which resulted in over 20,000 applications: the quality of these applications was high and continues to ensure that we have buoyant holding pools from which to source our future employees.
We continue to focus on recruiting crew that live and breathe our values and have, for the past few years, changed the emphasis of our employment model to match the seasonal peaks of our business.
We recruited 672 cabin crew in the year: our strategy to employ on fixed term contracts and invite people back year after year enables us to manage our business flexibly whilst maintaining our high standard of operation.
We also operated 31 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview Business review q Governance Accounts Other information the Flexicrew scheme for our pilot requirements, employing 92 pilots across seven bases for fixed periods of time, to meet our operational needs.
4 Me Following the consolidation of easyTech and GB Award-winning into the easyJet engineering and maintenance share plan function, our focus has been on integration and Over 80% of building talent for our future growth.
We have employees participate in recruited 28 people into the function this year our multi award winning following the in-sourcing of several activities easyJet Shares 4 Me.
previously undertaken by a third party supplier.
This exercise has enabled us to manage the safety, oversight, availability and reliability of the ever growing fleet.
This has been another positive step forward in ensuring a world-class operation and a fully integrated engineering and maintenance function.
Training A wide variety of people joined easyJet through the year.
We have looked to continuously improve also taking the opportunity to refresh our talent Reward our well-established and thorough induction mix from outside.
Overall unforced staff turnover easyJet offers a competitive rewards package training programme for crew and are in the has improved by 5.1 percentage points to 6.9% and reviews salaries annually in line with market process of refreshing our offering for those within since 2008, although understandably, the tough rates to ensure continued alignment to the the Management and Administration M&A economic environment may have also significantly market.
The rewards package includes an annual population.
This will ensure that all of our new influenced employees decision to stay at easyJet.
performance-driven bonus, based on personal joiners understand the easyJet culture, what we and Company performance, which encourages value, our strategic objectives and how they can all employees to contribute towards achieving our Turning Europe Orange contribute to our success from day one.
Employees are also eligible to In line with our quest to Turn Europe Orange wants people who are new to the organisation to participate in a Group personal pension towards we have made significant progress in expanding settle in as quickly and efficiently as possible and which easyJet contributes, as well as having the our employer presence across Europe.
In 2009, will continue to invest in the induction process for option to make their own contributions through easyJet continued to grow its employee base in everyones benefit.
Italy, Spain and France, strengthening our position We continue to partner with leading schools such as a truly pan-European air transport network.
Share schemes as Cranfield University and London City University As at 30 September 2009, easyJet employed 6,666 easyJet once again offered all employees the to ensure our managers get high quality support in people 2008: 6,107, based throughout Europe as opportunity to join its popular all-employee share developing both their technical and management illustrated below: plan, easyJet Shares 4 Me.
The plan has won five skills.
We continue to build and maintain good major awards to date, and involves three elements: relationships with well regarded research and United Kingdom 4,473 Save As You Earn SAYE : Buy As You Earn BAYE advisory organisations and many of our senior Switzerland 498 and Free Shares.
Each scheme is Her Majestys managers continue to represent easyJet at Revenue & Customs HMRC approved and France 435 numerous external events hosted by these is open to all employees on the UK payroll.
Spain 432 For employees who are on non-UK payrolls, international schemes have been established with Italy 521 Retention similar terms and conditions to the UK scheme, Germany 307 easyJet targets a sensible balance of retention albeit without the UK tax benefits.
Participation in and attrition, benefiting from our investment in the scheme remains very strong, with over 80% Total 6,666 recruitment and training, combined with continual of eligible staff now taking part in one or more injection of fresh thinking.
Retention rates are of the plans.
influenced by rewards including pay, benefits Equality and diversity and career development opportunities and easyJet is an equal opportunities employer.
We ensure that our employees and applicants do not receive less favourable treatment on the We recognise that it is often beneficial to the basis of their age, colour, creed, disability, full or business to identify and develop talent internally part time status, gender, marital status, nationality together with recruiting externally.
Four years or ethnic origin, race, religion or sexual orientation.
ago, we developed our talent identification and Applications from disabled employees are always succession planning process, which is now fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes embedded in our organisation.
As a result, we are of the applicant concerned.
In the event that more effective at identifying and retaining a pool one of our people becomes disabled every effort of talent internally on which we can draw as key is made to ensure that their employment at roles become vacant or new roles are created.
easyJet continues and training is arranged Consequently, whilst we have experienced higher where appropriate.
than normal turnover among senior managers this year, we have been able to source some replacements from within our talent pool whilst 32 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 q CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Your benefits We work with our employee representatives and Employee engagement In January 2009, we introduced Your Benefits recognise a number of trade unions across Europe.
This enables employees to access easyJet has not lost any days due to industrial easyJet is committed to ensuring high employee programmes and savings which would not be action during the year.
In addition, we have joint satisfaction and engagement levels across its available to them on an individual basis.
The benefit working groups actively engaged in improving business.
Engaged and motivated employees are choices for 2009 included car breakdown cover, productivity in lifestyle related matters for our a critical enabler for us to deliver on all of our childcare vouchers, a cycle to work scheme, crew: activities which are consistent with our brand strategic objectives, for example by identifying ways dental and optical insurance, Give As You Earn, promise and cultural values.
We survey opinion that we can improve our customer proposition, health screening, income protection insurance, directly with all our crew members to take decrease our cost base, and, operate safely at life assurance and private medical insurance.
There temperature checks on how we are progressing all times.
are also lifestyle products which offer discounts and how their needs are changing.
One way in which we achieve these high levels of on a wide range of products and services.
employee advocacy and engagement is our ability Pulse Employees make further savings in tax and to underpin our cultural values in how we work National Insurance for many of these benefits, We monitor and identify ways to improve with our people through informing and consulting through salary sacrifice.
easyJets National Insurance employee satisfaction through our annual Pulse with them.
Our flat management structure enables savings contribute to the financing of the scheme, survey, which all employees are encouraged to us to communicate directly with all our employees.
This year, only 36% of employees A number of communication forums are also in participated in Pulse a disappointing response place: in addition, easyJet is currently establishing rate which we believe may be due to our crews Staff travel a European works council called the easyJet perception that management would be unlikely Discounted staff travel continues to be a popular European Forum.
This representative group to put any suggestions into effect because of the benefit available to all easyJet employees.
provides a communication vehicle for information difficult economic environment.
Of those that did Unlimited staff travel on the entire easyJet network and consultation at a European level for issues that respond to the survey, however, 66% of our people is available for easyJet employees, their dependants affect employees in more than one country.
indicated they are either satisfied or very satisfied, and up to three nominated companions, subject The aim of this forum is threefold: to assist in with high levels of both employer and service to availability.
easyJet employees made 73,461 sharing best practice and communication across advocacy helping us to deliver our customer bookings using staff travel during the year, a total the business, to raise awareness and understanding proposition.
Summarised Pulse results are of 126,562 seats flown.
The most popular route of European-wide issues and how they affect us, shown below: purchased by our employees was the London and to inform us on what we can do to ensure Gatwick to Malaga route.
we remain successful and true to our principle 2009 2008 Variance of low cost.
Response rate 36% 72% 36 ppt Satisfaction 66% 72% 6 ppt Service advocacy 70% 72% 2 ppt Engagement 70% 72% 2 ppt Great place to work 60% 69% 9 ppt 33 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview Business review q Governance Accounts Other information ETS EU Emissions Trading Scheme We were leading proponents for aviations entry into EU ETS.
The executive management team expected that Charitable donations easyJet and the the Pulse results would decline in 2009 because Our charity policy is to recognise and devote of the unprecedented economic uncertainty and efforts to a single charity each year.
This year, our environment significant pressure to reduce costs.
However, chosen charity was The Anthony Nolan Trust.
Environmental issues are important to all of us, easyJet is focused on addressing any concerns and we are committed to ensuring that both easyJet has worked with The Anthony Nolan Trust identified and, to this end, has made a commitment easyJet, and the industry as a whole, play our to help promote the charity, with activities including to make a step change improvement in part in meeting our environmental responsibilities.
onboard collections, a click and give campaign communication processes and resource across the Everyone at easyJet helps deliver on our from our website, fundraising activities initiated by business.
In particular, there is a plan to re-energise environmental commitments, from the cabin our people, a feature in the inflight magazine and the base sponsorship programme around the crew who collect waste for recycling to the senior other public relations activities.
50,000 was network for all members of the easyJet leadership management working with politicians on climate donated to The Anthony Nolan Trust by easyJet team.
This will improve the understanding change and manufacturers to push for next as a corporate donation.
between people based in the network and those generation aircraft.
based in the central office at Hangar 89.
Aviation contributes to climate change.
Political donations The long-term predominant effect is from GEM awards easyJet does not make any donations to any carbon dioxide CO2 emissions, of which political party.
This in not in line with our values During the year, we have continued to promote aviation contributes around 3% of man-made and would be deemed as inappropriate.
our values with our Going the Extra Mile CO2 emissions.
The overriding environmental employee award programme.
These awards are issue is tackling climate change.
designed to recognise employees who go beyond Gifts and gratuities what can rightly be expected of them in their role The target for the industry must be to reduce easyJet employees are sometimes sent gifts from in order to deliver business success.
During the its emissions over time, and we welcome the various companies throughout the year.
In order year, our people have been submitting nominations UK Governments endorsement of this approach to provide clear guidance to employees and avoid linked to our customer proposition and values, when it set industry emissions targets last year.
potential conflicts of interest, we have a strict together with revenue generation and cost The industry faces significant challenges: unlike many policy that prevents any employee accepting gifts reduction recommendations.
other sectors, there are no carbon free solutions over a nominal value of 35.
Every Christmas and on the horizon, and its high profile may put it at less frequently, at various times through the year Successful nominations by customer proposition significant risk of punitive measures.
This is why we easyJet holds a staff raffle of all the gifts that are Low cost Care Convenience have been at the forefront of efforts to put aviation received.
Every employee across Europe is entered into the EU Emissions Trading Scheme ETS, a into the draw and allocated a unique reference 12% 60% 28% framework for reducing EU emissions, and driving number.
Numbers are then drawn at random and the development of next generation aircraft.
Taking winners have the gifts sent directly to their home.
Successful nominations by easyJet value responsible steps is not only the right thing to do, Safety Teamwork Pioneering Passionate Integrity but it also limits the risk of unreasonable measures being imposed on the aviation industry.
We are 20% 36% 5% 23% 16% pleased to report that aviations entry into EU ETS is now definite.
We took a lead role in this work, easyJet strives to ensure that our recognition and we are now working to ensure that easyJet programmes continue to align employee is ready for formal entry in 2012.
Entry into EU ETS contribution with business results and, to that end, carries both risks and opportunities.
However, the award programme will be revised during 2010. we believe that due to our efficiency, we are well placed relative to competitors.
34 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 q CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our focus on efficiency is central to delivering our environmental commitments, and means we are significantly more environmentally efficient than 500 most other airlines.
Over time this will also give Shaping the future: us a competitive advantage, as environmentally Over 500 global inefficient flying will become increasingly companies, including unsustainable.
easyJet, have signed The most significant effect of the emissions of up to the Copenhagen mono-nitrogen oxides NOx from aviation are Communiqu on currently considered to be on local air quality Climate Change.
All of our aircraft deliveries since February 2008 have been fitted with the new CFM56 Tech Insertion engines that reduce NOx emissions by 25% due to better combustion processes almost a quarter of our fleet are now fitted with these more environmentally efficient engines which are also expected to deliver a 1% improvement in CO2 emissions.
At the airports we operate from, we also have a local impact on the environment in the form of noise.
However, our business model ensures that markets dominated by inefficient former The easyJet efficiency advantage the impact of this on the local environment is less state-owned airlines with our more efficient An easyJet passenger is responsible for 22% than for many other carriers.
Our new aircraft are product 80% of our capacity is deployed in fewer emissions than a passenger on a traditional amongst the quietest in the industry and we have established markets.
While we aim to grow these airline to the same destination and using the very few operations at night 2300 hrs 0600 hrs markets through our low fares, when we enter same plane when noise is of the greatest concern.
All of the a market we often substitute for existing less aircraft in our fleet are compliant with the latest q The typical seating configuration of an Airbus efficient services.
The efficiency that we bring to 1 required international noise standards, known as A319 is 124 seats.
Our Airbus A319s fly with a market can even result an overall reduction in Chapter 3, but also with the latest more stringent 156 seats which is 26% more seats than the emissions in absolute terms, even if total passenger standard, known as Chapter 4. normal configuration numbers increase.
q Our average load factor percentage of seats Alongside our operating model we work every Tackling climate change sold in financial year 2009 was 85.5%: the day on improving the efficiency of our flying, and The overwhelming majority of our greenhouse gas average load factor for European airlines in in the last year implemented a number of fuel 2 emissions come from flying we estimate less than 2009 was 68.0% saving initiatives see page 15 for more detail.
1% of our emissions are non-flying related, and it is Finally, by pushing for more efficient airspace use, q Therefore, we sell on average 133 seats per these emissions which we report on and focus our such as Continuous Decent Approaches, we are flight: a typical European airline would sell efforts on reducing.
We are working to be as demanding that our service providers match 84 seats per flight efficient as possible, in particular by flying new, our level of commitment.
highly efficient aircraft, using our aircraft as q Each of our Airbus A319s therefore Taking these together we have set a target efficiently as possible, continually focusing on potentially carries 58% more passengers to reduce our CO2 emissions per passenger reducing the emissions from each flight and per flight than the European norm Km by 3% by 2011. working to improve the efficiency of the airspace q Even taking the additional fuel burn into we fly in.
Due to this, we are the most efficient account for the greater number of passengers, airline on a significant majority of the routes we fly.
g CO2 passenger Km we estimate that we burn 22% less fuel than Our policy is to expand our fleet through the the typical European airline operating an 3.3 % acquisition of the latest technology aircraft, as A319 on the same route these are more fuel efficient than older models.
Our average fleet age is 3.5 years, broadly flat Note 2: Source: AEA for JanuaryAugust 2009. compared to last year.
We also use these aircraft as efficiently as possible, by maximising load factors and seating density see The easyJet efficiency advantage, right.
All aspects of our business model are designed around safety and efficiency.
This focus on efficiency minimises the environmental impact of each passenger flight.
Our network development has generally focused on substituting services in 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 116.20 112.50 106.90 110.00 104.50 98.80 95.70 95.56 90.31 87.30 35 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview Business review q Governance Accounts Other information Alongside this we are involved in a range of bodies, Reducing our emissions easyJet leads the way including the Sustainable Aviation group in the UK.
During the year, efficiency improvements have in shaping a greener future We also answered the Carbon Disclosure Project led to a significant reduction in emissions intensity.
easyJet believes that emissions from aviation will Greenhouse Gas Emissions Questionnaire as part In particular: need to fall in the long-term, but that achieving this of the latest Carbon Disclosure Project CDP7.
will require the industry and governments to work q Total emissions from our operations continue Crucially, we believe it is important that consumers together.
It will require step changes in efficiency, to grow at a slower rate than the total RPKs are given full and accurate information on the through new technologies, and the right policies flown, indicating improving environmental carbon impact of their flight.
We have provided a from governments.
efficiency carbon calculator on our website, and consumers We continue to actively engage with both airframe q Total CO2 emissions from operations under are informed of the emissions they are responsible and engine manufacturers in pursuit of this vision our control grew by 2.5% from 4.3 million for as they book and are given the opportunity to by 2017, further developing the vision we outlined tonnes to 4.4 million tonnes, less than the offset the carbon emissions of their flights as part in 2007 the easyJet ecoJet.
We have set out a 6.0% increase in RPKs of the booking process.
Our offset scheme only platform for an aircraft that is 25% quieter, emitting uses United Nations certified carbon credits.
q CO2 emissions per booked passenger trip fell 50% less CO2 and 75% less NOx per passenger by 0.9% from 98.6 Kg per passenger flight to Km than todays aircraft.
97.7 Kg per passenger flight, despite the 2.6% We support efforts to include emissions from increase in average sector length international transport into a post-Kyoto climate q Average CO2 emissions from our flights change agreement, and along with the business reduced by 3.3% from 90.3 g CO2 per leaders of over 500 global companies, we have passenger kilometre to 87.3 g CO2 per signed the Copenhagen Communiqu on Climate passenger kilometre Change.
We are committed to working with policy makers across Europe to help shape future policies.
During the last nine years our emissions of CO2 In addition to our work on ETS, we are working to per passenger kilometre have reduced by 25%.
improve the efficiency of airspace and are involved in the SESAR Single European Sky ATM Research programme, part of the implementation of the EUs Single European Sky SES, which aims to reduce emissions by at least 10% across Europe.
22% more efficient: We estimate that we burn 22% less fuel than some of our competitors on the same route.
