BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility encompasses a broad range of philosophies, activities and standards.
Filtrona considers the issues that are material to its business and seeks to respond to them in a manner appropriate to the interests of all its stakeholders.
Filtrona recognises the significance and importance of pRIORItIES GOaLS being a responsible corporate citizen in the workplace, marketplace, environment and community.
The Companys Reduce the impact of carbon emissions global operations extend across Europe, Asia and the and secure continuous improvement in Americas and the Company fulfils its responsibility to record, environmental performance monitor and make publicly available, the potential impact of its activities.
In pursuing its corporate strategy, Filtronas aim is to adopt business practices that are economically, socially and environmentally sustainable and to promote these to its stakeholders in order to strengthen relationships, share knowledge and encourage best practice.
In support of its business plans to drive long-term profitable growth, Filtronas corporate responsibility initiatives seek to maintain the support of its employees, customers and suppliers and assist in the sustainability of the environment and communities within which its international operations are conducted.
The Companys risk management processes include consideration of the potential impact of corporate responsibility issues on Filtronas performance.
The Companys investment decisions take into account Secure continuous improvement appropriate evaluations of the potential consequences for its in health and safety employees, customers and suppliers and the environment.
Filtrona Values which are set out on page 42 of this Report help establish the corporate responsibility framework within which the Company operates.
These Values form the core of the Companys adoption of the highest standards of business ethics and integrity that underpin its relationships with both internal and external stakeholders.
Filtrona believes that the responsible winning culture, developed with the adoption of these Values and the effective management of environmental and social performance, at each of its international sites, helps the delivery of the Companys strategic priorities.
Secure continuous improvement Filtrona is listed in the FTSE4Good Index which is designed in community relationships to measure the performance of companies striving to meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards and to facilitate investment in those companies where corporate responsibility issues are an influencing factor in an investors decision-making process.
The FTSE4Good Committee annually reviews the list for continual compliance with the criteria as laid down by the Committee.
Provide effective management of corporate responsibility issues and Workplace ensure compliance with Values Health and safety Filtronas overriding commitment in the workplace is to the and policies and procedures health, safety and welfare of its employees and all those who visit the Companys operations.
The Board provides health and safety leadership and the Chief Executive has primary responsibility for setting the overriding health and safety objectives within which the detailed policies operate and for reviewing progress against those objectives.
38 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS cORpORatE FINaNcIaL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNaNcE StatEMENtS pRIORItIES GOaLS HOW It IS MaNaGEd acHIEVEd pRIORItIES INItIatIVES ` Carbon emission targets are set at each ` Achieve the Carbon Trust standard for all operational location UK businesses ` ` Comply with UK Carbon Reduction Reduce carbon emissions, prevent pollution and improve manufacturing efficiency Commitment initiatives ` implement initiatives to reduce waste and ` Reduce carbon emissions by 4% increase recycling ` Maximise the efficiency of the use of ` Explore the use of energy-saving technology natural resources in manufacturing ` Continual environmental improvement to ` Extend the span and quality of data collection ensure retention of accreditations ` Develop new techniques with suppliers and customers ` Secure accreditation for newly acquired site and Jarrow for environmentally friendly products ` Gain iSO14001 accreditation ` Secure OHSAS 18001 accreditation at principal ` Establish group standards for non-manufacturing sites manufacturing sites ` Appoint divisional HSE co-ordinators to support the ` Establish group standards for improvements Group HSE manager and results ` Promote group safety campaign Hand in Hand ` Extend the data collection and workplace investigations ` Continue to monitor incident data and issue to include near misses safety alerts ` Encourage employee initiatives to reinforce company training ` work to minimise any disruption from the ` Encourage local management to support Groups operation local communities ` work to maximise the positive impact of the ` work with customers and suppliers Groups activities ` Promote Filtrona values ` Develop training ` Ensure employee awareness of the Group ` Monitor performance whistleblowing policy ` improve awareness and compliance ` Maintain and respect Code of Business Ethics policy ` Promote employee awareness and engagement ` Facilitate the whistleblowing policy 39 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate Responsibility Filtronas employees are a vital resource in the pursuit of operational excellence and the provision of quality products and service to its customers.
The skills and expertise of Filtronas employees drive the innovation which enables the Company to provide added value to its customers.
The Company has designed procedures and developed a Safety Management Systems OHSAS 18001 for all of its culture which aims for continuous improvement with the principal manufacturing sites, excluding Jarrow and the sharing of best practice in all areas of health and safety, recently acquired site of Lendell, which has been given, in in addition to strict compliance with applicable laws and accordance with Filtrona policy, a period of two years to reach regulations.
The degree of autonomy afforded to local the required standard.
management allows them to set the agenda best suited to the requirements of individual businesses, but subject always During 2010, the FHSEC is implementing a safety campaign to the proper implementation of the core health and safety across the Group, focused on awareness to, and reduction policies and principles which Filtrona has adopted.
This has been identified as a key area for and safety considerations form an integral part of capital improving safety.
This campaign aims to eliminate lost time expenditure proposals, with businesses required to ensure accidents resulting from hand injuries and to promote a focused that the risks of working with new equipment, substances behavioural approach to hazard reduction.
or processes are properly evaluated and mitigated prior to approval and implementation.
Details of the Companys health and safety performance for 2009 and subsequent progress throughout 2010 can be Ongoing initiatives are designed to monitor, assess and drive viewed on page 15 and at the Companys website improved health and safety performance.
are carried out on all circumstances that may have resulted in injury or near miss incidents.
Improved reporting of near The Company has implemented Filtrona Group Safety Awards miss incidents has enhanced the Companys ability to learn which rewards sites with gold, silver or bronze status on from potentially hazardous conditions and prevent their the basis of annual performance assessed against stringent reoccurrence or escalation into more serious incidents.
criteria set by the FHSEC.
There are strict criteria governing Businesses undertake extensive training programmes which these awards, based upon: achieving a high Filtrona audit are particularly focused on the key, or most frequent, risks in score: OHSAS standard accreditation: regular health and safety their operations.
Training in risk assessment and root-cause meetings: availability of suitably trained employees on site: and analysis features strongly in the Companys health and safety achieving accident reduction targets.
raised in 2009 and are subject to continual review.
Despite the raising of performance criteria for 2009, all sites have risen to The Group-wide intranet based management reporting the challenge resulting in seven gold awards 2008: two, 11 system facilitates an extensive live programme of active silver awards 2008: six and one bronze awards 2008: six.
monitoring that measures in detail exactly how successful The achievements in 2009, compared to 2008, is evidence of the Company is in managing the safety of its workplaces at the health and safety commitment and progress being made individual site level.
The Company believes that the elevated internationally across Filtrona businesses.
visibility of relevant performance statistics provided by the system maintains the fundamental focus of management on The Filtrona Chief Executives Special Award for Health all health and safety issues.
and Safety is made to the division or site which has shown the most successful or innovative safety communication The Filtrona Health, Safety and Environmental Council campaign or initiative that best meets the following criteria: the FHSEC is an international group which includes senior operating management from all divisions.
The Demonstrates a significant impact on work methods FHSEC is responsible for reviewing the health, safety and or behaviours resulting in improvements to employee environmental performance, developing appropriate perception of health and safety standards within a site standards and procedures and overseeing the Companys Involves the majority of employees on the site internal health, safety and environmental auditing process.
Utilises novel or inter-active media or methods in its propagation The Company manages occupational health by identifying key risk activities, undertaking health assessments and, where In 2009, the award was won by Porous Technologies.
Further appropriate, implementing health surveillance programmes.
details can be found in the divisional operational review on The Company has achieved the Occupational Health and page 23.
40 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS cORpORatE FINaNcIaL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNaNcE StatEMENtS Employees to Filtronas local businesses have been established to Filtronas employees are a vital resource in the pursuit of allow employees to voice their views on how the Company operational excellence and the provision of quality products should fulfil the demands of all its local and international and service to its customers.
The skills and expertise of stakeholders.
The Companys European Information and Filtronas employees drive the innovation which enables the Consultation Forum facilitates the discussion of issues across Company to provide added value to its customers, enhance all of its operations in the European Union.
supply chain logistics with its suppliers and reduce the environmental impact of its operations.
The Company recognises the importance of, and the benefits to be derived from, diversity across its global operations and The Group regularly reviews its organisational structure to is committed to offering equal opportunities to all people ensure that the business has the necessary personnel to without discrimination of any form.
Filtrona remunerates fairly deliver its strategic priorities.
The Group was forced to make with respect to skills, performance and local market conditions.
a number of redundancies due to the economic recession By adhering to the Filtrona Values, the Company conducts experienced globally.
This was a difficult process, but one that its business in a manner designed to ensure individuals are was handled with professionalism both by the staff affected treated equally and fairly and that all employment, training and and the Human Resources team.
Where possible, employees career development decisions are made on job-based criteria.
were internally deployed but, if appropriate, assistance was Recruitment procedures avoid the employment of underage given in finding work outside the Group.
Harassment in any form is not tolerated in the workplace.
Filtrona is guided by its aim to deliver a competitive and fair The Company gives full and fair consideration to employment employment environment and the opportunity to develop applications by disabled persons.
In the event of employees and advance employees, subject to personal performance becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that the and business opportunity.
Filtrona encourages its employees training, career development and promotion opportunities to develop and manage their own careers.
It facilitates this enjoyed by disabled persons are as far as possible identical to by providing relevant job training and, where appropriate, that of other non-disabled employees.
aiming to fill vacancies with existing staff where employees are suitably qualified and experienced.
Throughout its global activities Filtrona supports human rights as set down by the UN Declaration and its applicable Filtronas commitment to the growth of its employees International Labour Organisation conventions.
Operations as individuals, challenging them to fulfil their potential based in India, Indonesia, Jordan, Thailand and Venezuela through investment in training and personal development, is are also accredited to SA8000 which details fundamental fundamental to the recruitment, motivation and retention of principles of human rights.
people with the talent and energy to drive Filtronas growth as a profitable business.
Marketplace Filtronas reputation with its customers and suppliers and Filtronas training programmes are designed to secure within the communities where it operates is based not only continuous improvement, with the Companys businesses on the quality of its performance, but also on the integrity benefiting from the increase in the capabilities of its in its management of the workplace and the environment employees.
Filtrona seeks to ensure that the training and its ethical and responsible conduct in the marketplace.
opportunities are extended beyond the development The development and continuation of long-term business of skills focused on fulfilling a particular role within the relationships reflects the trust placed in the Company and current operations.
such commitments are an important component in the ongoing success of the Company.
Filtrona is committed to improving employee engagement and learning more about staffs needs.
Filtrona believes Filtronas Code of Business Ethics policy is applicable to it is a good employer, but is aware of the need to listen to all its businesses around the world.
The policy details the employees in order to ascertain how it can become an even standards expected by Filtrona in the conduct of its business better place to work.
In addition, to the impact of the training and its relationships with third parties, including free and fair and development programmes, employee engagement is competition, the prohibition of bribery and political donations enhanced by the communication practices which have been and provides general guidance on honest and fair dealings adopted across the businesses.
with suppliers, customers and local and national authorities.
Filtrona values highly the commitment of its employees and Filtrona is committed to working with its suppliers to recognises the importance of communication to good working ensure the welfare of workers and employment conditions relationships and practices.
The Company seeks to ensure within its supply chain meet or exceed internationally that employees are informed on matters relating to their recognised standards.
employment and on financial and economic factors affecting the businesses.
This is achieved through management Environment briefings, internal announcements, the Filtrona website Filtrona applies a structured approach to minimising its and by the distribution of public announcements.
Various environmental impact by: initiatives, including the use of regular newsletters detailing progress and key news across the divisions, focus on the Implementing and maintaining formal environmental dissemination of important information and messages to systems accredited to ISO14001 on a global basis employees.
The Company seeks feedback and ideas from Measuring consumption and emissions, and setting targets employees to improve its operations, and forums appropriate to improve performance 41 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate Responsibility OUR StyLE Filtrona Values ` we will be open, honest and enthusiastic, celebrating A sound basis for the successful our successes and learning from our experiences delivery of long-term value for ` we will be passionate in our pursuit of excellence and dedicate ourselves to the very best of quality Filtrona shareholders.
in everything we do ` we will work as a team, valuing everyones contribution and minimising bureaucracy ` we will treat each other in a consistent and fair manner Carrying out environmental impact assessments and on divisional objectives set in accordance with Filtronas developing site management plans environmental policy.
Copies of the policy can be found on the Providing training to employees and engaging with Companys website www.
customers and suppliers to raise environmental awareness Providing facilities to segregate and reuse or recycle waste The Company continues to improve data collection on all environmental aspects and aims to set realistic In 2009, Filtrona has further committed to reducing its control targets.
environmental impact and is actively managing responses to the challenges that the UK Governments latest targets Filtrona uses a variety of indicators relevant to each of the present to its business, as well as complying with international operating divisions to monitor environmental performance, environmental legislation.
but the following core impacts are identified for the Group as a whole: With the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC legislation due to become effective in April 2010, Filtrona is on target to have Greenhouse gas emission from energy use, including the Carbon Trust Standard applied at its UK manufacturing sites.
electricity, natural gas, heating fuel, transport and travel This standard not only ensures commitment to improved carbon Use of resources including water footprint, but also financially rewards participating organisations.
Generation and disposal of waste CRC is designed to drive energy efficiency and carbon reduction by giving organisations a financial incentive through emissions Filtrona has identified that climate change may be the single trading, combined with reputational incentives through most important environmental constraint impacting on the publishing organisations performance in a league table.
Filtrona is future of its businesses and continues to closely monitor the applying the principles of the Carbon Trust Standard to its global environmental impact of its operations and recognises that a operations and will be well placed to address future anticipated carbon tariff can be assigned to energy used in a wide range legislative changes in its operating regions.
of activities associated with its operations.
The management of these environmental impacts is focused on methodologies To ensure that Filtrona is continuously improving its to reduce that impact, and the development of initiatives understanding of its environmental impact and how to secure both economic and environmental benefits and it can improve its global environmental performance, sustainability.
Increased reporting procedures reinforce the focus continues to be placed on collating and analysing a accountability of the businesses for the consequences of their wide cross-section of environmental data.
The strategic operations on the environment.
environmental focus for Filtrona is to reduce its environmental impact through a decrease in emissions, preventing pollution Filtrona is continually seeking to ensure reduction in the and improving efficiency in the use of resources including use of natural resources and has established research energy, water, packaging and other raw materials.
& development facilities in the UK, Asia and the US to investigate the use of renewable resources and recyclable Filtronas ongoing challenge is to determine how, through bio-degradable versions of products.
current initiatives and current technology, and with further 2008 2009 % change projects and future innovation, it can achieve this within 1 a realistic financial framework and appropriate timeframe Carbon emissions 164 144 12% in a manner relevant to, and meaningful in the context of, 2 Waste 1,140 836 26% the Companys overall strategic priorities and financial 3 3 3 Water 474m 350m 26% performance.
1 Per million of group revenue Given the diversity of Filtronas global operations, local 2 Recycled tonnes of production waste management drive environmental performance based 3 Measured per revenue 42 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS cORpORatE FINaNcIaL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNaNcE StatEMENtS OUR RESpONSIBILItIES OUR GOaLS ` we will share our company strategy and ensure we ` we will strive to delight our customers and hold understand the part we play in it the respect of our suppliers ` we will all have clear goals, the necessary resources ` we will work together to grow our business for and freedoms to achieve them, and honest assessment the benefit of our stakeholders of our performance ` we will always conduct ourselves with integrity and respect for our fellows and for our environment ` we will aim to advance our knowledge, skills and professionalism in all we do ` we will do our best and accept accountability for our actions Filtrona seeks to ensure good environmental practice at all projects or campaigns that further that objective.
The following its locations and in its operational processes and investment criteria are taken into consideration: decisions.
Filtronas principal manufacturing sites are ISO 14001 accredited and all of the Companys European reductions in emissions businesses comply with EU and domestic waste management recycling of waste product regulations.
A range of initiatives is being undertaken to waste reduction drive the efficiency of Filtronas energy consumption and the energy efficiency Company has developed bespoke software to monitor the efficient use of raw material effect of such projects, as well as identifying potential future use of biodegradable materials opportunities for further improvements.
Landfill is being reduced as local initiatives seek to recycle waste materials For 2009, the Group Environmental Award was won by the or explore alternative uses with third parties.
Details of the initiatives introduced can be found within the divisional operational Due to the scale of Filtronas global operations, the use of review on page 27. energy has both environmental and commercial importance.
Where possible, and financially viable, energy from renewable community resources is utilised to limit environmental impact, commercial Filtronas commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen risk and costs.
extends through to the support for appropriate non-political and non-sectarian projects across a range of organisations and Business travel made by Filtrona employees is not considered charities.
Regardless of regional or national boundaries, the to have a major environmental impact.
However, because of a Company aims to support the creation of prosperous, educated, growing international presence, the Company has invested in sustainable and healthy communities in the countries and video conferencing facilities to connect key sites, both in the cultures within which it operates.
In its attempts to bring benefits UK and overseas.
back to those communities whose support provides a basis for Filtronas success, the Company has focused on education and Filtrona actively engages with its employees, customers, and enterprise, health and welfare and the environment.
The Groups suppliers to exploit opportunities offered by new technologies, support for the communities it operates in is driven at a local improved process operations and new materials to further rather than a corporate level.
The approach, adopted across reduce environmental impact and improve profitability.
the globe, is to support and enhance employees efforts in their communities through the application of the Groups resources.
Supplier standards are subject to review by the Company In pursuit of its aims within the community, the Company has employees who audit their environmental credentials.
developed targeted programmes for local communities, often involving commercial sponsorship and significant employee Filtrona supports the activities of the Carbon Trust and, during engagement through direct involvement or secondment.
2009, participated in the 7th annual Carbon Disclosure Project CDP environmental impact survey.
It is the Companys applying Filtronas principles intention to participate in the CDP survey during 2010.
The The Chief Executive is the Director with primary responsibility Company also supports the FTSE4Good Index and is pleased for the implementation and integration of Filtronas Corporate to maintain its listing in the index through the recognition Responsibility across the Company.
The Director of Group Human of its global environmental achievements, corporate Resources, supported by the Company Secretary & General responsibility initiatives and health and safety efforts.
Counsel, is responsible for co-ordinating the operation of the detailed policies on human resources, health and safety, ethics The FHSEC provides an opportunity to share best environmental and the environment which support Filtronas commitment to practices and waste minimisation initiatives across all the Group its Corporate Responsibility principles.
Further details of those sites.
Filtrona is committed to being a good corporate citizen, policies can be viewed via the Corporate Responsibility page on respecting the environment and seeking practical ways to lessen the Companys website at www.
The Group Environmental Award has been designed to give enhanced recognition to those sites with 43 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I
