ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 36 Business Review Sustainability Review Introduction At ENRC, sustainability is about managing the total impact of the business for the long term.
We aim to grow our business while maintaining our commitment to respecting the environment, providing safe and healthy workplaces and making a positive contribution to the societies where we operate.
As ENRC grows, sustainability is a pathway that enables us to transform our business and build true competitive advantage.
We recognise that successful businesses of tomorrow are addressing key sustainability challenges today, from resource efficiency to community health.
Such vision protects our business going forward, and allows us to contribute to stronger economies and communities in the emerging markets where we operate.
Investment in sustainability initiatives brings long-term benefits including improved management of risk, efficiencies in operating costs, and attracting and retaining the best employees.
Our five key Sustainable Development SD priorities are: To consume less to produce more: To integrate SD into investment decision-making: To make reputation and brand one of the Groups principal assets: To build key stakeholder relationships in all countries in which we operate: and To create leadership and embed the behaviours of SD values across the Group.
ENRC has committed to improving sustainability performance over the long term.
We already operate to the standards consistent with best practice in Kazakhstan, and as we develop our international presence, we strive to achieve best practice international standards across our operations, including safety, health and environment.
The Group reports SD performance in compliance with local legislation and international best practice.
In 2009 we continued to develop a transparent reporting system based on the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Metals and Mining Supplement and the ICMM SD Framework.
Internal reporting in compliance with GRI environmental indicators expanded by 60% in 2009.
We plan to issue SD reporting which adopts GRI indicators and is subject to external assurance in 2011.
Working with stakeholders Fortunately we are not alone in meeting the challenges of sustainable development.
In all regions where we operate ENRC is committed to working in partnership with local government, public NGOs and community representatives.
Our flexibility and ability to engage with diverse stakeholders creates competitive advantage and brings benefits to society.
We plan to develop a more organised approach to stakeholder engagement.
For several years ENRC has engaged with local and international SD initiatives.
We were the first Kazakhstani company to sign up to the UN Global Compact and have joined the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative.
In 2003 the Group became a founder member of the Kazakhstan Business Council for Sustainable Development KBCSD, a regional partner of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development WBCSD.
Our extensive experience in working with governments focuses on supporting the development of a strong legal framework and sharing industry best practice with our partners.
For example, through membership of the International Chromium Development Association ICDA, we are able to bring international expertise and ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 37 skills to the environment of Kazakhstan.
In recognition of our The Committees work is supported by the HSES Working Group contribution to state development, ENRCs Kazakhstan ferroalloys which comprises the Divisional Heads of Environment, Health and business was awarded Best Industrial Enterprise in 2009.
Safety, Human Resources and Social Policy.
The Working Group has responsibility for monitoring HSES programme implementation, ENRCs collaboration with local government and administrations in changing regulatory requirements, the development of action plans Kazakhstan is a model of successful public-private partnership and proposals for operational improvements.
In 2009 we renewed our cooperation memoranda with regional governments aimed at improving the welfare of the In 2009 sustainability risk management was incorporated into the community.
Groups central risk management governance structure.
The focus is to establish procedures to effectively manage SD risks at the In our engagement with all stakeholders, including government, we divisional level.
are committed to transparency and respecting human rights.
In 2009 ENRC was placed second in the Standard & Poors Kazakhstan The HSES Committee has approved several policies and procedures Corporate Transparency Index.
to set controls for material SD risks.
In 2009 we developed and approved a new Environmental Strategy and launched a new Safety In 2009 we implemented a revised procurement policy, purchasing Improvement Programme.
A Human Resource Management Policy, policy and procedure framework, which aims to create a more a Succession Planning Policy and a Climate Change Policy were transparent purchasing policy for our business partners and also developed and implementation is currently in progress.
Our goals for 2010 are to: Governance The Group believes it is important to have a high standard of Set formal SD functions and accountability at divisional level: governance with clear line-of-sight objectives in order to achieve its Develop sound data and reporting practice in line with SD strategy.
We are implementing gradual changes in our international best practice: governance system to effectively manage the sustainability agenda.
Strengthen the SD management team with professionals with SD We are working to build an integrated SD management system that expertise: provides a unified approach, while also taking into account specific Incorporate new SD site management system into overall aspects at each of our sites across Kazakhstan, Russia, China, corporate governance system: and Brazil and Africa.
Corporate safety and environmental standards are Integrate sustainability governance into acquisition process by a non-negotiable part of the integration process.
identifying environmental, social and governance risks ahead of investments in new assets.
The Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability HSES Committee of the Board of Directors, which includes the Chairman Health and Safety and CEO, is responsible for sustainability strategy and performance.
Safety In 2009 the Committee met twice, and focused on: Safety has continued to be a key area of focus during 2009.
ENRC has adopted a vision of zero injuries, based on the belief that all Safety management and performance, including a new Safety injuries are preventable.
We continually seek new safety Improvement Programme.
improvement opportunities to enable us to fulfil our ambitious safety New Environmental Strategy for 20102012. policy, and to set a sustainable safety system integrating all HSES Risks and Action Plans.
company operations in achieving mutual goals.
Progress in the System of Governance Board of Directors Health, Safety, Executive Committee Environment and Sustainability HSES Committee HSES Working Group External Parties 2009 Divisional Executive Governmental 2010 Environment Departments Health & Safety Divisional Management Human Resource Industry Consortia Enterprise Management Community International Initiatives Central Risk Function 2009 CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 38 Business Review Sustainability Review continued Safety is a priority to the business and a Key Performance Indicator site through implementation of effective safety tools such as our as detailed on page 12.
As it is a business priority key management Fifteen Corporate Safety Standards, behavioural audits and our are compensated on safety performance.
Regrettably, there were 12 fatal accidents at ENRC sites during 2009 Health 2008: 9.
We have investigated each of these incidents, learned A key aspect of our safety management system is a focus on injury lessons and implemented changes to how we operate.
ENRC and illness prevention, to keep employees safe and healthy in the remains committed to reducing to zero the number of lives lost at workplace.
In addition, for many years ENRC has provided ENRC operations.
employees with health and medical programmes on a voluntary basis, and we believe the programmes we operate are amongst best Safety performance practice in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Our health care provision includes disease prevention centres as well as sporting and other 2009 2008 recreational facilities.
1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTFIR 0.63 0.68 Fatal accidents 12 9 In Kazakhstan we have worked closely with local communities to 1 Fatal Injury Frequency Rate FIFR 0.12 0.08 develop an effective HIV AIDS programme based on preventative 1 Measured per million hours worked.
care, detection, support and treatment.
Analysis of the causes of fatal accidents showed the following: Looking ahead Goals for occupational health improvement in 2010 will include: Fatal accidents 2009 2008 Falling 2 3 Evaluation of achievements to date of health and medical Moving machinery 4 3 programmes.
Electric current 2 2 Development of a new Corporate Health Management Roadmap.
Falling objects 2 1 Drawing on our experience in Kazakhstan, and building on Blasting operations 1 0 existing local programmes, to deliver locally relevant health care Road accidents 1 0 to our new employees in regions of Africa.
ENRCs Board and top management continue to champion the Social Policy strategic safety project initiated in 2008 in partnership with DuPont.
The Group has a solid reputation in the Republic of Kazakhstan for Following an initial full safety management evaluation, we introduced being a socially orientated and responsible business.
It works new commitments and will develop new safety management closely with the Kazakhstani Government to implement systems.
In 2009 we started a pilot project at Kazchrome, which governmental agreements, programmes and initiatives related to aims to establish a culture of safe working, including developing a implementing the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan On Social formal safety performance appraisal system with specific, Partnership.
measureable objectives for all managers.
Based on learning from the pilot, we will start to roll out a new corporate safety programme Our Whistle Blowing Policy, adopted in 2007, aims to provide early across the Groups operational sites in 2010.
It is anticipated that it indications of possible corruption.
will take three more years to complete full implementation.
We recognise the importance of respecting and protecting human In 2009 ENRC implemented an internal corporate accident rights, which becomes more challenging as we move into diverse investigation procedure.
This led to the introduction of a special locations.
Open dialogue with local communities, employment accident investigation team consisting of safety professionals and procedures, preventing discrimination all these will contribute technical experts.
Independent corporate investigation enables us to significantly to our addressing human rights issue in the long term.
find the root causes of each accident, to develop efficient noncompromising preventative measures and to monitor action taken.
The social policy focuses on two key areas: Employees and We believe these new procedures will support improvements in Communities.
prevention and reoccurrence of accidents.
Employees ENRC has always believed in equal safety standards for all our sites, ENRC is one of the largest employers in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
regardless of the country or the nature of the operations there.
This During 2009 the Group employed an average of 70,320 employees.
approach unites ENRC at operational and corporate levels.
As a consequence, our success as a Group depends significantly on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key management and Looking ahead employees and this is an area of focus for senior management.
Goals for safety in 2010 will include: As part of the development of a corporate culture throughout Ongoing roll out of the new safety management system across the organisation, members of senior management regularly visit the Group.
the Republic of Kazakhstan to meet with employees at the Involving employees and contractors to share responsibility for operational sites.
safety based on honesty, openness and mutual trust.
Development of safety performance appraisal systems and The Group benefits from good labour relations and has not implementation of developed and approved corporate safety experienced any material strikes or stoppages at any of its operating standards.
Further develop reporting procedures to align against sites since it acquired its operating assets.
The majority of our international norms.
employees in the Republic of Kazakhstan are members of trade Implementing the ENRC safety vision at our newly acquired unions and the Group makes significant efforts to engage and work operations in Africa.
Our first step should be to ensure with the trade unions.
As a result, the Group has well-balanced standardised reporting and that local legal standards are being industrial agreements and these serve as a basis for the collective met.
Our strategy will be to use progressive improvement at each agreements each Group company has signed with employees.
