Business review Corporate responsibility Experians aim is to make the business more sustainable from a social, ethical and environmental SEE perspective.
The Group developed a framework of six key responsibilities in 2007 and a core strategy followed in 2008, strongly linked to elements of the wider business strategy.
Our six responsibilities Data Use and protect data properly, respecting all the relevant laws, Marketplace helping evolve industry guidelines and new legislation, and ensuring a culture of compliance with the highest standards of integrity.
Products and services Create social and economic benefit through our products, services and capabilities, balancing commercial benefit with consumers rights and needs.
Consumers Inform and empower consumers, and ensure that those who interact directly with our company receive fair and honest treatment.
Being a good employer Be a good employer to all, establishing a set of expected Workplace behaviours and values, aiming to ensure that everyone working for us is treated fairly and given the maximum opportunity to fulfil their potential, and ensuring that all our workplaces are safe and healthy.
Minimising impacts on the Minimise as far as possible the environmental impacts Environment environment associated with our business and enable employee participation, with a particular concentration on the reduction of energy use and its effect on global warming.
Playing an active part in communities Play an active part in social and economic regeneration in our Community communities, be they local, national or global.
Big Ideas: Use CR to provide a catalyst Strategy for entrepreneurial big ideas: products The CR strategy has three strands: or services that can have a major social or environmental impact.
Business as usual: Further embed CR principles into normal business The following provides a review of processes, taking account of the progress against both strategic potential social benefits and risks, and objectives and the six specific the impact on climate change.
It also demonstrates how consideration of social, ethical and Focusing the community programme: environmental issues is contributing Create a focused approach for to key resources and core business major projects, funded with central goals.
It shows the direction Experians monies, but retain local flexibility for corporate responsibility programme is regional funds to encourage employee taking and gives an insight into the CR engagement.
vision and strategy for the year ending March 2010.
40 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 Corporate responsibility 44 72 73 148 The Group considers its marketplace responsibilities to be particularly material Experians particular focus Progress in 2009 Experians framework for reporting follows the well-recognised pattern Objective Status of responsibilities to the marketplace, Data further embed CR in data evaluation processes and Achieved workplace, environment and record and report developments through the year community.
The Group considers its marketplace responsibilities to be Products and services further embed CR in product Achieved particularly material and so includes development processes and ensure PR announcements within these its consideration of always consider consumer benefits consumers, its responsibility to develop products and services with a strong Consumers create some global standards for reporting Partly achieved social benefit and, most importantly, consumer satisfaction consistently its good stewardship of data.
Being a good employer is vital since people Workplace gain the explicit endorsement of HR leaders to the Partly achieved are a key resource and this is linked UN Global Compact to good relationships with local communities.
Strong environmental Environment gather data from all major locations and put Achieved management is seen as an essential a system in place to gather data and report developments means of controlling cost and engaging through the year employees, so is increasingly factored into decisions.
Community create a global standard Community Involvement Achieved policy and increase levels of employee volunteering The table here shows what the Group set out to achieve this year in each key area of responsibility and the progress made.
Achieving this is a lengthy process, Strategic progress in CR and but during the year there were specific links with business strategy achievements against the goals set for This is only the second full year of each strand of the strategy.
development for the CR programme at Experian, but the aim is for it to become second nature in the way the Group conducts business, considering the longer-term nature of its decisions and its impact on society and the environment.
Business as usual - embedding CR Objective Achievements Embedding considerations of SEE Further evolve Regional teams established in two new regions, risks into standard processes supports understanding of CR with all regions now engaged Experians investment in its key across the Group Stakeholder engagement with clients, suppliers, resources, specifically and embed CR into employees and key external agencies data resources and the technology to decision-making Where not already captured, SEE risks are being manage them: processes built into risk registers people and their continued loyalty.
Experian Annual Report 2009 41 41 Business review Corporate responsibility continued Focusing the community programme Objective Achievements Focusing the centrally-funded Ensure appropriate 100% of central budget utilised community programme on financial proposals resonate All regions took up allocated funds education and entrepreneurship with the strategic focus Over 75% of central budget available for supports business goals, provides and fully utilise the community projects spent on projects long-term benefits for consumers and funds available with a focus on financial education and enables employees to see Experians entrepreneurship contribution making an impact.
Big Ideas - supporting social and Objective Achievements environmental innovation Experians expertise is in providing Support the process Pipeline discussions held unique insight and improving decision of discussions at a Two new projects were identified involving making.
Using these talents in a social regional level to promote products from the UKs public sector business and environmental capacity is something the development of the the Group is encouraging through its Big Big Ideas pipeline Ideas programme, which in turn supports innovation and growth in new markets.
CR contributing to the wider There is strong commitment from The fund Experian provides for Big business goals regional management: in EMEA the Ideas through its central CR budget Experians vision of becoming a senior management team have all been helps promote innovation to address necessary part of every major consumer requested to include a CR-focused social concerns either by creating economy in the world necessitates objective in their personal goals for a new product or using a current growth and, in the economic climate the next fiscal year.
In Asia Pacific CR product in a new way.
Last year the fund of the last two years, sustainability is has recently been used as a subject for supported an innovative development in being seen as an important element in discussion with employees across the microfinance and this year funds were the profitability of this growth.
region and the senior management have allocated to the development of two supported a bid for central funds for a products in new fields.
One will support Growth brings risks as well as community project in China.
companies wanting to understand their opportunities and the CR agenda position on employee diversity and plan addresses these from a SEE A further element of Experians growth actions to address any imbalance.
The perspective, helping Experian to strategy is to: Innovate to stay ahead other will provide a means of engaging consider the longer term and the by promoting its culture of innovation employees in managing their own reaction of society to its decisions.
and investing in new data sources and carbon footprint.
It is intended that both enhanced analytics.
In the last two years, Experians aim has been to: Increase global reach by expanding its global network and US$ extending its existing capabilities into Community investment 2009 000s new geographic and vertical markets.
Financial donations from Experian subsidiaries 1,012 As part of this growth the Employee time volunteered 353 EMEA Asia Pacific region has seen Gifts in kind 222 considerable expansion.
To parallel this, Management costs 185 Experian has extended the reach of its Funds from Experian plc 937 CR reporting of non-financial data to Total from Experian 2,709 include China, Australia, South Africa and most of its smaller European offices % of Benchmark PBT 0.32% for the first time this year.
Employee fundraising 466 GUS Charitable Trust donations 423 Total value of all giving 3,598 % of Benchmark PBT 0.43% 42 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 Corporate responsibility 44 72 73 148 Supporting key resources Data Priorities for the coming year The three resources that Experian Careful and secure data management is Looking ahead, while challenges remain considers fundamental to its business also being influenced by considerations in the external environment, Experians are people, data and technology and all for society.
Data security is part of focus is on investment to drive future three feature in the CR responsibilities.
Experians culture, but the Group growth.
Continuing and improving the seeks continual improvement and Groups ability to see social, ethical and People has increased the resilience of its environmental risks and opportunities The people Experian employs need to Information Security programme is an essential part of this growth believe in the way the Group is being through a consistent approach in its strategy.
managed, and social and ethical issues practices and a reduction of complexity.
Doing it Right is Internal assessment programmes have A vision has been defined and one of four behaviours expected and been standardised across each region endorsed by the board.
Objectives have measured globally through a standard to further facilitate global reporting and been set under the three strands of the appraisal system.
This year the Group tracking of potential issues.
Experian CR strategy to achieve this vision: has taken steps towards formally continues to cover a wide area of risk signing up to the UN Global Compact, analysis and routinely reviews activities Embedding CR ensuring policies and processes by its resellers, vendors, clients, By 2011 further embed SEE risks in are aligned with Human Rights best internal processes and new business the risk process and ensure each practice.
business unit is addressing them in their risk register.
Despite Group cost efficiency Technology Express SEE risks and opportunities, measures, which included some Investment in technology is ongoing challenges and achievements more redundancies, the engagement but cost efficiencies are important.
explicitly and communicate these to score, measured by the global people A major consideration in every all employees.
Loyalty is technology procurement process being encouraged partly through a now is not only the price tag but also Supporting social and further commitment to volunteering, the ecological performance of new environmental innovation exemplified by the UKs Inspire hardware for data centres.
Experian Build SEE opportunity reviews into management development programme is also working to understand the product development processes in and the community involvement approach its suppliers are taking at least one region by the year ending embedded in this, together with to environmental impacts and has 31 March 2010. developments such as the Experian launched a survey on its corporate Continue to provide funding for Gift, which allows each UK and website for suppliers and other Big Ideas and publicise the Ireland employee three days per year stakeholders.
in business time for volunteering and has led to the hours donated Focusing the community almost doubling.
programme Evolve the community focus to Community donations from Experian include an element of sustainability have increased this year with central for communities and spend at least funds supporting regional projects to 75% of central funds available for help support the projects employees community projects on this focus.
Experians full CR report can be found online at www.
com Experians CR vision has been endorsed by the board.
and a printed summary can also be downloaded from this site.
Experians working population understands the social, ethical and environmental risks associated with the business and standard processes take account of these on a day-to-day basis enabling the Group to create a stronger and more sustainable business model.
The opportunities social, ethical and environmental issues present are regularly reviewed and Experian considers how it can help other organisations become more sustainable with new products and services.
Experian uses its skills, information and expertise to best effect in interactions with its communities and helps them become more self sustaining.
