Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 32 Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Review The Boards approach to CSR The Board demonstrates its commitment Ferrexpos commitment to to CSR through: group policies: corporate social responsibility board and management focus: asset level management systems: and The Ferrexpo Boards performance management at all levels.
commitment to corporate social The Board believes that Ferrexpo has made good progress during the year and responsibility CSR derives from has established a sound base from which to continue to develop its CSR a shared belief that the Groups programmes.
A group wide Code of Corporate Responsibility and Business licence to operate will be Ethics the Code enshrines the Companys values in three main areas.
These are: underpinned by the Groups CSR Business principles performance.
For many We must maintain high standards of behaviour with all those we deal with, both operations within former CIS inside and outside the Group.
Our conduct and business dealings should be countries, the traditional associated with honesty and integrity, making us an attractive and reliable response has been to use legal business partner.
requirements as the sole Community relations Our presence should benefit those around benchmark for CSR compliance.
us and our operations will benefit if local communities are thriving.
Any member By contrast, we view legal company of the Group should be considered an attractive local employer.
standards for CSR as a minimum Stewardship level and we are committed to We must develop and manage our resources and facilities in a sensible manner, having regard for the natural and striving to achieve the highest social environment in which we operate.
Companies within the Group should be international standards of associated with a commitment to achieving the highest environmental and performance in CSR matters.
We will ensure that during 2010 The Code has been translated into the Ukrainian and Russian and communicated investment in health, safety and to employees.
Management will continue to engage with employees to obtain their the environment is maintained.
feedback to ensure the Code is developed and improved.
The Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility Committee The Group has a Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility Committee the CSR Committee which monitors the implementation of CSR policies.
The CSR Committee is chaired by Viktor Lotous Ferrexpo Poltava Mining FPM Chief Operating Officer.
The other members of the CSR Committee are Michael Abrahams Chairman of the Board, Kostyantin Zhevago Chief Executive Officer and Dave Webster Chief Projects Officer.
To assist them in Business Review Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 33 the exercise of their duties, the CSR Case Study 1 DuPont Committee will, from time to time, engage specialist technical advisers.
The CSR Committee met once during 2009.
In addition, the Board received a detailed presentation on safety when it visited the site during the year.
During the year the business reviewed by the CSR Committee included the following items: Review of environmental KPIs against those of other London-listed mining companies.
Update on the work of DuPont Safety Resources DuPont and their recommendations.
Code of Corporate Responsibility and Business Ethics: this was finalised, translated into Ukrainian and Russian, and published to the staff.
The CSR framework Management recognises that reaching the highest standards will entail a continuous process of evaluation and improvement founded on a sound CSR framework.
Ferrexpo has adopted a seven point CSR framework covering values, strategy, policies, objectives, targets, monitoring and auditing, and communication.
CSR at FPM As the only currently operating asset within the Group, FPM provides the focus for development and implementation of the Groups CSR procedures, based on established Group policies.
Within FPM a single department has been created with responsibility for all aspects of health and safety, security and environmental protection.
This department is Ferrexpo continued its collaboration behavioural audits programme, and responsible for air and water testing with the consultancy company increasing employees awareness in laboratories, the medical centre, fire DuPont Safety Resources DuPont the field of labour safety.
prevention service, gas service, civil during 2009.
The investigation of defence and emergency response accidents to determine the cause and Within the framework of this contract headquarters and workshops.
This identify appropriate remedial action practical leadership training of department reports directly to the FPM now also covers minor accidents not company management has been Chief Operating Officer.
involving time spent off work carried out in the field of safety, and a microtraumas and is carried out 6-man working group has been set up All Group employees are expected to according to a methodology agreed by FPM for training operational take personal responsibility for their conduct, and management recognises with DuPont.
Fatalities and other managers in the theory and practice the need to create a cultural and serious accidents continue to be of behavioural audits and safety behavioural environment among the investigated additionally by the leadership.
DuPont has conducted Groups workforce that will allow the State authority.
theoretical and practical training policies agreed by the Board to be workshops on behavioural audits for successfully implemented.
During 2009 Ferrexpo entered into a this working group, whose members new contract with DuPont for the then started to carry out training Health and safety provision of leadership training to FPM programmes for operational managers Ferrexpos Health and Safety Policy management in the area of labour at the middle level i. e. those who are The prevention of injuries to employees safety, providing methodological immediately involved in maintaining is the highest priority of the Board and assistance to the administration of workplace safety.
Our policies and FPM on the introduction of the practices at all levels need to reflect this.
com 34 Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued Within our operating assets, health and safety.
This objective is to have accountability for health and safety the best mining safety record in Ukraine.
performance lies with senior line To support this objective, targets were set In 2009 a new strategic management.
in 2009 which included a reduction of 20% objective was All operating assets are required to in the lost-time injury frequency rate, develop and implement health and making organisational changes that would introduced with the aim safety management systems in line with improve safety in the production process, Group policy, including performance improvements to the protective clothing of continuing to drive management.
and the tools used by staff, subjecting forward improvements Performance metrics will be developed subcontractor staff to safety rules in the that are reflective of the Groups same way as the Groups own employees, in the area of health commitment to strive to achieve the and audits of labour safety behaviour.
and safety: this objective highest standards of health and safety These are expanded on below.
is to have the best Senior line management is responsible Monitoring the effectiveness of health and for ensuring that adequate resources safety policies includes the review of mining safety record are committed to health and safety.
health and safety performance, as in Ukraine.
They have an obligation to secure their measured by key KPIs as shown below: resources through the Groups planning and budgeting processes.
Health and safety performance Adequate health and safety training 2009 2008 2007 will be given to all employees Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate and contractors.
LTIFR see note 1.11 0.95 0.57 Specific focus needs to be applied to behavioural safety at all levels, to fatal Fatal accidents 0 3 1 risk prevention and to the major Total accidents 15 17 9 industrial health hazards associated with Lost days 530 591 590 our operations.
Employees are personally responsible Note for their own safety and that of LTIFR Number of lost time injuries per million man their colleagues.
Following the increased focus on safety and the review by DuPont, incidents that previously went unreported are now being reported.
As a Health and Safety objectives for 2009 result the 2009 and 2008 figures are not directly In 2009 a new strategic objective was comparable with previous years.
introduced with the aim of continuing to drive forward improvements in the area of Health and safety management systems In accordance with Ukrainian law, FPM has developed a health and safety policy applicable to its operations and types of activity that is in line with the Group health and safety policy.
Compliance with this policy is monitored via a three-tiered system.
Daily control is conducted by operating personnel, engineers and technicians.
Production managers carry out weekly inspections, and senior management conducts periodic inspections in conjunction with government personnel.
During 2009 the Labour Safety Department was restructured, with a centralised Directorate for Industrial Labour Safety and Environmental Protection taking the place of the previous more localised structure in which there was a smaller Labour Safety department, with labour safety engineers working in the various operating departments of FPM.
Remuneration of safety engineers is no longer directly linked to operational output.
The purpose of setting up the Directorate was to develop a uniform policy and achieve the maximum degree of co-ordination of progress towards achievement of the goals set in the field of labour safety.
Procedural manuals on labour Business Review Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 35 safety and environmental protection at the operational level were developed during 2009.
As it updates the current procedures of the labour safety management system, the FPM management continues to take into account best practice both in Ukraine and abroad.
In 2009 this took the form of co-operation with labour safety experts at Ukrainian and Russian mining companies, as well as signing a six-month contract with DuPont labour safety consultants.
In 2006 FPM initiated the development of a health and safety management system consistent with the requirements of OHSAS 18001, the internationally recognised standard for health and safety management.
During 2006 FPM revised a number of procedures to adapt the management system to the requirements of OHSAS 18001.
This system was externally audited under the Ukrainian UkrSEPRO system in March 2007 and accreditation was obtained in April 2007.
The system was audited again in March 2008, and the accreditation was confirmed by external auditors.
Fatalities and reportable accidents The prevention of injuries to employees is the highest priority of the Board and management who follow the principle that all accidents are avoidable.
In line with policy at FPM, all accidents are investigated to determine the cause and identify appropriate remedial action.
This In accordance with Ukrainian compulsory Subjecting the increasing number of analysis, which now also covers minor social insurance laws, compensation subcontractor staff to the same safety norms as FPM staff, by means of a accidents not involving time spent off work equivalent to up to five times annual salary company standard on Subcontractors microtraumas is carried out according is payable to the victims of accidents or Work and Services Safety.
to a methodology agreed with DuPont.
Individual workers Conducting labour safety behavioural Fatalities and other serious accidents are contribute to a statutory insurance fund audits.
also investigated by the State authority.
which is responsible for paying the The CSR Committee and Group Executive compensation.
FPM is aware that it has a During 2009 Ferrexpo entered into a Committee require senior management to moral as well as a legal responsibility new contract with the DuPont Safety provide full reports on the causes of fatal towards the families of employees affected Resources consultancy: see case study 1 and serious accidents, details of corrective by accidents at work and will also make on page 33. actions to prevent these types of accident additional voluntary payments to the family from recurring and plans for enhancing of employees on a case-by-case basis to In order to improve company safety culture overall safety management based on the ensure that they do not suffer hardship.
and eliminate dangerous work practices, lessons learnt.
Senior managers are we carry out training workshops and expected to present these reports, in Safety initiatives practical behavioural audits for the person, at the first Executive Committee In 2009 FPM continued to implement specialists from various departments meeting after the accident concerned.
safety programmes to improve the health of FPM.
and safety of its workers.
These included: There were no work-related fatalities at Further improvement to the quality of FPM is required by Ukrainian labour FPM in 2009.
However, there were 15 working clothes, personal protective protection laws to dedicate at least 0.5% accidents that were investigated by the equipment and tools, based on of sales revenue to labour protection and State authorities.
There were no workworkplace risk assessments and on safety.
This statutory payment amounted related accidents at FYM.
in 2009 to approximately UAH 25,303,000 Organisational changes to improve US $3.25 million, or 0.63% of sales workplace conditions and minimise 2008: US $5.72 million, 0.62% of sales.
com 36 Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued Occupational health initiatives Case Study 2 Air Quality In accordance with the requirements of the Ministry of Health in Ukraine and to prevent or detect occupational diseases at an early stage, FPM employees, particularly those engaged in potentially hazardous work, are given medical examinations both upon recruitment and at regular intervals during their employment.
The health of employees who have worked for 10 years or more under potentially hazardous working conditions is assessed more rigorously.
As an integral part of the Directorate of Industrial and Labour Safety and Environmental Protection, FPM owns an on-site health centre.
The health centre carries out medical examinations of staff on joining the company, as well as annual medical examination of the employees aimed at preventing and treating occupational diseases, according to the requirements of the current labour legislation of Ukraine.
Additionally, on a contract basis, the health centre provides services for subcontractors employees.
The cost of providing medical services in 2009 was UAH 4,253k US$546k.
In the past three years, there have been 7 recorded cases of industrial disease 2 in 2007, 3 in 2008 and 2 in 2009 : most cases are associated with prolonged exposure to elevated dust concentrations.
Other diseases included auditory impairment due to excessive noise and two cases of cancer which whilst classified as industrial disease in accordance with Ukrainian legislation and therefore recorded, are not believed to have been directly attributable to the Groups operations.
The industrial diseases that have been The work on dust pollution reported activities.
Emergency procedures recorded include some silicosis and in the 2008 report continued in were followed on each occasion, bronchial complaints which can be 2009, with initiatives for the including the issue of suitable caused by exposure to particular forms of protection of air quality including protective equipment and dust although there are also other possible stabilising dry sand banks for waste evacuation of the affected areas of causes for some of these diseases.
storage by chemical and biological the pit.
Meanwhile, investigations Improvements to dust control systems are methods grass sowing cost UAH have shown that the gas does not part of a long-term package of measures 768,000 : intensive watering of the come from Ferrexpos operations.
designed to improve the working environment.
To reduce the dust level in the work face in the pit after blasting At the initiative of FPM, production area in the mine and at the and in dry weather cost UAH Komsomolsk City Council has processing plants and workshops, the 7,033,000 : and repairs to the gas commissioned the Scientific and pit-face and roads in and around the mine and dust filter unit in the pellet Research Institute of the Ministry of are watered each shift depending on the production area cost Health to identify the source of the weather pattern.
During 2009 there were 14 cases of a build-up of gas in some parts of the pit.
In 6 cases employees complained of sickness and were evacuated from the pit.
The type of gas was not characteristic of FPMs Business Review Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 37 During 2009 there have on several Trade unions In 2009 FPM spent UAH 45 million occasions been a build up of gas within The Group does not have individual US $5.78 million on the implementation of parts of the pit.
This caused a variety of contracts with its employees in Ukraine environmental measures.
Payments for symptoms including nausea to some other than with its senior managers.
Most emissions and waste placement amounted employees.
Emergency procedures were of FPMs workers are members of a trade to UAH 18 million US $2.31 million.
followed on each occasion, including the union the Poltava Trade Union.
There issue of suitable protective equipment and has been no significant industrial action or Environmental management systems evacuation of the affected parts of the pit.
It labour dispute at Poltava since its The primary responsibility of FPMs has been confirmed that the source of the privatisation in 1995.
FPM entered into a dedicated Environmental Department is to gas is outside Ferrexpos operations, and a new collective bargaining agreement with ensure that all necessary permits are in thorough investigation is being carried out the Poltava Trade Union on 18 January place, to undertake monitoring in under the supervision of the local authority.
Management has also signed a accordance with the prevailing regulatory protocol of intent with the Poltava Trade requirements and to supervise the Employees Union for the period from 2008 to 2010 in implementation of an agreed programme The employment principles adopted in which it has agreed to ensure that of environmental improvements based on 2008 include policies and practices on individual salaries will be increased at least the Departments own assessments.
company standards, security, recruitment, in line with inflation and that an annual remuneration, equal opportunities and reduction in headcount will occur, subject Environmental laws in Ukraine set training and development.
These are except for any jobs that are outsourced requirements for the protection of the backed up by subsidiary company to an agreed maximum.
natural environment, the use of natural employment manuals to cover local legal resources, emissions into the atmosphere and regulatory requirements.
Management believes, having conducted and water and waste disposal.
FPM holds market research that wages paid by the a number of environmental licences and As part of the restructuring process Group are higher than average wages in permits, including permits for atmospheric involving an outsourcing of non-core Ukraine, although they tend to be less emission control, solid waste disposal, mining activities, during 2009 25 security than the average wages paid by other tailings disposal, mine waste disposal and staff previously employed directly were Ukrainian mining companies.
industrial use of fresh water.
Until 2007, the transferred to the local security company environmental monitoring and that provides services to FPM.
Environment management programme was designed Additionally, the Specialised Electric Ferrexpos Environmental policy solely to meet the current statutory Equipment and Networks Repairs Our operating practices and growth requirements.
However, in 2006, the Department 212 staff was moved outside plans will be implemented in a manner Environmental Department started to the company structure.
consistent with the principles develop a full Environmental Management underlying long-term sustainable System EMS in accordance with ISO FPM continues to recruit specialist resource development: we will balance 14001.
The EMS was externally audited by graduates from Dnepropetrovsky Mining the long-term environmental the Ukrainian UkrSEPRO authority and Academy, Kyiv University, Krivoy-Rog consequences of our actions against given a certificate of conformity with ISO Institute and Komsomolsk Polytechnical short-term economic returns.
School among other places to fill available All operating assets are required to technical and financial positions.
develop and implement environmental Project evaluation management systems in line with In 2007 the Group endorsed the Equator Group policy.
Further information on employee numbers Principles as a benchmark when evaluating All new capital projects will include is set out in note 39 to the accounts.
As part of any new project environmental risk assessments and proposal, the Group will undertake an mitigation plans.
Training and development environmental impact assessment and this The Group is committed to developing its will be reviewed alongside other project Monitoring the effectiveness of employees.
The Group provides technical evaluation documents presented to the environmental policy includes the review of Board for approval.
During 2009 Ferrexpo training for all employees consistent with their duties and responsibilities.
In key KPIs for emissions which are completed an independent review of the particular, investment has been made in shown below.
Ukrainian EIA OVOS, which covers our facilities for health and safety training.
In regulatory environmental requirements, for 2009, 29 employees were sponsored by Emissions in tonnes the Yeristovo mine pre-strip and the actual Ferrexpo at institutes of higher education.
environmental performance of the current 2007 2008 2009 The total educational spending for Yeristovo operations against the Total gas emissions 6,161 6,177 6,167 employees in higher educational requirements of the International Finance Of which: establishments was US$64,175.
Corporations IFC Environmental and Social Performance Standards.
Ferrexpo Nitrogen dioxide 2,876 2,879 2,876 remains committed to applying the IFC Carbon requirements as it prepares plans for further monoxide 2,299 2,312 2,306 development of the Yeristovo project.
Sulphur dioxide 888 888 886 Total solid emissions 3,235 3,224 3,212 Total emissions 9,396 9,401 9,379 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 38 Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued Initiatives for the reduction of air Environmental initiatives Communities pollution included stabilising banks of Air quality Ferrexpos Community policy dry waste material by sowing grass on Dust and gas emissions are two major Our presence should benefit those them, and intensive watering of the issues that FPM carefully monitors and communities around our operations: work face in the pit after blasting and in our operations will benefit if local controls to ensure that air quality is not dry weather.
adversely impacted by its operations.
In Planting seedlings and more mature We strive to be recognised as an recent years, there have been a deciduous and coniferous trees and attractive local employer and a substantial number of initiatives taken to shrubs, and sowing and maintaining concerned corporate citizen.
We will assist in the development of the are set out below.
Investment in waste management micro-economic environment within the included management of the depositing communities in which we operate to Water management 3 sites and tailings dam.
This allowed for ensure that their dependence on us for FPM uses some 458 million m of water use of slurry tailings and stripping their livelihood is reduced.
each year, much of which is recycled material in production, as well as We aim to have a positive relationship through the tailings facility, although 3 securing of continuous operation of with and enhance the communities approximately 3.4 million m is extracted water recycling system of water supply around us.
We wish to have an open from a combination of the local river and to the company departments.
dialogue with these communities and to the municipal drinking water supply.
ensure that our involvement with them is Waste rock management cost effective and relevant to their needs.
The Tailings Storage Facility TSF also The currently operating Gorischnereceives the treated effluent from Plavninskoye Lavrikovskoye GPL open Community context Komsomolsks sewage treatment plant.
3 pit has generated some 500 million m The Poltava region is located in an area of Excess water from the TSF is passed of predominantly flat agricultural land close to through an extensive bio-engineered waste rock that is deposited in two the Dnieper River, one of the largest treatment system commissioned in dumps.
Annual monitoring of the western European river systems and an important May 2002. and eastern dumps indicates that run-off transport artery for Ukraine, Belarus and from the waste rock dumps has no Russia.
Iron ore mining in the area dates Storm water from the site is treated in a negative effect on air quality or water from the 19th century, although the major new cascade treatment plant with a basins, and vegetation has been expansion of mining activity occurred in filtering dam commissioned in late 2005. successfully cultivated on the inaccessible the early 20th century.
The town of The plant is designed to remove and abandoned areas of the rock dumps.
Komsomolsk was established adjacent to suspended solids and organic pollutants.
Waste rock from future operations, the mine to support the mining operation Other rain and melt water is pumped to including the Yeristovskoye pit now being and ancillary industries transport, power the slurry pit for clarification: in the case of excavated, is being deposited on these etc.. FPM is still by far the largest employer excess water it is directed to the biotwo dumps or used to back-fill part of the in the town, which has a population of engineered treatment unit for additional GPL pit.
The annual tree and bush around 51,500 people, with approximately treatment together with the remainder of planting project assists in the absorption 16% of the working population of TSF dam-filtered water.
of gases that would otherwise pollute the Komsomolsk being employed by the mine air, whilst also reducing noise.
in one capacity or another.
During 2006 and 2007, the washing facilities of the mining transport Mine closure and rehabilitation Community initiatives department were rebuilt to prevent the FPM recognises that its activities have an FPM pollution of ground water by oil products impact on the environment and that had been carried by the surface water communities in which it operates.
We are FPM has been a significant investor in local as it drained away.
This had previously aware that a commitment to sustainability community initiatives from the outset, occurred due to damage of the washing requires FPM to prepare now for the investing substantial funds in the social area and dirt collector.
cessation of mining operations even infrastructure of Komsomolsk and the though that eventuality remains many surrounding area.
These funds have been Initiatives undertaken in 2009 years in the future.
In 2005, we developed spent on charities, medical facilities, social According to the requirements of the a closure and rehabilitation plan for the services, education, religion, culture and Ukraine Law on Environment Protection, existing GPL pit and associated waste sporting activities, as well as on the FPM specialists developed the following rock dumps.
The site will be restored maintenance of certain of the citys social measures aimed at improving the primarily to forestry, with an area of open and cultural structures.
They mainly water remaining in part of the open pit.
on social projects in 2009 was UAH 30.3m concerned water and air protection, sound 2008: UAH 30.5m.
This included management of underground resources, The Company will provide fully for the costs expenditure on medical centres in waste treatment, and planting greenery on of mine closure and rehabilitation as they Komsomolsk, educational organisations, the production site.
develop, and it is committed to complying local community and sports associations.
Initiatives for the protection of the local fully with the terms of its operating licences Links with the local community are river system included advanced water and the requirements of Ukrainian law.
strengthened by meetings of senior treatment of clarified water at the management with heads of schools and sludge depository in the biological colleges, supporting local celebration purification plant: this ensured that the days, giving vocational guidance and concentration of pollutants in the water vacation work to the students of local discharged into the local river system schools and organising student excursions lay within the standard accepted range.
Business Review Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 39 Historically, FPM has employed a significant Case Study 3 Community number of people in providing support Investment services to the Groups mining activities.
In many cases, these services could be made available on a commercial basis to other enterprises within the local community which in turn improves the viability and sustainability of the local economy.
To encourage this process, FPM has offered finance and other support to employees who provide these in-house services so as to encourage them to transform internal departments into stand-alone businesses.
In 2009 the objects of such support included railcar repair operations, lift repair and some cleaning services.
In 2009, 237 employees were transferred into stand-alone businesses.
During 2009, FPM donated UAH 7,900k to support and develop social infrastructure and enhance welfare of the local communities see Case Study 3 opposite.
FYM FYM strives to contribute to all spheres of the life of the local community, believing that a healthy and flourishing community is of crucial importance for sustainable growth in our operations see Case Study 3 opposite.
Links with the local community are In addition to the work done by FPM, strengthened by meetings of senior FYM strives to contribute to the life of the management with heads of schools and local community.
As a newly-launched colleges, supporting local celebration growth project, FYM conducts an open days, giving vocational guidance and dialogue with the local communities in vacation work to the students of local order to develop positive relationships schools and organising student built on mutual understanding and trust.
excursions to FPM and its museum.
In relation to land acquisition activity this During 2009, FPM paid UAH 7,900k to has meant that, as well as paying the support and develop social infrastructure mandatory compensation required under and enhance welfare of the local the law, FYM has concluded special communities.
Included in this was agreements with the Councils of support for Dmitrovka village council of Komsomolsk City and neighbouring UAH 1,500 k for school maintenance and villages regarding support for the local repair, UAH 260k for outpatient clinic community in addressing vital issues in upgrading, and UAH 104k for village gas social services and infrastructure pipeline construction.
Prishyb village, development sectors such as in a similar way, received contributions environment, healthcare, education, of UAH 300 k for school repairs, and sports and charities.
UAH 298 k for outpatient clinic upgrading.
Additionally, UAH 640k was invested in water supply improvement installation of a water tower and pipeline, drilling of wells.
com 40 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 41 42 Corporate Governance Report 48 Remuneration Report 56 Directors Report 60 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 61 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Ferrexpo plc Corporate Governance
