Steering us in the right direction Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CSR We aim to provide excellent service to Group Accident Incident Statistics Scottish Ports was part of the Group-wide our customers, to provide a safe working implementation of the Internet based 2009 v 2008 Performance environment for our employees and to Control Of Substances Hazardous to create sustainable communities through Health COSHH management system 12% reduction in all accidents 5 long term investment.
13% reduction in RIDDOR reportable called SYPOL CMS.
This allows users to access up to the minute information on accidents incidents The Company has been a member of the potentially harmful substances and to Kempen SNS Smaller Europe Index since download COSHH risk assessments to Group October 2003, membership being Year to Year Comparison 2009 v 2008 allow the materials to be managed and % available only to companies with the very used safely.
2009 2008 change highest standards and practice in the All RIDDOR three areas of business ethics, human The Annual Health and Safety Forum Injuries Incidents 26 30 13% resources and the environment.
Over 80 people All Accidents 105 119 12% Company is also a constituent member attended including staff and health and of the FTSE 4 Good Index.
safety representatives from across The Group set a minimum target of Scottish Ports.
The Health and Safety overall reduction in accidents of 5% in Executive attended to support the event Health and Safety 2009.
and gave a presentation on the role of the The health and safety of our employees Regulator.
The Head of Safety of Ports and also visitors, contractors and Trend Analysis 2003-2009 Skills and Safety was also in attendance.
members of the public who visit our Includes Nordic from 2007 onwards Staff representing each of the Scottish places of business is of the utmost Ports delivered presentations on progress importance to us.
Our safety culture is 52% reduction in all accidents in a number of port safety improvement underpinned by the application of five 46% reduction in RIDDOR reportable projects.
strategic safety drivers: Simplification of accidents incidents safe systems of work, Education in safe Port of Tilbury working techniques for every employee, Group The Port launched the Safety First for Engineering safety into our equipment Year to Year Comparison 2009 v 2003 Tilbury behavioural safety campaign in % and processes, Engagement on safety 2009.
The campaign will be supported by 2009 2003 change issues with all employees and a number of local safety initiatives to All RIDDOR Enforcement of safe systems of work further engage our employees in Injuries Incidents 26 48 46% through monitoring and audit.
improving safety across the Port All Accidents 105 217 52% operations.
The progress of the campaign A Group Strategic Health and Safety Plan will be reviewed at the quarterly Strategic Scottish Port Operations for 2008-2010 aligned with the guidance Health and Safety Meetings chaired by The Safety First For Forth initiative, contained in the Institute of Directors the Managing Director, Port of Tilbury.
which focuses on behavioural safety, saw Health and Safety Executive document the launch of the safety awareness Leading Health and Safety at Work The Annual Safety, Health and campaign of Were All On Board.
was originally presented to the Board Environment Forum took place in March Employees were invited to have their in October 2007 and is reviewed by the 2009 and was attended by over 70 staff photo placed on a site board depicting a Directors and senior management at and safety representatives from the ship to demonstrate their commitment to regular intervals for progress against Port.
The event focused on sustainable safety.
The behavioural safety committee the plan and targets achieved to date.
improvement in health and safety continues to meet providing input and performance and monitoring in guidance to the ports safety initiatives partnership with the trade union health and campaigns.
Staff gave presentations on the progress being made in delivering safety and environmental objectives and the session 5 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations 1995 Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 was very interactive with engagement Property Audit from all employees on ideas to further During 2009 there were no Health and The Group continues to use a hierarchical improve safety.
The Head of Port Skills Safety incidents reportable by our system of internal and external process and Safety gave a presentation and the principal contractor to the HSE under safety audits to measure, monitor and event closed with a keynote address by RIDDOR on any of our property demonstrate compliance with all relevant the Managing Director, Port of Tilbury.
health and safety legislation and internal safety management procedures.
Port of Tilbury and Unite signed a Safety The overall number of accidents on all Partnership Agreement for 2008-09.
This property development sites for the 2009 A revised programme of internal audits document committed both parties to reporting period was 1 minor accident.
conducted by the Health and Safety further improving safety standards and The total accident figure from 2005-2009 departments were introduced across the reducing accident rates by delivery of was 5 all minor and non-reportable for Group in 2009.
This programme is a series of objectives and initiatives all construction project works.
This gave process based and audits safe systems including the key objectives of the an accident frequency rate of 0.69 per of work in their entirety from the industry wide Safer Ports Initiative 2.
This compares with an documentation of the processes through estimated construction sector average of to the implementation and training of the An electronic integrated safety, reportable accidents of 1.9 per 100,000 safe systems of work to the employees environmental and quality management hours.
carrying out the work activity.
system was created at the Port of Tilbury during 2009 enabling integration of key Throughout 2009 the property group The Group Chief Executive and the safety, quality and environmental continued to promote Continuing Managing Director, Port of Tilbury along processes.
The system has been Professional Development CPD for all with the senior management team successfully audited to ISO 14001, ISO staff by hosting a series of presentations continue to carry out safety tours at 9001 and OHSAS 18001 standards.
regular intervals to promote safe working Port also implemented the SYPOL CMS practices and engage with employees on management system.
Industry Engagement safety related issues.
Forth Ports PLC continues to be involved Nordic Group in all of the core activities of Port Skills A combined British Safety Council 5 Star The integration of the Nordic Group into and Safety, the industry body charged and OHSAS 18001:2007 audit took place Forth Ports safety management system with promoting high standards of health in January and February 2010 with a continues with the implementation of and safety and skills competence.
The single BSC auditor auditing Scottish Ports worker involvement in safety committees, Managing Director, Port of Tilbury and Tilbury over a period of 8 days.
We audit and inspection programmes, continues to be a member of the PSS are pleased to confirm that both Scottish fire management training, accident Management Board and Forth Ports is Ports and Port of Tilbury have maintained investigation training and engineering represented at the Port Safety Steering 5 Star status and in addition have modifications to equipment to enhance Group meetings where Health and Safety achieved the OHSAS 18001:2007 safety safety.
managers from across the ports industry standard.
meet and share best practice.
A programme of safety committee Nordic Recycling were externally audited meetings involving management, The Group continues to progress the by the British Standards Institute in 2009 supervisors and employees was safety and training objectives detailed in and also achieved Safety Standard established in 2009 and has proved the industry wide Safer Ports 2 Initiative OHSAS 18001:2007.
Subsequently Nordic successful in driving safety initiatives and fully supports the regional events were successful in achieving the within Nordic.
organised to promote the initiative Integrated Management Standard PAS99 throughout the industry.
for Safety, Quality and Environment The Safety First for Nordic behavioural management systems following an audit by the BSI in December 2009. safety campaign was launched in 2009 Forth Ports works actively with the Health and aligns Nordic with the rest of the and Safety Executive in improving safety Health and Safety Training Group in participating in our flagship standards within the ports industry and safety campaign.
have facilitated familiarisation visits for An extensive programme of in-house training was delivered in 2009 with HSE staff new to the ports industry both Nordic employees attended the annual in Tilbury and the Scottish Ports.
courses in subjects such as Lift Supervisor, Hazard Identification, Risk safety forum held at Port of Tilbury in March 2009.
The Group Health and Safety Manager Assessment and Accident Investigation.
In total 187 courses run during 2009 sits on the Ports Skills and Safety Editorial Nordic continue to support the Panel which is reviewing the Health and across the Group were entirely related to health and safety matters.
Confederation of Paper Industries Bale Safety Guidance Notes being developed Clamp Project in developing a modified by the industry in conjunction with the batwing clamp for forklift trucks to Health and Safety Executive.
This panel further improve the safe movement of comprises senior safety managers from paper bales.
the ports industry, Unite and the HSE.
Steering us in the right direction Corporate Social Responsibility CSR continued Employees Environment and Sustainability Climate Change Industrial Relations and Manpower Our Commitment to the Environment Climate change is a key issue for both the The group headcount decreased during and Sustainability UK and Scottish Governments.
At the end of the year the As a responsible company we strive relevant to our business, we aim to work employee headcount figures were as continuously to minimise our impact on with government in the development of follows: the environment and operate efficiently: new legislation either directly or through 2009 2008 in doing so, the Group can also play its the UK Major Ports Group.
During 2009, part in assisting the Governments of our legislative focus has been on the Scottish Operation 487 504 the UK and Scotland to achieve their Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC, Tilbury 513 547 ambitious climate change targets.
the Water Framework Directive, the Nordic Group 125 117 Across the Group, the main potential Scottish and UK Marine Bills and Climate environmental impacts are: Change Acts.
During 2010, we anticipate Total 1,125 1,168 our focus will remain on the CRC, the Climate change from the combustion Marine Strategy Framework Directive and Good industrial relations are important to the implementation of the new UK and of fuels and the purchasing of energy our business and there have been no Air quality emissions from plant and Scottish Marine legislation.
days lost due to industrial disputes since the potential for dust from certain 1989. commodities.
Dust suppression Previously we reported on the Climate Change Impact Assessments undertaken systems are utilised for potentially Employee Involvement dusty commodities such as coal across the Group during 2007 and 2008.
The seventh Group Wide Information and No further external assessments were and cement Consultation Forum took place during Water pollution any oil or chemical undertaken during 2009.
This Forum allows for matters of internal analysis our carbon leverage spill associated with our activities or mutual interest to be discussed.
The one of the vessels calling at our remains in excess of 10:1 we continue Forum is augmented by Local to save more than ten times the carbon facilities could impact on water quality.
Communication Forums and regular We invest time and effort in ensuring that we emit as a Group through enabling meetings with recognised Trade Unions.
the movement of goods by sea rather contingency plans are up to date and exercised regularly than on land.
Indeed, the main divisions Training and Development of our business deliver carbon savings, The Company remains committed to Conservation all of our facilities are near to sites that have national or whether through the provision of port training for employees at all levels.
infrastructure and services to allow During 2009, 131 employees achieved international level conservation designations.
We engage with national freight to move by sea, provision of certificates or qualifications.
These recycling services and the development included NVQs at Levels 2 3, Higher organisations and local stakeholders to keep up to date with any potential of renewable energy opportunities both National Certificates, IOSH Managing through Forth Energy and as part of our Safely, Higher National Certificates and impacts on these sites Waste we recycle as much sustainable approach to regeneration.
In our ports business, we provide rail During 2009 the Executive Directors and opportunities in Grangemouth, Leith all members of the senior management Environmental aspects, impacts and performance are dealt with via the and Tilbury.
At Tilbury we also provide team took part in a leadership facilities for movement of goods by development programme led by the appropriate senior management committees in Scottish Ports at the barge.
The provision of these services Centre for High Performance allows for a more carbon efficient method Development, a specialist management Senior Management monthly review meetings, in Tilbury, Nordic and the of moving goods to and or from our development consultancy.
This is an facilities than the traditional method on-going programme which will continue Marine Divisions through the dedicated Environmental Management System of road transport.
This was enhanced in 2009 by the establishment of the Environment We anticipate that the CRC will become As well as leading internal programmes law in the first half of 2010.
The draft the Training Departments within the Integration Committee.
Order implementing this carbon cap and Scottish Operation and Tilbury continue trade scheme currently makes landlords to provide their expertise externally in responsible for the carbon emissions of supporting local schools, colleges, their tenants, where the tenants receive universities and government agencies.
the electricity from their landlord.
Until the draft Order is in final form we cannot quantify the impact on our business.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35 the waters adjacent to the islands.
To date waste and improved recyclate quality.
Renewable Energy and this has had no impact on our operations.
The waste services division of Nordic has Resource Efficiency been working with customers to improve The Ports, Marine Division and Nordic As statutory harbour authority for the their recycling figures.
For many have all been working on resource Forth and the Tay environmental customers, in excess of 75% of collected efficiency.
There is a variety of projects management forms part of our duties.
continue to be members of, and, engage with, the local conservation groups and Environmental Management Through Forth Energy, our joint venture stakeholders.
D. student at During 2009 all asset areas in the Port with SSE, we have a number of Glasgow University has begun her of Tilbury were re-certified to the renewable energy projects progressing second year studying the Common Tern ISO14001:2004 standard and the through the consenting process including colony in Leith Docks.
ISO14001 systems in Nordic and the four biomass plants and two wind Marine Division in Scotland retained their projects in our Scottish Ports.
We also Forth Ports has statutory duties in relation certification.
We are particularly proud continue to examine options for district to maintenance dredging.
During 2009 that in the Marine Department, there were heating for The Harbour development.
our dredging volumes were around 10% no observations, improvement points or lower than 2008, but broadly the same non-conformities raised in the two At Tilbury we have secured planning consent for four wind turbines, and we as the volumes for 2007.
The dredging surveillance audits through the year.
activity remains the same, but the rate During 2010, we aim to continue the have entered into an agreement with SSE to develop the turbines and supply the of siltation was not as high as in 2008. work building ISO14001 compliant In the Port of Tilbury we are currently management systems in the port with all of the renewable energy generated.
The turbines are anticipated examining various options for the Scottish Ports.
disposal of silt which accumulates in to be operational in early 2011.
Tilbury Green Power has permission for the the impounded dock.
Security After five years of implementation, the construction of a 60MW biomass power station on the port estate, with an Pollution Avoidance and Control ISPS systems in our ports continue to The annual testing of the Clearwater work well under the guidance and estimated 82.7% of carbon savings relative to conventional generation by Forth oil spill contingency plan took place direction of the Department for Transport.
The exercise was titled Black The EU Port Security Directive has now coal or gas and disposal of waste to landfill.
The UK climate change Beach and simulated a spill of fuel oil been implemented as part of UK law and following a collision between a coastal we await the draft regulations which will programme requires the energy sector to reduce CO2 emissions by up to 25% tanker and a dredger in the approaches to be made.
Participants in this years between 1990 and 2010 and 30% between 1990 and 2020.
The saving from the exercise included: Falkirk Council, BP, Community Responsibility, Education Targe Towing, UK Dredging, Marine and Involvement Tilbury Green Power plant will contribute to this overall national reduction target.
Scotland, Scottish Natural Heritage, The Port of Tilbury leads a consortium Scottish Environment Protection Agency of Universities and FE Colleges which 70% of the raw material for the plant will arrive by sea.
Construction work on this and the Maritime and Coastguard Agency manages the Regional Logistics Academy, Counter Pollution and Coastguard.
In line with the new facility will commence in the latter part of 2010. addition, where each of the ports has an Governments aim of raising skill levels individual plan, these were exercised within the region, the Academy provides Natural Environment within the agreed schedules.
These a one stop shop for logistics skills exercises have included land based as development, as well as working with New legislation for the marine environment is being introduced in both well as marine scenarios.
During 2010 we a range of private and public sector intend undertaking some minor revisions organisations in support of wider funded England and Scotland.
This will change the capital dredge disposal consenting to the Port of Tilbury Oil Spill Contingency and non funded regional skills initiatives.
Plan and progressing with further regimes.
The exact impact of this has not been quantified and we are working with exercises to test the revisions.
As signatories to the Governments National Skills Pledge, the Port of Tilbury the Scottish Government in relation to the draft regulations.
The legislation Waste Management works closely with the Learning Skills We have recycling facilities across all Council as a member of the Essex Skills introduces new networks of Marine Conservation Zones in English waters Group premises.
Rates of recycling are Pledge Club in helping to raise awareness in line with previous years and in some of skills education amongst employers and Marine Protected Areas in Scottish waters.
It is too early to know where these areas have increased slightly.
Rates of and supporting the drive to raise skill contamination in our segregated waste levels throughout the region.
The port may be, or what, if any, the potential impacts could be to vessels calling at our facilities have reduced, with particularly also works with Thurrock Council through impressive improvements in Tilbury.
the Thurrock Learning Partnership and ports.
Aside from these forthcoming conservation designations, during 2009 Investment in a new glass cleaning facility the Thurrock Workforce Development at NRL and changes to the metal sorting Groups.
Other projects have included the a number of the islands in the Firth of Forth previously designated as Special process have delivered benefits resulting Thurrock 14-19 Strategic Partnership, a in a significant reduction of end of Council-sponsored project to encourage Protection Areas for their bird interest had their protected areas extended to cover Materials Recycling Facility MRF employer support for schools in Steering us in the right direction Corporate Social Responsibility CSR continued delivering the Governments new The annual Charity football match Michaela Sullivan, the Head of 14-19 Diploma.
between Tilbury and Scottish ports was Planning, undertook her final year as held this year at Tilbury Football Club.
an external examiner on the Master We continue to fund two Ph.
D. s: one at The match raised over 2,000.
The of Urban and Regional Planning at beneficiaries are chosen by the port staff Dundee University, examining relative Heriot Watt University during 2009 sea level changes at our ports in Scotland hosting the event.
In Scotland, 5,000 was Mark Tonge, the Operations and donated to a variety of charities by and the other at Glasgow University Resource Director, Port of Tilbury, examining the ecology of the Common the Health and Safety Committees and is a member of Cranfield University the senior management team.
The Tern colony at Leith Docks.
Agile Supply Chain Research Group beneficiaries included Help for Heroes, Bob Cowan, the Group Financial Sick Kids Friends Foundation, MacMillan In 2009 Scottish Ports sponsored a new Accountant, is a member of the Audit educational syllabus at Grangemouth Nurses, Strathcarron Hospice and Mission Committee of Mercy Corp Scotland, to Seafarers amongst others.
High School and have been involved in an International Aid and Development a challenge day examining international Charity that exists to alleviate suffering, Management Involvement trade.
We have also participated in poverty and oppression by helping interview skills development events.
Charles Hammond, Group Chief people to build secure, productive In Tilbury we continue our extensive Executive, is a member of the Scottish and just communities engagement with 11 local primary and Government Energy Advisory Board Simon Harper, Training and secondary schools in the Thurrock area, Perry Glading, the Managing Director, Development Manager, Port of Tilbury, with interview skills, career fairs and work Port of Tilbury, is a senior member of sits on the Board of Governors at placements.
Tilbury also supports the the Management Committee of Port Havering College of Further & Higher Trident Work Experience Programme Skills and Safety and a Director of Skills Education and is the ports for school pupils.
for Logistics representative as Trustee of two Morag McNeill, the Group Company local schools.
As in previous years, the Cruise Terminal Secretary, is a Director of the Court of at Tilbury has hosted a number of local The Edinburgh Academy school events.
Amongst other events, Bob Baker, the Chief Harbour Master, is the Terminal also hosted an event and a member of the Executive Council of lunch for the Womens International the UK Harbour Masters Association, a Shipping and Trading Association, who member of the Executive of the British held their annual conference in London Tug Owners Association, a member of and the Turf Cutting reception for the the Expert Panel set up by port industry commencement of construction of the to review National Occupational new set building and rehearsal facilities Standards and Certificates of of the Royal Opera House.
Competency for Harbour Masters and Trustee of the Pilots National Pension This year has seen a number of local Fund community and charitable organisations Derek McGlashan, the Environment holding events at our ports.
For the Manager, is a Director of the Forth second year running the Spirit of Estuary Forum, is Chair of the joint UK Fairbridge berthed at Prince of Wales Major Ports Group and British Ports Dock, Leith.
The Fairbridge charity Association Environment Policy Group undertakes work with underprivileged and represents the UK Major Ports children in the community.
We also Group on the Scottish Governments hosted the Zapcats National Marine Strategy Forum Championship, the worlds largest one Frank Monaghan, the Group Safety design power boat Championship at Manager, sits on the Editorial Panel Western Harbour in front of Ocean of Port Skills and Safety.
This group Terminal in August which attracted over oversees and issues the Health and 40,000 spectators.
In the same month Safety guidance notes issued in Edinburgh Inspiring Capital, the conjunction with the Health and Edinburgh entry in the Clipper 09-10 Safety Executive Round the World Yacht Race, was berthed alongside the Royal Yacht Britannia for a week.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37 Safety campaign The programme includes marketing Forth Ports has developed a Group material branded with the Safety First wide safety programme called logo and internal signage re-inforcing Safety First which is a programme the Safety First message.
This message of safety initiatives, communication and is being delivered across the sites employee engagement initiatives aimed in the form of accident reduction at cultural and behavioural change.
workshops, poster campaigns, toolbox It aims to promote safety to new levels talks, quarterly newsletter, specific as a key element of how we do business process safety improvement projects within Forth Ports.
and safety suggestion boxes available to all employees.
At the heart of the Safety First campaign is our Safety Charter developed in consultation with our employees.
The charter has five guiding principles that apply to everyone within the Group: Commitment to working in partnership to achieve the aim of no injuries to anyone at any Forth Ports premises: No job is more important than any persons health and safety: Never knowingly walk past an unsafe act or condition: Demonstrate our commitment to high levels of safety by our own behaviour: Establish a culture of tolerance
