A green foundation for growth Our Environmental Initiative Our environmental initiative is rooted in a firm commitment to a sustainable future for our ports.
A commitment to the environment and sustainability is built into both our established and emerging businesses.
Resource efficiency initiatives have lowered our cost base and carbon footprint and our strategy on renewables will allow power and heat to be supplied to our port estates and developments on a sustainable basis.
Business-led approach environmental efficiency commitments will deliver economic growth for Scotland.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 Transformational Business We have put a lot of effort into integrating our various initiatives on the environment and as a result, have realised that environmental sustainability lies at the heart of our business.
So much so, we have christened our environmental initiative green.
Energy Renewable Energy Water Waste green Environmental Carbon Audits Accounting A green foundation for growth Our Environmental Initiative continued In 2008 the Environmental Integration the workforce about energy efficiency Waste from ships is an industry wide Committee EIC was established, both in the workplace and in their own issue as international legislation requires chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
An example of this was the catering waste to be either deep land The EICs remit is to review, develop and purchase of five portable energy meters filled or incinerated.
Forth Ports, through implement environmental strategy and in Tilbury which can be installed either its membership of the United Kingdom initiatives across the Group.
in the workplace or in the home.
The Major Ports Group and the British Ports meters can be used to identify exactly Association, is pushing for the industry to how much electricity an individual look at waste management across all of Resource Efficiency appliance uses.
One of the Tilbury the UKs ports to ensure that we are Resource efficiency was a major area of employees took one home and identified sharing best practice.
focus for the EIC in 2009 and has involved that the undercupboard lights in his examining initiatives in each business kitchen which were left on 24 hours a Environmental Management Systems unit to reduce our use of national day accounted for 20% of his electricity resources and to establish measurement The Group already has three business bills.
Other employees have now asked frameworks and KPIs.
This included divisions which have ISO14001 to borrow the meters with a view to reviewing our contracts with key suppliers accreditation standard: Port of Tilbury, reducing their own domestic energy bills.
to ensure that they have systems in place Nordic and the Marine Division in to allow us to track and measure Scotland.
We continue to review and Energy efficiency resource management improvements.
We have also invested improve these systems.
The intention in 2009 achieved a considerable reduction in control mechanisms, in particular for is to achieve accreditation in the Scottish across the Group in our use of electricity.
lighting, and new technology such as Ports Operation on a port by port basis Electricity per tonne of cargo handled diesel logic to improve efficiency and so that we have group-wide accreditation.
reduced by 11.5% in Tilbury and by reduce consumption.
We will continue to nearly 8% in Scotland.
look at investing in new technologies in 2010 and as the Group replaces plant and Waste Management equipment, ensure that the replacements are more environmentally efficient.
The Group already has recycling facilities across all of its operational sites.
In 2010 A key part of the EICs work has been we aim to further improve our recycling to involve the whole of the Groups rates.
The Group is currently reviewing workforce in these initiatives, by the waste contractors to ensure the services appointment of energy champions, and a provided will allow us to increase our continuous programme of communication recycling rates.
and education to raise the awareness of Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 Resource Efficiency Initiative Progress to date The modifications have resulted Grangemouth Lock Entrance When a vessel enters the lock water in an 11% saving in electricity is pumped into the dock to replace consumption.
the water lost with each movement.
During 2009 the pumping and lighting regimes were modified.
Our ports use substantial volumes Early results show improved fuel Diesel Logic of diesel to run plant.
During 2009 efficiency and reduced emissions.
Tilbury trialled diesel logic The trial will be extended into 2010 a diesel pre-heating device on to assess the potential group-wide.
Lighting in warehouses represents A trial of energy efficient lighting Warehouse Lighting a substantial proportion of energy options is currently being evaluated use.
We are looking at ways to and we will report on progress reduce this.
Tilbury has purchased a number of This has raised awareness among Portable Energy Meters portable energy meters to allow staff staff about energy consumption of to test how much energy individual appliances they use at work.
has also allowed staff to borrow the meters to identify energy use at home.
This has proved very popular.
In 2009 Ocean Terminal undertook The assessment highlighted a number Waste Management an environmental waste assessment of areas where recycling can be in conjunction with the centres increased and the amount of landfill retailers.
A green partnership with retailers has been established to take this initiative forward.
Increasing staff awareness of This initiative has resulted in the Behaviour energy consumption continues largest electricity saving and to be a focus.
behaviour change through education will continue to deliver real benefits.
