SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT We donated 88,000 trees to communities to promote environmental culture 46 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 HIGHLIGHTS Fresnillo is committed to sustainability across all its business operations.
Our core responsibilities are to ensure the safety and health of our employees, safeguard the environment, promote community well-being and adhere to best governance practices.
Zero fatalities: improvement across all safety indicators Average hours of training per person remained stable at 92 hours ISO 14001 certication at all mines and Exploration Division Completed process for International Cyanide Code Certication at Herradura, initiated at Cinega Certication by the Mexican Greenhouse Gas Programme US$2.9 million invested in community development efforts Recognised as a socially responsible company by the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy CEMEFI Received Ethics and Values Award from the Federation of Industrial Chambers CONCAMIN First Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact 47 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP.
COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TOWARDS THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Page 1.
7jh cZhhZh h]djaY hjeedgi VcY gZheZXi i]Z egdiZXi dc d[ ciZgcVi dcVaan egdXaV bZY ]jbVc g ]ih!
Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.
Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.
Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.
Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.
Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.
Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
51,55 In 2009 we planted 60,000 saplings and continued to operate the Sustainable Forest at Cinega 48 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MEASURE 2009 2008 COMMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY No fatality is ever acceptable and we Fatalities 0 0 have a zero tolerance policy on this KPI.
Ongoing training and continued improvement in work conditions is improving overall safety performance Accident rate 3.10 3.63 number of disabling accidents that require absence from work for more than three days, divided by the total number of union and non-union employees, as well as contractors, multiplied by 100 Lost work days rate 1.20 1.58 total number of days lost due to disabling accidents divided by the total number of union and nonunion employees, as well as contractors EMPLOYEES Focus on leadership, teamwork, Professional 92 92 process improvement, productivity development training and management skills average hours person ESH training 23.3 18.4 Increased training on the average hours person SSMARC system ENVIRONMENT Energy consumption 0.188 0.157 The increase in unit consumption GJ per tonne eg bVg an gZZXih gZhdjgXZ requirements at development works Fresh water consumption 0.209 0.137 with no production output: the 3 m per tonne start-up of Soledad-Dipolos in 2010 should stabilise these gures Environmental incidents 0 0 These include tailing dam leakages, leaching pad contamination, res within mines and facilities, spillage of hazardous materials 49 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP.
Continuing the sustainable development of the Group Fresnillo plcs long-term operating performance and ability to create value for all stakeholders require an ongoing disciplined approach.
We implement this through occupational safety and health, environmental stewardship, mutually beneficial relationships with our communities, and robust governance practices.
Indeed, our very licence to operate is dependent upon the ability to meet our responsibilities as a corporate citizen.
Thus, for the Fresnillo Group sustainability efforts are core to the business strategy.
Our core values support this trust, responsibility, integrity and loyalty as does our Code of Conduct that must be reafrmed annually by every employee.
Furthermore, as a signatory to the UN Global Compact, the Group has publicly committed to best practices in sustainable development.
In 2009, we sent our first Communication on Progress CoP as a signatory.
We also follow the Framework for Sustainable Development of the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM and the framework guidelines set out by the Global Reporting Initiative GRI.
In Mexico, we follow the Decalogue of the Socially Responsible Companies established by the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy.
"As a signatory to the Global Compact of the United Nations, the Fresnillo Group promotes gender equality and opportunity, freedom of thought and association, respect Investment in education includes infrastructure and instructional programmes CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FRAMEWORK ALREADY ACQUIRED HD& %%& '%% HdX Vaan GZhedch WaZ 8dbeVcn 8Zgi XViZ :i] Xh VcY KVajZh c i]Z cYjhign 6lVgY adWVa 8dbeVXi IN PROCESS OF ACQUISITION 7H D H6H&-%%& '%%, HV[Z cYjhign 8Zgi XViZ 8dYZ d[ 8nVc YZ 8Zgi XViZ RELATED INICIATIVES 8dgedgViZ 8dbb ibZci dc L aYZgcZhh bZbWZgh] e 8deZc]V jZc 8dbbjc fjZ h cVidgn 50 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT We received distinction as a Socially Responsible Company from the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy CEMEFI for the fullment of standards in ""quality of life in the company, "" ""business ethics"", ""connection with the community"" and ""care and environmental preservation."
Also, our Ethics and Values Award from the Federation of Industrial Chambers CONCAMIN recognises our compliance and asset management in areas such as human rights, labour relations, environmental protection, illicit business prevention, ethics and corporate citizenship for the implementation and dissemination of CSR practices.
for human rights, the prohibition of slavery and the exAt the operating level, HSECR efforts are managed through ploitation of child labour, and combats actions that violate the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations respect for customs and traditions.
Known as SSSMARC acronym for Sistema fide Salud, Seguridad, Medio Ambiente y Relaciones con la Comunidad, We have long integrated sustainable development practhis is a comprehensive management system that intetices into our operations and monitored our performance grates the technical, social and economic variables involved across a number of variables.
Since the IPO, we have in workplace and stakeholder engagement, as well as enviworked to formalise and consolidate our policies and proronmental and quality of life concerns.
We utilise SSSMARC to identify sustainability risks: develThe Groups sustainable development strategy and pracop and execute mitigation programmes: and ensure tices are monitored at the Board level through the Health, regulatory compliance and voluntary adherence to Safety, Environment and Community Relations HSECR the standards determined by the HSECR Committee.
Committee, which is chaired by a Non-executive Director SSSMARC performance is to be evaluated at least and includes an Independent Non-executive Director and once per year by the SSSMARC Committee, which is the Groups Chief Executive.
comprised of senior executives and operations managers of each mine.
The responsibilities of the Committee are to: :dgbjaViZ VcY gZXdbbZcY id i]Z 7dVgY i]Z :gZhc aad Groups policy for HSECR issues, including the international and industry standards to which the Group should adhere GZk Zl bVcV ZbZcih ckZhi Vi dc d[ cX YZcih dg VXcidents that may occur in order to assess whether policy improvements are required :kVajViZ i]Z gZhjaih d[ i]Z gdjeh cYZeZcYZci eZg[dgmance audits and any resulting action plans CSR ORGANISATIONAL CHART BOARD HSECR Committee CEO Operations Human Resources HSECR Coordinator Manager Mine Units Managers 51 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP.
At Herradura we installed an INMERSIVE simulator in 2009 to train operators for open pit off-road trucks.
This simulator virtually exposes workers to difficult operational situations such as equipment failure or special atmospheric conditions.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Safe Industry Certication Fresnillo has adopted the occupational health and safety In 2009 we initiated the process to obtain Safe Industry guidelines of the International Labour Organisation and Certication from the Mexican Ministry of Labour.
This the World Health Organisation to develop our workplace process measures compliance with national safety regupolicies and programmes.
We comply with all regulations lations and the effectiveness of safety management sysput forth by the Mexican Ministry of Labour.
tems through voluntary audits conducted by the Company, unions and Government.
2010 target: Complete In accordance with these guidelines, each mine has a the first level of the certication programme at all mines, health and safety commission known as Comisin fide including at the Saucito project.
Seguridad e Higiene comprised of executives and union and non-union employees who monitor and review perThe Groups main health and safety initiatives are: formance.
These commissions are also responsible for the implementation of training and safety programmes.
Safety Objective Eliminate unsafe working conditions, and Certications train employees and contractors to eliminate unsafe OHSAS 18001:2008 acts, resulting in zero fatalities.
We are seeking OHSAS 18001:2008 certification at each Workplace safety measures are specic to each area of the of our mines, which requires specific procedures for business: for example, in underground mines we install measuring, monitoring and training.
We have startground anchors and reinforce mine works with shotcrete: ed implementing these procedures and are now 20% at the open pit operation we maintain mobile equipment through the certification programme at Fresnillo.
Once in optimal condition to ensure driver safety: and explosives this is complete we will begin at Herradura and Cinega.
and hazardous materials are contained, stored and labelled 2010 target: Advance 80% towards OHSAS  at every worksite.
As part of the safety facilities tion at Fresnillo and initiate the process towards certifiand infrastructure in our underground mines we have 21 cation at Herradura and Cinega.
refuge stations and train and equip 13 rescue teams.
Fresnillo plc safety programmes: US$2.6 million invested in 2009 HV[Zin 8dcYjXi Egd gVbbZ TM EZghdcVa hZY igV c c i]gdj ] HIDE VoVgYdjh bViZg Vah bVcV ZbZci ciZgcVa HV[Zin 6jY i Egd gVbbZ : ghi V Y igV c c 9Z[Zch kZ Yg k c igV c c 52 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT In 2009, 3D ultrasound and X-ray equipment was installed at Fresnillo and Cinega, and an ambulance was purchased at Herradura.
Safety training is an ongoing requirement for all employity and mortality.
2010 target: Complete 100% of annual ees and contractors, and encompasses a broad range of medical exams: zero cases of elevated blood lead levels.
job-related topics: from scaling and electrical work to operational procedures and interpersonal behaviours.
A speMeasuring safety and health performance cial 180-hour course for commission members took place Fresnillo plc has achieved two consecutive years with zero at the three mines in 2009. fatal accidents and improved safety performance year over year.
The Soledad-Dipolos project was constructed Health without major accidents.
2010 target: Maintain zero faObjective Eliminate occupational illnesses and imtal accidents and improve other safety indices by 20.0%.
prove general health through preventive care and wellness programmes.
HEALTH & SAFETY INDICATORS We provide a range of medical services for union and non- 2009 2008 2007 union employees as well as contractors.
These include annual exams for all employees at our onsite clinics, compreFatalities 0 0 2 hensive medical care for those in need, and routine and Accident rate 3.10 3.63 4.02 hZVhdcVa j kVXX cVi dch# c '%%.
lZ Vahd egdk YZY &C& Lost work days rate 1.20 1.58 2.20 vaccines.
At Fresnillo and Herradura, we provide major medical insurance coverage for families, and at Cinega, the onsite clinic treats all personnel and dependents.
We screen for and treat occupational illnesses such as silicosis, hearing loss and elevated blood lead levels as evidence of these may imply unhealthy work conditions that require additional preventive measures.
We also monitor general health conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and obesity due to their potential impact on productivRescue teams from our three mine units participated in the 10th Mine Rescue Teams Competition organised by the Mexican Mining Chamber CAMIMEX in the city of Pachuca.
The Herradura mine team was awarded first place in First Aid: the Fresnillo team second place in Mine Rescue, and the Cinega team third place in Mine Rescue.
EMPLOYEES Compensation, benets and quality of life The 2009 Fresnillo Group workforce annual average : Total wages and salaries paid in 2009 were US$17.7 million, '!
'%% iZX]c X Vch Vc cXgZVhZ d[ #% dkZg i]Z egZk djh nZVg gZZXi c hVaVgn for geological work monthly average increases and new hires.
"#% bZc VcY, #% ldbZc cXajY c - ldbZc Vh for managers and executives was established, which takes heavy equipment operators into account continuous improvement and business indica- - # jc dc hZY VcY & # cdc""jc dc hZY tors."
Revisions to union labour contracts resulting from the &.
&#% WZilZZc ' annual review were completed on a mutually satisfactory VcY '%#% VgZ basis, with a 6% increase to salary, 1% increase to fringe ben- '# VgZ Vi Vc ZmZXji kZ aZkZa ets and 1% as a one-time bonus.
Contracts at Herradura %- cZl ] gZh bVYZ c '%%.
d[ l] X] &-' lZgZ [dg i]Z were revised in March, Fresnillo in April and Cinega in May.
Saucito project IjgcdkZg gViZ d[ # We recognise the extraordinary commitment that employees make to the Group, especially mine workers living in isolated communities.
Aside from compensation, we believe we have a responsibility to enhance the quality of life of our employees, including education, personal and professional development opportunities, and in some areas of the operation, housing, transportation and access to communications.
Training and education The Group invested US$220,865 in training in 2009, focused primarily on creating a result-oriented culture of teamwork and integration, with workshops and courses in leadership, teamwork, process improvement, producTeamwork and innovation The Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare grants annual recognition to teams that generate innovation practices or improve production or organisational processes.
The Fresnillo and Herradura teams were recognised with the first prize in the large industrial sector category in the area of process innovation.
The prize was delivered in February 2009 by President Felipe Caldern.
The Fresnillo Visionaries team project reduced fresh water consumption by 25% in the mineral concentration process while increasing tonnage by 4%.
The Herradura Analytical Force team project increased the physical availability of the 992G loader from 75.0% to 84.7% to cover production schedules.
54 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT Our benets extend to employees families.
At Fresnillo, we run a tuition-free elementary school for the children of employees.
At Cinega, in coordination with the municipality, the company nancially sponsors elementary and middle school education for its employees families, and will underwrite the opening of a new high school in 2010.
At Herradura, the company provides financial support to area technical schools.
At all three mines, training workshops in self-esteem, small business entrepreneurship, and family and workplace values are provided for spouses, and for school teachers to impart to students.
We believe that teamwork drives operational improvements, workplace satisfaction and the innovation potential of the Company.
In 2009, 29 working teams were constituted to develop specic efciency improvement projects.
Transparency and accountability As part of our commitment to transparent governance and strong stakeholder relations, we rely on the Fresnillo Plays Fair programme to enforce our Code of Conduct.
This programme includes an anonymous whistleblower hotline that provides employees, contractors and suppliers with an institutional path for reporting ethical violations, unfair treatment of suppliers, workplace discrimination, VWjhZ d[ Vji]dg in!
dg Xdc Xih d[ ciZgZhi# Complaints are taken to the Fresnillo Honour Commission, which is comprised of the Chief Executive, Chief Operating officer and the Human Resources Manager.
The progress of each investigation can be monitored through an access code and password assigned to each case.
In 2009, we received one complaint classied under unfair treatment of a supplier which was satisfactorily resolved.
ENVIRONMENT To comply with legal and regulatory requirements and align our operations with international standards, environmental considerations must be factored into all areas of the operation.
These span the life cycle of a mine, from pre-feasibility studies in the exploration phase, to mine development and operation, to closure and restoration plans.
There were no reportable environmental incidents in 2009.
This category includes tailing dam leakages, leaching pad contamination, res within mines and facilities, and spillage of hazardous materials.
We utilise the guidelines and recommendations of the International Council on Mining and Metals to develop our environmental policies and programmes.
Our compliance with these standards in 2009 is evidenced by: HD & %%& '%% XZgi XVi dc Vi Vaa gdje b cZh VcY i]Z Exploration Division 8aZVc cYjhign 8Zgi XVi dc [gdb EGD::E6!
i]Z BZm XVc environmental authority 8dbeaZi dc d[ i]Z ciZgcVi dcVa 8nVc YZ 8dYZ 8Zgi XVtion process at Herradura In 2009 the Fresnillo mine installed an industrial dis- 8Zgi XVi dc [gdb i]Z BZm XVc gZZc]djhZ Vh Egdpatcher that reduced electrical consumption by 3.0%, gramme for self-reporting emissions as well as solar panels to heat water in restrooms and sanitary facilities, with a savings of 70.0%.
2010 target: Maintain all existing certications, obtain the Cyanide Code Certication at Herradura and complete the process at Cinega.
While these certications validate the efcacy of our environmental programmes, our philosophy is to produce more with less.
Thus we evaluate our performance on the basis of eco-efficiency indicators that measure consumption of non-renewable resources per tonne of production.
In 2009 i]Z g hZ c ZcZg n VcY lViZg Xdchjbei dc gZZXiZY Vc ccrease in operating activities that had no production output, specically the development works at Soledad-Dipolos and Saucito.
As these projects become producing mines, the Groups eco-efficiency performance is expected to level off and gradually improve.
Our operations primarily impact the following five categories: Energy: Objective Reduce unit consumption of energy.
In 2009 we consumed 3.1 million Gigajoules 28.4% electricity, 69.3% diesel, 1.4% petrol, 0.9% LP Gas.
To the extent possible, we seek renewable sources of electric energy: nonetheless, the majority of our consumption will remain in fossil fuels as necessitated by our usage of mobile equipment.
A number of energy efficiency projects saved approximately 19,250 GJ in the year, equivalent to 0.6% of total consumption.
2010 target: Reduce consumption by 10,000 GJ through energy efficient projects.
Fresnillo plc signed the Copenhagen Communiqu in November 2009 in recognition of our commitment INDICATOR to climate change mitigation.
This is an initiative per tonne of production 2009 2008 2007 of the Prince of Wales Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change that promotes climate impact Energy consumption GJ 0.188 0.157 0.152 mitigation initiatives.
3 Fresh water consumption m 0.209 0.137 0.194 56 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT Water: Objective Reduce unit consumption of fresh water through the recirculation of water.
The minimal residual water that the Company discharges We recycle materials such as spent oil, tyres, copper, fully complies with government quality standards.
ter is sourced from within the mines at Fresnillo and Cinega, and through wells at Herradura.
Consumption is limited At Herradura, spent oil from equipment mainteto replacement of evaporated water from tailing dams and finance is used for blasting at the open pit, which reis used primarily in the beneficiation plants, ofces and faciliduces diesel consumption.
ties, and for dust control at open pit mines.
3 Total water consumption was 3.5 million m in 2009, com- 3 pared to 2.3 m c '%%-# I]Z cXgZVhZ gZZXih ] ]Zg i]gdj ]- put at Fresnillo and Cinega and development works at the open pit Soledad-Dipolos project.
The start up of the new water treatment plant at Fresnillo will replace fresh water used in the operation with treated water sourced from the nearby municipality of Fresnillo.
2010 target: 20.0% reduction in fresh water consumption per tonne of production.
Emissions: Objective Contain fugitive dust and minimise unit CO 2 emissions from indirect sources of energy.
Fugitive dust is caused at open pit operations by vehicle trafc on the mines roads.
To prevent this, roads are constantly wetted down.
Fresnillo plc, like other mining companies, is not a significant emitter of carbon dioxide.
However we participate in the Mexico Greenhouse Gas Programme, a public-private initiative through which companies voluntarily report their GHG emissions.
In 2009, the Group emitted less than 0.017 tonnes of CO per tonne of mineral production from both direct sources 2 diesel equipment and vehicles and indirect sources electricth ity generated by third parties.
2010 target: Decrease GHG At the 9 World Wilderness Congress WILD9 held emission by 5.0% per tonne.
in Merida, Yucatan in November 2009, Fresnillo plc became a founding member of the Corporate ComWaste and hazardous materials: mitment to Wilderness.
This programme will foster Objective Maximise the rate of reuse of hazardous macooperation among participating companies.
terials and ensure their proper containment.
We employ a range of initiatives to recycle operating mateOur conservation efforts include the Cinega Susrials.
In 2009, 78.7% of the hazardous waste produced by the tainable Forest, conservation of the Sonoran prongGroup was reused in other processes, compared to 80.3% in horn at Herradura, and wildlife protection at the 2008.
In addition, 7,250 tonnes of industrial waste was sold Environmental Management Unit at Fresnillo.
to third parties, an increase of 5.0% over the previous year.
One of the Companys main waste products is tailings genZgViZY Wn i]Z diVi dc egdXZhh# I]Z XdchigjXi dc VcY bVcagement of our tailings dams fully comply with international and Mexican standards.
2010 target: Increase the reuse of hazardous waste 5.0%.
Biodiversity: Objective Minimise disruptions to endemic ora and fauna on our land: mitigate any impact through conservation efforts, relocation and reforestation.
Nurseries at our mines have an annual capacity of 110,000 trees, including the new facility built in 2009 by the Exploration Division to facilitate restoration in prospecting areas.
We donated 88,000 trees in 2009 to schools and communities to promote environmental culture.
We relocated 93,200 plant specimens in 2009, with an overall survival rate of 86.7%.
2010 target: Double capacity at the Cinega nursery to 100,000 trees: replant 115 hectares at Cinega and Fresnillo: relocate endemic species at 80 hectares at Herradura.
COMMUNITIES Fresnillos relationships with the communities where we operate are critical to the continuity of operations.
We share resources such as land, water, infrastructure and often municipal services.
As good corporate citizens, our goal is to develop harmonious and mutually beneficial relationships across the lifecycle of our mines, and to strengthen the communitys long-term self-sustaining capabilities.
By nature it is difficult to measure performance in this area.
We contract with an independent third party to conduct bi-annual perception studies in the communities where we operate, and rely on the feedback and recommendations of these reports to guide our engagement programmes and investments.
A key effort is to promote local enterprises by providing training, nancing and preferential procurement opportunities in areas such as transportation, maintenance and mine work and consumable supplies.
Working in conjunction with local governments and NGOs, our community engagement is focused on five areas, with US$2.9 million spent in 2009: Environmental awareness: sponsoring and promoting activities such as water conservation, recycling efforts, reforestation and clean public areas.
Objective: to go beyond our environmental mitigation efforts and have impact on a wider scale, and to enhance the perception of a responThrough United Way, Group employees contributed sible mining company.
US$13,000 to community philanthropic efforts.
Education: building, equipping and funding local schools and promoting the study of sciences through teacher training.
Objective: to promote local development.
Social integration: extending corporate health, athletics and recreation activities to the community.
Objective: to bring together employees, families and community members in positive interactions.
Self-sustaining capacity: training and development in alternative sources of income.
Objective: to ensure the communitys long-term well-being.
Social infrastructure: ensuring that communities have access to basic services such as electricity, sewage, housing, paved roads, telecommunications and healthcare.
Objective: to satisfy the basic needs of our communities.
We begin community outreach efforts at the exploration phase of our work.
We are committed to fair and open Third Iberoamerican Silversmith Summit negotiations, and respect the customs and culture of local communities and cooperative landowner groups ejidos.
With the objective of adding value to the extraction Agreements with landowners often include guaranteed inof silver and promoting the use of silver in jewellery vestments in the development of basic infrastructure.
and craftsmanship, Fresnillo plc, along with the Silver Institute sponsored the Third Iberoamerican Summit At our mines in operation, our efforts depend upon the type organised in November in the city of Zacatecas.
of community and its specic needs, distance to the operation and available services and infrastructure.
This event was created in 2001 by initiative of the Peruvian Silver Trust and neighbouring countries to Fresnillo exchange expertise and creativity in silversmithing The mine is located 60 kilometres northwest of Zacatecas through lectures, exhibitions and workshops.
FolCity in the state of Zacatecas, which has a long tradition of lowing the first two summits in Cuzco and Lima silver mining.
The local municipality of Fresnillo is an estabPeru, the Zacatecas meeting brought together lished town of 110,000 2005 census with solid infrastrucover 300 participants from 16 countries.
The Goverture and decent basic services.
nor of Zacatecas, Ms. Amalia Garcia Medina, was an active participant.
Our community engagement efforts include the 40-hectare Sustainability Complex that includes a recreational park, 58 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT small zoo with 184 animal species, a mesquite and cactus conservation and research facility, and a tourist mine and mining museum.
The Complex serves to educate tourists We built a Christmas tree out of more than 2,000 and residents about our mining and conservation activities PET bottles at the community centre in Cinega.
In 2009, we completed construction of the water treatment plant that will treat 50% of the citys sewage for reuse in the Fresnillo mines processes, bringing environmental benets to the town while reducing our fresh water consumption.
Other investments this year included the remodelling of the elementary school for the children of Fresnillos employees, and sponsorship of various athletic activities.
Herradura The mine is located 80 kilometres from the nearest large town of Caborca, population 70,000 2005 census in the State of Sonora.
Workers from area villages are provided daily transportation to the mine site.
We work in partnership with the Ecology and Sustainable Development Commission of Sonora State CEDES to protect the Sonoran pronghorn, an endangered species.
Since 1997, we have monitored and protected their habitat and measure the effectiveness of the programme through a regular aerial and terrestrial census.
We also sponsor educational programmes in the community.
I]Z gZadXVi dc d[ dgV h eVgi XjaVgan bedgiVci Vi ZggVdura because it is an open pit mine.
For example, we relocate thousands of cactuses each year.
In 2009 we began construction of a nursery that will open in 2010.
In 2009, in conjunction with the Borquez Schwarzbeck FounMore information : dation we provided materials and funding for the construcVisit the following websites to learn more about the tion of a new community centre in a village near the mine.
certications and organisations mentioned in this report.
The facility, which includes a computer lab and meeting space, aims to build educational capacity through workInternational Cyanide Code Certication shops.
Separately, we funded a technical school in Caborca.
org Cinega UN Global Compact The mine is supported by the small, isolated community of www.
org Nuestra Seora fide la Cinega, population 2,500.
The nearest town is Santiago Papasquiaro, population 47,000 2005 census, Framework for Sustainable Development of the 153 kilometres away, which itself is 172 kilometres from DuInternational Council on Mining and Metals ICMM rango City.
Because the immediate community is entirely fidewww.
com our-work  on the mine, we provide or facilitate all basic services framework including housing, food, sanitation, healthcare and education.
OHSAS 14001 and 18001 Based on feedback received in the community survey, we www.
co. uk en  certain projects in 2009 such as the paving of the services Management-systems  main road in the village, of which 900 metres was completed BS-OHSAS-18001 in conjunction with the municipality.
We also constructed 30 houses for employees families this year and installed a new Clean Industry Certication PROFEPA cell phone tower to facilitate mobile communications.
mx profepa At Cinega we operate the Sustainable Forest reforestation proMexican Greenhouse Gas Programme gramme, which started in 2003 in partnership with the National www.
org Institute for Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Research.
Covering almost 300 hectares, the forest is planted with evergreen and fideInternational Labour Organisation ciduous trees, and includes endangered species in the mushroom www.
In 2009 we planted 60,000 saplings, the majority of which came from our own nurseries, and continued to enhance the World Health Organisation water collection systems with the addition of 182 small cisterns.
