G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 28 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR management Delivering performance through CSR related issues have been a key part of our business philosophy responsible behaviour since the creation of G4S in 2004 as part of our Integrity Value Stream G4S plays an important role in society.
We make Working Group a group set up to ensure compliance with the groups a difference by helping people to operate in a safe ethical performance standards.
and secure environment where they can thrive In January 2010, we established a CSR Committee, chaired by G4S and prosper.
Our size and scale means we touch non-executive director, Mark Elliott, to ensure that CSR issues remain the lives of millions of people across the globe and at the forefront of the groups strategy and that we continue to have a positive impact on people and communities, whilst contributing to we have a duty and desire to ensure the influence a sustainable future for our business and everyone connected to it.
we have makes a positive impact on the people and communities in which we work.
The CSR Committee meets quarterly and reports into the Audit Committee in order to ensure that our CSR strategy remains aligned to issues such as risk management, audit and compliance.
As one of the worlds largest global employers, we have a responsibility to ensure that our employees are cared for and are given every G4S plc opportunity to develop and flourish as a result of being part of G4S.
Board Integrity is one of the groups core values being a responsible business partner, employer, customer and supplier is an important Nominations Audit Remuneration part of our strategy and forms an essential foundation on which we Committee Committee Committee carry out our business.
Responsible behaviour gives us licence to operate in existing markets and helps to build our reputation in new ones.
To underline the CSR importance of corporate responsibility we published our first Committee stand-alone corporate social responsibility report for 2008 and continued to invest in the systems and processes we need to strengthen our performance in this area.
Ethical Trading & Employment Issues Health & Safety Business Practices We manage four key corporate responsibility issues described in brief below, in more depth in the rest of this section of the report, and in greater detail in the 2009 CSR report.
Workforce Diversity Human Rights Climate Action & Inclusion Safeguarding our integrity How we set expectations and make sure that we attain high ethical standards.
Community & Social Investment Securing our workforce Keeping our people safe is our main priority but we also need to ensure that we source the right people for the right roles and that Stakeholder engagement our people feel listened to and supported in their working lives.
During 2009 we have developed our communication and engagement Securing our environment with key stakeholder groups to ensure that our strategy is aligned to their Reducing resource usage lowers our impact on the environment needs and that as our CSR programmes develop, we seek input and and helps us increase the efficiency of our operations.
advice from those around us.
Securing our communities G4S engages with a wide range of stakeholders including: We can make our business stronger through investment in stable, safe communities where our staff live and work.
Customers: The very nature of our work requires us to understand customers business issues and risks, and provide an appropriate solution.
Employees: In 2009, G4S conducted one of the largest ever employee surveys receiving responses from 169,000 employees in 107 businesses.
Investors: In 2009, G4S held two group meetings for CSR investors, including one hosted by Lord Condon, our non-executive deputy chairman and senior independent director as well as responding to enquiries from investors and ethical investment advisers.
Industry associations: Many G4S managers and employees play an active role in industry bodies and associations such as the Ligue Internationale des Societes fide Surveillance, the international association of leading More in our Corporate Social security companies, and the European Works Council to improve Responsibility report 2009 standards and share best practice.
More on Risk on page 38 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Overview Business review 29 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Policies and standards Performance and progress in 2009 To ensure good governance, we set group-wide standards in critical Safeguarding our integrity areas such as finance, HR, security and communications, reflecting the G4S values and business strategy.
In order to deal with major cultural Business ethics and legal variations around the world we leave space for businesses We believe that having a clear business ethics policy is essential to to localise their approach to implementing these standards, but without reinforce our principles throughout the organisation and help make compromise to the standards themselves.
them a reality wherever we operate.
CSR goals The G4S Business Ethics Policy was first introduced over five years ago, and since then has been continually developed to ensure it remains Our main focus in 2009 has been on ensuring that the KPI measurement current and comprehensive.
The 2009 policy is available on the G4S systems we have introduced are embedded in the business and are website and describes the standards that we apply in our dealings providing us with accurate and meaningful data on which we can build with employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders and governments, our CSR strategies.
This will enable us to set realistic targets in the future covering topics such as: and monitor accurately our progress against them.
Our approach to being a good corporate citizen, including human p Our targets include: rights, the environment and local communities Environment: Introducing carbon reduction measures to enable us to Our standards of business practice, covering issues such as bribery p achieve an annual carbon intensity reduction of 4.5% each year to 2012. and corruption, treatment of customers, suppliers and competitors Diversity and inclusion: Aiming for all businesses to have carried out Our approach to corporate governance, compliance with the law, p an assessment of their current position on diversity and inclusion by accounting standards and reporting the end of 2010.
Our commitments to our employees, incorporating international p Diversity and inclusion: Targeting at least 20% female participation in labour standards, health and safety and diversity and inclusion our high potential management development programmes.
Each year, we ask all senior leaders in G4S to personally reaffirm Health and safety: Conducting a complete review of the H&S strategy in their commitment to the policy, and in 2009, to ensure that the policy every business by the end of the year.
is more broadly understood throughout the organisation, it was Employee engagement: Ensuring that all front-line employees have cascaded throughout the business so that every employee could be the opportunity to take part in a feedback survey at least once every made aware of the standards of behaviour that are expected of them two years.
Audit and compliance: Conducting a full annual on-site internal audit of The mechanisms used to embed these principles vary according each of our major business units and an internal audit at least every three to local laws and cultures and include practices such as: years for all other businesses.
An employee induction programme p Community investment: Carrying out an assessment of our current Employee handbooks p community investment and impact by the end of the year, with a view to increasing our investment over time.
Establishing employee training programmes p Promotion of local business ethics and conduct policies p Discussions with employee representatives p Reinforcement via communication channels such as newsletters p and team briefings The appointment of chief compliance officers in some businesses p Not only has the company engaged in constructive negotiations with labour organisations, to resolve disputes and work out structures to handle labour rights issues in challenging environments, but it has also demonstrated an excellent approach to investor dialogue during the process.
Jakob Knig, Analyst GES Investment Services G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 30 Corporate social responsibility continued Compliance Our HR standards cover issues such as: Failure to demonstrate integrity to our wide range of stakeholders Performance appraisals p could damage our reputation and impact upon our ability to grow Training, development and succession p and develop our business in line with the group strategy, therefore monitoring compliance with our policy on ethical business practices Recruitment, selection and screening p is a key part of ensuring we live up to our integrity goals.
Health and safety p Sources of information that allow us to monitor compliance Diversity and inclusion p and to support the maintenance of our ethical standards include: Transparent and fair procedures for disciplinary matters, p Internal audit p grievances and redundancies Global whistle-blowing facility p Reward and recognition p External audit p Labour relations and freedom of association p Ongoing management reporting, including the G4S risk Local line and HR managers are responsible for ensuring compliance p p management process with these standards The chart below shows the internal audit activity during the last two Safety years in terms of assignments completed in different areas: The nature of our business means that many G4S employees operate in hazardous environments where crime or violence present particular 102 11632 36 11 50 Number of audits issues for society, and as a result they can become victims of attacks by and reviews third parties.
Tragically, 36 G4S employees died in 2009 as a result of 2008 such attacks.
While this figure is significantly lower than in 2008, when 2009 54 employees died, we remain committed to investing time, resource and energy to find new ways to protect our employees as they carry out their critical roles in society, and setting the benchmark for health and safety across the industry.
To support our health and safety strategy, we have defined standards Number Number Number of with which all G4S businesses must comply, going substantially beyond of internal of financial investigations the legal requirements in many parts of the world.
These cover areas control audits reviews and business support such as setting strategy and policy, measuring and reporting on KPIs, involvement with stakeholders, identifying health and safety risks and In 2009, due to extra staffing we were able to increase the number of reviewing performance.
internal control audits by 14% and financial reviews by 13% compared This expertise is being further enhanced with the appointment of a to 2008. global health and safety adviser from the International Organisation of The increase in the number of investigations and business support work Employers to help us ensure that G4S benchmarks well against other reflects an additional 43 off-site reviews to increase assurance over small multi-national employers.
businesses not visited during the year.
Employee engagement Securing our workforce We believe that employee engagement is an important driver of It is vital in an organisation of the size and complexity of G4S to have sustainable business performance as employees who are fully engaged will do their very best at work and care passionately about delivering clear standards to ensure that all employees are treated with respect, dignity and fairness, wherever in the world they work, in line with the first-rate service for our customers.
To generate strong levels of employee engagement we therefore take care to create an environment where people feel proud of G4S, feel We firmly believe that compliance with these HR standards forms the basis of a strong relationship with employees based on trust.
Such a valued as individuals, and have the opportunity to undertake work that relationship is a prerequisite for engaging employees in the business and they find enjoyable and fulfilling.
gaining their commitment to perform at their best for the benefit of This strategy is reinforced by a range of global standards which have customers and G4S.
been designed to ensure all businesses work to continually improve levels of engagement among their employees and help reinforce our position as a leading global employer.
Engaging our workforce helps create a virtuous circle, with increased employee motivation and loyalty generating higher levels of productivity and customer service, which delivers a positive and prolonged impact on our bottom line, leading in turn to increased job security and more diverse career opportunities.
We therefore expect all managers to treat each employee as a unique individual, and encourage our employees to actively engage with G4S and create an environment where we can work together to look after our mutual long-term interests.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Overview Business review 31 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Employee feedback In March 2009, G4S established a three-year environmental strategy To help embed our employee engagement strategy, in 2009 we which can be summarised as follows: undertook our first global employee survey in which we asked our Systematically measure the carbon emissions of the group for p people around the world how they viewed G4S as an employer.
By the at least 90% of the business end of the year, over 169,000 employees in 107 businesses had taken the Comply with all relevant legislation and codes of conduct opportunity to share their view a response rate of almost 30% and an p excellent result given the significant proportion of remote workers in Seek environmental business opportunities which comply with p G4S.
We believe this to be one of the largest global surveys of its kind the G4S business strategy and are very proud that our colleagues around the world took the time Implement carbon reduction technologies to reduce carbon intensity p to share their views on working with G4S.
measured against our revenue by 4.5% per year from 2010 to 2012 59 84 86 78 79 69 Employees who Develop an organisation to support the G4S Climate Action & p would recommend Environmental Policy G4S to a friend Communicate the G4S Climate Action & Environmental Policy % p and Objectives to key stakeholders Engaging with employees on climate issues In 2009, G4S launched The Big Think to highlight the issues surrounding climate change and encourage our employees to think about the steps, however small, that they can take themselves to help limit climate change.
Labour relations As a major global employer we believe that our staff are critical to the 2009 saw the global labour relations climate in the group move forward success of our Climate Action Programme and their individual actions significantly as the company began to implement its Ethical Employment can result in wide-ranging and effective energy efficiences.
Partnership EEP with UNI, the global union federation.
Signed in late 2008, the EEP is designed to drive improvements in employment Securing our communities standards across the security industry while helping to ensure that The group provides funding for four major, long-term communityemployee and union rights are respected throughout the group, resulting based initiatives around the world as part of our commitment to being in a positive impact on employees, their families and their communities.
These include a childrens home in Shanghai, a tree-planting programme in Malawi, Gifts 4 Schools in Jamaica Securing our environment and a school for underprivileged children in Delhi.
Reducing resource usage lowers our impact on the environment and In addition, in every country where we operate, we seek to make a helps us increase the efficiency of our operations.
We have made positive impact on the local communities where our staff, customers and significant progress over the last two years in measuring carbon suppliers live and work.
Around the world we encourage our businesses emissions and setting carbon intensity reduction targets.
We calculate to invest in community projects, whether directly with cash or through that during 2009, G4S businesses emitted some 628,000 t CO2e.
staff volunteering, fundraising and provision of G4S services.
G4S total carbon emissions Many of G4S specialist business activities deliver immense community split by region benefits.
Our mine action teams remove unexploded ordnance from former conflict zones across the world, making them safe for farming, Asia: 12.4% The Americas: 17.2% housing and economic development.
Staff in our prisons in the UK, US, Australia and South Africa run programmes dedicated to helping offenders turn away from a life of crime after release from custody, benefiting the communities to which they return.
Middle East: 18.3% Focusing on children and young people UK & Ireland: 20.5% Different countries across the world face different challenges to their societies and social wellbeing.
With operations in more than 110 countries, we are very aware of the many worthy causes and Africa: 12.4% projects which deserve our support.
Our general strategy is for our Continental Europe: 19.2% business units to support local programmes and charities which reflect the issues faced by their local communities.
Therefore, G4S provides funding, volunteers and services to a broad range of organisations in the communities in which our employees live and work.
As well as directly benefiting the communities concerned, this action improves our engagement with our staff and deepens our relationships with our customers.
The majority of our local programmes focus on the health, education, welfare and support of children and young people, although some G4S businesses focus on the elderly, the poor and other disadvantaged or vulnerable groups.
Africa The Americas Asia Continental Europe Middle East UK & Ireland
