The GAME Group plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2008-2009 Corporate responsibility Our reputation as a responsible retailer is fundamental to the popularity of our brands and our success as a business.
Vivienne Hemming David Thomas, Group Finance Director Company Secretary and Deputy Chief Executive 2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 48 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 48 2 26 5 09 10:45:43 6 5 09 10:45:43 Our performance The GAME Group plc Corporate responsibility 49 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 Our CR committee, under the chairmanship of We know that the way we operate David Thomas, keeps the scorecard up to date our business has a direct impact and drives forward the initiatives.
on our brand and our reputation.
We have set out the attributes of our business David Thomas is the Board Director responsible and how they make up our unique specialist for corporate responsibility CR and Vivienne retail proposition.
In the next few pages we Hemming, the Company Secretary, acts as will outline how we ensure those attributes are CR co-ordinator.
managed responsibly and how we monitor our practices on behalf of our stakeholders.
In 2008 we devised a CR scorecard to report We have then picked a number of case studies progress and initiatives to the Board.
The to illustrate GAME corporate responsibility scorecard serves a number of purposes: in action.
 It is a method of capturing all the activities and initiatives we have going on around Employees the business: Our hard-working, knowledgeable, employees  It serves as a reporting tool for our Board play a vital role in our specialist retail proposition.
of Directors: Equal opportunities  It enables us to check that each initiative We are committed to treating each employee we embark upon has a bone fide business equally and, of course, all our employment justi cation: decisions, policies and practices are made  It ensures that we have decided what without reference to an individuals gender, will constitute success in each area: and race, colour, religion, creed, sexual preference  It can be used year on year to measure or national origin.
We also ensure the provision our success.
of equal opportunities for all disabled persons who are able to discharge the job duties and functions required as part of employment in the Group.
We do not tolerate any acts of sexual or racial discrimination for any reason at any level of the organisation.
-10% electricity usage following staff training in stores Customer focus, evolving market.
2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 49 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 49 2 26 5 09 10:45:58 6 5 09 10:45:58 The GAME Group plc Corporate responsibility 50 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 Health and safety It is our policy to do all that is reasonably We recognise the importance practicable to ensure a safe and healthy of a knowledgeable and working environment for our employees.
We provide instructions, training, supervision and driven workforce.
information to enable employees to perform their work safely.
We comply with all health and safety laws and take all possible steps to ensure Career development and training that everyone in our stores and places of work We recognise the importance of a is safe.
We monitor and record our health and knowledgeable and driven workforce and safety performance so that we can continually are committed to enhancing the skills of improve upon it.
We offer both NVQ courses and our own bespoke training programmes, for Rewards and bene ts instance, our Xcite training programme which Our employees share in the bene ts of our covers core selling and customer service skills.
success and we offer a variety of financial This initiative engages regional and store rewards across the business.
We offer a number managers and store employees across the UK.
of awards designed to recognise and reward The training is delivered through workshops and employees for length of service.
We operate in-store activity based learning.
The programme a scheme of sales incentives and management recognises that the knowledge and enthusiasm bonuses that focus employees on the of our employees is one of our greatest assets achievement of key objectives.
We operate and that their own love of games can bring a Performance Share Plan to aid retention and the products to life for the customer.
We feel this align the objectives of our senior managers type of training genuinely adds to employee with those of our shareholders and we offer job satisfaction and enhances our employees a tax ef cient sharesave scheme to all our customer focus which improves the whole permanent employees to allow them to shopping experience.
As an added bonus, share in the success of the business.
the training programme won the Silver Industry Award for Effective Communications at the Employee communication International Visual Communication Association Communication is a two way process and so, annual awards and won the National Sales while we keep our employees up to date with Training Award of the Year.
regular business brie ngs, internal conferences and written communications, we positively To support our staff in understanding the encourage feedback from our people.
We use qualities of the latest technologies on the an annual survey to measure our success market, we offer staff discounts on purchases as an employer and we have a Bright Ideas and a lending library.
This contributes to the scheme which encourages and rewards our strong, games focussed knowledge that our employees for coming up with ideas that will customers experience when discussing enhance our working environment and products with our employees.
2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 50 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 50 2 26 5 09 10:45:59 6 5 09 10:45:59 Our performance The GAME Group plc Corporate responsibility 51 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 Protecting our young customers In 2008 we began a major drive to encourage We want to be able to provide all our customers employees to recycle as much as possible with the widest product range possible, however, and we are pleased to say that now, in our at the same time we want to ensure that our Basingstoke head of ce, plastics, batteries, younger customers only have access to paper, lamps and cans are all recycled.
We are well aware Also in head of ce, 24 tonnes of general and of our responsibilities and refuse to sell any con dential paper is recycled per annum whilst products to our younger customers which are in our UK stores 40 per cent of the total waste not age appropriate.
We operate a challenge produced has been recycled through 21 policy and will not sell certain products registered carriers.
This might mean we lose sales but we simply cannot afford to jeopardise Energy management our reputation as a responsible retailer.
We also As we open new stores they are tted with the work closely with various trade bodies such latest energy-saving technology, including digital as the Entertainment and Leisure Software inverter air conditioning, energy ef cient lighting Publishers Association ELSPA, the Video and single switch control which minimises Standards Council VSC and the Entertainment energy consumption when the store is closed.
Retailers Association ERA to advise and share In 2008 we consolidated our electricity suppliers best practice across the industry.
Our internal for both GAME and Gamestation and reduced training programmes are vigorous and we want energy consumption by 10 per cent through employees to feel empowered and supported better awareness and training of store staff when they are making dif cult decisions to and design of buildings.
We employ mystery shopper processes to monitor the success of our training Communication with our stakeholders and our employee support.
The GAME business is supported by its shareholders, its bankers and its lenders.
We Management of waste attach great importance to the effectiveness By offering preowned games, giving our of our communications with these stakeholders customers the opportunity to trade-in their old and we aim to provide all the financial and games, and by offering a repair service for strategic information they need on a regular damaged CDs and hardware, we encourage basis.
We do this through presentations and by our customers to look at alternatives to the publication of information on our website.
discarding old games and consoles.
However, We are proud that our relationships with our our recycling efforts do not stop there.
We also financial partners go back many years.
operate an electrical waste take back system for customers to meet WEEE requirements.
Our responsibility to the community In our Distribution centre we recycled 507 tonnes We want to be a positive in uence within of cardboard in 2008 2007: 413 tonnes.
the communities in which we operate and, throughout 2008, we have donated a number of pc and video games to non-pro t making bodies and of cial charities in sectors including, community health and welfare and the environment.
23% increase in cardboard recycled in the UK Customer focus, evolving market.
2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 51 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 51 2 26 5 09 10:45:59 6 5 09 10:45:59 The GAME Group plc Corporate responsibility 52 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 Case study: Reduction in electricity use Case study: Making a difference at our Manchester Denton store in Stourbridge The use of automated half hourly electricity As part of GAMEs support for charity partner, meters has given us better information on Action for Children, a team of GAME staff from electricity usage.
A study of the energy usage across the UK took part in a Challenge event data produced by the meters clearly showed at the charitys Children and Family Centre that the reduction in electricity use overnight in Stourbridge.
Volunteers redecorated rooms, compared to daytime use was limited.
The planted a garden and generally transformed study of the data at head of ce led to better a rundown bungalow into a multi purpose education for the store staff who now realise building that now offers recreational, the importance of switching off all equipment counselling, training and IT facilities.
not in use, especially at night.
The newly decorated Centre will primarily Understanding the energy usage at all our be used by young carers, young people under stores has enabled our store design teams the age of 18 who are responsible for a parent, to reduce costs by improving equipment brother or sister, with a physical or mental illness speci cation and installing controls to ensure or disability.
These young people take on energy is not wasted.
For example, the use caring responsibilities that are inappropriate for of a last man switch to turn off power on leaving their age, meaning they have very little time to the building, energy ef cient equipment, toilet enjoy themselves as children.
Harry Potter star lights and fans on timed sensors all help to Matthew Lewis, who plays Neville Longbottom save energy and costs.
in the popular lms and is an Ambassador for Action for Children, came along to support the challenge and to help distribute a range of games, consoles and software donated by GAME to a group of delighted young carers.
The GAME employees involved in the challenge were very moved by the experience and expressed their admiration for the young carers they met, who cope so amazingly well in such dif cult situations and for the project workers who provide such fantastic support.
2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 52 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 52 2 26 5 09 10:45:59 6 5 09 10:45:59 Our performance The GAME Group plc Corporate responsibility 53 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 Case study: GAME Challenge 21 Case study: Action for Children Week In 2008 the Group upgraded all training and Throughout 2007 and 2008 GAME has been support facilities for enforcing video games age supporting Action for Children, one of the UKs ratings.
New training packs featuring role play leading childrens charities, which works in exercises, work books and a realistic training partnership to run nearly 500 services for over lm were developed with the Video Standards 178,000 of the UKs most vulnerable children, Council VSC and independent legal experts.
young people and their families.
Action for The exclusive packs are now used in all 700 UK Children was previously known as National stores to give teams the best support when faced Childrens Home.
It re-branded in 2008 to with the dif cult task of asking customers about become Action for Children.
their age, and offering advice on alternative products or declining sales if appropriate.
During February 2009, employees in GAME stores across the UK and in the Basingstoke The Challenge 21 principle for selling 18 rated of ce took part in a wide variety of fundraising games was also introduced in all stores, and events and activities from parachute jumps to we have partnered with of cial Citizencard sponsored head shaves and 5-a-Side Football programme to offer customers a card for half Matches to Cycle Challenges.
Feedback from the stores was excellent.
GAME made a donation for every product Employees cited the training video as one of sold within a designated range of titles during the most useful tools in helping them deal with half term.
As a result of these widespread the reality of enforcing age ratings.
It outlined fundraising activities we were able to achieve how employees can face criticism or abuse our challenging fundraising target of 250,000. when asking customers to prove their age, and The money raised will be used to support Young the first hand account of an employee who was Carer projects throughout the country helping formally interviewed by Trading Standards of cers Action for Children deliver much needed support after an age rated game was sold to a minor.
to this most vulnerable group of young people.
Thankfully such incidents are rare, because the Group takes its responsibilities very seriously, and provides every employee with all the tools and support they need to sell age rated games effectively.
