Business Review Corporate Responsibility Genus unique position in the supply of The Genus approach to corporate Genus plays a key part in the superior natural animal genetics enables responsibility applies to the following key worlds agricultural economy the worlds farmers and food producers areas: the environment, our employees, and delivers many benefits to to ensure the supply of quality products health & safety, our stakeholder with increasing output at improved relationships and our community.
In the context The Genus principles of corporate of an ever increasing world population responsibility apply to all our employees and decreasing resources being made and are a minimum standard for available for food production, Genus their behaviour.
plays an increasingly important social and The Environment economic role in the efficient production Genus recognises that concern for of quality foods.
the environment is an essential part of Genus is committed to the highest its business operations and seeks to standards of corporate and individual minimise risk to the environment by behaviour and actively considers the effective management of the Groups economic, social and environmental activities.
The Groups environmental impacts of the Companys activities, policy is to conduct its business, as a wherever they operate in the world.
In minimum, in compliance with the laws acting with the highest standards of and regulations applicable to its business business conduct, Genus earns the in each of the countries in which it trust of its customers, shareholders, operates.
The monitoring and reporting colleagues, suppliers, regulators and the on environmental performance is an communities in which Genus operates.
integral part of the Companys operations Maintaining these standards is vital to the and a key part of the Companys risk continued success and development of management programme.
Genus Group companies devise procedures which are, as a minimum, compliant with local laws and operating conditions.
The Genus Board has overall responsibility for corporate responsibility, assessing the needs of Genus stakeholders regularly, and delegates day to day management of corporate responsibility issues to the Companys operating Board in conjunction with regional management.
24 I Genus Annual Report 2009 Business Review Introduction Corporate Governance Financial Statements Genus employees in Argentina Our Employees Health & Safety Our Community Genus places considerable value on Genus is committed to providing safe Genus recognises its responsibilities the involvement of its employees and systems of work for its employees in as a member of the communities in has continued to keep its employees all countries in which it operates and which it operates and, at a local level, informed on matters affecting them pro-actively monitors compliance with encourages its operating companies as employees and on the various local regulations.
This commitment is to engage with the local community factors affecting the performance of supported by a comprehensive training in their areas of operation.
This is achieved through regime for the Groups employees.
level the Company sponsors the Farm formal and informal meetings, internal The monitoring and reporting on Business Awards and the John Beckett communications, the Companys the Companys health & safety Foundation, a charity that provides magazine and the Groups intranet.
performance is an integral part of business scholarships to young farmers.
the Companys operations and a Genus employment policies respect the key part of the Companys risk individual regardless of sex, age, race management programme.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment from disabled people.
The services of Our Stakeholder Relationships employees who become disabled are Customers retained wherever possible and training, career development and promotion Genus aims to provide products and opportunities are provided where services of the highest quality and appropriate.
The Group has a well technical standards appropriate to our established structure to communicate customers own requirements.
At all with employees at every level and to times Genus takes all reasonable steps encourage their involvement regarding to ensure the safety and quality of the the Groups performance and goods and services that Genus provides, future activities.
including compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements.
We require all employees to act in an ethical manner both within the Company Suppliers and in dealings with other organisations, Genus is committed to working with and to comply with all applicable laws suppliers in mutually beneficial ways, and Company policies.
and, so far as is practicable, requires that suppliers and contractors act in accordance with its values and policies.
