20 Our employees GSK Values and Behaviours Employee numbers by region 1 Changes in the healthcare market over the past decade necessitate 1 USA 22,594 3 the transformation of our business model to one that is more 2 Europe 42,048 customer-centric and innovative: how we perform as a collective 3 Rest of World 35,271 organisation will determine our success.
In order to be effective with growing complexity and exponential speed of change in our external environment, GSK needs to create an internal learning culture that is embodied by GSK Values and Behaviours.
For more details on GSK Values and Behaviours, see our Corporate 2 Responsibility Report.
Recruitment, talent management and leadership Inclusion and diversity development We are committed to employment policies free from discrimination In 2009, like every year, recruiting, retaining and developing against existing or potential employees on the grounds of age, our employees were critical to enhancing and sustaining our race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, faith performance and reputation.
Proactive talent acquisition initiatives or disability.
GSK is committed to offering people with disabilities underpin our ability to attract specialist and leadership talent access to the full range of recruitment and career opportunities.
Our assessment process is aligned to a core set of Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become competencies, of which ethics and integrity are central.
disabled while working at GSK.
For more details on diversity measures, see our Corporate Responsibility Report.
A global view of talent and strategic capabilities required looking at the quality, depth and breadth of our talent across the world.
Healthy and safe high performance We need good succession plans, not just for senior roles but for To meet our mission and strategy, Employee Health and all our critical positions across the organisation.
We maintain a Performance initiatives focus on the health factors that enable robust leadership strategy to identify and develop our highly skilled employees to perform at the highest level by sustaining energy leadership cadre and use a systematic, disciplined approach to and engagement.
The programmes developed to deliver this leadership development, providing tools and programmes to help health strategy range from the traditional such as immunisations, leaders master skills needed to meet customer, employees and smoking control, and weight management to cutting-edge investor expectations.
In 2009, we launched a First Line Leader programmes in the areas of team and personal resilience, programme for all new leaders whether new to GSK or new ergonomics and Energy for Performance.
These programmes, to managing people.
We also launched a GSK-wide mentoring available in many languages, are designed to address the root scheme where each senior leader will mentor at least one causes of excessive work pressure and low energy and engagement individual in 2010. at work and at home.
They are complimented by our commitment Performance and reward to flexible working that enables employees to do their best work in an environment that helps them integrate their work and The performance and development planning PDP process means personal lives.
For more details on the scope and impact of these employees have business-aligned objectives and behavioural programmes, see our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Our reward systems support high performance and help to attract and retain the best people.
Performance-based pay & bonuses and share-based equity plans align employee interests with business targets.
Communication and employee involvement Our communication channels are designed to keep employees informed, engaged and involved in activities across all areas of our organisation.
We encourage two-way, open and honest communication with employees, and in 2009 improvements in web usage technology engaged more employees.
Feedback and monitoring mechanisms are part of every major communication event, and Q&A and feedback facilities are a core feature of our web communications channels.
Other broader processes include an internal online opinion survey where in 2009 more than 93,000 employees were invited to provide feedback on individual empowerment, employee engagement and our company values.
As our business evolves, there will be changes that affect employees and we remain committed to consulting on these changes via a number of internal consultation forums and discussions with the European Employee Consultation Forum and similar bodies in countries where this is national practice.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Business review P06P53
