Directors Report: Business Review Corporate responsibility Our responsibilities Through engagement with stakeholders we have identified seven key areas of responsibility: Responsible 1.
Role as an employer Our performance against all of these issues Operating our companies in a socially can be found in our corporate responsibility 2009 Highlights and environmentally responsible web report and accompanying summary manner is a key part of the Groups document.
We are in the process of CarbonTrust Standard strategy and is deeply embedded standardising and enhancing our responsibility We became the first UK transport across our organisation at all levels.
targets across the Group and look forward operator to be awarded the CarbonTrust to reporting on these next year.
Standard in recognition of our work to Benchmarking our performance reduce carbon emissions.
This section focuses on how we manage We continue to participate in the our safety and environmental performance Business in the Community BITC Improved efficiency and highlights key achievements this year.
These Across our bus operations we have voluntary indices help us to compare made significant investments in engine Robust management performance against other leading UK monitoring technology and training The safety and security of our passengers, businesses, including many FTSE 100 schemes.
This has resulted in fuel efficiency our people and the general public is an companies.
For the third year in a row improvements of around 5%.
absolute priority for the Group.
The Board we were awarded a gold rating by also places a significant emphasis on BITC, the highest rating amongst improving energy efficiency as this has Renewable sources comparable participating public important environmental benefits and helps Around 75% of our site electricity is transport operators.
In achieving this to reduce operating costs.
We do not have generated from renewable sources level, Go-Ahead has demonstrated separate Board level committees for including hydro-power, wind-power and that it improves responsibility corporate responsibility and health & safety biomass fuels.
throughout its operations by providing as we believe it is fundamental for the a systematic approach to managing, Board as a whole to be involved in these Energy saving measuring and reporting on business areas, which are integral to our business.
The introduction of regenerative braking impacts in society and on the on the third rail system has resulted in environment.
We believe that effective management around a 5% reduction in traction can only be achieved through robust In December 2008 we became the first electricity usage on the Southern network.
Internal safety and energy public transport company to be officially targets for each of our twelve operating certified with the CarbonTrust Standard.
16% site energy reduction companies are set at the beginning of each The CarbonTrust Standard is the UK's We achieved a 16% reduction in site financial year.
Performance against safety only independent certification energy as a result of the commitment of recognising achievements in action on our employees and new energy efficient climate change by leading organisations Publishing our responsibility data lighting systems.
in industry, commerce and the public Corporate responsibility has always sector.
It is also the worlds first carbon Energy Forums been at the heart of Go-Ahead.
We were award scheme that requires an Five Group energy forums were held this the first in our sector to publish our organisation to measure, manage and year where operating companies share environmental data and this year we reduce its carbon footprint and actually best and emerging practice on reducing will be publishing the Groups corporate make real reductions year-on-year.
responsibility data in a new upgraded web We have been included in the report which gives stakeholders easier FTSE4Good index every year since access to more in-depth information.
For the third year in a row Go-Ahead Last year we were the first in our sector to achieved a gold rating in Business in the produce an Economic Impact Report which Communitys BITC Responsibility Index measures the significant contribution we the highest rating amongst comparable make to the towns and cities we operate in.
Gas consumption data has been normalised by use of degree days to account for variations in temperature.
38 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility targets is linked to both operating company Electricity consumption kwh senior managers and Group Executive 1200 Directors remuneration.
New lights installed 1000 The Groups flat structure enables the Board to closely monitor the performance of each 800 operating company.
For example, safety and 600 energy KPIs are reviewed at monthly operating company board meetings, chaired by 400 the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance 200 Director.
See page 44 in the Corporate Governance section for more information 0 about how our devolved management May 08 Jul 08 Sep 08 Nov 08 Jan 09 Mar 09 May 09 structure enables the Group to be managed in a particularly effective way.
The above chart shows the effect of the energy saving lights at our Victoria Sidings train depot, nearVictoria Station London.
Reducing our site energy In June 2009 we replaced traditional high bay lights at our bus and rail depots and multi storey car parks with new intelligent energy saving lights.
The traditional lights accounted for a significant proportion of the carbon dioxide emissions caused by our site energy use and were very expensive to run.
The new lights have sensors so that they turn on and off according to movement and if it is a sunny day they can adjust themselves to be less bright.
This means that the system only provides light when it is needed.
Initial results have been very encouraging and at some depots electricity usage has reduced by around 50%.
Capital expenditure: 2.4 million average life of technology: up to 10 years Aim: to reduce Group site electricity consumption by around 10% Estimated annual savings: 1 million cost saving 4,300 C0 tonnes.
Equivalent to annual 2 emissions from 780 households.
This year, our economic impacts have been incorporated within our Corporate Responsibility Report.
As part of our commitment to provide locally focused services we continue to be the only company in our sector to produce a separate environmental and social report for each of our operating companies.
To view our environmental data publications visit: www.
com publications The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Business Review Corporate responsibility continued Sharing best practice The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups corporate responsibility.
However, as we operate though a devolved structure, each operating company manages their own safety and energy programmes and performance is reported to the Board through the Executive Directors.
Operating companies have safety and energy committees which are each led by a senior manager specifically responsible for the companys performance see the chart below for our internal responsibility structure.
Companies often run internal Greenest Bus Fleet competitions and specific safety Investing in a modern public transport system is key and environmental days in order to attracting passengers out of private cars.
Through to encourage staff participation and sustained investment Go-Ahead is recognised as to ensure these issues maintain having the youngest and greenest bus eet of the a high profile.
2009 safety highlights Southern Vectis, part of Go South Coast, is the main Although the Group is decentralised, bus operator on the Isle of Wight.
Its modern eet we recognise the importance of sharing and frequent services mean it is integral to the 11% reduction best practice.
The Group regularly holds community and a core contributor to the Islands RIDDOR accidents per 100 employees health & safety and energy forums vision of obtaining carbon neutrality by 2020. reduced by 11%.
where companies share best practice Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous TAS Partnerhship August 2008 analysis and help develop Group wide Occurences Regulations RIDDOR.
In addition, See page 13 for more detail.
each operating company works closely 28% reduction Group safety and energy responsibility structure SPADs per million miles reduced by 28%.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Board of Directors New technology Engine monitoring technology tted and safe and fuel efficient driver training completed across bus division.
This is designed to reduce the number of Operating Company accidents as well as improve fuel efficiency.
Managing Director Secure Station Status Group Energy Southern has achieved secure station Forums Group Health & status at 68 of its stations representing Share best practice Safety Forums 93% of passengers across its network.
Opertaing Company Share best practice London Midland and Southeastern have 51 Chaired by Group Senior Manager Engineering and 35 stations accredited respectively.
Chaired by Group responsible for energy Director & Group Engineering health & safety Environment & CCTV Director Energy Manager 90% of bus eet and 72% of train carriages now tted with CCTV.
Sharing best practice Four health & safety forums held and health & safety section on Group intranet established to help share best practice across operating companies.
Operating Company Operating Company Energy Committee H&S Committee 40 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility with the Group Engineering Director support: its mission statement being and the Group Environment & To accelerate a sustainable shift to low Energy Manager.
carbon vehicles and fuels and create opportunities for UK business.
The Groups health & safety and energy & environment policies can be found on We are also a member of Green500, the Groups website www.
goone of a number of London ahead.
In addition, we have Development Agency initiatives to arrangements and policies at Group work with organisations with the and operating company levels to deal greatest carbon saving potential.
with major events, including terrorism It aims to set a global standard of or potential significant disasters.
environmental excellence which will set members apart as bastions of Partnerships global organisational citizenship.
We work closely with Personnel Health & Safety Consultants Ltd PHSC to In addition, we have just become a ensure compliance with health & safety member of the ElectricVehicle Smart metering legislation.
PHSC undertake regular staff Partnership EVP created by the We believe that effective management can only be interviews and audits and present their London Mayors office.
EVP is designed achieved through robust measurement.
We have findings to the Audit Committee.
to encourage the use and development tted smart and electric meters at our largest of electric vehicles.
To date we are the consuming sites to ensure accurate measurement.
To help improve the Groups energy only passenger transport operator of efficiency and to keep abreast of the pure electric service support vehicles latest technologies we work closely with in England.
the CarbonTrust and are members of a number of working groups.
We are the only public transport operator to sit on the Council of the Low CVP CarbonVehicle Partnership.
The Low CVP is a government funded undertaking with industry financial Total Group CO emissions tonnes 2 Rail electricity 534,631 Bus Diesel 297,342 Rail diesel 42,564 Site Energy 63,246 Rail electricity 495,414 Bus Diesel 302,657 Rail diesel 28,982 Site Energy 59,672 Rail electricity 424,225 Bus Diesel 287,595 Rail diesel 11,012 Site Energy 50,706 2009 Total 973,783 2008 Total 886,725 2007 Total 773,538 The chart above shows absolute C0 emissions and includes acquisitions of new businesses.
The conversion 2 factors used are in accordance with Guidelines to DEFRAs Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting June 2008.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 2007 2008 2009 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
