Corporate social responsibility report Greene King takes its responsibilities to the environment and our various stakeholder communities very seriously and works hard to ensure we are a good corporate citizen.
Our staff work throughout the business to meet high standards of quality, safety and environmental awareness.
Our work on corporate social responsibility falls into four key areas.
Protection Red Tractor accreditation We continue to develop lighter options and We take pride in ensuring what we do Greene King has become the first brewer support our customers to make healthier is ethical and sustainable.
in the UK to be awarded the prestigious choices.
Baking and grilling are central cooking Red Tractor certication for all our beers.
methods in our kitchens, where no salt Food safety and supply Red Tractor is an independent mark that is added in the cooking process.
We have Food safety and the security of supply are guarantees the quality and origin of begun to provide nutritional information to of paramount importance.
We require all ingredients and the ethical production consumers across the Hungry Horse brand our suppliers to have either British Retail methods of food and drink.
Any brand that and best selling lines, and are currently Consortium BRC or Safe and Local Supplier has been certied comes from farms and working towards providing a full nutritional Approval SALSA accreditation.
Both of producers that meet high standards of food prole for all our dishes.
In addition, we are these quality marks provide a benchmark safety and hygiene, animal welfare and now publishing information for those suffering for best practice in the food industry, environmental protection.
from coeliac disease on our Inns menus, and, and demonstrate that our suppliers deliver to increase accessibility, we have committed consistent food safety and quality.
SALSA Scores on the doors to making all our menus in our Retail division accreditation was launched in March 2007 Greene King supports the adoption of a available in Braille and in MP3 format.
in response to the increased popularity national Scores on the Doors scheme to of local and regionally sourced products.
give clarity to customers on what standards By working with the FSA, our suppliers and to expect, and to enable all operators partners and with the help of our independent All food products supplied to us must meet to achieve a recognised industry standard.
nutritionist, we have committed to ensuring our strict labelling requirements and our In areas where this scheme does operate, that our steps to support the four pillars of suppliers must be able to demonstrate full we have achieved 5-star, excellent ratings healthy eating are based on sound nutrition.
traceability of all products supplied.
Our in three of our pubs and are now working suppliers are required to endorse, support to ensure all of our pubs reach this standard.
Going forward we have committed to and implement the Food Safety Act 1990, the following: together with any other relevant legislation Healthy eating regarding the supply of goods, and their staff This year we have worked closely with the We will actively source lower salt, must hold the minimum of a basic hygiene Food Standards Agency FSA on improving lower saturated fat and lower calorie certicate or equivalent.
Furthermore, we our menus and the nutritional information versions of ingredients during product require that all our suppliers ensure that all available to our diners.
We are committed tender processes.
products, labour and ingredients fall within to great tasting, quality food, and we focus on ethical guidelines.
providing our customers with choice through We will use the FSA salt guidelines a wide range of menu options including to benchmark our key menu items.
Greene King does not use genetically fresh fruit, vegetables, sh and lean meat modied foods.
to support a healthy and balanced diet.
GREENE KING PLC 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 We will ensure that the FSA is regularly Loch Fyne understands that where they Fair trade updated on the progress and developments source their produce is key.
No one works We are proud to serve Fair Trade coffee we make and publish specic changes that harder than Loch Fyne to make sure that in our managed pubs, hotels and restaurants we make.
every oyster, salmon and sh that leaves in England and Wales.
their kitchens is cultivated, farmed or shed We will provide nutritional information in accordance with their strict environmental Health and safety on our menus in Hungry Horse, Hardys and quality guidelines.
We are committed to providing a safe and and our Inns division on the next menu secure environment for both our employees change.
This will be provided via various They take advice from respected marine and customers.
Championed at board level, websites and referred to on our menus.
bodies regarding the sh and seafood they health and safety improvements and best serve.
Where species are not plentiful they practice are a priority.
We will ensure we can provide will nd alternatives and will not source sh information on gluten, fat, saturated fat, caught by methods deemed to be harmful We have embarked on a capital programme salt and sugar content of dishes to to the marine ecosystem such as deep-sea of risk reduction measures to protect our customers who have a specic dietary trawlers, beam trawlers or industrial longestate from re and oods and now have need on all the menus noted above.
The approach at Loch Fyne is being over 75% of our estate protected by re shared with the rest of our retail business as suppression systems.
Loch Fyne Restaurants they lead the way on best practice in this area.
Loch Fyne stands out for its approach Our Brewing Company holds two RoSPA to environmental issues something that All Loch Fyne products are sourced according Gold Awards and one RoSPA Gold Medal has been at the heart of the business since to quality, provenance and sustainability.
for Occupational Health and Safety.
It is committed to independent producers using sustainable methods to produce high quality foods.
Healthy children at Hungry Horse Our new childrens menu in Hungry Horse now offers parents peace of mind when choosing for their children.
The menu provides the right size portions for the age of child, in line with Government guidelines, and is the first to offer free extra vegetable portions for our young diners.
The menu is set out to help youngsters learn to make choices and contains reduced fat and reduced salt options.
It also includes organic pasta dishes and vegetarian options but without taking out any of the fun.
And, by adding a portion of free vegetables, the childrens menu now enables mums and dads to provide four of their childrens 5-A-Day fruit and vegetables in one meal.
In line with our commitment to the FSA, we have now also provided full nutritional information on all our childrens meals through a handy nutritional guide on the Hungry Horse website.
Credit card-sized versions of these guides will be available in our Hungry Horse pubs over the next few months.
GREENE KING PLC 23 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview Corporate social responsibility report Environment We have now identied key priorities aimed The recycling of over 50 tonnes of ofce We recognise that all of our operations at reducing our carbon footprint.
The key waste in 2008 09. and the actions of our employees impact area of focus for us is the reduction of CO 2 on our environment and have undertaken emissions and, therefore, our consumption of The introduction of energy packs environmental impact assessments to electricity, gas and fuel in our pubs, breweries, to turn off equipment and lights when highlight areas where our impact on the distribution activities and in our head ofce.
Key achievements to date include: The recycling of 1.8 million litres of cooking Our policy is to: The creation of an environment steering oil into fuel over the past two years.
committee which has representatives Comply with all our legal obligations from all areas of the business and which A company-wide Turn it off campaign in relation to the environment and reports to the board, to drive forward aimed at staff.
to prepare for proposed environmental environmental improvements.
The replacement of thousands of ordinary The installation of an increasing number light bulbs with low-energy ones.
Aim for continual improvement in of smart meters for electricity, gas and performance in relation to environmental water across the estate.
Going forward we intend to: matters throughout all our production, distribution and retailing operations, The saving of 200,000 HGV miles pa Build on this work and set targets so that we minimise the extent of the net from the re-organisation of our for the next few years.
environmental impact of our operations, distribution operations.
so far as reasonably practicable, by Explore how we can introduce more minimising harmful emissions or efuents, The introduction of nitrogen in the tyres energy efficient equipment across conserving energy and water resources, of our distribution eet vehicles, which our estate.
minimising the use of materials which gives us more energy efficient vehicles may be harmful to the environment, and cuts down on carbon emissions.
Undertake a full review of our waste and re-using and recycling waste.
management plan and reduce our reliance The development of new lightweight on landll.
Wherever possible we have committed to: bottles that have 25% lower glass content, saving over 100 tonnes of CO emissions.
We were also proud to sponsor the 2 Set targets and monitor environmental Greenest Pub, Club and Hotel category performance to enhance the efficient The use of lighter boiler fuel which has of Suffolk Creating the Greenest County use of resources and to avoid waste.
These awards celebrate the environmental excellence of different Work with our suppliers and customers The recycling of over 6,000 tonnes organisations across Suffolk and demonstrate to minimise adverse environmental of spent grain and 800 tonnes of yeast how Suffolks communities, businesses impacts throughout the supply chain.
and schools are leading the way on a wide range of environmental areas, from cutting Provide the resources for programmes Over 1,300 tonnes of yeast sent to transport to buying local products to of sustainable environmental performance Marmite in 2008 09. protecting local biodiversity.
GREENE KING PLC 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 People All our employees are offered access to The RoSPA MORR award, which Employer of choice a stakeholder pensions scheme and many rewards excellence in managing Our workforce is our greatest asset of our employees have benefited from our occupational road risk and encourages our aim is to be an employer of choice.
sharesave scheme, which is open to all staff.
improvement in this key area where the Health and Safety Executive estimates Greene King has a proud history of being Training that there may be as many as 1,000 worka first-class employer.
Our values of respect, Dedicated training programmes and related road fatalities per year.
In addition, honesty and courage, customer focus, results development courses ensure constant growth the Department of Transport says that and execution underpin the way in which both for individuals and the company as a as many as one in three road crashes we do business.
Our induction programme ensures involves a vehicle being driven for work, all staff are trained on entry in compliance, and believes that nearly all of the deaths We recruit, develop, reward and promote licensing, conict management, food safety and injuries are preventable our staff on the basis of their skills and and health and safety including re safety.
We are committed The British Safety Council International to ensuring that all employees receive Our new career path, training programme, Safety Award which demonstrates that equal treatment regardless of their colour, introduced in Locals in 2008 09, now we have in place comprehensive health nationality, race, religion belief, ethnic origin, provides staff with a clear career ladder, and safety policies, targeted plans, and sex, marital status, disability, part-time or with training on every rung, that can take a clear commitment to health and safety xed term status, parental responsibilities, them from team member to business from the shop oor to the boardroom.
Our exible development manager and beyond.
To win the award, an organisation must benets enable employees to tailor their also have demonstrated the competence benets to what is important to them, Health and safety of those responsible for the management including childcare and healthcare, as well as Greene King enjoys a good record on of health and safety, and provide clear offering exible working hours and working health and safety.
We are committed to the evidence about improvements they from home options where practicable.
promotion of a positive safety culture and to have achieved in health and safety during ensuring that we do all we can to protect our the year.
We are committed to engaging with our staff staff and customers.
This year has seen our through our many communication channels, organisation awarded a number of prestigious such as regular business performance health and safety awards including: updates, and actively encourage feedback directly to our chief executive.
We have The RoSPA Gold Award for good consultative and collective bargaining Occupational Health and Safety relationships with our trade unions.
for the fifth consecutive year.
Career ladder Before joining Greene King, Phil Venables had spent ten years working in the pub trade.
In common with many, he found he lacked the opportunity and the training he needed to make a career in pub management.
A year ago, Phil joined Greene King Local Pubs, stepped on to the Greene King career ladder and, since then, hasnt looked back.
Phil says: The training is excellent.
I was on the Rising Stars programme for potential house managers.
Its a fast-track scheme which takes you on a personalised leadership and management development programme that can see you running your own pub within months.
The career ladder offers team members a clear career path mapped out with development programmes to progress their career at every stage.
From joining as a team member through supervisor and assistant manager, to running their own pub and beyond, there is a training programme to meet everyones aspirations.
As a result of the programme, Phil is now manager of the Red Hart in Hitchin.
Since taking over, Phil has applied his training, driven sales and has seen turnover at the pub increase.
GREENE KING PLC 25 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview Corporate social responsibility report RoadSafe Place of British.
Staff at our Coleshill Hotel really In 2008, Greene King became a RoadSafe Our pubs are at the heart of the went the extra mile with the help of the business champion.
RoadSafe aims to reduce community they serve, and we are Household Cavalry, who donated dinner road deaths and injuries and promote safer committed to being an active and positive in the mess and a days riding with the Blues driving.
It brings together representatives from contributor to local communities.
and Royals to an impressive list of prizes, Government, the vehicle and component and raised over 6,000. manufacturing and road transport industries, Charity road safety professionals and the specialist We recognise the importance of establishing By demonstrating to our employees that media, to work together to nd new good relationships with the communities in we are responsive to the charities and approaches to reducing casualties amongst which we operate and work in partnership organisations they care about most, we vulnerable groups.
with a number of charitable organisations.
facilitate their giving in a variety of ways including product donations, payroll giving FISHnet We appreciate that a mix of financial support, and volunteering.
In October 2008, Greene King was invited as well as actual involvement with time, skills to join the HSEs Food Industry Safety and and donations in kind are all beneficial when Good neighbours Health Network FISHnet.
Made up of investing in charities and communities.
We strive to be good neighbours.
One of representatives from the HSE and local the most important constituents in running companies involved in food and drink To help either good local, national or a good pub is the prevention of disorder manufacture, the network, in conjunction international causes, many of our employees, and nuisance.
Mindful of the need to ensure with the HSE, provides seminars covering licensees and customers across the UK get we get it right, many of our pub managers topics such as migrant workers, falls from involved in raising money through a varied regularly meet with local residents to openly height, and workplace transport safety.
range of activities such as sports events, discuss any issues or concerns and to involve quizzes, rafes, auctions and karaoke.
Last them in consultation on all new developments.
Greene King also joined forces with British year, our English managed pubs raised in Sugar in October 2008 to deliver eight, excess of 180,000 for local and national We support initiatives such as Best Bar None, 15-minute sessions on workplace transport charities.
One example of this came in the Home Ofce endorsed award scheme, safety and pedestrian trafc in the workplace, October last year when a number of our aimed at promoting the responsible to around 100 companies in Norfolk.
Destination Pubs joined together to help management and operation of alcoholraise money for The Royal British Legion licensed premises.
during a weekend celebration of The Best Druids Head is Best Bar None Best Bar None is an awards scheme for licensed premises, currently running in over 80 locations across the UK.
Originally developed in Manchester, the scheme employs a partnership approach between licensed premises, the emergency services and the local authority, to address alcohol related crime, improve the night time environment in towns and city centres and establish a standard of excellence among participating premises.
In Kingston-upon-Thames, where the Manager of the Druids Head, Declan McCullough, has won the coveted award two years running, the scheme targets key areas including security, drink drunkenness, drugs policy, first aid provision, and information on transport.
Premises are asked to complete a questionnaire and the responses are then tested during an inspection.
As the oldest pub in Kingston, the Druids Head has a rich heritage.
It has been part of the community for over three centuries.
For Declan and his team, the award demonstrates to the local community that he has a well-run pub where the safety of customers and staff is a priority.
So successful is Declans pub in achieving the award, that Declan himself has now been asked to mentor other local pubs to help them attain the same high standards as the Druids Head.
In addition, plans are now under way to develop the scheme nationally.
GREENE KING PLC 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Responsible retailing Partnership Tenant training We strive to ensure that alcohol produced At Greene King we take a partnership Our industry-leading and award-winning or sold by us is consumed responsibly.
Our approach to working with tenants.
training for tenants is nationally recognised promotional materials carry clear and concise as some of the best tenant training in messages encouraging sensible drinking and Tenant support the country.
all bottles, cans and outer packaging for all At Greene King we will and do support good our beers specify the number of units of businesses.
Our support for licensees over Our induction programme for new tenants, alcohol.
In addition, they also advise women the past year has taken a number of different Going for Growth, equips them with not to drink during pregnancy.
forms, including financial, training and business the skills they need to develop a profitable development advice and support.
and sustainable business, with independent We comply with the Portman Groups research showing that 75% of those code of practice on the naming, packaging This year saw Pub Partners launch a major undertaking the training can expect to see and promotion of alcoholic drinks.
value for money drinks campaign entitled increased profits after attending the course.
Crunch Time designed to help bring All of our pubs operate Challenge 21 and customers out of their homes and back into if you are lucky enough to appear under 21, the pubs.
The promotion, which includes free you can expect to be asked to prove your point-of-sale materials, is being supported by age.
Research shows that pubs turn away Pub Partners to the tune of almost 2m and over one million customers each month builds on the extensive support already in who, when challenged, are unable to provide place for tenants.
acceptable proof of age indicating that the trade is making a huge effort to enforce The introduction of Pelican, a new online the law and prevent underage sales.
one-stop shop for licensees, delivered savings on many goods and services licensees need to run their pub.
Licensee forum Greene King works in partnership with our licensees and shares ideas and information through our licensee forum.
Established ten years ago, the forum is made up of a wide array of licensees from across the country.
It includes wet-led businesses, food-led businesses, single and multiple operators.
The forum meets four or five times a year to discuss a range of topics covering the current trading environment, the services provided by Pub Partners, as well as wider industry issues such as the recent BEC report on the tie.
Ted Docherty has been running pubs for 20 years.
Currently, Ted operates five successful pubs, three of which are with Greene King.
Teds latest venture combines a fresh sh and pizza offering where customers can choose their sh and how they want it cooked.
Ted joined the forum nine months ago and rmly believes that the mix of type and size of operator on the forum provides an excellent sounding board.
Ted says: The forum is open and honest its a great way for Greene King to gauge opinion among a variety of operators.
Ideas can be tested to ensure what might work for one type of operator doesnt impact adversely on another type of operator.
And its a great way to share information and nd out about proposed new initiatives from Pub Partners.
GREENE KING PLC 27 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview
