Corporate Social Responsibility Greggs is a company that our customers and shareholders can rely on to do the right thing.
At Greggs we care about giving our customers quality, fresh bakery food they can trust at affordable prices while minimising our impact on the environment around us.
We care that our people are looked after and treated well, and that we provide a great place for them to work.
We also want to continue to use our success to help make a difference to those in our communities who face difficulties and challenges, by supporting them wherever we can.
Greggs cares We are pleased to report significant achievements in 2009: We removed all artificial colours from the products we make ourselves.
We removed all added trans fats and hydrogenated vegetable oils HVOs from the products we make ourselves.
We provided nutritional information for our national sandwich, savoury and drinks ranges, to help customers make informed choices about the food they eat.
In 2009, we opened an additional eight Greggs Breakfast Clubs.
We now give over 6,000 primary school children a nutritious breakfast each day.
We raised an incredible 739,000 for BBC Children in Need, double the amount raised in 2008, thanks to the enthusiasm of our people and the generosity of our customers.
We helped raise and distribute 1.3 million in 2009 through the Greggs Foundation.
We diverted 18% of our total food waste away from landfill.
Our people participated in 11 Big Tidy Up Events in partnership with Keep Britain Tidy across England and Scotland, clearing litter from local communities.
We reduced the number of carrier bags issued by 18%, building on the 20% reduction achieved in 2008.
20 In 2009, we reduced the salt content of our bread by more than 10 % Quality, fresh bakery food our customers can trust Our 2009 targets and commitments: By the end of June 2009, we will have removed all added trans fats, hydrogenated fats and oils from all the products that we make ourselves.
We will roll out our national product range so that, by the end of 2009, nutritional information will be available to all our customers in our shops for our savoury, sandwich and drinks ranges.
By the end of 2009 we will have removed all artificial colours from the products we make.
We will make significant progress towards removal of all artificial flavours from the products we make and achieve this completely by the middle of 2010.
We will continue to assess the recipes for all our products, working towards the Food Standards Agencys recommended salt and fat targets for each type of food.
Our targets and commitments for 2010: We will remove all artificial flavours from the products we make by the middle of 2010.
By the end of 2010, nutritional information will be available for our national bread and rolls and confectionery ranges, thus completing the provision of nutritional information for our entire national product range.
We will reduce the salt, fat and saturated fat content for our products, working towards the Food Standards Agencys 2012 targets.
A great place to work Our 2009 targets and commitments: By the end of 2009, 100% of employees will have access to private medical treatment for any accidents that may occur in the workplace.
We are committed to continuing our Employee Assistance Programme for everyone who works at Greggs.
We are committed to maintaining at least 75% of all new shop and area management appointments from internal promotion.
We are committed to maintaining 25 bakery apprenticeships through 2009.
Our targets and commitments for 2010: In the 2010 Employee Opinion Survey our target is that 75% of our employees participate in the survey and we improve on our 2008 engagement score of 72%.
Through opening 5060 net new shops in 2010 we will create circa 500600 new jobs.
We will move to a national profit share scheme to ensure every person working at Greggs has an equal opportunity to share in the Companys success.
We will enhance our management skills and development by delivering a coaching skills programme and a high performing teams programme in 2010.
We will review and improve our apprentice scheme and aim to have 30 bakery apprenticeships in place by the end of 2010.
22 Making a difference to our communities Our 2009 targets and commitments: In 2009, we will continue to invest 225,000 in our 124 Breakfast Clubs and will work to develop partnerships with other organisations to expand the scheme.
In 2009, we will maintain our commitment to community grant making through the Greggs Foundation, providing support from our people and donating 300,000.
In 2009, we will aim to exceed the 360,000 we raised in 2008 and develop the relationship with BBC Children in Need to continue to engage our staff and customers.
In 2009, we will continue to sponsor the North East Childrens Cancer Run and hold runs in five other divisions for local childrens cancer charities.
We will develop our work with Fareshare and other organisations to donate more of our unsold food to local charities.
2009 is the third year of our sponsorship of The Sage Gatesheads Childrens Room, established as a tribute to the contribution to the business over many years of Ian Gregg and Malcolm Simpson.
2009 is the third year of our investment in a five year North East Enterprise Bond, encouraging new business start ups across the North East.
Our targets and commitments for 2010: Greggs Breakfast Clubs We will grow the number of Breakfast Clubs to at least 150, providing a free, nutritious breakfast to more than 7,000 pupils each school day.
We will develop partnerships with other organisations to enable further growth of the Breakfast Club scheme.
We will sponsor Expochef Healthy Food events in 60 Breakfast Club schools in order to promote better understanding of healthy diets amongst pupils and their families.
Support the work of Greggs Foundation in our communities We will donate at least 1% of profits to the grantmaking and Breakfast Club programmes of Greggs Foundation.
We will run our first ever national fundraising initiative for Greggs Foundation.
BBC Children in Need appeal For the fifth year we will engage our staff and customers in a major national fundraising campaign to support the BBC Children in Need appeal.
Employability We will pilot initiatives to use our skills as a major employer to help break the cycle of unemployment for marginalised groups in our communities.
Reducing our impact on the world around us Our 2009 targets and commitments: We will aim to divert more of our waste away from landfill.
We will aim to reduce our total energy consumption.
We will aim to increase the amount of our packaging that is made from sustainable sources.
We will seek to make reductions in our overall carbon footprint against our 2008 baseline.
We will help to tackle litter by further encouraging our customers to dispose of their packaging responsibly, including installing additional signage in our shops and talking to staff and customers to get their ideas on what more we could do.
We will continue to work towards increasing the proportion of cardboard, paper and plastic that we recycle from our shops, bakeries and offices.
In 2009 we achieved four of our environmental targets.
We trialled a number of ways to reduce energy consumption across our shops to determine the most impactful way of doing this.
The trials were completed in quarter 3 hence we were not able to achieve reductions in our total energy consumption for the year.
This also meant we were unable to achieve reductions in our overall carbon footprint in 2009.
In 2010 we plan to roll out an extensive shop energy reduction programme and have set a stretch target of a 5% reduction per shop for the year.
This forms part of a wider carbon management plan through which we will aim to achieve a 25% reduction per shop in our carbon footprint by 2015.
Our targets and commitments for 2010: We will aim to achieve a 25% reduction of our carbon footprint by 2015 measured in tonnes of CO2 per shop.
We will aim to achieve a 5% reduction in energy usage per shop against our 2009 consumption.
We will aim to achieve a 2.5% reduction in carbon generated by our distribution activity.
We will aim to reduce our bakery waste by 10%.
We will aim to divert an additional 10% of waste from landfill, building on the 18% diversion achieved in 2009 and the 20% diversion achieved in 2008.
We will continue to work with Keep Britain Tidy to encourage responsible disposal of litter.
In line with Our Values, Greggs is committed to operating our business responsibly and being a brand our customers and shareholders can trust.
We will continue to report our progress against our social responsibility targets annually to our shareholders.
