Halfords Group plc 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Halfords is committed to managing its business in a socially responsible n Provides a working environment in our stores, head office and manner.
Our corporate social responsibility CSR programme is distribution centres: designed to address the important CSR issues that we face, to facilitate n That is rewarding in its own right: appropriate management behaviour and be aligned with the Groups n That offers personal and career development: business strategy.
Our aim is to continually improve our management of the social, environmental and economic issues within our control or n That rates the Group as an employer of choice in the influence throughout the business and our supply network.
communities in which we operate: and We believe management of our CSR is not only the right thing to do, n That is conducive to recruitment and retention of high it also makes good business sense, and we see it as a core business quality staff.
consideration as it gives us strategic, commercial and reputational n Provides a working and retail environment that is safe: benefits.
We aim to achieve standards of responsible care across a number of key areas, including: customers, trading, health & safety, the n By ensuring that all our products met exacting quality and environment, employee welfare and the community.
safety standards: Our customers are more likely to enter our stores because they trust n By continually reviewing Health & Safety standards: and our advice and our offer.
They are more likely to buy from us because n By performing regular Health & Safety audits across our store they trust us to provide products of the highest quality, that are safe and network easy to use and that have been sourced in an ethical manner ensuring that no community associated with such sourcing has been abused or n Creates a working culture throughout the Group that continually destroyed, and that the effect of our products on the environment has assess the Groups impact on the environment by: been minimised as far as possible.
Prospective and current employees n Minimising our use of natural resources: are more likely to join and stay with us if they feel valued, are treated fairly and equally, and feel that their contributions are recognised and n Reducing waste: and rewarded and that they are helped to realise their potential.
n Reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and CO emissions.
2 The Group has reviewed its ongoing CSR policy to ensure it meets the n Enables the Group to play apart in the communities it operates needs of the markets and communities in which it operates and that the through: associated Key Performance Indicators KPIs accurately reflect the Groups success or otherwise in implementing this policy.
n Partnering charities, both local and national: For the period to 3 April 2009 the Group has followed an ACTING n Sponsorship: and RESPONSIBLY policy that: n Encouragement of outdoor leisure activities.
n Puts our Customers first: The policy commitments are translated into actions and KPIs are used n Delivering a consistently high level of customers service: to assess success against our internal targets.
Paul McClenaghan, Commercial Director, takes the lead in ensuring that the policy supports n Delivering high quality, safe products that, whilst minimising the strategic objectives of the business.
The Halfords executive their environmental impact, provide effective solutions for our monitors performance with regard to these objectives and targets via an Customers: internal report.
It is, however, the Boards responsibility to ensure that n Delivering consistent accessibility to stores, services and the Group operates in a responsible manner, and the Board reviews the products irrespective of gender, race or disability: and policy and our performance against that policy annually.
n Delivering to stores, products that enhance our customers PUTTING OUR CUSTOMERS FIRST lifestyles.
Overview n Develops close relationships with our suppliers: We market high quality products that meet or exceed the requirements of appropriate legislation, international conventions and codes of n Ensuring responsible labour, environmental and social practices practice.
Where external guidance does not exist, we apply our own are followed by all partners in our supply chain: exacting standards.
With a complex product range of over 10,000 n Ensuring regular updating of the Groups Code of Ethics to items, we talk with our customers every day to ensure that our range meet best practice behavioural standards: and meets their requirements and that they understand how to use our products safely.
Recently we have identified that Halfords has a large n Ensuring our supply chain transportation solutions minimises number of regular customers who see their key drivers of satisfaction their environmental impact.
being choice of products and brands, store environments and ease of shopping, knowledgeable staff with a will-do attitude and competitive, value-for-money pricing.
indd 24 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 25 Service We are committed to putting our customers first.
Our store managers CUSTOMERS are accountable for delivering consistently high service in our stores, giving our customers complete peace of mind.
All store colleagues are required to follow procedures in the Groups Store Operations Manual THE CASE: which details in full: how to offer service and support across all product categories: how we expect our customers to be treated: management of stock: and management of the store.
In certain areas, where legislation introduces behavioural standards to our colleagues we offer training programmes via our local intranet and these are monitored to ensure that all colleagues regularly update themselves with the required knowledge.
Stores are fully supported by a dedicated Customer Service team based at our head office in Redditch where our customers are able to contact us by phone, email, letter or fax.
This year, we have consolidated our web and store contact centres giving our customers and stores the opportunity to contact us through one single phone number and email address.
This piece of work has enabled us to offer increased support to our store colleagues and be more flexible to our customers needs.
In 2008 we monitored customer satisfaction via exit All calls, letter, emails and faxes received by our Customer Service team interviews at a representative sample of our stores.
are treated in the order in which they arrive and each customers query These metrics along with other lines of enquiry help us is logged and allocated to an adviser who will personally see the query understand which aspects of our offer are working well through to the end.
We aim to respond to all queries within five days and which areas would benefit from addressing.
Our unless more significant investigation is required, with most telephone Customers scored us a respectable average of 79 out of queries being resolved the same day.
We also use collated feedback 120, indicating their strong commitment to the Halfords data to focus our training and development programmes and further offer.
The key drivers of customer satisfaction included improve the service we provide.
range, ease of shopping, helpful and knowledgeable store Products and the environment colleagues, and value-for-money competitive pricing.
In developing our products, packaging, procedures and services we continue to make assessments of environmental impacts at appropriate The quality of our products is fundamental to the continued growth and stages, e. g. design, procurement, supply, sale, use and disposal as our success of the Halfords brand.
Our aim is to ensure that our product business is strongly influenced by consumer choice.
We promote good offer exceeds customer expectations in terms of safety, performance practice in the provision of environmental communication to customers and value for money.
Through fresh insights and innovation driven and colleagues.
by our customer focus groups we also seek to offer customers new From July 2007 all UK Retailers are obligated under the Waste Electrical products that are stylish, imaginative and which provide effective and Electronic Equipment WEEE Regulations to provide recycling solutions.
facilities for their customers free of charge.
Halfords has joined the Our products are manufactured to consistently high standards, UK WEEE Distributor Take-back Scheme DTS believing that this meeting our own internal standards and complying with or exceeding was a responsible decision for the environment: making it easier for local regulatory standards.
We also aim to develop a programme to our customers to recycle, aiming to increase the overall amounts of manage materials used in own-brand products, and to influence, where waste electrical items recycled, and ensuring a secure route for reuse possible, the same for proprietary products.
We identify and monitor of materials.
Our stores in Ireland have also implemented the WEEE products containing ingredients, which whilst not illegal, are designated regulations which became law last year.
as chemicals of concern by non-governmental organisations and work Additionally, customers returning any old car batteries to our stores with suppliers to develop or substitute these with lower risk alternatives.
are now offered a 2 voucher to be spent in the store and in 2008 Halfords strives to achieve rapid introduction of new and improved customers returned over 88,000 batteries.
This promotes recycling and products by adopting a disciplined and customer focused approach to assures the correct disposal of hazardous waste as well as allowing product development.
We recognise the importance of keeping abreast proper recycling of a batterys component parts.
Further customer of new concepts and technologies within our chosen product ranges awareness of this recycling route is planned for, in respect of the and we are keen to work with suppliers who continually bring forward Hazardous Waste Special Waste Regulations.
innovative and exciting new concepts.
indd 25 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED We also offer customers a 20 money-back replacement service for Through our Business Services department we continue to market alternators and starter-motors and 1,512 such products were returned Cycle 2 Work schemes, arrangements that allow employers to offer in the year.
These are then returned to our distribution centre for to their employees the use of a bike for work.
significant savings, making use of the Government backed initiative to increase more sustainable means of transport to work.
We currently Accessibility manage 1,251 schemes 2008: 869 on behalf of employers, allowing Halfords treats its responsibilities under the Disability Discrimination their employees the opportunity to embrace a keep-fit lifestyle.
Act DDA very seriously, in respect of both our customers and Four years ago we introduced our Halfords branded range of camping colleagues.
We have taken various actions in order to help us to fulfil and outdoor equipment and later we complemented these, with the our responsibilities, including training our store colleagues in disability launch of the premium brand URBAN Escape range and selected awareness, responding to some of the physical obstacles in our Gelert tents and camping accessories.
In 2009 we increased the stores and other access issues, and auditing our website for ease of product range by 8% including expanding our tent pack offering navigation.
We have 460 stores in the UK and Ireland in three different and introducing festival tents.
We aim to grow this leisure area of our formats.
Of these, 239 have mezzanine floors and accessibility to these business through product innovation and development, and in 2009 floors is dependent on the age of the stores and whether it has been also added a broader range of Gelert tents and camping accessories possible to install lifts.
In total, 62% of these stores have lifts.
2008 we conducted an intranet-based survey of all of our stores to ensure they were DDA access compliant.
The result of which was to DEVELOPING RELATIONS improve access solutions across approximately 200 of our stores, from WITH OUR SUPPLIERS this, in June 2009 we will be conducting an audit of one of our top Overview stores to ensure we can make our stores disabled customer friendly.
We place great importance on the selection of our suppliers and, The learnings from this will be cascaded down to our other stores via where appropriate, will visit manufacturing sources to verify that our Area Manager network.
effective quality procedures are in place and that supply chain costs Halfords is a member of the Employers Forum on Disability, which is a are minimised.
We are always striving for improvement and we believe not-for-profit employers organisation, with over 400 members: these it is important that our suppliers are responsive to feedback from members employ approximately 20% of the national workforce.
The our customers and store colleagues.
Halfords recognises that the forum brings its members together to share best practice on disability.
development of close supplier partnerships is essential for the ongoing It provides events at both a regional and national level where members provision of an innovative and value-for-money product offer.
meet, share best practice and keep up to date with disability issues.
Suppliers Additionally, members benefit from a dedicated information line to help Halfords Asia has a Sourcing Code of Conduct the Code, which them understand and manage both the legislation and the best practice can be viewed on the Companys website halfordscompany.
This is sent to potential new suppliers within the Far East, as part of In 2008 and 2009 we had conversations with a number of disabled the Supplier Questionnaire, before orders are placed with the supplier.
customers, and invited them to our stores, asking their advice on Compliance with the Code is independently audited.
The response to how best to ensure we maintain our commitments to them under the the questionnaire is reviewed and, if the supplier does not provide an Disability Discrimination Act.
In February 2009 we launched Mobility acceptable alternative assessment report, an audit by an independent Scooters into our top 70 stores.
Auditor such as Bureau Veritas is arranged at the suppliers expense.
Lifestyle We recognise that this Code must be developed to reflect practical At a time when the issues surrounding health and obesity have become experience and changing circumstances.
We continue to develop and increasingly important, Halfords, as the largest retailer of cycling share best practice with our suppliers, other retailers, non-government products, actively encourages people to participate in this outdoor organisations and Government.
We currently stock 178 2008: 160 different bikes, of which Halfords will only trade with those companies who fully comply with move than 71 2008: 60 are aimed at children between three and eight our policy or those taking verifiable steps towards complying with the years of age.
We design these bikes with the customer in mind and our policy.
In the event of any failure to comply, we reserve the right to childrens bikes are specifically designed for the measurements and end the business relationship and cancel outstanding orders.
We do, stature of a child as the relative dimensions of the bike are very different however, recognise that withdrawal of our business in the event of from those of an adult.
In the year to 3 April 2009 we sold over a million non-compliance may cause severe hardship to those employed.
We bikes for the second year running, approximately 1 out of 3 of all aim, therefore, to work with our suppliers, to achieve compliance and bikes sold in the UK.
will carefully review progress made before considering severing the relationship.
indd 26 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 27 Following the independent audit of the Code any supplier that receives We require that appropriate health and safety training, including training a score of D or lower is required to issue a corrective action plan.
The in fire safety, be provided for all people in all working areas.
All activities corrective action plan is reviewed by Halfords Asia Quality Department, must be carried out under conditions that have proper and adequate and if approved, a date is set for follow-up with the supplier.
Depending regard for the health and safety of those involved.
Management on the type of non-compliance this follow-up may include a specific arrangements must be in place to detect, avoid and respond to factory visit, or be included at the next planned visit.
The timescales will, potential threats to health and safety.
again, depend on the nature of the non-compliance.
We promote our own business objectives with those in our supply In 2007 08 we conducted 34 audits, representing 25% of our Far East chain to minimise the environmental impact of our operations and also Suppliers by number and 77% by purchase value.
In 2008 09, we encourage the consideration of social issues in business.
conducted a further 92 audits and accepted 44 alternative reports, from Supply chain transportation approved bureaus, representing some 91% by purchase value.
Out Many of the products delivered into our national distribution centres of the resulting 136 reports, there were no critical failures although 35 NDCs are imported in containers via sea deliveries for onward road corrective action plans were formulated due to minor shortcomings, of transportation, although some are delivered via air freight.
We have which 10 were outstanding at 3 April 2009. worked hard during this year to further reduce the number of containers Over the last two years, which is the period of audit validity, the transferred from ports via road and in 2008 09 2,582 containers, 67% Company has completed 165 audits, being 96.6% target 95% of 2007 08: 40.7% of all containers delivered were moved by rail to a our Far East Suppliers.
The Companys target will remain at 95% for hub in the Midlands for onward transportation to our NDCs.
The Code of Conduct assessment results and progress on any Air Freight Movements corrective action plans are issued in a monthly report and reviewed tonnes between Halfords Asia and UK Head Office senior management.
200 Ethical trading The Code states our policy on legislation, child labour, conditions 150 of employment, wages and benefits, health and safety and the environmental.
100 We undertake all reasonable and practical steps, including factory, 50 warehouse and tied accommodation inspections and audits, to ensure that our standards are being implemented throughout the businesses 0 2007 2008 2009 of our suppliers and that local legislation and regulations are complied with.
We will assess any instances of non-compliance on a case-bycase basis and will then tailor remedial action appropriately.
We will We continue to monitor the air freighting of our products from suppliers, only trade with those who fully comply with this policy or those who are and only do so in cases of extreme urgency.
In 2009, through further taking verifiable steps towards compliance.
improvements in supply planning and forecasting volumes we reduced the weight of products shipped in this way from 67,641 kg in 2008 to We oppose the exploitation of children and young people.
In addition to 29,045 kg in 2009, a reduction of 57%.
national employment laws, we insist that our suppliers do not employ, in a full-time capacity, any children that are under the age of 14 years, or alternatively are below the age for completion of compulsory schooling.
We oppose the exploitation of workers and we will not tolerate forced labour, or labour which involves physical, verbal or psychological harassment, or intimidation of any kind.
We will not permit the exploitation of, or discrimination against, any vulnerable group.
Workers must have the right to form and join organisations to facilitate freedom of association and collective bargaining and all workers must have written employment details, which must pay due regard to their welfare.
We support fair and reasonable rewards for workers.
Wages should reflect local norms and should meet or exceed any legal minimum wage levels.
Wages must be paid in cash, by cheque or bank transfers.
Workers must receive full written details of their pay.
While local and cultural differences will be observed, workers must not be expected to work in excess of 60 hours per week on a regular basis, including overtime.
Any overtime must be voluntary.
Workers must be entitled to at least one day off in seven.
Individual workers have the right to choose not to take their days off should they so wish.
indd 27 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Reward EMPLOYEE WELFARE Our range of bonus schemes include, within stores, a sales adviser Overview quarterly bonus scheme and store specialist, manager and deputy Our growth in stores and turnover would not have been possible manager annual bonus schemes.
We also operate office and without the unfailing support and commitment of our 10,000 colleagues management annual bonus schemes and there is also a bonus scheme employed across stores, distribution centres and our office operations in the distribution centres.
Bonus payments are dependent on an in the UK, Asia and Central Europe.
Thus we recognise that our achievement of a variety of Group, team and individual measures.
colleagues are our single most valuable asset and we are committed to a fair but robust approach to equal opportunities in all areas of All colleagues are eligible to join, after a qualifying employment period, our business, with people gaining promotion on merit.
We have high the Groups pension scheme where contributions are made jointly from expectations of all colleagues and everyone is required to perform and both employer and colleague.
During the year the Company changed deliver value.
This creates an environment that is both challenging and its pension arrangements to prepare for the Governments introduction rewarding, enabling colleagues to develop quickly and pursue new of Personal Accounts.
The Halfords Pension Plan moved from a money opportunities.
purchase scheme to a contract based plan, where each member has their own individual pension policy which they monitor independently.
We are committed to being seen as an employer of choice within the The pension scheme currently has approximately 1,100 members in the communities in which we operate, and as well as providing training UK and Republic of Ireland.
and development to colleagues, in 2008 we were finalists in the National Council for Work Experience Awards for Best Work Experience The Group actively encourages its colleagues to own its shares and Provider.
We also offer a range of benefits and incentive schemes.
more closely align an element of employee reward to business value enhancement.
The Halfords Sharesave scheme has operated each year since 2004, open to all colleagues with three months service or more.
Colleagues are granted a share option and invited to save between 5 EMPLOYEE and 250 per month for three years.
These savings can then be used STUDIES to purchase shares at a price of up to 20% discount to the market value at the date of the grant.
THE CASE: Two schemes have matured since our IPO in 2004 with over 1,500 colleagues sharing in Halfords success.
Since 2004 the average colleague had saved 75 per month.
There are currently three Sharesave schemes running, started in 2006, 2007 and 2008.
All colleagues are invited to participate in the schemes.
In 2008 over 800 colleagues in the UK, Republic of Ireland and Hong Kong chose to participate.
Since 2004 over 2,000 Halfords colleagues have participated in one of these annual schemes.
We also operate a Company Share Option Scheme CSOS.
This In order to facilitate communication through all levels scheme was first launched in 2004 to all colleagues with at least three of the business and to facilitate interaction between years service in recognition of their hard work and dedication leading suppliers and colleagues Halfords has, over the up to the Companys flotation.
These colleagues had the opportunity to years, developed an internet forum: HalfordsVoice.
exercise their options in June 2007.
A typical colleague, with 750 share HalfordsVoice gives all colleagues an opportunity to options, made an average tax-free gain of 1,000.
Unfortunately, the interact, share and develop ideas, help each other with awards made in 2005 vested in the second quarter of 2008 when the challenges or concerns, or to obtain support directly general retail market was suffering one of it worst downturns in recent from suppliers, all in a private, secure environment, history and no gains were made.
run voluntarily by colleagues, independent of all other Company systems.
A typical initiative has However, we continue to believe that these Awards are key to retaining been the development of HalWiki, an online Halfords and motivating staff and following the Awards granted in 2006 and Encyclopedia which is invaluable to colleagues when 2007, in 2008 we granted Awards to over 700 2007: 640 colleagues researching information about the Company, its at store manager level and at managerial grades in the UK head office, products and its services.
Republic of Ireland, Hong Kong and Czech Republic.
indd 28 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 29 We also mirror to our own colleagues the cycle to work schemes These programmes are part of Halfords continued ambition to develop that we provide to other employers see page 26.
The scheme offers its own senior managers of the future and are supported by active significant savings, making use of the Government backed initiative talent and performance management processes.
to increase more sustainable means of transport to work.
This means Through our talent management process, the senior management that by sacrificing a proportion of their salary our colleagues can save teams in Head Office have undergone an extensive, objective review income tax and national insurance that would otherwise have been of the performance and capability of their teams.
This has resulted in payable.
Colleagues can also make use of their 15% discount to make some explicit succession planning, an identification of development it an outstanding scheme.
This scheme was first made available in 2004 needs, and will lead to personal development plans in the coming year.
and has been relaunched annually.
Each year we see approximately This process will feed participants into the Management Development 300 colleagues acquire bikes through the scheme at overall discounts programmes.
In the year to 3 April 2009 this number There is a performance management process, whereby performance exceeded 500. objectives for the year are agreed and reviewed between line manager Development and colleague.
To support this process we run a series of workshops In order to promote career development, the Group provides all aimed at ensuring that both line managers and colleagues are fully colleagues with access to relevant training and development schemes.
equipped with all of the skills required to make the process effective.
With a complex product range of over 10,000 items alongside portfolio Employer of choice reformatting, colleague training and development is seen as crucial to the success of our business.
Sales advisers at Halfords need to be As well as offering competitive benefits and personal and career experts in many product fields and be able to meet a wide variety of development we aim to treat all our colleagues as equal.
To this end we customers needs.
Specialists need to be able provide their specialist are committed to recruit, train, promote and retain skilled and motivated services and also demonstrate an ability to sell other products.
people irrespective of gender, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, race, religion, or ethnic or national origin.
In line with this Training is key to encouraging our store teams to embrace new commitment we also promote a culture of openness and responsibility initiatives that are critical in delivering our targets.
The Halfords point within our business.
The Group has in place specific disciplinary of difference is excellent product knowledge, fitting capability and and grievance procedures, and welcomes the reporting of genuine enthusiasm of our teams to serve and assist the customer.
A good and serious grievances or alleged breaches of policy.
In accordance example of this is the Institute of Motor Industry certification, for all with the Fraud & Whistle-blowing Policy, no colleague will suffer as a those who successfully complete training to fit electronic products, for consequence of notifying such alleged breaches.
In the period to 3 April our customers, into their cars and we continue to provide Cytech NVQ 2009 the Company dealt with 12 incidents, all of which were resolved Level 2 qualifications for all our Boardman cycle specialists.
satisfactorily, whilst at all times maintaining the confidentiality of the In addition, a career pathway has been created.
programme is designed to develop our people and to maximise their In accordance with our core values, we believe that every colleague opportunities, examples of which are: should be treated with the same respect and dignity and we are n A Deputy Manager Development programme, enabling us to committed to providing a working environment that is free from bullying source and develop store-based deputy managers, thus providing and harassment.
We will not tolerate bullying or harassment in the opportunity and incentive for our Sales Advisory teams: workplace either as a management style or between work colleagues, and will take disciplinary action against any colleague who is proven to n A Store Manager Development programme to create opportunities have bullied or harassed others.
for deputy managers to further progress their careers: HEALTH AND SAFETY n A Senior Store Manager Development programme to create a Overview pipeline of future potential Field Managers: Halfords is committed to high standards of occupational health & safety n In our offices, Management Development programmes provide a to minimise the risk of injuries and ill health to employees, contractors, balance between pragmatic business skills and core people skills visitors and others who come into contact with the business.
The for junior and senior managers: Group believes that effective occupational health & safety management n Graduate Development Programme, on which trainees follow a is fundamental to a successful business and we constantly review our structured development programme, which gives them: procedures and risk management standards to identify opportunities for further improvement.
n an all-round appreciation of the business, taking in experience both in stores and head office: Product quality and safety We have always treated safety and quality as absolute priorities in the n an in-depth focus in the areas of buying, supply and marketing: products we sell.
and n a variety of off-job supporting workshops and seminars.
indd 29 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Halfords operates a rigorous product introduction procedure to We are encouraged by the successes from our risk-focused agenda ensure that all products are safe, legal, fit for purpose and meet the throughout the year: requirements of our exacting technical specifications.
We take into Safer site transport account all appropriate British, European and International standards n We have applied a number of additional site transport safety and ensure compliance with all relevant legislation and codes of controls and enhancements to the head office and distribution practice.
Our product testing methodologies vary by product type and centres: and are primarily driven by the requirement to ensure safety.
For example, n We have maintained momentum on managing the risk from large our roof bars and cycle carriers are subjected to rigorous testing goods vehicle reversing in public areas at our stores.
on automotive test tracks, cycle clothing is assessed to ensure that materials give the desired performance colour fastness, breathability, Safer storage and handling at height waterproofness, etc.
and hand tools are analysed to verify materials are n We have applied more rigorous and unambiguous routines on highsufficiently robust.
level racking storage: Our Apollo childrens bikes are designed to the new European Standard n We have run a major awareness campaign on safe storage and for bikes Comit Europen fide Normalisation, CEN and are subject to access at high-level internal flat roofs: and very rigorous fatigue testing, particularly the frame, cranks, and pedals.
n We have in partnership with our facilities maintenance company These tests aim to replicate the use that a customer puts a cycle enhanced the procedure for vetting and auditing contractors safe through.
A key element of the new standards is safety, and all bikes are designed Improved fire safety or sourced with this in mind.
To ensure safe use we demand a minimum n Recognising that our newer stores benefit from the high fire content requirement for the owners manual, which ensures that it is as protection standards agreed with our Lead Authority partners comprehensive a document for the customer as possible.
we have implemented a programme to enhance the fire safety Most of our products are subjected to user trials in real life situations, so provision in our older stores.
that we can verify that instructions are correct and easy to understand Safer water systems and most importantly, that the products actually work.
n We have completed an extensive programme to revise the hot and Halfords is committed to not only supplying safe products, but also to cold water systems in our stores to design out legionella risks.
ensuring that they are used safely.
As one of the UKs leading retailers Safer manual handling of child seats, we have invested in the training of more than 2,000 n We have assessed and upgraded selected store loading areas or store colleagues in the demonstration and free fitting of child seats provided mechanical handling equipment to reduce the risks from and have recently received accreditation from RoSPA for our in-house receiving and handling roll cages on external surfaces.
We also run roadshows at stores across the UK, working with road safety officers to give free advice and fitting services Safety management enhancements to parents and guardians, and we also promote our own national child We have continued to concentrate on producing occupational safety seat safety week at all superstores to raise awareness of the issue.
documentation for distribution and retail operational colleagues that is We continuously review concerns reported by our customers and tailored for their effective use.
Our first priority is for safety procedures where improvements are identified, we endeavour to instigate speedy to be suitable for the user rather than compliance with textbook product enhancements.
We have a training plan to develop the ability and confidence of key accountability holders to use these tools effectively.
Targeted risk reduction initiatives During the year we accepted that a difficult retailing environment Our philosophy is to enable confident proportionate occupational health would place differing demands on our colleagues and managers and & safety management and embed a positive safety culture throughout recognised the need to reinforce health and safety messages: the organisation.
We actively pursue targeted risk reduction measures and our rigorous self-auditing programme informs this process.
n We have enhanced and delivered occupational safety and risk assessment workshops to a greater number of store managers, distribution team leaders and store safety coordinators: and n We have delivered ground-breaking occupational safety leadership workshops to the Company senior management team.
indd 30 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 31 We have continued to build on and benefit from our lead authority Minimising our use of natural resources partnerships.
We have liaised closely with our occupational safety We place emphasis on resource use, in order to understand and lead authority partners at Stoke-on-Trent City Council on our risk improve the efficiency of our use of raw materials, energy and water reduction strategy, which has assisted us in setting appropriate targets throughout Halfords operations, as well as our products and our and timescales.
Working within our unique tripartite lead authority packaging.
Our goal is to minimise our potential for causing pollution to partnership with Stoke-on-Trent City Council Building Advisory air, water and land.
Services and Staffordshire Fire and Rescue Service has enabled us to Water To reduce our overall usage of water in the business consistently and effectively improve fire safety management.
Independent assessments of usage have continued to be carried out We monitor our safety performance on a range of indicators including in our stores, head office and distribution centres.
A water specialist our reportable accident statistics and accident rates arising from our surveyed all of our sites to establish if correct charging is taking place, focus hazards.
Our overall annual injury incident rate remains below and also to identify leaks and wastage.
the industry benchmark at 340 per 100,000 employees 2008: 410.
This represents an improvement of 17%.
The annual billed consumption of water for our stores in the period to 3 April 2009 was 4% lower than last year which represents a reduction IN THE ENVIRONMENT per store of 7% year on year.
This excludes stores where water billing is Overview to the landlord direct.
Our stores, offices, and fleet of delivery vehicles have direct impacts on Water the environment.
We also know that there are indirect impacts caused Consumption No.
of by the production and use of our products.
3 m Stores Our commitment is to understand and to continually improve the 2007 80,451 426 performance and management of our environmental impact throughout 2008 83,397 450 the Halfords supply chain.
2009 79,895 463 Good environmental performance demonstrates high standards of corporate responsibility and generates cost saving opportunities.
We Water Consumption per Store believe that every individual has an important role to perform in ensuring cubic metres that environmental standards are properly applied.
The Group has in place emergency procedures to minimise the environmental impact of 190 potential incidents.
185 During the year an Environmental Steering Group consisting of senior 180 managers from all operational activities of the business monitored 175 performance in regard to our objectives, targets and indicators and 170 provides advice and guidance, ensuring compliance with relevant 165 environmental legislation.
160 We aim to create a culture of awareness of the cost and impact 2007 2008 2009 of environmental issues across the business, including assessing the environmental impact of capital projects.
The Group considers the environmental impact of the products that we sell, taking care The improvement in water usage comes about following the installation to minimise the use of materials that deplete our natural resources, of electronic smart water meters to water infeed pipes.
This allows and recognises its responsibility with regard to the use of chemicals accurate monitoring of water usage patterns throughout the day and in our supply chain.
We have developed an energy strategy and this identifies water leaks at an early stage.
involves evaluating alternative energy sources that we consider to be appropriate to our business needs.
We operate a utility reduction programme, the results of which are tracked on a Carbon Trust funded database.
In managing our environmental responsibilities our overall objectives relate to the following key areas: 15953HALFORDS.
indd 31 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance 100 100 100 100 g g g g l l l l l l l l n n n n i i i i i i i i f f f f l l l l c c c c d d d d y y y y c c c c n n n n e e e e a a a a R R R R 80 80 80 80 L L L L 60 60 60 60 Halfords Group plc 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Waste management We aim to prevent waste generation in our activities, including product IN THE and packaging design, warehousing, distribution and sale and reuse ENVIRONMENT of materials, and to maximise recovery and recycling of waste prior to disposal through our management of waste recycling and reduction in THE CASE: the amount of packaging we use in our products.
Landfill and recycling To increase the quantity of cardboard, paper, and plastic waste we recycle in the business and reduce landfill Stores and NDCs In order to prevent inefficient transportation of waste material the majority of recycling activity is through localised collection from individual stores.
Where, however, greater levels of recycling can be achieved cardboard and other materials are backhauled for central recycling at our Redditch distribution centre.
This is an addition to Working closely with our Quality Engineers and Far recycling 100% of the cardboard produced in both our Redditch-based East supplier of our core range of car covers, we have distribution centres.
developed a Halfords branded range of Advanced car covers.
The new vacuum packed zip-bag As a result of this strategy the volumes of waste material recycled packaging means better economies of scale and a versus that sent to landfill increased from 64.1% to 70.1% during 2009. reduction in the carbon footprint.
We are able to use This follows an increase from 56.4% to 64.1% in 2008.
60% fewer containers when shipping the product from the Far East.
Land ll v Recycling 2009 % Offices The Group continues to use paper recycling and shredding initiatives and from 2008 all desk waste bins have been removed and recycling bins have been introduced for the segregation of aluminium cans, plastics and general waste.
This has increased the amount of waste recycled by circa 60%.
Land ll v Recycling 2008 % During the last 12 months all A4 paper usage has been transferred to recycled paper, including stationery and high production paper.
Paper shredded and recycled under our confidential waste scheme saved 151 2008: 135 trees independently verified by Shred-it Ltd.
The use of highly efficient airblade hand dryers continues to save approximately 1,200 kg per annum of landfill.
Product packaging To achieve an overall reduction in the weight of packaging used year-on-year This represents 6,071 tonnes of waste sent for recycling by our stores We have a proactive Packaging Cost Reduction Project and Halfords 2008: 1,384 and 2,431 tonnes sent by our distribution centres 2008: complies with the Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging 580.
The Company will continue to make what improvements it can Waste Regulations 1997, which requires UK companies to recover in this area by continually focusing on the small number of stores and recycle packaging against specific targets.
Halfords meets this where recycling is significantly below the Group average and through obligation through membership of an industry compliance scheme.
increased product refurbishment which is subsequently sold from the The Group has been audited by the Environment Agency to ensure full distribution centres.
understanding and compliance with the regulations and we passed this audit successfully.
In the UK our membership of Valpak and in Ireland of Repak ensures that we meet our responsibility to the environment and to the public of the UK and Ireland by contributing to the national packaging recycling programmes.
indd 32 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 40 40 40 20 20 20 0 0 0 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 33 Greenhouse gases and CO emissions 2 Greenhouse gases GHGs are so called because they contribute n Evaluation of Euro 4 and Euro 5 tractor units and rigid vehicles: towards the greenhouse effect.
There are six main GHGs, mainly n Evaluation of tyre pressure checks, adjustments and idling time, to emitted by burning fossil fuels.
CO accounts for some 80% of UK 2 assess their impact on fleet fuel economy and efficiency: and emissions.
The contributing role of man-made GHGs to climate change is accepted by most countries.
The most significant contributor to n Continual evaluation of our fleet requirements with DHL.
This will GHG production is the combustion of fossil fuels, and like any business ensure the optimum design of transport to maximise capacity, that burns fuel, our transport fleet diesel fuel and heating gas will improve aerodynamics, and will consider increased double-decker have direct GHG emissions.
Halfords also has indirect GHG emissions options.
incurred in the generation of electricity consumed.
All company essential user cars must be diesels.
Where colleagues To begin to understand and achieve CO emissions reduction can choose a company car as part of their benefits package, CO 2 2 objectives, Halfords has estimated its CO emissions.
This is based on emissions for the list of cars they can choose from are published and 2 DEFRA reporting guidelines for UK business, using conversion factors whether those cars are Euro 4 compliant greener, more tax efficient.
for energy and fuel usage and these are referred to in the sections The majority of colleagues who can choose a company car continue to below.
For future years the turnover conversion factor will also be used choose diesel.
to enable the setting of targets and make year-on-year comparisons.
The Group currently provides approximately 200 colleagues with either Fuel and transport fleet efficiency a company car or car allowance and it is the Companys policy to ensure that all vehicles have emissions less than 160g km.
The average In line with European Emissions Directives, Euro 4 emission standards emissions per company car is 151g km 2008: 160g km.
We are for commercial vehicles were introduced in October 2006.
This aims to aiming for further reductions, through a variety of measures, including improve the levels of Carbon Monoxide, Hydrocarbon, Nitrogen Oxide driver training, enforcing an engine efficiency ceiling on car choice and and particulate emissions that cause harm to the environment.
All of greater control of mileages driven.
Halfords fleet complies with Euro 3 emissions standard introduced in October 2003, and new vehicles delivered from September 2006 Energy conform to the new Euro 4 standards.
a To reduce energy use To more fully understand our impact on GHG emissions, we have We are moving into the second year of a converted the transport fleet fuel usage to total CO emissions.
In 2 three year bespoke action plan with the 2009 we drove 9,571,410 kilometres down 80,365 kilometres on Carbon Trust for implementing energy last year and we used 2,674,412 litres of diesel.
The CO equivalent 2 saving measures both in the Redditch usage, calculated based on DEFRA reporting guidelines, shows a 23% head office and in stores.
The first year of this three-year programme has focused on improving 2009 2008 2007 2006 measurement of all utilities so that comparisons can be made between stores, thereby leading to understanding of good and bad practice.
This metering allows us to remotely analyse COkg revenue m 8,829 11,545 12,162 12,216 2 energy used every half hour in every store.
The data is loaded into a This improvement has been achieved from a series of activities across central database and provided to suppliers as well as feeding a webthe transport operation started in 2008 and these will continue into the based reporting tool to enable us to monitor and target store energy forthcoming year.
n Continued improvements by operating vehicles with more efficient Sub-metering has been installed into head office to enable separate engines and gearboxes, including leasing of additional tractor monitoring of facilities in the distribution centre and offices.
The data units, that have higher fuel efficiency, used for moving trailers at our from these meters will feed into the online system to provide information distribution centres: that can be used to understand and reduce energy consumption at n Completing a comprehensive driver training programme carried out head office.
with our logistics partner, DHL.
This emphasises responsible driving We have completely revised the lighting and heating that we install into and safe vehicle checking, in addition to fuel efficiency and smooth new stores.
Lighting has moved from inefficient Hi bay lighting and driving and braking: halogen spotlights to modern efficient T5 tubes with electronic ballast n Reductions in the number of empty-running vehicles, by collecting linked to dimming systems and occupancy sensors.
This has been backhauling loads from our suppliers following delivery to our seen on a sample of stores to produce a 15% reduction in energy used 2 stores.
This clearly reduces the number of vehicles on the roads,.
We are using ECA approved HVAC and Heat Pump systems in per m but does not directly contribute to Halfords fuel reduction or CO order to heat these stores with the highest efficiency.
We currently have ten suppliers where we backhaul regularly, returning to one or more of our distribution centres: 15953HALFORDS.
indd 33 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Actions planned for the remainder of the programme include: Total Energy Useage n Benchmark and implement online energy management and a 120 Monitor & Target system: 100 n Develop and implement an energy conscious design guide for store 80 development: 60 n Engage and empower facilities contractors to participate in the 40 above plan: 20 n Provide training for store managers: 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 n Development and dissemination of Energy Use guides for store n Total Electric managers: and n Total Gas n Develop plans to incorporate renewable energy sources in stores.
emissions b To reduce CO 2 Energy Usage per Store For our stores, we are setting a challenging reduction target of 15% kWh thousands per store to 20% over three years 5% to 7% per year against the baseline year 270 of 2007.
Individual store targets will be set once the scope for savings 260 has been identified and an action plan and a method of monitoring 250 performance agreed store by store.
This target represents a potential 240 7,000 tonnes of CO savings.
2 230 220 210 200 2006 2007 2008 2009 Actions in progress, working in partnership with ENERG, to deliver this reduction include: IN THE COMMUNITY n Developing specific action plans for our 50 highest carbon footprint Overview stores: Our policy on charitable giving is to concentrate on one main charity.
However, we are also committed to supporting the communities we n Implementing energy management systems and voltage reduction serve and individual stores also support local initiatives.
plans: and Charity partnerships n Installing improved photo-cell and tamperproof timers for store signage.
In 2007, the business partnered its first ever Charity Of The Year, the Meningitis Trust.
The charity partnership was so successful that This year our total energy consumption has increased by 1.3%, which Halfords continued to support the Meningitis Trust for a further when factored alongside the increase in floor area of 3% translates to a 12 months.
After two years with the charity, Halfords raised over decrease of 1.4% per square metre.
Carbon equivalent of energy used 140,000.
Colleagues reached the fund-raising target with stores remains similar to last year, even though the number of stores in the UK selling special pin badges and holding events and individual colleagues and the Republic of Ireland has risen from 447 to 460.
Individual store undertaking all sorts of challenges ranging from taking part in cycling targets will be set for 2010 once store colleagues have been trained to events and running marathons to charity auctions, car washes and monitor their progress.
The money raised has helped to raise the profile of The following graph represents the energy used by our stores and by the Meningitis Trust and highlighted the causes and symptoms of the our head office and distribution centre.
disease to both colleagues and customers.
In 2009, Halfords has decided to partner a new Charity Of The Year Macmillan Cancer and will work closely with the charity to raise money and awareness through the sales of pin badges, events and much more.
indd 34 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 35 For 2009 the squad also extends to include a cross-country mountain bike team, which sees last years road team member, Sharon Laws, IN THE return to her mountain bike roots and joined by riders such as David COMMUNITY Fletcher and Ian Bibby.
The full team will continue to ride Boardman bikes, from the exclusive THE CASE: Bikehut at Halfords range.
The road team will take the 2009 Boardman Road PRO, and the 2009 Boardman Road Team, both from the carbon range.
The mountain bike team meanwhile are riding Boardman MTB PRO LTD, based on the award-winning MTB PRO.
Team Halfords Bikehut had a great year last year with three National Championship titles, a World Championship title and Nicole Cookes Olympic Gold.
For the first year Halfords are also sponsoring the Premier calendar of In 2008 store colleagues in Londonderry organised road race events, again cementing Halfords credibility in the enthusiast events providing fun for all the family, including bouncy cycling market.
castles, face painting and cartoon characters to keep Halfords plans to build on this success of last year and the team is a the kids entertained, and retail therapy demonstrations key part in its continued commitment to developing cycling as a sport in and competitions with prizes donated by suppliers.
Support from local emergency services promoted National Child Seat Safety week and helped raise over Industry forums 1,600 for the Meningitis Trust.
Halfords values opportunities to work closely with trade associations, research institutes, standards authorities, universities and government This year, 40 Irish store colleagues teamed up to relay organisations to improve performance standards and safety.
from store to store, riding the length and breadth of Representatives from the quality department are members of British Ireland.
The cyclists spanned 16 counties, travelled and International standards technical committees associated with 1,054 kilometres and united 18 stores in a bid to raise automotive accessories and cycles.
funds for the Meningitis Trust.
Setting a real challenge for Halfords colleagues, the charity cycle ride proved In the future successful and raised much needed funds for a very Halfords will continue to work towards improving our management worthwhile cause.
of the social, environmental and economic issues that are within our control.
It makes good business sense that we ensure the right and proper interaction between our Company, our stores and our products, We also supported the high profile Help For Heroes charity to raise and our customers, their communities and their environment.
money for wounded servicemen and women returning from Afghanistan and Iraq by becoming the title sponsor of the Halfords Help For Heroes Bike Ride.
The ride took place at the end of May 2008, covering all the key First and Second World War battle sites in France before returning to London where thousands of bike riders joined the sponsored team of 300 to ride to the Cenotaph.
Sponsorship In 2008, an Olympic year, we made history by signing the first ever commercial sponsorship deal with British Cycling.
Building on the great success of last years partnership, Halfords will again be sponsoring a professional bike team run by British Cycling.
The Halfords Bikehut team takes on a new focus with National Champion Rob Hayles and Olympic Champion Ed Clancy leading the male-based 2009 road squad.
The road team will ride a full domestic season of Premier Calendar and National Criterium Series events sporting a new team kit, along with the Tour of Britain and the Tour of Ireland.
