BUSINESS REVIEW WE ADD VALUE THROUGH Developing PEOPLE Apollos significant investment in training is key to delivering improved customer service levels through manufacturing excellence.
In the past 12 months 71 Apollo shop oor operators have completed the NVQ level 2 programme in People development is a key strategic Business Improvement Techniques.
goal for all Halma businesses.
During Five Apollo directors have completed our internal Halma Executive Development Programme, and the past year 377 Apollo Fire Detectors nine managers have completed the Halma Management Development Programme.
employees have benefited from Apollo won the Halma Company award for sponsored training and internal people development in 2009. management skills programmes.
Danny Burns, Managing Director Apollo Fire Detectors www.
com 29 DIRECTORS REPORT Sector review continued Industrial Safety We make products which protect assets and people at work.
Industrial Safety contributed 23% of Group revenue 105m and 27% of Group profit 22m.
STRATEGIC ACHIEVEMENTS Organic revenue and profit growth in all sub-sectors Coordinated strategy implemented for Bursting Disks businesses Fortress Australia power resistors business sold Cross-sector product development Improvement in customer service and manufacturing STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS Organic growth and improved cost control Sales expansion into Asia and Eastern Europe Manufacturing of products in developing markets for local sale Improved manufacturing operations New products and new technology for safety markets 1 1 2 3 4 KPIs Revenue growth profit growth Return on sales ROCE R&D Sector performance % % % % % 12 14 21.1 67 3.8 Group target 5% 5% 18% 45% 4% GROWTH DRIVERS Demand for energy and water resources Growth in population, ageing and urbanisation Increasing regulation and rising expectations of health and safety New technology WHERE WE OPERATE Australia Italy Bahrain Poland Chile Singapore China Sweden France Tunisia Germany UK Holland USA India 1 5 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year gure.
2 5 Return on sales is dened as adjusted profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 5 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sector operating net assets.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
See note 1 to the accounts 30 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW SUB-SECTORS GAS DETECTION BURSTING DISKS SAFETY INTERLOCKS ASSET MONITORING MARKET TRENDS AND GROWTH DRIVERS Demand for our Industrial Safety products is driven predominantly by health and safety requirements and best practice in industry.
Our assessment is that the global Gas Detection markets we target are worth 420m annually with a growth rate in the medium term of 4%.
Demand for gas detection products is governed by regulatory requirements which continue to expand across worldwide markets.
The developing world is fast adopting Western gas safety standards.
Internal research suggests that the market for Bursting Disks will grow in the medium term by 4% annually with the developing economies increasing at a higher rate.
Despite being largely driven by safety regulation, our markets have not been immune to the current economic downturn and demand has been slowing, particularly in the oil and gas and chemical processing sectors.
However, we have continued to grow market share and our addressable market through capital investment and improved customer service levels.
The growing technical sophistication of our bursting disks now offers the market a cost-effective alternative to pressure relief valves, a more expensive and complex technology.
In recent years, there has been growing demand for Safety Interlocks in most sectors and regions with strong growth focused on the oil and gas market.
The industrial sectors feeding growth in China and India, such as metals mining rening, raw materials production and utilities projects have also been favourable.
We benefit from the steady evolution towards stricter health and safety regimes in the still-expanding Asian economies, whilst in the West the legal enforcement of increasing safety legislation provides relative resilience during tougher economic conditions.
Rising global demand for capturing data relating to energy and water usage, and relating to the condition or location of high value infrastructure assets, drives growth for our Asset Monitoring businesses.
Some of our products are used in subsea applications for the oil and gas industry.
Whilst some of these projects have been delayed for the short term, our long-term prospects remain positive as manned oil and gas exploration or maintenance work is replaced with remotely operated technology, particularly in the most hazardous environments.
SECTOR STRATEGY Global competition in Gas Detection has been met by continuous investment in new products coupled with major improvements in manufacturing processes and procurement.
Our new Chinese manufacturing hub and Indian technology resource centre complement UK manufacturing and development activity.
Reorganisation of our UK and US Bursting Disk businesses has resulted in a more collaborative and effective global sales operation.
Recent capital investment in manufacturing has made establishing an operation in Asia for local demand a real opportunity.
We are expanding our international direct sales presence, including a Far East ofce.
OEM solutions for multinational businesses in the safety and utility markets is a growth area, again opened to us through our improved manufacturing capabilities.
Our primary Safety Interlocks strategy is to protect our strong market share by focusing on customers needs for high quality sales and applications engineering support coupled with market-leading product quality and delivery.
We are extending our sales and production presence in developing markets including our newly established manufacturing hub in Shanghai, China.
While we continue to invest in new product development, this is an inherently conservative market with long product life-cycles.
com 31 DIRECTORS REPORT Sector review continued We have positioned our Asset Monitoring business to satisfy the growing worldwide demand for REVENUE remote monitoring of valuable or safety-critical assets, particularly in hazardous or remote locations.
million Our companies develop novel technology to capture data or images and to transmit the information to the customer wherever they are in the world.
We specialise in technology for data capture % in two hostile environments: beneath the sea and underground.
Our wireless communication 105m 12 technology is used already by other Halma companies and there are opportunities for further collaboration in the future.
2009 105 SECTOR PERFORMANCE Industrial Safety achieved organic revenue and profit growth during 2008 09.
Weakness in 2008 94 the UK was more than compensated by strong growth elsewhere, particularly in Asia Pacic and Australasia.
2007 80 In Gas Detection we achieved strong revenue growth signicantly above market rates and set 2006 69 a new organic profit record.
Our Bursting Disks business achieved record revenue and profit.
Growth exceeded the market 2005 58 rate due to market share growth driven by improved technology and customer service levels.
Our Safety Interlocks business also achieved record sales and profit with our oil and gas products continuing to sell strongly.
PROFIT Although revenue rose in 2008 09, our Asset Monitoring businesses had a challenging year.
million A strong first half performance was followed by a decline in demand in the second half which affected our subsea business in particular.
% 22m 14 2009 22 2008 19 2007 16 2006 13 10 2005 SECTOR OUTLOOK While the demand drivers in industrial safety markets are relatively resilient, demand patterns for safety products will not be immune to the extent and duration of the current economic downturn.
This was demonstrated in 2008 09 where a very strong first half was followed by a weaker second half.
Action has been taken to reduce costs and protect profitability in anticipation of a tougher year in 2009 10.
Although there is slowing demand in the oil and gas sector, the outlook for Gas Detection is reasonably resilient.
We anticipate continued growth based on our track record of out-performing the market and the constantly evolving legislative drivers which underpin industrial safety markets.
While current positive demand trends for Bursting Disks should continue in the oil and gas sector, demand in the chemical processing industries is likely to be lower.
Medium to long-term growth is underpinned by continuous strengthening of industrial safety legislation and rising expectations of safe working practices worldwide.
We anticipate continued strong demand for our Safety Interlock products in the oil and gas market, with a slow but steady increase in contribution from China and India.
Underlying demand for interlocks in the worldwide manufacturing sector is expected to be at.
We anticipate that the UK market will continue to be challenging for our Asset Monitoring products in 2009, particularly in the North Sea oil and gas industry.
Whilst there are opportunities for growth in new market segments in the medium term we have taken a pragmatic view of short-term prospects and reduced operating costs to protect profitability for 2009 10.
32 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009
