DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate responsibility Achievements KPIs We deliver sustainable value to our Non-financial Key Performance Indicators customers and shareholders.
KPIs are used by the Board to monitor progress on Group initiatives: financial KPIs are considered on pages 18 and 19.
CO EMISSIONS: TONNES M OF REVENUE 2 1.
Halmas carbon policy was approved by the Board in 2007 and calls for a 10% reduction Good progress 40 42 10% in the carbon footprint by 2010. towards reduced 2008 2007 reduction 39 carbon emissions Group target relative to revenue made in the policys second year.
Halma conducts an annual survey of its employees to assess how well the Groups Survey of senior 75 5 values are aligned with its employees and how managers showed 2008 2007 Group target 6 a healthy six desired well the Group communicates its values to values present in employees.
SUBSIDIARY DIRECTORS MANAGERS WHO HAD COMPLETED 3.
The Halma Executive Development Programme HEDP HMDP BY MARCH 2009 HEDP and the Halma Management Development % % % Programme HMDP provide executives and Continued 50 26 50 % commitment to middle managers with the necessary skills they 2008 2007 Group target 55 training our people.
need in their current and future roles.
GOVERNANCE AND COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY products that protect the environment and improve safety at work and As Halma companies are involved in the manufacture of a wide range of in public places.
products for the protection and improvement to quality of life for people Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in monitoring worldwide, safety is critical to the Group and is a major priority for and improving the environment.
Our brands lead the world in a number management.
Likewise, the reduction of the Groups carbon footprint of technologies which help to minimise environmental damage.
has received elevated attention since 2007 in order to meet the Boards We support the concept of sustainability and recognise that, in common stated objective of a 10% reduction in relative carbon usage in the three with all businesses, our activities have an environmental impact.
Our years to March 2010. strategy is not to have capital-intensive manufacturing processes, so Our core values are Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment and the environmental impact of our operations is relatively low compared Customer Satisfaction.
These core values have been selected following to manufacturers in other sectors.
We also recognise that we can extensive surveying of employees across the Group.
Our culture is one improve our own environmental performance and so resources are of openness, integrity and accountability.
We encourage our employees now being deployed to actively reduce our own carbon footprint.
to act fairly in their dealings with fellow employees, customers, suppliers Halma has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK index since its and business partners.
We recognise that our employees determine our establishment in July 2001. success and therefore have invested in and encouraged their development more this year than ever before, not only with our intranet training A summary of our progress and performance for all areas of corporate facilities and Halma Executive Development Programme, but also responsibility follows.
Halma has developed meaningful key performance through clearer leadership and decisive action.
By ensuring that our indicators KPIs that reect the importance the Group places on corporate team has the approach and skills required to succeed we are better responsibility and enable the Board to monitor the Groups progress in meeting its objectives and responsibilities in these areas.
placed to meet the challenges of the future.
The biggest area of emphasis in recent years has been the transformation We recognise the necessity of safeguarding the health and safety of our own employees whilst at work and operate so as to provide a safe of the Groups environmental policy into a carbon policy stating actual targeted reductions for the Group to achieve over a set timescale.
and comfortable working environment for employees, visitors and the public.
Our policy is to manage our activities to avoid causing any Halma has an excellent health and safety record and a culture of safety is deeply embedded within the Group.
We want to recognise unnecessary or unacceptable risks to health and safety and the environment.
We have an excellent long-term record for addressing the effort behind this exemplary record and will continue to actively promote our safety culture over the coming year.
environmental issues that affect our businesses and for developing 42 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW HALMA AND THE ENVIRONMENT We have an excellent long-term record and a clear strategy for addressing environmental issues that affect our businesses and for developing products that protect the environment and improve safety at work and in public places.
Our products Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in monitoring and improving the environment.
Halma brands lead the world in a number of technologies which help to minimise environmental damage.
Our principal environmental technologies are water leakage detection, gas emissions monitoring, water and efuent analysis, UV water treatment and optical sensing.
We tirelessly promote the use of UV water sterilisation which eliminates the need to use dangerous chemicals, as well as products that minimise the waste of clean water.
Our commitment to the development of equipment for measuring environmental changes and controlling the damaging impact of industrial activities is long-term.
We make safety equipment for use at work, in public places and in transportation systems that contribute to increased personal safety by ensuring safe practice at work, protecting people from re and making elevators and automatic doors safe and effective.
We are the major world supplier in several of these areas.
Carbon policy The Groups policy on carbon is published on our website and has been distributed and explained to all Halma business units.
A senior executive in each of our higher-impact business units is responsible for implementing the carbon policy at local level.
Our Finance Director, Kevin Thompson, has principal responsibility for coordinating and monitoring the policy.
Environmental management system We are committed to developing and implementing an environmental management system EMS throughout the Group to measure, control and, where practical, reduce our environmental impacts.
We have developed performance indicators that assist local management in implementing the policy and ultimately developing an EMS.
The requirement for an EMS and the related reporting has been rolled out to all UK business units, which represent over 50% of Group production facilities in terms of external turnover.
All Group companies are encouraged to undertake ISO 14001, the international environmental accreditation, where warranted, and since we last reported both Volumatic and Ocean Thin Films Golden operation have joined the list of ISO 14001 approved entities.
The requirement to implement an EMS will be extended to the rest of the Group in the medium term.
In terms of revenue, currently 21% of the Group has ISO 14001 approval.
Our impact LOW ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The environmental effect of our operations is relatively low compared to manufacturers in other sectors.
FTSE4Good has assessed Halma as having a low impact on the environment.
Nevertheless, Group companies are encouraged to improve energy efficiency, reduce waste and emissions and reduce the use of materials in order to reduce their environmental impact.
The Group established baseline data in 2004 05 on emissions to air and water, water and energy consumption, and waste production, the results of which are updated on the Halma website each year.
The data collected for the past four years has enabled the Group to set comprehensive and quantiable objectives for reducing its environmental impacts in those areas and to set and monitor targets for reduction in key areas.
The collected data confirms that the main areas of impact on the environment are energy consumption and solid waste disposal.
The Group does not operate a eet of distribution vehicles although we do own a number of company cars.
From May 2007, we implemented a cap on permissible CO emissions of all UK company vehicles and will extend this requirement to the 2 rest of the world in due course.
This limit was reduced in 2008 [and again in 2009] and will continue to be reduced annually so as to consistently reduce our vehicles environmental impact.
We have also set a fuel consumption standard for company vehicles in the USA.
Having identied the main areas of impact, we are now committed to their reduction and minimisation.
Using the baseline data the total Group carbon emissions for 2006 07 were calculated as being approximately 15,000 tonnes, an average of approximately 42 tonnes per million of revenues.
We plan to reduce the Groups total carbon emissions relative to revenues by 10% by 2010, and have made reasonable progress, first in 2007 08 and again in 2008 09 with total Group carbon emissions now averaging 39 tonnes per million of revenues.
Over the course of the past two years, we have worked with an international environment and energy consultancy to facilitate this reduction by providing each subsidiary with the means to identify tailored initiatives for energy efficiency.
This is complemented by internal programmes, including the use of our own wireless communications technology to monitor energy usage and use of the Group intranet to allow for inter-company communication, reporting of data and feedback.
This initiative has, and will continue to, lead to cost savings for the Group as well as preparing us for compliance with climate change legislation.
com 43 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate responsibility continued Our carbon policy can be found on the Halma website.
The Groups environmental performance will continue to be reported both in the Annual report and on our website.
The Group is committed to examining the establishment of green procurement policies and increasing our use of recycled materials.
HALMA AND ITS PEOPLE The Group has a policy of equal opportunities and preventing harassment, which applies in relation to recruitment of all new employees and to the management of existing personnel.
This gives us access to the widest labour market and enables us to secure the best employees for our needs.
We offer all of our staff training relevant to their roles and we believe that this contributes to an increase in employee motivation and job satisfaction.
The culture alignment survey results mentioned below support this trend.
Periodically we complete a survey of employees to determine whether our core values are authentic in our organisation.
The survey establishes the values individual employees wish to see in our operating culture and to what extent they exist in our existing culture.
In 2006, our survey of senior managers showed that five of the values they wanted to see in our business were actually present.
In 2009, our survey of senior managers showed that six desired values were present in our business.
This indicates that there is a healthy level of alignment between the culture we aspire to have and the culture we have today.
No survey is capable of capturing all the appropriate sentiments, but our executives, who regularly visit all Group companies, agree that definite healthy improvements in the Group culture have occurred over recent years.
The Group will continue to monitor the survey results to enable us to better support our people bringing these values and strengths to work so that they and we may derive further benefit from them.
Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Employee consultation The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, the Group intranet and the annual financial statements.
Employee representatives are consulted routinely on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
An employee share plan has been running successfully since 1980.
It is open to all UK employees and aligns the interests of all UK employees to those of shareholders.
Health and safety The Group manages its activities to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable risks to health and safety.
The policy is understood by all Group companies, and given the autonomous structure of the Group, operational responsibility for compliance with relevant local health and safety regulations is delegated to the board of directors of each Group company.
We believe health and safety training is important and it is carried out within companies as appropriate.
Adequate internal reporting exists in order that the Groups Finance Director may monitor each companys compliance with this policy.
Major injuries recorded 2009 2008 Days lost due to work-related injuries 496 691 Total recorded injuries to all employees 706 388 The Group has collected details of its worldwide reported health and safety incidents which are available on our website at www.
We are pleased to report that there were no fatalities during 2008 09 or 2007 08.
People development The Halma Executive Development Programme HEDP, which is based on our recognition of the fundamental part our people play in the success of the Group, continued to thrive in 2008 09.
HEDP is an integrated development plan for our senior people including the next generation of Managing Directors and Divisional Chief Executives.
Our objective is to provide these individuals with the tools and training to achieve more in their existing role and potentially to advance through the organisation if their achievements merit it.
44 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW Training 2009 2008 Cumulative number of candidates that have completed HEDP 113 90 Cumulative number of candidates that have completed HMDP 206 104 HEDP is aimed squarely at employees already serving on subsidiary boards but we also encourage applications from senior functional managers who can demonstrate they already have equivalent responsibilities and will benefit from the programme.
There are approximately 200 such eligible employees in total.
The programme has been developed from a proven course structure and is specically and continuously tailored to suit Halmas needs, aligning the content to the Groups four core values of Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment and Customer Satisfaction.
It focuses strongly on strategic and leadership capabilities and developing personal attributes commitment, determination and resilience.
There is an emphasis on performance management and team development.
It includes skill-based elements such as sales and marketing management, project leadership, corporate governance, finance and innovation, but all are presented in a strategic context.
Eight programmes have now been completed and the success of the programme can be measured by the enthusiasm of the participants upon their return to their businesses, the achievements of a number of participants and their eagerness to coordinate further sessions to explore topics of particular interest to their programme Group.
With the HEDP a well-established part of Halmas people development activity, in 2008 we established a new programme for subsidiary managers and supervisors the Halma Management Development Programme HMDP.
During the year, six programmes were completed for a cumulative total of 206 employees.
Programmes were held in the USA, Europe and Asia.
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria of many professional and private investors who base their decisions on environmental, ethical and social considerations.
The Group is a world leader in several key environmental technologies and has a reputation for honesty and integrity in its relationships with employees, customers, business partners and shareholders.
Social conditions can be improved for all through the creation of wealth.
Halma creates wealth responsibly allowing our employees, customers, business partners and shareholders to determine where this wealth is best distributed.
Halmas policies reect the core requirements of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We do not tolerate practices which contravene these international standards.
Regulatory demands upon us vary considerably around the world, so Halma establishes the core structure to ensure that Group companies fully comply with regulatory requirements while permitting them to tailor the solutions to their particular needs.
Ethics The Group culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
Halma encourages its employees to act fairly in their dealings with fellow employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
We aim to have suppliers of high quality and operate to acceptable international standards.
Halma operates a condential whistleblowing policy, which enables all Group employees to raise any concerns they may have.
Halma has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption which extends to all business dealings and transactions in which we are directly involved.
This includes a prohibition on making political donations, offering or receiving inappropriate gifts or making undue payments to inuence the outcome of business dealings.
CAUTIONARY NOTE The Business review has been prepared solely to assist shareholders to assess the Boards strategies and their potential to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other party, for other purposes.
Forward-looking statements have been made by the Directors in good faith using information available up until the date that they approved the Report.
Forward-looking statements should be regarded with caution because of the inherent uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
In preparing this Business review, the Directors have aimed to comply with the Accounting Standards Boards 2006 Reporting Statement guidance on Operating and Financial Reviews.
