Directors Report Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Additionally, Hays aims for all employees to have regular EMPLOYEES discussions with their managers regarding their performance, Our business is entirely dependent upon our employees, not potential and individual development needs.
only those who deal with clients and candidates, but also those who support them.
As a consequence, our people strategy is Hays conducts an annual succession planning process to assess focused on ensuring that we have the necessary capabilities, the strengths and development opportunities of the Group at all resources and work environment appropriate for a levels globally.
The picture of Group succession is built bottom high-performing organisation.
up by specialism, country and region.
Succession plans are maintained for key areas of the business and are reviewed We want to attract, retain and develop the best people in the annually by both management and the Board.
industry to work for Hays.
In order to achieve this, we have focused on a number of key themes.
In particular, 2009 has seen Leadership development significant developments in the areas of employee engagement, The calibre of our leadership and management cadre is critical talent management and leadership development.
to the success of our business.
We have introduced the Hays Advance development programme and have been working Employee engagement throughout the year to design the next phase of our leadership Each year we receive a very good response to TALKback, activity.
Under the auspices of the Waxman Scholarship, we are our employee engagement survey, that runs across all the ensuring our executive development activity is tailored and geographies in which Hays operates.
2009 was no exception, aligned to the succession planning needs of the business.
This with participation levels well in excess of 80% of employees programme combines formal classroom training with coaching, expressing their views and opinions in all aspects of their project-based work and action learning.
workplace environment, our brand, our values, our leadership and development activity and the work that we do for clients.
Values and behaviour Hays believes that the way our employees work is just as Gathering our employees views enables us to understand important as what they do in the workplace.
To supplement and monitor levels of engagement and highlight any areas our leadership and management development activity, we of concern that we need to address.
Key drivers of employee have focused on the behaviours and values that are important engagement in Hays are career development, leadership to the way that we run the business.
The Hays Leadership and and direction, culture and collaboration.
Overall reported Management Competencies cover key areas of, and expectations engagement levels were good, at 77%, reecting positive around, behaviour and are being embedded into our key, responses to most of the items that make up this dimension.
Reward and recognition KPI: Employee engagement We seek to reward and recognise peoples contributions to the business appropriately, both as individuals and as a team.
Programmes to achieve this are cascaded through the 77% 2009 organisation to ensure that there is a focus on short-term and, where appropriate, long-term performance.
Senior executive Employee engagement comprises a number of components that explore areas such as employees sense of belonging, discretionary effort, personal motivation and job satisfaction.
remuneration is linked to the Groups annual and long-term plans, which is described in the Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 66.
Diversity Talent attraction, identication and development Hays believes that diversity is a key driver of the organisations Our resourcing, training and development programmes effectiveness, both now and in the future.
We actively encourage are designed to ensure that we have a pool of well qualied, different viewpoints, styles and approaches and are committed talented individuals, able to meet both the operational needs to providing a workplace free from discrimination of any kind.
of our business and our clients, as well as the future strategic A notable success in this area has come in Australia, where we challenges facing the Company.
We are committed to providing were awarded the Employer of Choice for Women status for our employees with opportunities to develop and grow their 2009.
Hays was the first recruitment company to achieve this skills, but we will also continue to bring in new capabilities award and the only one to achieve it consecutively for seven years.
to the business through targeted, external recruitment.
This citation is awarded to non-government organisations that Employees are encouraged to take a proactive approach to have demonstrated policies and practices that support women developing their careers.
Employee training and development across the organisation and have had a positive outcome for both takes many forms, from the more traditional classroom women and the business.
This award strengthens our competitive teaching through to lunch and learn sessions, e-learning, edge and allows us to promote publicly our commitment to on-the-job coaching, development projects and secondments.
recruiting, developing and retaining women at Hays.
40 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Charitable support HAYS IN THE COMMUNITY In the UK over the last three years we have supported one Hays plays an active role in the community by providing major charity, Marie Curie Cancer Care, which was chosen an essential recruitment service for local people: nding the by UK employees.
The charity provides care to around 25,000 right role for every candidate is one of the most important terminally-ill patients in the community and hospices in the objectives of the business.
We also have a strong record United Kingdom, along with support for their families.
In of contributing to these communities through employee the three years to June 2009, Hays raised a grand total of engagement, supporting local activities and good causes, 483,000, which will provide 24,150 hours of free nursing national fundraising activities for selected charities and, in care to patients with terminal cancer and other illnesses.
many of the countries where we have a presence, strategic support for initiatives that benefit the wider world of work.
Supporting Action for Children Work in the community Many Hays employees volunteer their expertise to help job Following on from the work we have seekers and new entrants to the job market gain the skills to be done with Marie Curie Cancer Care, our successful during the interview process and at work.
In 2009, we focus in the UK is now on re-investing held enterprise days in schools, bringing team-building exercises in the pool of resources from which we into the classroom and we also hosted career workshops draw as an organisation.
In July 2009, around the UK, providing essential CV writing advice and employees voted to support Action for practical interview training for job seekers.
We operate similar Children through fundraising, mentoring programmes in other countries.
We are pleased We support the Chartered Institute of Building Services bursary to be a pioneer partner with Action for scheme by helping to fund a promising student through a Childrens employability programme, Step Ahead.
We will be university degree course in a building services related eld.
providing strategic input and consultation along with several Hays also sponsors numerous university awards to promote, other companies in the design of the programme, which is due recognise and reward excellence in the eld of architecture.
Prime Ministers Global Fellowship Creating opportunities with the Princes Trust As a member of the Princes Trust Construction & Business Services Leadership Group, Hays Construction and Property in the UK will be supporting the Princes Trusts Get into Construction scheme.
Get into Construction is designed to provide young people, especially those who have struggled at school, are in care, are long-term unemployed or have been in trouble with the law, with an opportunity to enter the construction industry through increased skills and experience.
Hays China hosted two UK students as part of the UK Prime We are also assisting with the gratis placement of successful Ministers Global Fellowship, a high-prole scheme that aims graduates across the UK when they come to the end of to develop young British peoples global understanding, talent their courses.
and enterprise to engage successfully with other cultures and business environments.
The scheme was launched in 2008 and is funded by the Department for Children, Schools and Families DCSF in the UK.
Hays China was able to give the students an overview of how they operate locally and the various challenges and benets of working globally.
The two students worked closely with a Hays mentor to help identify future development goals and equip them with the necessary tools to secure a career with a global company.
com 41 Directors Report Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued In Australia, we continued our involvement with Camp Quality, Fundraising at La Parisienne run a childrens cancer charity using fun therapy to bring optimism and happiness to the lives of children and families affected by cancer.
Camp Quality is known for its activity camps where cancer takes a back seat to allow the kids to be happy kids again.
Hays Australia raised $130,000 in the year, $65,000 from donations to be matched by $65,000 from Hays.
This outstanding effort has enabled us to fund camps for over 200 children.
Hays New Zealand continued its support for United Way, which works alongside individuals and the community to provide funding assistance, volunteer time and necessary skills to help local human welfare charities.
Hays New Zealands Managing Director also volunteers his time by sitting on the Board of Trustees of United Way.
In September 2008, Hays France sponsored 15 consultants To help build our community strategy, we are establishing a to run La Parisienne race around the Eiffel Tower with 13,000 network of Charity Forums in the countries where we have our other female runners, raising cash for the valuable work of the largest business presence.
These Charity Forums will help us Medical Research Foundation Against Breast Cancer.
to promote community engagement, support charity selection and help co-ordinate and report our activities.
We have for several years supported a good cause in Germany MANAGING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF in the form of Waldpiraten Forest Pirates Camps, organised by the German Childhood Cancer Foundation, which are held HAYS AND ITS SUPPLIERS in Germany, Austria and Switzerland.
Hays makes a cash Whilst our business has a low environmental impact, we contribution to the Waldpiraten campaign each time we place are committed to achieving continuous improvement in environmental performance and to preventing pollution.
Continuing its social commitment to children with seek to minimise our impact by reducing our use of energy, cancer, Hays Germany also sponsors a paediatrician, Dr Soha water and raw materials, increasing efficiency and reusing Asgari, within the oncology unit of a childrens hospital in wherever possible.
Heidelberg to assist the team in caring for the units young cancer patients.
Hays recognises that environmental initiatives do not work in isolation.
So we operate an  procurement policy that encourages suppliers and contractors Meeting needs to support our programmes and to minimise the impact of the goods and services that they provide to us.
Before we select a new supplier, we establish through a questionnaire the suppliers policy, practice and targets in the areas of corporate responsibility and environmental management.
In the coming year, we will introduce reviews of suppliers own assurance reports, where available.
Actions taken under the Environmental Policy Actions of particular note included: We promote recycling and the use of recycled materials and we design energy efficiency into new services and offices and manage energy efficiently in all operations.
We use relatively little space, with high office density and hot-desking the norm.
Dr Soha Asgari and one of her young patients.
In 2008, we joined the Green500 group, funded by the London Development Agency, to help deliver the Mayor of The employment of an additional physician means a Londons target to cut Londons emissions by 60% by 2025. reduction in the burden on both the hospital team and During the year, we were awarded the Green500 Silver Award the waiting children.
Thats why I am extremely grateful in recognition of work undertaken since joining the scheme, that Hays has decided to support us.
including our efforts in energy use reduction by aiming to introduce PC power down systems to save 30% on our annual Professor Dr Andreas Kulozik, Director, Paediatric Department, Heidelberg University Hospital.
42 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 We have formulated an action plan and the basis of a proper performance or independent judgment, and offers or framework for global environmental management.
acceptance of hospitality, gifts and bribes including improper offers or payments that might appear to place third parties Promoting health and safety or employees under an obligation, are prohibited.
It is the policy of Hays that all reasonably practicable steps will be taken to ensure the health, safety and welfare of its We pursue equality of opportunity and treatment and employees and the protection of others not in its employment.
diversity through our employment policies and encourage Hays recognises its statutory obligations to maintain standards our employees to reach their full potential through training of safety and its obligation to members of the public, and development.
We are committed to upholding the core contractors and visitors.
standards of the International Labour Organisation.
Managers work to provide and maintain safe and healthy We have a whistle-blowing policy that provides an working conditions, carry out suitable risk assessments of independent and condential process for raising concerns and all premises and tasks carried out within them and monitor reporting any breaches of procedure through a condential safety procedures.
They involve employees, who are required to telephone hotline.
co-operate fully in the operation of the health and safety policy.
The policy is reviewed annually and is revised appropriately Actions taken under the Code of Conduct in the light of legislative or organisational changes.
Actions of particular note included: The Audit Committee continued its monitoring of reports to Actions taken under the Health and Safety Policy the condential telephone hotline during the year.
Of the 14 Actions of particular note included: calls to our condential hotline since its launch in July 2008, We developed an online training course to promote 11 involved employees seeking advice or information and three understanding, compliance and competency in health and involved circumstances requiring investigation, none of which safety, and to reinforce our approach and embed policy were material.
We intend to increase employees awareness arrangements.
The training course has now been launched of the hotline by further promotion in the forthcoming year.
across the whole of the UK, with completion and pass rates of We carried out online competition law training for the second 94% and 89% respectively.
We will be rolling this out globally.
All fee-earning employees and their managers, We continued our programme to roll out standard health and comprising approximately 4,300 individuals from around the safety induction material to new starters in overseas territories.
Group, completed the online course, achieving a completion rate of 99.9%.
POLICIES THAT SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS AIMS In the UK, diversity awareness training was provided to key Our good conduct is a foundation for the trust our customers managers to support the Groups equal opportunities policy.
We are a commercial organisation and we will pursue the best possible economic return for our shareholders.
However, in making economic decisions, we have regard to the CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT impact of those decisions on other stakeholders, including We will continue our programme of continuous improvement in society and the environment.
the area of corporate responsibility and we will seek to develop the quality of our reporting year-on-year.
In last years Corporate Our business operates in accordance with the Combined Code Responsibility report, we said that we would review the metrics on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting we use to assess the success of our corporate responsibility Council.
All Hays employees are aware of our Code of Conduct programme with the aim of identifying Key Performance & Ethics Policy Code of Conduct, which aims to ensure the Indicators suitable for disclosure.
We have approved one KPI for Companys values are upheld.
The Code of Conduct sets out disclosure in 2009: the Employee Engagement KPI stated in the a number of behavioural principles, including: Employee section of this Report.
We will keep the need for any Hays employees are expected to communicate transparently further KPI disclosures under review.
and honestly, within the legal framework of privacy and condentiality.
Our relationships with clients, candidates, employees, business partners, suppliers and the communities within which we operate are based upon respect for individuals and their human rights.
All Hays companies and employees are expected to adhere to the highest ethical and legal standards in business dealings throughout the world.
Conicts of interest that interfere with haysplc.
com 43  BoardofDirectors AFOCUSEDTEAM 12 3 45 6 78 9 44 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 1 1,2, 3 1.
WilliamEccleshare Chairman, 64 , 53 Appointed Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination .
He joined the Company as a nonChairman and Chief Executive of BBDO Europe where he was executive director on 1 July 1998 and became Deputy Chairman responsible for all BBDO advertising, direct marketing, digital on 11 November 1999.
Priortothathewas Mr Lawson is a qualied engineer with an MBA.
His career & has spanned several United Kingdom and continental groups, EMEA and held senior executive roles at McKinsey & Company including three years as Managing Director of Vitec Group plc where he was also a Partner.
In September 2009 he became and 10 years as Chief Executive of Electrocomponents plc.
On President and Chief Executive of Clear Channel International.
1 June 2008, he joined the Board of Barratt Developments PLC 1,2, 3 and became their non-executive Chairman on 1 July 2008.
AlistairCox Appointed non-executive Director on 8 May 2007 and is ChiefExecutive, 48 Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is a Chartered Accountant Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2007 and became and a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Chief Executive on 15 November 2007.
His career began at England and Wales.
He joined The Sage Group plc as Group British Aerospace before moving to Schlumberger in 1982.
Financial Controller in 1997 and became their Group Finance  Director in April 2000.
Prior to that he served as a Senior Business School in California.
He previously worked for Manager in Price Waterhouse, now , McKinsey & Company before joining Blue Circle Industries and was responsible for the provision of audit and advisory latterly called Lafarge Group in 1994, where he was Group services to larger private and public sector companies.
Strategy Director before being appointed as Regional Director 1,3 for Asia.
He was previously Chief Executive at Xansa plc.
RichardSmelt will join the board of 3i Group plc as a non-executive Director , 52 on 1 October 2009.
Appointed non-executive Director on 15 November 2007.
He holds a degree in Psychology from Leeds University, is a 3.
PaulVenables fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development GroupFinanceDirector, 47 and has an MBA from the London Business School.
AChartered 20 years experience in HR management, he was Group Human Accountant, he joined the Company from DHL Logistics, a Resources Director of Carphone Warehouse Group plc until he division of Deutsche Post World Net.
Prior to the acquisition joined Northern Rock plc as Group Human Resources Director , hewasDeputy in September 2008.
Group Finance Director, a member of the executive board of 1,2, 3  8.
During 13 years with Exel he held a number of senior , 47 ,  Appointed non-executive Director on 24 November 2004.
He joined the board of He is currently Chief Executive Officer of ghd Group Holdings .
Ltd, a professional hair care company backed by Montagu Private Equity.
He was formerly President of Global Business 1,2, 3 4.
LesleyKnox Development at Colgate-Palmolive Co where he was responsible , 56 for leading the Oral Care, Personal Care and Home Care global Appointed non-executive Director on 30 April 2002, she categories.
Prior to that he was Managing Director of Boots is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and is Senior Healthcare International and a member of the Boots PLC Independent Director for the purposes of the Combined Code.
She graduated in law from Cambridge University and worked in the UK and US.
Subsequently she went on to a career in 9.
AlisonYapp merchant banking at Kleinwort Benson where she became , 43 a group director and was also Head of Institutional Asset Appointed Company Secretary and General Legal Counsel on Management.
In 1999, she co-founded British Linen Advisers 30 January 2006.
Her career as a solicitor began in practise a specialist corporate finance adviser and remained as a at Turner Kenneth Brown, advising corporate and commercial director until 2002.
She is Chairman of the Alliance Trust plc, clients before moving in-house.
She has in excess of 15 years a non-executive Director of HMV Group plc and a Governor experience in industry within a number of international groups.
of the Museum of the Port of London and Docklands.
She was previously Company Secretary and Group Legal Adviser of Charter plc, an international engineering company, 1 Nomination Committee and prior to that held senior legal and secretarial positions 2 Audit Committee 3 Remuneration Committee in Johnson Matthey plc and Cookson Matthey Ceramics plc.
