Business Review CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Heritage has always recognised that its licence to operate is closely linked to adoption of CSR concepts.
We work closely with stakeholders to ensure that the economic value generated by our operations is applied effectively to address important aspects of local need.
Establishing a Legacy A Blueprint for our Future Activities Our investments in the communities around our Ugandan Our experiences in Uganda have enabled us to develop licences have been significant, but it is the legacy that we our CSR strategy, policies and performance.
will leave there that will ultimately have the greatest impact on the lives of Ugandans locally and nationally.
In particular, we are now working in partnership with the local authorities in Kurdistan on a variety of social and Our presence and investment in Uganda have played a educational projects and contributing towards the large part in uncovering vast oil resources which will, on development of the local economy.
development, generate revenues that will contribute significantly to the development of the domestic Our aim is to apply the knowledge base and skill set we economy.
acquired in Uganda to ensure that we contribute significantly and responsibly to the parts of the world We are confident that our business partners will continue where we operate.
We wish to secure a sustainable to work effectively with the local authorities within the future for the communities where we are based and to country and carry on the process in which we have been conduct our business responsibly and transparently in closely involved in.
38 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Lost Time Incidents Local Employment in LTIs Heritage Operated Licences Uganda 1 Russia 98% Kurdistan 0 uganda 90% Russia 0 Kurdistan 65% Tanzania 90% Mali 100% Only one lost time incident Malta 100% was recorded during a very busy operational year.
Pakistan 100% Key Elements of our CSR Policies we strive to meet the challenges presented by climate change: safety is a natural priority and a core element of all of our activities: we strive to protect the physical health of all of our employees and contractors whilst they are in the workplace: we support human rights consistent with the stipulations contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: we strive to ensure that our relationships with our neighbours and local communities are conducted sensitively and with mutual respect: we ensure that we receive the widest possible support for our proposals, throughout the life cycle of our activities: we strive to contribute positively to global sustainability: we are opposed to bribery and corruption in whatever forms they may take: we always aim to compete vigorously with our competitors, but in a fair and ethical way: we ensure that all of our suppliers are treated fairly and responsibly: we strive to construct, maintain and further develop world-class safety systems across all of our operations: and we comply fully with all relevant national and international laws and act in accordance with local guidelines and regulations.
39 Business Review CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Strategy Our CSR strategy is a key factor in securing managing these relationships and We have identified six areas of impact and long-term success.
We have always developing a reputation for the Company as opportunity that form the CSR aspect of our understood that good relationships within a trusted and favoured partner, one that business model.
These are governed by a the Company and good relationships with takes care to respect and protect the policy framework, approved and monitored external stakeholders, are essential to our people and environment in each area in by the Board, with implementation managed business.
For Heritage, CSR is about which we operate.
Our Vision We aim to be a responsible and transparent business in all the areas of the world in which we operate.
Our Areas of Impact & Opportunity Environment & Sustainability Health & Safety Employees Community & Human Rights Business Conduct Corporate Governance Our Approach Devise & Measure Communicate Apply Set policies maintain & monitor & report to stakeholder systems performance stakeholders feedback 40 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Operations at Miran West-1, Kurdistan Environment & Sustainability Health & Safety Malaria Wherever possible, Heritage prevents, The health and safety of our employees and malaria remains the biggest health mitigates and remediates the harmful other stakeholders is a natural priority and a care risk for Heritages personnel in effects of our operations on the core element of all our activities.
Our goal is Uganda, as well as the local environment.
Recognising our Companys zero injuries and fatalities and to minimise population: contribution and exposure to climate exposure to health and safety risks.
change, we operate all our sites to the training contractors and employees in a total of 36 workers were treated for highest standards and promote health and safety remained a priority in malaria in Block 1 and 89 in Block 3A environmental awareness and stewardship 2009.
Our personnel receive training during 2009, down from 2008s throughout our business.
regularly in safety regulations, technical figures, demonstrating that our preventative measures are effective: Heritage had no environmental incidents codes, field safety, handling dangerous in 2009, continuing 2008s record: materials, fire safety, and first aid: and in early 2009 Heritage sponsored the environmental impact assessments are sadly, in 2009 one sub-contractor at our UAE Charity Challenge to raise funds conducted for all new projects: and Uganda operations died in a motor for worthy causes including our Russian production site is planning to vehicle accident.
The accident was not supporting malaria control replace diesel powered gensets with related to drilling or camp operations.
As interventions near Lake Albert, associated gas powered gensets, saving a consequence we are taking every Uganda.
The UAE charity, with costs and reducing greenhouse gas possible measure to improve the safety Heritages support, funded distribution emissions.
culture at all our operations to reduce the of Long Life Insecticide treated Nets LLIN in the Buhuka parish.
100% probability of this type of incident to an coverage across the villages in the absolute minimum.
catchment area was achieved and Heritage also provided logistical support: and Heritage operates clinics for its staff at all operational sites.
We make these available for public use, and treat a number of people who may not otherwise have access to health services in their areas.
Total Injuries, Blocks 1 and 3A, Uganda Type of incident Block 1 Block 3A First aid cases 11 9 Major medical treatment cases 0 3 Lost time incidents 1 0 Fatalities 1 0 41 Business Review CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Heritage is committed to restore sites both the infrastructure for future use and where we operate to their original state so that the local wildlife can return to the and to comply with conditions imposed area in safety.
We have worked closely by bodies such as the National with the relevant authorities to ensure Environmental Management Authority this process fulfils all requirements.
In this picture the Consequently, our operations have the suspended well is in the process of being minimum impact on biodiversity in the covered.
This is done so as to protect area.
42 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Employees Human Rights Commitments Business Conduct Heritage ensures that all employees We uphold the highest standards of understand and appreciate the business we do not employ forced or business conduct across our Group.
We are strategy, goals and values of the Company.
child labour: resolutely opposed to bribery and It is important to Heritage that staff feel corruption in whatever forms they may take, valued, safe and free to raise any concerns.
we will take strong measures should do not participate in, or finance party There are equal opportunities in career any breach of our human rights politics, and support the Universal development for all employees and with a policies occur: Declaration of Human Rights.
geographically diversified portfolio we Heritage recorded no breaches of our believe that the workforce should reflect the we pay fair and competitive wages: business conduct policies in 2009: communities in which we operate.
and Heritage has a robust whistle-blowing we aim to attract and retain the best policy in place that gives employees employees and maximise our investment we work closely with stakeholders to access to senior executives, with whom in them: ensure that their rights are respected, they can raise any concerns: and we recruit locally wherever possible: that they can monitor our activities and Heritage ensures all contractors perform Heritage offers training to develop have access to grievance processes according to our safety and employees: should they be needed.
Heritage does not discriminate: Heritage supports the four fundamental principles contained within the International Labour Organisation ILO Declaration: and Heritage recognises achievement, and creates opportunities for employees at all levels of our business.
Community & Human Rights We ensure that our relationships with our neighbours and local communities are conducted sensitively and with mutual respect.
These relationships will apply active and enduring partnerships as a central and fundamental element.
We aim to promote the sharing of the economic value created by our activities, through the conduct of our community relationships.
through our investment in local communities, local hiring and excellent relationships built with host Governments, we have developed a reputation as a trusted partner, bringing better access to new growth opportunities: in Uganda, we drilled several new water In 2009 Heritage engaged with four requirements for various educational wells to provide locals with access to schools local to the Miran West-2 drilling tools.
The top three individuals from each clean, safe water.
In 2009, we also began a site and ran a competition for the school also won a personal prize and the potable water project which will provide schoolchildren to draw a picture of the overall winner was selected by Anthony 6,000 people with running fresh water: and drilling rig.
As part of this exercise Buckingham to appear on the cover of we have had no incidents of breaches in donations were made to the schools that this years annual report.
Congratulations our human rights policies or local laws at participated.
These donations varied from to Hawnaz Wahab!
any of our sites, and aim to continue this school to school depending on the record in 2010.
43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 46 Board of Directors 48 Corporate Governance Report 55 Remuneration Report 62 Directors Report 65 Responsibility Statement of the Directors Drilling rig at the Buffalo1 well, Uganda 44 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 45
