Corporate responsibility We define our Corporate Responsibility CR programme Whilst it is not a supplier or manufacturer of recorded music, HMV into three main areas: Environment, People and Community.
UK & Ireland is the leading retailer of these products and as such Our Corporate Responsibility Report 2009 contains a full was pleased to support such an initiative.
discussion of our activities and is available from the Groups Waterstones works with the Booksellers Association, the website at www.
com Publishers Association Environmental Action Group to ensure We made good progress in CR during the year.
Our three that industry-wide initiatives are implemented within its stores.
main business units have introduced CR committees chaired by This group considers all aspects of the trade including packaging, their respective Managing Directors.
Each of these committees, book miles, paper sourcing and returns.
which comprise representatives from all areas of operations, Waterstones also works with the British Safety Council BSC including stores and head offices, meet quarterly and there are to consider wider measures of environmental impact than just the forums for each of our business units to share and develop best companys carbon footprint.
In 2008, following an audit, the BSC practice.
A Group CR Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, awarded Waterstones three out of a maximum five stars for its meets quarterly and reports progress to the Board.
commitment to managing its environmental impacts.
The BSC CR now has a crucial role to play in our transformation plan provided recommendations for further improvement, focusing on to improve the Groups performance, and numerous of these purchasing policies for materials and equipment used in new and initiatives are successfully aligned with our business objectives.
refit stores: suggested retro-fitting changes to the existing store estate where practical: and development of a Green Blueprint for Environment the design, layout and construction of new and refit stores.
Good We have identified the following as the principal areas for progress on meeting these recommendations has been made by potential environmental impact by our businesses: Waterstones, with the aim of upgrading the BSC rating to four stars during 2009 10.
Energy usage Waste recycling Carbon reduction commitment Supply chain The Group has engaged the Carbon Trust to prepare its Packaging businesses in the UK for the introduction of the Carbon Green purchasing policies of goods not for resale Reduction Commitment CRC, an emissions trading scheme with Green build initiatives the aim of cost-effectively reducing emissions in the service, Health and safety public and other less energy-intensive sectors by 1.2 million We are managing these through the following initiatives: tonnes by 2020.
The CRC will be a mandatory emissions trading scheme ETS, targeting large organisations whose emissions are Industry and environmental partners currently not included in the EU ETS or Climate Change The Groups businesses in the UK work with a number of Agreements.
specialist organisations to help minimise our impacts on the During 2008 09 detailed site surveys took place of a number environment, including the Carbon Trust, British Safety Council, of HMV UK and Waterstones stores, sampling a variety of sizes Adam Energy Management Systems and Biffa Waste Services.
The results have indicated potential environmental In addition, through our involvement in various trade bodies we savings, with the primary aim of reducing the energy consumption are helping to manage the environmental impacts made by the in our businesses.
HMV UK & Ireland partners the music industry initiative Julies Bicycle, which aims to reduce Energy usage the sectors greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
Although the focus As the table below demonstrates, energy usage in our UK for Julies Bicycle is the entire recorded music industry, and not businesses has decreased in each of the last two years.
However, exclusively retailing, the Oxford  Environmental our commitment is to further reduce the amount of energy Change Institute in 2007 identified CD packaging as the recorded consumed and a number of initiatives have been introduced to music industrys single most important source of GHG emissions.
Energy usage Electricity Gas Total Total HMV UK and Waterstones Total kWh Total CO Total kWh Total CO Total kWh Total CO 2 2 2 2006 07 92,481,368 49,664 1,329,345 246 93,810,713 49,910 2007 08 89,599,549 48,117 1,305,943 242 90,905,492 48,359 2008 09 86,856,010 46,643 1,114,062 202 87,970,072 46,845 HMV Group plc 35 Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility continued Environmental Champions Energy management trial A member from each of our store teams has been appointed A substantial initiative is underway to reduce energy usage in as an Environmental Champion to ensure that environmental our UK stores through the implementation of a new energy best practice is followed in all of our store locations.
This enables systems for heating, air initiatives are shared through the CR committees to maximise conditioning and lighting to be pre-programmed for use and the engagement of our stores.
Following a trial in 17 HMV UK and Waterstones stores during November and December 2008, in which energy savings of over 14% were achieved see table Smart meters The installation of smart meters leads to improved site-by-site below, roll-out of this new energy management system is monitoring, allowing detailed reports that can be analysed to commencing during 2009 10. discover unusual energy use patterns or excessive out of hours energy use.
Smart meters are fitted to all new and refit stores, and a programme of retro-fitting is being rolled-out across the HMV UK and Waterstones estates.
HMV Group CO Saving 2 Control tonnes Energy management trial Control KWh saving % Saving HMV 152,301 124,640 27,661 18.2 16.0 Waterstones 177,020 157,459 19,561 11.1 10.8 Total 329,321 282,099 47,222 14.3 26.8 When store openings and closures are factored in, energy usage per square metre is below: Total CO Retail 2 2 2 Group Total kWh tonnes Sq metres KWH m CO m 2 2006 07 93,810,713 49,910 3,145,627 321 0.17 2007 08 90,905,492 48,359 3,149,382 311 0.17 April 08March 09 CRC Reporting Period 87,970,072 46,845 3,318,261 285 0.15 Waste and recycling Supply chain During the year HMV UK and Waterstones have been working Following an internal environmental audit this year, HMV UKs with specialists to improve waste management and recycling central distribution centres adopted new waste management and rates.
Average recycling wastes across both businesses increased recycling recommendations.
Recycling levels at these locations by 12% on the prior year to 37%.
are due to be significantly improved following the appointment of new waste management services in 2009.
Recycling average During 2008 09 a new book hub enabling centralised distribution for Waterstones stores and online customers became HMV UK Waterstones live.
This major project delivers a number of environmental 2007 08 19% 31% benefits for both the company and its suppliers, including: 2008 09 28% 46% returns of slower-moving stock made to the hub, rather than to suppliers, for sale elsewhere in Waterstones.
Potential for Figures do not include shopping centre locations, where waste and recycling is carried out by centre management, rather than individual stores.
a proportion of book returns to be absorbed back into stores via the hub, reducing the volume of books destined for Water usage pulping: Measures are being taken where possible to reduce the amount environmentally improved solution vastly reduces card and of water used in our store and distribution locations.
Waterstones paper usage in the supply chain.
This could, in time, be participates in The Ripple Effect, an initiative that assists further improved by supplier deliveries utilising pre-agreed companies to reduce water consumption, while the new book hub Waterstones totes to reduce packaging usage: distribution centre is equipped with recycled grey water systems.
In stores, Environment Champions are advised to carry out a large reduction in suppliers packaging and transportation series of regular audits of customer and store facilities to ensure requirements, driven by replacement of deliveries to over effective management of water consumption.
300 store locations with shipments to a single destination.
Potential to reduce use of carton packaging by 70%80%.
HMV Group plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2009 Goods not for resale GNFR Paper Part of the Groups three-year transformation programme is to Most paper used by the Groups operations in the UK is supplied save significant costs through more effective procurement of from FSC-certified sources, with a mixture of recycled and nongoods and services not for resale.
This programme is also recycled paper.
The green credentials of suppliers of our in-store helping to enhance our environmental credentials.
point of sale materials are also carefully scrutinised.
We strive to ensure that both the new stores we open and those we refit are as green as possible.
As well as the roll-out of smart Our stores employ a policy of asking customers individually or through point of sale if a bag is required for their purchases.
meters and energy management systems to new stores, any new In Waterstones, loyalty cardholders are offered Eco Points timber used in store builds is FSC-certified and only energyefficient PCs and appliances are deployed.
We also, wherever each time they decline a bag, thereby rewarding customers with money-off future purchases.
possible, recycle fixtures and fittings, respray browser units and A responsible approach to sourcing of carrier bags is stands and refurbish metallic merchandising fixtures.
maintained by all of our main businesses.
Health and safety Stores in HMV UK and HMV Canada provide degradable, single-use carrier bags made from 30% recycled plastic.
The bags For the benefit of the tens of millions of customers who visit our stores every year and our colleagues who work within them, the degrade in landfill sites in the presence of light, oxygen, heat and Group maintains a strong commitment to health and safety.
In addition, HMV UK has introduced a bag for life manufactured 100% from recycled plastic mostly Our initiatives and progress this year include: recycled water bottles.
Waterstones stores provide single-use carriers manufactured HMV UK from 100% post-consumer recycled plastic.
In addition, Trips, slips and falls reduced by 8% Conflict management training for in-store Loss Prevention Waterstones offers a bag for life, manufactured from 100% Officers.
In the Republic of Ireland, where local legislation prohibits the use of plastic carrier bags, HMV and Waterstones provide Waterstones Reduction in RIDDOR accidents by 10% customers who request them with bags made from recycled craft paper.
Further improvement in annual health and safety compliance Online products ordered from hmv.
com are shipped using audit to 86% Regional champions appointed to promote colleagues recycled packaging materials.
Following the transfer of fulfilment for waterstones.
com to the new book hub, similar packaging is engagement and compliance with health and safety.
being rolled-out for books customers.
People Our businesses recognise the importance of attracting and retaining dedicated and motivated people.
There are numerous initiatives to promote the engagement of our colleagues, to celebrate success, provide a range of attractive benefits, and to develop the careers of individuals.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 37 Corporate responsibility continued Recruitment policies For colleagues in Waterstones stores who wish to progress along Our businesses are committed to providing equality of the career ladder, fast track training programmes are provided.
opportunity and to maximising the talents of our people.
Three such schemes are available: Lead Bookseller to Assistant Our recruitment decisions are made only on the basis of Manager, Assistant Manager to Branch Manager and Branch qualifications, skills and ability to do the job.
This commitment to Manager to Regional Manager.
All are designed to help ease equal opportunities includes: colleagues to the next career phase and provide a network of support of head office colleagues and other course delegates.
the promotion of equality of opportunity in employment: In 2008 09, 100 people took part in fast track programmes, with the development, implementation, regular monitoring and 73% going on to achieve promotions.
Waterstones head office review of employment policies with the aim of ensuring that colleagues attended a variety of workshops, including managing colleagues receive fair and consistent treatment: performance, motivation, delegation and influencing skills.
a continuing programme of action to make the policy and its Green benefits package implementation fully effective, including training and Our people are encouraged to choose from a menu of benefits guidance: that directly promote green issues, including: the elimination of discrimination of any kind.
loans of up to 1,000 to purchase a bicycle for travel to and The law sets out that our policies must at least ensure that current from work: and potential colleagues are offered the same opportunities season ticket loans to encourage travel to and from work regardless of gender, colour, race, religion or belief, national or using public transport: ethnic origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, parttime or fixed term status.
Our stance is that the promotion of Give As You Earn GAYE scheme to make regular, pre-tax equal opportunities is essential and therefore all colleagues donations to chosen charities through payroll.
We are proud should be treated with respect, whether they are specifically that our colleagues donated approximately 15,000 during protected by legislation or not.
the year through this scheme.
In addition, Waterstones offers colleagues the opportunity to Colleague progression participate in the Day for Good, which enables our people to take The Groups businesses are committed to nurturing talent and paid time off to carry out voluntary work.
Colleagues can request promoting from within, where possible.
Various internal training one day of paid time in any year to volunteer for their chosen programmes are available, as well as assistance to gain organisation.
The programmes we operate enable our businesses to have well-developed Community succession plans and to fill any gaps in individuals knowledge We recognise that both the products we sell and, therefore, the before promotion.
Examples of these programmes include: HMV and Waterstones brands, have an important part to play in HMV UK & Ireland provides an induction-training programme, the lives of our customers.
Our commitment to the hundreds of Get Started, for all colleagues.
This includes a Company DVD, Get communities in which we operate is to extend our engagement Closer days for all new starters and one months free access to with them in ways which, we hope, can help to make even more HMV Jukebox a streaming online music service.
reviewed at regular intervals during their first six months to ensure all parties remain happy.
Since 2000, HMV UK & Ireland has The customer experience had Investors in People accreditation, which was renewed in We believe it is our responsibility to provide our customers with April 2009 following a review.
This demonstrates the Companys the best possible experience.
Our people are therefore equipped commitment to developing its people so they are better able to with high quality and extensive training and our most prestigious deliver strategic objectives.
Over the past three years, more than company awards recognise excellent customer service as a key 700 people have completed one of the four levels of fast track criteria.
As the standards expected of us increase, we must strive to HMV Canada offers its people post-induction entry into an deliver an ever more rewarding customer experience.
In support Education Assistance Programme.
Its purpose is to encourage of this, we carry out regular research and brand tracking surveys full-time, salaried employees to upgrade the skills they would use with our customers and employ mystery shopper programmes.
in their day-to-day jobs for the benefit of the employee and the Results from these initiatives are fed back to all parts of our Company, and to financially assist employees in furthering their businesses and, where appropriate, adaptations to policy or education and careers.
Professional qualifications, such as those training are made.
HMV Group plc 38 Annual report and accounts 2009 Rewarding loyalty HMV UK donated all of the proceeds from the sale of the X In the UK, both of our main brands have programmes to reward Factors Hero CD single, one of the biggest selling singles of the customers for their loyalty.
In both HMV and Waterstones points last decade, to the Help for Heroes Fund and Royal British Legion.
can be earned from shopping with us in-store or online.
In the This raised approximately 100,000, which was divided equally case of the purehmv loyalty card, points are also redeemable between the two charities in support of British servicemen and online from a dedicated customer area on the hmv.
The Waterstones Card enjoyed its first full year of trading in Waterstones charity partner since 2005 is Dyslexia Action.
2008 09, and has already won two retail industry awards.
During the year, our stores and head office teams initiated The data we collect from customers participation in our numerous activities in support of Dyslexia Action.
In total, funds schemes enables us to provide carefully targeted and relevant donated by and through Waterstones to Dyslexia Action during communication.
The right to privacy and security of customer the year were approximately 93,000. data is taken very seriously.
Customers can opt in or out of communication at any time and the information we use is not Events sold, rented or passed on to others for marketing purposes Among the important added value experiences our local stores without the express consent of customers.
All of the information are uniquely placed to provide, is the opportunity for our provided to us by customers is treated securely and strictly in customers to meet their favourite artists and authors from the accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998. entertainment and literary worlds at live performances, signings and other special events.
Responsible selling During the year, HMV UK and HMV Canada hosted over As specialist retailers, we are committed to providing the widest 300 personal appearances by some of the biggest names in the ranges of products available either on the high street or online.
music and filmed entertainment industries.
In addition, HMV UK Sometimes, for all sorts of reasons, certain of the products we supports a number of events for breakthrough and young sell in stores or online can be of a sensitive nature.
Therefore, we performers as part of our commitment to grass-roots music and adopt a responsible approach to selling.
Where appropriate, we engagement with young musicians in particular.
This year we liaise with trading standards and other external bodies and listen promoted through our stores the Make It, Break It Awards 2009, a to our customers and our colleagues.
national song-writing competition for young musicians aged 14-16 Within the boundaries of existing legislation and industry and 17-19, hosted by Paul McCartneys Liverpool Institute for the regulation applied to our product categories, including the Public Performing Arts.
Order Act and British Board of Film Classification ratings, we Waterstones ran over 9,000 events during the year, including maintain a strictly non-censorial approach to selling.
In support nearly 4,000 author appearances and over 1,000 reading groups.
of this, the people in our stores are provided with training and These took place in stores as well as at numerous local regular communication to ensure that, if appropriate, sensitive community venues.
First-time authors as well as household product is clearly identified and or is sold only to customers who names launched their new books, with signings, talks, readings are entitled to purchase it.
and even impromptu stand-up comedy and acoustic music HMV believes that it is inappropriate to restrict or censor performances.
the choice that it makes available to customers.
However, we Of the nearly 5,000 events held for children, Waterstones ran recognise the importance of merchandising and displaying activity and story-time sessions with themes as varied as fairy and stock in a responsible manner, which is consistent with trading pirate parties, Horrid Henry parties, treasure hunts, mask-making, standards and retail practice and sensitive to prevailing public Christmas card-making, The Tales of Beedle the Bard launch concerns.
parties and, for older children, launch activities for Stephanie Waterstones believes that it should not act as censor and Meyers Breaking Dawn series.
that customers should have the right to choose whatever they Waterstones also supports, through activities in its stores, want to read.
The only circumstances under which we would trade-wide initiatives such as World Book Day, and honours the remove a book from sale are on the advice of the police or the vouchers that permit every child in the UK to a free book.
We understand that we share a responsibility with Book Bank is an award-winning Waterstones initiative that enables parents to ensure that inappropriate material is not sold to minors.
children to bring a favourite book to school to share with other While many books for children and teenagers include no printed children and, in return, they receive a voucher from the school direct age guidance, our booksellers can both offer advice or that they exchange for a free new book from a selected range at decline a sale if they believe a particular title should not be sold Waterstones.
Waterstones is also involved in nearly 20 literary festivals, offering varying levels of support and sponsorship.
These include: Charitable support the Times Cheltenham Festival of Literature, UEA Spring Literary HMV UKs charity of choice since September 2008 is CLIC Festival, Stratford Literary Festival, Daphne du Maurier Festival Sargent, which supports the families of children with cancer.
in Glasgow, Durham Book Festival and During the year, scores of fundraising initiatives took place Theakstons Old Peculiar Crime Festival in Harrogate.
and HMV and Fopp stores raised 25,000 from sales of bags for life.
In total, 175,000 was raised during the seven-month period.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 39
