Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate social responsibility Corporate responsibility continued TECSUP Community relations indicators The Groups involvement in TECSUP has also continued during 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 the year.
This establishment, founded and substantially funded by the Hochschild Group is a leading non-profit technical Community institute with over 5,000 graduates.
TECSUP offers careers in investment $6.0m $4.6m $4.3m $2.3m $1.2m nine areas, including metallurgical and chemical processes, Production days electronics and industrial automation, maintenance of heavy lost as a result and industrial equipment, and agricultural technology.
In 2008, of community TECSUP received accreditations from the German Agency for conflicts 1.5 0 0 0 0 Accreditation of Engineering Education and from the European Network for Accreditation of Engineering Education, which will allow its graduates to pursue additional studies abroad.
3. the environment c Improving living conditions The Hochschild approach Income generation activities range from fish farming, The Group endeavours to minimise the impact of its business agriculture, textile products manufacturing to alpaca breeding.
on the environment and to facilitate the on-going sustainability However, many community members are employed by the of the land where it develops operations and activities.
In order Group and their work at the operation or exploration units is to support its efforts, the Group is committed to using the their main source of income.
In the case of Selene, despite the highest standards of environmental management systems.
closure of the mines section, the Group took extensive efforts to In addition to its primary responsibilities, the Environmental ensure that all community jobs were maintained.
Department works together with the operational teams, community relations and the Legal Department on the Due to the high altitude where the communities are located, application for, and on-going compliance with, mining permits, alpaca breeding is the most important non-mining income thereby assuring the continuity of operations.
generating activity followed by fish farming.
The Group provides support for both activities which has led to an increase in the Environmental management is facilitated through a reporting incomes of numerous families.
structure at mine level with accountability to the Corporate Environmental Manager reporting to the Chief Operating Officer.
Apart from promoting income generation activities, the Group has also endeavoured to better living conditions for The Groups environmental teams focus on the following areas: communities.
This has been demonstrated by the installations Tailings management of over 100 solar panels at community schools, health centres and many of the households during 2009.
This sustainable Waste rock management energy source brings new opportunities to improve living Safe disposal of domestic and industrial waste conditions and access to communications.
Water treatment mine, industrial, domestic water Targets for 2010 Zero Loss of Production days arising as a result of Storage and handling of hazardous materials, principally community conflicts.
cyanide Hydrocarbons management To achieve tangible improvements in the level of education, health and nutrition of local communities as assessed by Management of new projects NGO partners.
Closure and rehabilitation works Consumption of resources, principally water.
32 Corporate responsibility 2009 community investment $6.0m Developments during the year Environmental indicators Notable developments during the year include: 2 1 1 1 2009 2008 2007 2006 On-going certification of environmental management systems Average monthly fresh at the Groups operations at Ares, Arcata and Selene as ISO water consumption per 14001 compliant metric tonne of treated ore cubic metres 0.63 0.55 2.72 1.58 Installation of internet-enabled equipment for the monitoring of water data at the Ares mine: Average monthly electricity consumption per metric Construction of water treatment plant at the former mine tonne of treated ore kWh 53.32 90.3 102.01 134.28 in Sipan: Average monthly diesel Implementation of key environmental procedures including: consumption per metric Environmental Management Plan procedure to improve tonne of treated ore the time taken to obtain permits for new projects.
gallons 1.23 3.14 1.62 1.36 Average monthly wood Management of environmental incidents and accident consumption per metric Environmental Compliance Performance Indicators to tonne of treated ore kg 10.31 18.33 17.13 14.36 evaluate the performance of each mine and department Number of material against their environmental objectives environmental incidents Environmental impact studies performed in connection with across entire operations 0 0 0 0 proposed expansion programmes and in the planning of new Estimated volume of infrastructure projects, such as mine capacity increases and water withdrawn per day new tailings dam cubic metres 29,668 Not available Group-wide initiatives to raise the general awareness of Estimated proportion environmental issues amongst employees.
of recycled water used cubic metres 27% Not available Targets for 2010 Group Compliance Performance Indicator of at least 70% Estimated volume of water discharged per day Zero material environmental incidents across entire cubic metres 35,606 Not available operations 1 Figures relate to the Groups mines in Ares, Arcata and Selene only, unless otherwise stated.
San Jos and Pallancata to achieve formal ISO 14001 2 Figures relate to the Groups mines in Ares, Arcata, Selene, Pallancata and San Jos unless otherwise stated.
