REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Corporate responsibility Our programme to reduce our environmental impact focuses on our carbon footprint, waste management, packaging and carrier bags.
42 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Responsible retailing Home Retail Group has been committed to corporate responsibility for many years, and continues to be so during these challenging times.
We see no con ict between corporate responsibility and good business practice.
We continue to seek out opportunities across the business to create shared value meaningful bene ts for society that are also valuable to our customers and our business.
Where can I nd more information?
p44 How we think p45 What weve been doing p47 Community p48 Waste not programme support want not Home Retail Group is in the Home Retail Group has again FTSE4Good Index, meeting been awarded gold status in the all the relevant social and Business in the Community environmental criteria.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 43 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS How we think With the trading environment expected to remain challenging, it is more important than ever that we maintain a relationship of trust with our customers and suppliers.
Across our operations and activities we: Customer choice Actively seek ways to minimise our impact on We offer our customers clear information and the environment in the way we do business products that will help them to make responsible Help our customers to be responsible choices.
Customers have responded particularly consumers by giving them information well to products which offer them the opportuand choices nity to save energy, and save money.
Behave ethically and with integrity when We are working to ensure that the process of sourcing products and dealing with our shopping from us is a responsible choice in itself.
suppliers All catalogues and brochures given to customers Provide our colleagues with a safe and are fully recyclable and, by the end of 2009, all healthy environment and enable them to publications, including the main Argos catalogue, act responsibly in their jobs and to develop will be printed on either fully certi ed or recycled 300 rewarding careers paper.
We have increased the recycled content The number of eco-product Support the local and national communities of our carrier bags and reduced the number of lines in the Argos catalogue.
in which we operate carrier bags in use.
Bene ting business Working in partnership With the trading environment expected to We recognise the value of partnership in driving remain challenging, it is more important than social and environmental change.
This year, we ever that we maintain a relationship of trust with have joined the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange our customers and suppliers, and enable colSedex which allows us to share ethical data with leagues not just to contribute to the long-term global suppliers as well as other businesses, enasuccess of our business, but also to the sustainabling us to work together to achieve continuous bility of the wider environment and community.
And of course, the ef ciency bene ts we have We are working with major domestic suppliers achieved as a result of our corporate responsibilto reduce the environmental impact of our supity agenda are helping to keep costs as low as ply chains, for example, by compressing duvets possible across the business.
in transit to increase the quantity that can be shipped in a container.
Our interaction with government, shareholders, NGOs and special interest groups such as the Waste Resources Action Programme, Energy Saving Trust, WWF UK Forest and Trade Network and the Responsible Jewellery Council have shaped our policies and helped us to deliver on our commitments.
44 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION What weve been doing Empowering change The following provides a summary of our activiOur colleagues have put our plans into practice ties in 2008 09.
For a full report, please go to by making corporate responsibility part of their www.
The commitment and engagement of our Environment colleagues is critical to our success as a customerOur programme to reduce our environmental facing business.
Enabling colleagues to feel good impact focuses on our carbon footprint, waste about the business they work for is an important management, packaging and carrier bags.
They expect our We have reduced our total carbon footprint business to make a positive contribution to socibuildings and transport by 7%.
Although buildety and the environment and they want to play ing energy use is up by 5.8%, on the back of their part.
increases in selling space, changes to our fuel use Our corporate responsibility management more gas and buying more low-carbon electricstructure actively involves all our business funcity from combined heat and power plants mean tions.
It gives clear accountability, up to Board that carbon emissions from buildings are down level, while placing responsibility with the indi- 7%.
Argos has been accredited by the Carbon 40% viduals best placed to make it happen.
Trust to the Energy Ef ciency Accreditation Reduction in the use of carrier The Group company secretary has overall Scheme since 2004 and, in May 2008, Homebase bags over the last three years.
responsibility for corporate responsibility, leadwas also awarded accreditation.
ing discussion and decision-making on the topic Carbon emissions from transport are also at Operating Board and plc Board level and chairdown, by 8%.
We have maintained our focus on ing the corporate responsibility steering group.
improving the utilisation of our commercial eet, 72% He is supported by a small team of corporate aided by the extensive use of multi-deck trailers.
The amount of waste responsibility professionals, led by a new head of We have set up a team within distribution which we recycle.
corporate responsibility appointed this year.
focuses on reducing the amount of empty The corporate responsibility steering group running on our store delivery and trunk eets: provides strategic direction on corporate responGroup vehicles make collections from suppliers sibility matters, with input from two management premises on their return journey from stores groups.
One addresses issues relating to waste, and deliver stock into Group depots, removing energy, products and the supply chain, while the vehicles from the roads, and reducing the amount other focuses on community affairs, the workof empty running on our own eet.
These two We have made huge progress in reducing the management groups are chaired by the Group amount of waste generated from our stores, discommercial director and Group HR director tribution centres and of ces across the UK and respectively.
We have reduced the amount of waste to Our management of corporate responsibility land ll by 46% this year and are now recycling is integrated within our management of business over 70% of the waste generated.
Our packaging teams in the UK and China have assessed packaging reduction solutions for over 2,000 items across the Group and are in the process of implementing the necessary changes: we have already removed 600 tonnes of packaging this year with more expected in the coming years.
Over the last year, we have increased the recycled content of our carrier bags to 50% and over the last three years we have reduced the number of carrier bags used by 40% on a like-for-like stores basis.
In Homebase, this has been supported by the provision of cardboard boxes at checkout for customers to use: this is popular with customers as a convenient alternative to bags, and an excellent reuse of transit packaging.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 45 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Customers Trust have helped us to educate customers, proCustomer satisfaction with both the product and mote energy ef cient products and drive growth shopping experience is one of the strongest drivin this area.
Homebase has re-launched its range ers of our performance.
It is fundamental to the 41% of grow-your-own fruit and vegetables this year success of our business that we know and act on of the electricity we use is and we are pleased with the customer reaction.
what our customers think about our product offer, from renewable sources.
Recent customer research has told us that cusour pricing and their entire shopping experience.
tomers are looking for help from retailers to Both Argos and Homebase conduct regular reduce household waste and dispose of waste research which is dedicated to understanding and responsibly.
We are responding to this with our responding to customers views.
This includes initiatives to reduce product packaging and by mystery shopper visits, exit surveys and cusoffering to take back packaging on deliveries of tomer listening groups.
white goods 40% of customers return their packArgos has extended its customer research by aging in this way.
We also offer a take-back introducing direct customer feedback opportuniservice for old appliances.
co. uk a website where In our Financial Services business, we remain customers can provide us with feedback on their committed to adhering to our responsible lendshopping experience.
The website address is ing policy, and continue our focus on treating our printed on all receipts.
Both Argos and Homebase customers fairly, including re ning the tools we have introduced online product reviews.
We are supporting research We offer our customers clear information and by the Association of British Credit Unions into products that will help them to make responsible how credit unions can successfully work with choices.
Customers have responded particularly schools to help develop financial skills and con - well to products which help them to conserve dence amongst pupils.
This project gives us an their resources and therefore save money.
This exciting opportunity to support the development includes insulating their homes, using more of financial capability amongst young people.
energy ef cient electricals and even growing their own vegetables.
Sourcing and supply chain The Argos catalogue now features 300 ecoThis year we have signi cantly stepped up our product lines up 18% versus last year including ethical audit programme and have met our target energy ef cient options across televisions, set of ensuring that 100% of our direct source factop boxes and white goods.
The Homebase tories and 50% of our direct import factories have energy event signi cantly increased sales of loft been audited over the last two years a total of insulation and energy ef cient light bulbs.
Corrective actions are agreed and partnerships with E-ON and the Energy Saving documented for any concern identi ed during a factory audit, and progress against these actions is monitored on an ongoing basis.
We have joined the Supplier Ethical Data Th is year, we have stepped up Exchange Sedex, which allows us to share ethical data with global suppliers as well as other our ethical audit programme businesses, enabling us to work together to achieve continuous improvement.
signifi cantly and have met our We have engaged separately with selected target of ensuring that 100% groups of suppliers to fide ne and implement our policies on sourcing timber, growing media such of our direct source factories as the use of peat, quarried materials, jewellery and chemicals.
and 50% of our direct import We have signi cantly increased the volume of paper which is either recycled or certi ed.
Across factories have been audited all publications, this total has reached 67%, of which 19% is recycled.
By making recognised cera total of 856 factories over ti cation a pre-requisite of supply in 2009 10, we the last two years.
are con dent that by the end of 2009 we will have achieved 100% recycled or certi ed content for all publications, including, for the first time, the main Argos catalogue.
46 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Our colleagues During the year, the average number of Home Our annual employee engagement survey is a key Retail Group employees was 53,745.
With 74% measure of the drivers and extent of employee working part-time, this equates to 29,794 fullengagement.
This year we have launched our first time equivalents.
We have opened a total of 37 Group-wide survey, which will allow us to comnew Argos and Homebase stores and one new pare results, successes and areas of opportunity HomeStore&More.
across different parts of the business.
It will also We remain committed to investing resources provide us with benchmarks of our performance to support, engage and motivate colleagues.
We against other high-performing companies.
offer a wide range of learning and development Unfortunately, the organisational changes we opportunities, covering over 250 programmes in have made this year to improve the operational total.
For example, our commercial development ef ciency of the Group have resulted in reduntraining programme has involved every member dancies.
We have strived to make the process of our commercial team, extending their skills, of these reorganisations clear and objective at knowledge and capacity to ful l their potential in all times.
their roles, and to improve the performance of their function overall.
Communities We actively encourage a performance culture The total value of the Groups charitable where all colleagues receive regular feedback giving for 2008 09 was 926,000 2007 08: about performance and have an opportunity to 1,397,000.
These funds have supported local discuss their ongoing development with their line and national projects with an education or envimanager.
ronmental theme and charities that address the We have a range of policies to ensure our colneeds of homes and families.
leagues work in safe conditions and, to contribute We have supported the development of a to their health and well-being, this year we have Samaritans text message SMS service.
We are carried out a full review of all training material funding the development of Disabled Living 13% relating to health and safety.
Foundations Living Made Easy website, which of our colleagues contribute Disabled persons have equal opportunities provides practical advice on daily living equipto payroll giving.
when applying for vacancies, with due regard to ment for people with disabilities.
In Milton their aptitudes and abilities.
We have further proKeynes, working with the Youth Housing Netcedures to ensure that disabled colleagues are work, we have funded a theatre workshop worker fairly treated and that their training and career who has set up a theatre group for young people development needs are carefully managed.
Our community cashWe provide clear communication on company back scheme recognises and supports the efforts performance, strategy and priorities cascaded of our colleagues by contributing up to 1,000 to through team brie ngs, larger employee events, the funds raised by individual colleagues for the intranet sites and colleague newsletters.
Where charities of their choice.
appropriate, we involve colleagues on matters that concern them through local consultative procedures.
Where we have recognition agreements with trade unions, the consultation process COMMUNITY PROGRAMME SUPPORT 000 is established through national and local trade Cash donations 465 union representatives and joint consultation Volunteering 119 committees.
Gifts in kind 186 Our bene ts packages allow colleagues to Management resource 156 share in the success of the Group.
Our Save As You Earn plan gives colleagues the opportunity to Company donations 926 purchase shares at a discount, tax-free: 20% of Monies raised by colleagues eligible colleagues are now participating.
Payroll giving 351 In-store fundraising 1,374 Tick to give 85 Donations from others 1,810 Total 2,736 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 47 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Corporate responsibility case study: Waste not want not Total donations from others were ahead of last We are working hard to improve the way year at 1.8m, despite the current economic we manage the waste we generate, and to climate 2007 08: 1.66m.
Through their fundhelp our customers to do the same.
Not raising activities, our colleagues have raised over only does this help the environment, it also 1.3m for our Group charity partners.
A further reduces costs to the business and to our 85,000 has been added to this by Argos customcustomers.
ers through our Tick to Give scheme where customers can tick a box on their selection slip to Reduce make a donation.
Approximately 13% of the Our packaging teams are looking at ways to Groups employees donate to charities of their reduce the packaging on the products we sell, choice through payroll, contributing over as well as the transit packaging used while the 350,000 this year.
products are on their way from the factory to the stockroom.
2,000 product lines have been Benchmarks tackled this year.
Our customers are using 40% FTSE4Good: Home Retail Group is included in fewer carrier bags than they did in 2005. the FTSE4Good Index, meeting all the relevant social and environmental criteria.
Reuse In Homebase, our customers are using the Dow Jones Sustainability Index: Home Retail boxes and plant trays used to deliver products Group is listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability into stores to take their purchases home.
Index which selects the top 10% from 3,000 Through its partnership with the Furniture global companies based on comprehensive Reuse Network FRN, Homebase donates fursustainability data.
Silver classi cation places the niture items, tools and xings which are not Group in the top four general retailers.
sold in store end of lines, undamaged returns to charitable re-use organisations across the Business in the Community BiTC : This index UK.
Unsold and end of line paint is donated to assesses the extent to which corporate responsiCommunity Repaint.
bility is integrated into business practice throughout an organisation, and evaluates performance Recycle in a range of environmental and social impact In our stores, our colleagues are working hard areas.
Home Retail Group has been awarded gold to segregate waste so that it can be returned status this year.
to our distribution centres to be processed and sent on to the appropriate recycling facilities, Read more online or collected from store by third-party contracFor a full report on our corporate responsitors.
This year we reduced our waste to land ll bility activities in 2008 09, please go to by 46% and now recycle over 70% of the www.
We were delighted that Samantha Stevens, Homebase store services manager, won the Commercial Recycling Champion Award hosted by LetsRecycle this year.
This award recognises the dedication of an individual or team within the commercial and industrial sector in promoting recycling and sustainable waste management within their company.
When we deliver white goods into customers homes, 40% are now returning the packaging on our delivery vehicles for us to recycle for them.
We also offer a take-back service for old appliances.
All our plastic carrier bags are now made with a 50% recycled content.
Across our print publications, 17% of paper used this year was recycled paper: this will increase to over 25% next year.
All our publications, including the Argos catalogue, are 100% recyclable.
48 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Samantha Stevens led the Putting waste in its place project to dramatically reduce the amount of waste sent by Homebase to land ll.
In stores, colleagues are working hard to segregate waste.
Sorted waste is returned to our distribution centres to be processed and recycled, or is collected by specialist contractors.
Samantha was named Commercial Recycling Champion by letsrecycle.
With the project now entering its third year, Samantha and the team are hoping to reduce land ll waste even further.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 49
