Corporate HomeServe responsibility Annual Report & Accounts 2009 28 Corporate responsibility At the start of the year, the Internal Communications team conducted two surveys, one online and one printWe recognise that a big part of our based, as well as facilitating a series businesss future success depends on us of focus groups across the UK sites.
taking into account the interests of all of Employee forums continue to meet regularly at many sites and there are our stakeholders.
We are committed to plans to develop web casts and online the operation of a responsible business Q&As via the intranet.
model and are developing our activities in We realise that our staffs views and this area.
We will continue to report on our opinions are fundamental to our future success.
We also recognise progress in implementing key initiatives.
that employees should be rewarded when they have done a good job.
Employees Our HomeServe Heroes employee We recognise that one of our major recognition scheme has seen dozens stakeholders is our people.
All our of staff across the Group celebrated employees are crucial to HomeServes and remunerated for jobs well done.
Because All HomeServe Heroes winners will be of this, we are committed to improving invited to an awards event this June, our employee engagement and which will celebrate both their success learning more about our staffs needs.
and the benefit their hard work brings We believe HomeServe is a good to the business overall.
employer, but we are very aware that Training and development is also we need to listen to our employees very important at HomeServe.
As a in order to ascertain how HomeServe business, we always look to recruit can become an even better place to the best staff.
and new talent, however, we know In the past year, we have that we must offer our employees developed various existing internal development opportunities and communications programmes as well career progression.
Our performance as initiating some new activities.
management review process enables us to identify training needs and From November of 2008, the newly to provide training solutions in a designed staff magazine, Homelife, consistent and targeted manner.
has been published every two Whats more, the delivery of many of months.
This new, smaller format these programmes is carried out by publication aims to both represent the our own training specialists.
entire workforce and be entertaining.
The magazine is posted to the home addresses of all field-based staff, whilst other employees including those in our overseas sites can obtain a copy from the main office locations.
Feedback from the readership has been very positive so far.
The Group intranet, which launched last year, has been developed both as a document store and business tool and as a communication medium that has wide reach and immediate appeal.
