HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 33 Environment Carbon footprint This year, HomeServe has To ensure that we continually further committed to reducing its improve our understanding of our environmental impact.
We are also environmental impacts, focus has to actively managing responses to the be, and will continue to be, placed challenges the governments latest on collating and analysing a wider environmental targets present to our cross section of environmental data.
business, as well as complying with The data collated in 2008 9 has been wider environmental legislation.
utilised to determine HomeServes carbon footprint.
The Group Environmental Steering Committee, headed by our Chairman, HomeServes carbon footprint has Brian Whitty, has been instrumental in increased from 20,600 tCO2-e in driving changes across the business 2007 8 to 22,567 tCO2-e.
This increase over the past year.
The committee was expected by the business due members have ensured that the to business growth and because environmental strategy is aligned with more robust measuring techniques wider business strategy and that key, have been put in place to ascertain environmentally beneficial projects the environmental impacts of the have been progressed during the year.
Going forward the strategic environmental focus for HomeServe is The environmental plans that have to reduce our environmental impact been actioned in the past year will through better energy efficiency, enable us to reduce our environmental improvements in fleet efficiencies and impacts over the next 12 months in the to reduce the amount of resources following core areas: used and the waste we generate.
Transport including our commercial fleet Reducing the impact of business travel Energy consumption HomeServe has made changes this Waste management at all of our year which will enable a reduction sites in the carbon footprint of core business activities.
Over the year, the Paper usage both for marketing strategy has focused on reducing the purposes and internal business environmental impact of our fleet.
We requirements have done this by assessing the vans In addition, there is continued we use based on factors including commitment by the business to efficiencies and CO2 emission levels.
implement the environmental We therefore now select vehicles management system, Group wide.
based on a life-cycle cost analysis In 2008, both HomeServe Glass and which considers fuel efficiency, Locks and HomeServe Advanced maintenance and repair costs as well Aluminium achieved the ISO14001 as lease costs.
We believe this is the environmental management system more environmentally responsible accreditation.
During 2009 10 it is option, which will lead to a reduction intended that the UK Membership in the emissions profile of our fleet.
business will also seek this accreditation.
Corporate HomeServe responsibility Annual Report & Accounts 2009 34 The significant investment made Recycling improvements into the fleets telematics system In order to increase the waste that we and speed limiters in 2008 has also recycle, additional recycling facilities started to result in improvements have been installed at our office sites.
in fuel efficiencies, with up to a 10% HomeServe Glass and Locks branches improvement in miles per gallon also provide tradesmen with facilities gained to date.
This efficiency to collect recyclable materials such improvement is resulting in a as glass, polyvinyl chloride PVC and reduction in the carbon intensity of our garage doors.
recycling facilities will be put in place across the business to support our Our company car policy has facilitated aim of reducing the waste that is not changes that have led to HomeServes recycled.
company car selection only including diesel vehicles with the focus of our The future range also being on low emission HomeServe realises the importance bands: the average being 158 grams of making continual changes to of CO2 per kilometer.
We are also its business in order to reduce the intending to reduce the cap of the environmental impact it has in CO2 levels of our company cars in the the short and long term.
We are coming year to have a further positive committed to managing our business impact on our emissions.
in an environmentally conscientious At the moment, air and rail travel way, which will result in real benefits made by HomeServe employees is to both the environment and the minimal.
However, we do have a business.
We have therefore invested in videoCommunity conferencing facilities that connect our HomeServe has main office sites in key sites, both in the UK and overseas, eight towns and cities in the UK and which will help to avoid unnecessary operates from dozens of depots.
We will be carrying out a also have overseas operations in review of these facilities throughout France, Spain and the US, and have this year with the aim of further now added Belgium to this list having reducing the need for travel by making commenced business in the Benelux improvements where needed.
With such a widely spaced Energy reduction geographical presence, we Reducing the energy consumption of understand the importance of HomeServes office sites is imperative developing and maintaining to enable a reduction of our carbon responsible business practices, which emissions.
This year, we have both support and enhance the diverse assessed where energy is consumed communities in which we are based.
across our sites and plans have been put in place to facilitate changes that We have a dedicated community will enable a reduction in consumption development resource, based at our to be achieved.
The changes range head office in Walsall, UK, and take from energy saving educational our community involvement very campaigns for our employees, through seriously.
to facility and building modifications, which include additional metering services and more energy efficient equipment being installed.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 35 Charitable support Representing the communities As a member of the UK charity, we serve Business in the Community, As a company that employs large HomeServe has committed itself to numbers of local residents in all numerous voluntary projects in many our main offices our head office of its locations over the past year.
in Walsall in the West Midlands is the largest commercial employer Many of our sites have programmes in the town we are very aware that in place that enable staff to sponsor we have a responsibility to those local groups with which they have communities.
As an employer, we an affiliation, and in Preston and actively seek to represent the diversity Weston-super-Mare we have of all the communities we operate community committees which focus in and serve, and we particularly on building links with the community welcome applications from groups and fundraising.
Staff from across which are under represented in our the business are able to contribute current workforce.
HomeServes stock to regular employment volunteering and trade is the homes of its local projects by offering their time and residents.
We aim to serve these talents to local groups and causes.
During the past year, our major donation scheme Charity Begins at HomeServe has seen three projects local to our office sites receive 5,000 each in the form of direct financial assistance and specialist HomeServe tradesmens labour.
The good causes that have benefited from our major donations to date are a drug prevention group, a sports centre and a regional branch of the childrens charity Barnados.
In the coming year, Charity Begins at HomeServe will extend its financial assistance to other communities that we are part of and all our staff will have the opportunity to influence which types of causes benefit from donations.
HomeServe Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2009 36 Building scale through international expansion Extending our business model by replicating it in international markets Acquiring local claims management and repair capability upon which to build our proven membership model Building and investing in local management teams HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 37
