HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 29 Our performance development review During the past year, we have process enables clear objective proactively engaged our customers, setting for all employees of manager clients and partners about H&S grade or above.
This, along with the issues.
A clear indicator of the success Leadership Excellence Framework, of this engagement is demonstrated which was implemented recently, by the fact that we have had limited allows individual management staff contact with the Enforcing Authority to work with the Company to identify during the year.
Moreover, no their current performance as well as prosecutions have been taken against their future training and development HomeServe for breaches of health needs.
Such forward planning is and safety regulations and no other crucial to HomeServes success overall: statutory notices have been issued.
it ensures that we will have the best possible management resource to Health and safety management support our growth.
Over recent years, HomeServe has consistently achieved an acceptable safety record via good leadership from Apprenticeships are an integral part of the senior management team and by our plans to develop a skilled workforce engaging the workforce.
As a whole, the Company also continues to expect for the future its operating businesses to ensure compliance with health and safety We are also significantly developing legislation regardless of the country in the apprenticeship opportunities which each operates.
Apprenticeships are an integral part The senior team continues to believe of our plans to develop a skilled in and drive the principle that workforce for the future and as management must own the health such form a central element of our and safety process throughout the developing recruitment and training group.
This is a key element of our bid strategy.
to engender a culture of health and safety awareness and practice across Health and Safety the group.
Each of the operating businesses is required to have a Our record specific health and safety policy and During the last 12 months, a supporting management system HomeServe has continued to improve that are underpinned by a robust risk its management of health and assessment process, which reflects safety H&S across the business the risks within each particular and, wherever possible, to deliver business.
Clearly, our H&S strategy is concerned with ensuring compliance with legal standards.
Beyond this legal imperative, however, we aim, where practicable, to investigate and adopt good industry practice and to ensure that this knowledge and expertise is shared across HomeServe.
Corporate HomeServe responsibility Annual Report & Accounts 2009 30 To ensure that senior management is Accident and injury aware of the risks within the business, One measure of health and safety health and safety performance standards in a business is accident reports are routinely generated and and injury rates.
Within the UK, submitted, the contents of which are under the requirements of the reviewed and discussed at Executive Reporting of Injuries, Diseases, and Committee and Board levels.
Jonathan Dangerous Occurrences Regulations Simpson-Dent, Chief Financial Officer, 1995 RIDDOR, certain types of has continued to be the Main Board accidents or incidents need to be Director responsible for reporting on reported to the Health and Safety health and safety, but the Board as a Executive.
Overall, HomeServe has whole remains responsible for health had a generally good year in terms and safety issues across the Group.
of the number of reportable events.
During 2008 9, the accident rates We believe that, to be successful across the Group have shown a small in effectively managing health and improvement, see chart opposite, safety, our management teams must with some of the individual operating be properly trained.
Over the last 18 businesses showing improvements months, we have significantly invested in particular categories or types of in the use of proprietary training accidents.
We have experienced no packages such as IOSH Managing employee fatalities, Major Injuries Safety and the IOSH Health and or Dangerous Occurrences as Safety for Senior Managers package defined by RIDDOR.
However, we to ensure our managers have the did experience a total of 37 RIDDORcorrect tools for ensuring health and defined 3 day reportable lost-time safety is managed effectively.
events: this is a slight reduction from This investment in the training of the previous year when 39 such events our managers has also laterally were recorded.
improved the competence of our In total, during the last year there dedicated safety practitioners.
Not were 398 incidents or accidents only are they are able to witness recorded within HomeServes the buy-in that their respective line businesses, of which 63 involved managers are making to H&S, but an employee requiring hospital they are also enjoying specific financial treatment.
Overall, a total of 538 support, which is funding their own working days were lost as a result professional development and of work-related accidents: this is an competence.
increase of 87 working days compared To ensure that health and safety is to those lost in the previous year.
adequately resourced, each of the operating businesses has access to at least one full-time practitioner and additional support is available from the Group Health and Safety Manager when required.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 31 Number of RIDDOR reportable incidents Within the UK, under the requirements 12 of the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases, and 10 Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 8 RIDDOR, certain types of accidents or incidents 6 need to be reported to Reportable incidents per 1000 employees the Health and Safety 4 Executive.
Industry sector average HomeServe 2 0 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 Our carbon footprint HomeServes carbon footprint for 2008 9 is 22,567 tCO2-e. Electricity Gas Company car eet Grey eet Commercial eet Air travel Waste Corporate HomeServe responsibility Annual Report & Accounts 2009 32 As with previous years, the majority of Our employees well-being accidents or incidents that occurred HomeServe ensures employees involved manual handling, cuts and receive occupational health support bruises or muscular strains.
During when required and this is currently the coming year, the reduction of provided by local HR functions.
During accidents and incidents rates within the coming months, a challenge for the businesses will continue to be a the company will be to develop an key challenge.
occupational health and well-being strategy.
Such a strategy will ensure April 2009 saw a significant change that a consistent approach towards to how contractors who undertake business H&S performance and work on domestic gas systems are employees welfare is adopted across administered and centrally approved.
It will also be a strategy Since that time, the long-established that meets government expectations.
CORGI registration system has ceased to exist and the Health and Safety Although a number of achievements Executive has introduced a new have been made by the business registration scheme called the Gas in the area of effectively managing Safe Register.
The introduction of health and safety, it is expected that this new scheme could have had a H&S will remain a continued priority significant impact on HomeServe as for us in coming years.
In 2009 10, it it manages a number of gas-systems is envisaged that significant effort will contractors.
To ensure its contractors continue to be applied in the following complied with the new requirements areas: in a timely manner, HomeServe Embedding the H&S policies and worked closely with its contractor management system within the network to ensure appropriate operating businesses registrations were made under the new system.
Develop a robust system for the management of occupational road risk We are committed to managing Development of and refinement of our business in an environmentally the risk assessment process conscientious way, which will result in Ongoing management of real benefits to both the environment the contractor network, with investments being made to and the business.
strengthen the selection and audit HomeServe continues to view the process management of its contractors as a The launch of a new corporate critical factor in striving to effectively health and safety audit programme manage health and safety risks.
To to provide up-to-date information improve the current process even about H&S across the Group further, we have invested in the inhouse auditing resource, doubling the current resource level for undertaking audits of contractors health and safety performances.
