Corporate social responsibility report Howden Joinery is a leading supplier We performed well against our KPIs in therefore our policy to always try and of kitchens and joinery to trade 2009 and also made progress in other source wood in a way that is good for customers across the United Kingdom areas of the business.
For 2010, we the environment as well as good for our through a network of 462 depots.
are introducing an additional KPI to business.
Our preferred option is to buy Our kitchens are tted in all kinds of measure the effectiveness of our waste wood which is certied by either the UK homes, from local authority and social management.
We will also introduce a Forest Stewardship Council UK FSC housing to privately owned and rented more demanding performance target or by the European Programme for the ats and houses.
in relation to the supply of Endorsement of Forest Certication energy-efficient appliances.
These respected, independent The business was founded in 1995. schemes enable us to source wood Today, the Company directly employs Committed to responsible and paper products from suppliers that over 5,600 people and sells more manufacturing in the UK use sustainable methods to manage kitchens than any other company We operate two manufacturing their forests.
Each year, we supply our facilities in the UK one in Runcorn customers, principally small builders, To monitor the effectiveness of this and one in Howden.
Manufacturing at with around 3.5 million kitchen policy, we set ourselves an annual scale in the UK benets our domestic cabinets, 2 million doors and 400,000 KPI which is: workforce and the communities in complete kitchens.
To ensure that 100% of our wood Our market leading position means product used in manufacturing During 2009, our UK-based we have responsibilities that must comes from certied sources.
manufacturing teams produced be reconciled with the pursuit of our approximately: In 2009, we used 208,000 cubic commercial interests.
This report 20 metres of chipboard and 11,000 cubic describes the actions we have taken U 3,500,000 kitchen cabinets: metres of MDF in our manufacturing over the past year to ensure that our U 800,000 kitchen worktops and process.
As was the case in 2006, commitment to all our stakeholders breakfast bars: and 2007 and 2008, all of this came from is real and sustainable and continues certied sources.
to progress along with our business.
Unless otherwise stated, the report We also aim to source all our covers the entirety of our business.
Having made a decision to bring the cardboard packaging from either manufacture of some of our best selling recycled or certied sources.
In 2009, Measuring our achievements kitchen ranges back to the UK at the we used 2,820 tonnes of cardboard Last year we introduced Key end of 2008, the number of frontals packaging for our manufactured Performance Indicators KPIs for produced in 2009 by our own staff in products, all of which came from those areas where we feel that our Yorkshire was over 2.5 times more than recycled sources 2008: 2,570 operations most signicantly impact they produced in the prior year.
These KPIs, which our intention to aim for a similar high are discussed in detail below, help Committed to managing our impact standard in the future.
us to ensure that the action we take on the environment to reduce our environmental impact Wood All our UK manufactured kitchen is targeted where it will have most Manufactured product ranges are certied by the UK FSC.
benefit, and that our progress is As a supplier of kitchen and joinery Over 96% of all our UK manufactured measurable and motivational for all products, wood obviously plays a product is now UK FSC compliant those involved.
central role in what we do.
Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 Bought-in product U The increasing focus on reduced consumption by 9% per unit As well as manufacturing much environmental matters by our to 3.28Kw Hr and we aim at least of our product in the UK, we customers, particularly those to maintain this lower level of energy continue to source joinery products working with local authority and usage in the coming year.
and kitchen frontals from a range housing association properties, U The Company remains certied of suppliers in the UK, Europe and means that we are constantly under the Carbon Trusts prestigious elsewhere in the world.
Ethical and required to review our products, Energy efficiency Accreditation environmental sourcing is an important our supply chain and our logistical scheme, an accreditation which we factor in our international supply and operational processes to have held continuously for more chain, and we expect all our suppliers ensure that we address their than ten years.
to exercise high standards in this area.
U At the end of 2008, we committed U In 2009, over 90% of our European U Howden Joinery has been certied to extending our ISO14001 timber based product suppliers by the UK FSC and the PEFC accreditation further within our were certied as sourcing timber since February 2008.
At the end of manufacturing and logistics from a sustainable supply.
We 2009, 19 of our 43 kitchen ranges operations.
In 2009 we achieved continue to work towards 44% of our kitchens were fully this objective with all our increasing this percentage.
compliant with UK FSC requirements manufacturing operations now compared to 25% in 2008.
We aim U Regular audits and continuous certied to ISO14001, along with our to maintain this proportion in 2010. improvement programmes warehousing facilities at Howden.
have become an integral part Energy Truck eet of supplier selection and The two key areas where we have 21 The Company operates a eet of 106 development and we continue specically concentrated our efforts trucks and has decreased the size to audit a sample of our suppliers to measure and reduce energy of its eet by 34% in the last 2 years.
on an annual basis to verify their consumption are at our manufacturing This reduction in the number of trucks compliance with our requirements.
sites and across our eet of trucks.
which we operate was achieved Our Vendor Management and We are also working to increase the through a trafc sharing arrangement Development Programme operates number of energy efficient products in conjunction with our haulier across all our key suppliers and which we supply to our customers.
This arrangement improved incorporates measures relating to Manufacturing our transport usage by removing environmental, health & safety U One of our key metrics for energy inefficiencies and maximising use of and ethical performance as well usage in our factories is the electricity backhaul capacity.
as to commercial performance in we consume per cabinet produced.
In 2008 we set ourselves a target: Following restructuring in 2008, we U Our key nished goods suppliers reset our baseline measurement for To increase the proportion of our are audited annually by a dedicated energy consumption per cabinet trucks that are Euro4 compliant and team using recognised quality to 3.62Kw Hr per unit and we set above over a three year period.
ourselves a target of reducing this in In 2009, all our key suppliers 2009.
We are therefore pleased to In just two years, we have changed were audited and assessed for report that during the year we our entire truck eet and all our trucks compliance.
All achieved an A rating are now Euro5 compliant.
Corporate social responsibility report continued Car eet To reduce the water consumed per U One element of waste from the Last year we decided to reduce our cycle by 5% or more for laundry manufacturing process is sawdust.
carbon emissions further by allocating and dishwashers over the next In 2009, we converted over 23,500 more eco-friendly cars to our sales three years.
tonnes of sawdust into energy at representatives and depot managers our Howden and Runcorn sites, In addition to measuring our who account for approximately 80% with the sawdust fuelling eight wood performance against our chosen KPIs, of our car eet usage.
This change combustion boilers that burn this at the beginning of 2009 we also will mean that over 800 vehicles will waste to heat our factories.
This made a commitment to gain Energy be replaced by more environmentally equates to approximately 122,000 Savings Trust certication for some of friendly models over the next four years.
Mw Hr of energy generated from our appliances.
Two of our appliances sawdust in 2009.
Products HJA 8640 dishwasher and HJA 8553 In line with EU regulations, all kitchen washing machine are now certied U In 2009, a returnable eco-pallet appliances must be rated and labelled and recommended by the Energy initiative was introduced resulting in respect of energy efficiency.
We hope to have more in 79 tonnes of transit waste being recently, ratings ranged from A-G of our products certied during 2010 removed during the year.
with A being the most energy efficient.
as we work with our suppliers to U We also continued the initiative Some appliances also qualied for A continue to improve performance started in 2007 to recover and A ratings.
and repair pallets which would For the last three years, our KPI in this Waste otherwise have been scrapped.
area has been to ensure that at least Our employees are encouraged to This year we recovered more than 90% of our products were A rated or consider how we can improve our 134,000 pallets, 16% up on the 22 above.
As in previous years, during environmental performance in all prior year 2008: 115,000.
However, positive areas by reducing consumption, developments in the market and moves re-using materials and recycling Committed to supporting our towards more stringent legislation in wherever possible.
workforce to acquire and practise core skills this area mean that more products now U In 2009, we made good progress meet this standard.
Employee responsibilities in the area of waste management.
We take our responsibilities as an In order to ensure that our KPIs are We achieved a 20% reduction in employer very seriously and we aim to sufciently demanding, we have the amount of waste produced provide a positive work environment therefore decided to implement new from our manufacturing operations for all our staff, whether they work targets from 2010 onwards, aiming 54,000 tonnes in 2008 down to in factories, warehouses, depots to improve the efficiency of our best 43,300 tonnes in 2009, and we or ofces.
Our culture emphasises selling products both in terms of energy also managed to recycle over 95% the importance of individual consumption and water usage over of that waste compared to 90% in accountability, which means the the coming three years.
Our targets the prior year.
In 2010, we aim to personal responsibility of each of us in relation to electrical appliances will maintain a high percentage of waste towards those we work with every therefore be as follows: recycled and will therefore introduce day.
We are proud of this culture, a new KPI: which encourages openness and To improve the efficiency of our transparency within the business best selling electric ovens by To recycle more than 95% of all and has been vital to its growth and reducing the kilowatt consumption manufacturing waste produced.
development since 1995. per hour by 5% or more over the next three years.
Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 This culture is reinforced by our the depot network.
In addition, we are serve and keeping their traditional commitment to certain core principles: supporting over 160 staff across skills alive, is to give young people the Group in their achievement of the opportunity to learn traditional U Recognising by reward the hard a variety of NVQ and other skills and understand how to deploy work of all employees.
To support that objective we have developed two U Investing in training and As part of this commitment to initiatives during the year.
development across developing our staff we have, in the business.
conjunction with a training partner, Talent The first of these has been to continue Training UK LLP, launched a unique building relationships with local U Ensuring that recruitment, career course in Trade Customer Service further education colleges which offer success and progression are solely which can be accredited either as an courses in construction skills.
As well determined by an employees apprenticeship or NVQ Level 2.
Created as supplying college departments abilities and achievements.
on a bespoke basis for Howdens to with discontinued products on which develop skills which are core to our students can practise their joinery In December 2009, we were invited business, the programme delivers not skills, our depots also sponsor prizes, to enter Howden Joinery for the only development opportunities for the offer tting guides and tools, and Sunday Times Best Companies individuals involved but also helps us to encourage students and builders to visit to Work For 2010 award, which deliver true value to the business as their our marketing trailers as they tour the measures workplace engagement via skills are enhanced and improved.
This not only exposes students an employee survey and an in-depth to real product but also creates links questionnaire.
We reached the Top 25 As well as supporting staff in gaining between students and local businesses of the Big Companies section of the external accreditations, our staff have 23 who may be able to offer them award, and were especially pleased also invested their time in internal apprenticeships or work experience to achieve a 75% rate of return on our courses with over 80,000 training opportunities.
In 2010, we plan to employee questionnaires against the hours completed during the year.
support a number of colleges offering 29.5% minimum required.
Courses were offered in subjects specic courses in kitchen installation ranging from HR skills to manual Supporting learning and by providing real life kitchen sets and handling, from diversity & inclusion to development in the community equipment.
Two colleges in Stockport health & safety, from environmental Howden Joinerys heritage and culture and Newcastle have already benefited awareness to LGV and fork-lift truck means we place a high value on in this way in 2009. driving.
IT training was also prevalent the whole range of skills technical, as we launched new systems into Our second initiative has been to work commercial and interpersonal that are the business.
The plan is to invest in with ConstructionSkills, the Sector Skills practised by local tradespeople.
We are training to the same degree in 2010 as Council and Industry Training Board for keen to promote the use of these skills in well as maintaining a strong in-house the construction industry, to put in place the workplace and interest in them in the delivery capability in training as we a bursary scheme for new apprentice wider community.
continue to encourage staff to achieve joiners.
The scheme, which is the first of Developing apprenticeships and training qualications in their own right.
its kind in the country for any industry, training at Howdens aims to fund first year wages for around Encouraging apprentices and During 2009, we further promoted 20 new apprentice joiners.
The intention traditional skills in the community the use of apprenticeships within is to create new opportunities for As well as a commitment to the workplace.
The Group currently apprentices in companies which developing our own staff, at Howdens employs seven modern apprentices would otherwise be unable to afford we believe that one way of offering in our Supply division and 20 within to fund apprenticeships.
support to the local tradespeople we Corporate social responsibility report continued Other than stipulating that the money U Our Supply division achieved a 67% and employee fund raising initiatives, be used for apprentice joiners, reduction in reportable injuries in the Group donated joinery and kitchen Howdens has no involvement in 2009 16 compared to 48 in 2008 equipment to local schools, village choosing either the apprentices or the and a 29% reduction year on year in halls, care homes see below, local companies involved.
youth groups and sports clubs.
Health & Safety U We continue to support the Leonard Cheshire Disability is a key The managers and directors in our knowledge and awareness of staff community partner for us and, mindful of operating divisions are personally in this area, by encouraging staff to their reliance on volunteer support they responsible and accountable for the gain externally accredited health & need to recruit 1,000 new volunteers a health & safety of their employees.
safety qualications IOSH, NEBOSH year, in 2009 we decided to increase The health & safety requirements of and CIEH as well as training our contributions to their volunteer these two divisions necessarily differ operatives in the requirements of recruitment and training programme, somewhat and as such, each of the OHSAS 18001. which we have now funded for the past operating divisions reviews its own three years.
Our staff continue to nd U In recognition of our achievements strategy, issues and performance on a ways to fundraise for Leonard Cheshire, in health & safety, our Howden regular basis.
taking part in various sponsored site was also proud to receive the challenges throughout the year.
For In the depots British Safety Councils prestigious example, the 26 people who entered the U There were 35 reportable health & International Safety Award for its Great North Run for Howdens this year safety incidents in our 462 depots excellent performance in this area.
managed to raise enough money to fund during 2009 2008: 34.
As well the purchase of a new minibus for the Across the Group, there were no as maintaining a low number of 24 Leonard Cheshire care home in Liverpool.
improvement or prohibition notices incidents across the depot network, served on us during the year by the we were also pleased to note a 54% Our inclusive kitchen research with Health & Safety Executive HSE, nor reduction year on year in the number Leonard Cheshire, inspired by working were there any prosecutions by the of working hours lost due to injury with their residents, helps us to offer HSE or the Environment Agency.
2008 already represented a 21% relevant, affordable kitchen solutions reduction on 2007. to our customers, regardless of their Committed to playing an active part ability.
In 2009 we designed, donated U We continue to run a defensive in our local communities and installed four further kitchen Our business is driven at local level, driving course for those staff activity centres in various Leonard across the depot network who are and it is our policy to engage in Cheshire Disability locations across the community activities at local level too.
required to drive as part of their day UK.
We also revisited three centres to to day role.
A total of 203 drivers upgrade and improve facilities following Each depot, manufacturing site and completed the course in 2009. feedback from residents.
Our multidistribution centre fulls an important ability kitchen solutions, available from In our manufacturing, warehouse role in the life of the area it serves, and stock, work particularly well for local and distribution sites all our staff are encouraged to make a authorities and housing associations, U All our manufacturing, warehouse contribution to the local community.
who have to meet minimum criteria and distribution sites are now for the housing of disabled residents, This year, our staff made around certied to OHSAS 18001 in line frequently without knowing for whom 1,750 donations to local good causes with our commitment made in they are providing facilities before they 2008: 1,300.
This amounted to some late 2008 to extend our OHSAS are installed.
As well as cash donations Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 We are proud of the fact that our staff, our customers and indeed all our stakeholders take such an active part in giving something back to their local communities.
In celebration of their generosity, in spring 2009 we launched a series of Truly Local books pocket-sized illustrated books that tell the stories of people everywhere who enrich our lives through their engagement with their local community.
We are lucky in the fact that these books represent only a fraction of the good work carried out by our staff and customers and their families as part of their daily lives.
Matthew Ingle Chief Executive 3 March 2010 25
