annual report & accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction This report describes the policies and procedures put in place by the Board to ensure that the Company operates in a safe and responsible manner and, where practical, takes steps to protect the environment.
The Company acknowledges and is committed to its corporate social responsibilities within the areas in which it operates.
Its contribution and involvement is determined by regional custom and best practice in those locations and is subject to regular monitoring and review by the Board and divisional management.
Employment and Training The Company recognises that its success and reputation is dependent upon the efforts and the integrity of its people.
It encourages and promotes an awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Company through regular communication and consults with employees to the degree relevant to local conditions.
As a responsible employer, full and fair consideration is given to applications for positions from disabled persons and to their training and career advancement.
Every effort is made to retain in employment those who become disabled while employed by the Company.
Appropriate training is provided to employees to suit their particular work environment within the Company.
Communication with employees is undertaken through a variety of media including the semi-annual Hunting Review magazine.
Health and Safety The Company is committed to achieving and maintaining the highest standards of safety for its employees, customers, suppliers and the public.
The Group operates a range of facilities and installations and each location has in place a tailored health and safety programme designed to, at a minimum, comply with local regulatory requirements.
All subsidiaries target continuous improvement to their Health and Safety Standards.
The Health and Safety policies include: Regular review and audit of equipment, practices and procedures to ensure compliance with prevailing standards and legislation.
Accreditation is sought and procedures are aligned with long standing company programmes to internationally recognised Quality Assurance standards.
Monitoring is a management task which is documented and reported at each Board meeting.
Appropriate training and education of all staff.
The Chief Executive, who is directly responsible for Health and Safety, presents a Health and Safety report at every Company Board meeting.
Environment The Groups environmental policy is to look for opportunities and adopt practices that create a safer and cleaner environment.
It is particularly sensitive to the challenges for the industry in which it operates.
The Group has programmes in place to monitor environmental impact from its operational activities and remains focused on ensuring environmental consideration is at the forefront of its business practices.
uk 25 annual report & accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Key aspects of the environmental policies include: Policies, procedures and practices are in place so that any adverse effects on the environment are reduced to a practicable minimum.
The Group encourages the reduction of waste and emissions and promotes awareness of recycled materials and use of renewable resources.
Each operating unit develops and implements its own procedures and conducts structured reviews to ensure that they are maintained and refined.
Employees are encouraged to pay special regard to environmental concerns in the communities in which the Group operates.
The design of new sites incorporating safety and environment considerations.
Regulatory Environment The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is subject to regulation by the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom as well as compliance with UK Company Law.
With the aim of maintaining standards and to comply with customer trading requirements, a high proportion of our operating facilities are either ISO or API registered or subject to other similar registrations or industry qualifications.
Business Ethics The Group targets and encourages the highest standards of integrity and honesty in all business dealings.
The objective is to maintain and enhance the reputation of the Company and enforce ethical dealings with customers and suppliers.
The Board has established whistle blowing procedures for any employee to raise in confidence any concerns they may have about possible financial improprieties or other matters with either the Chairman of the Board or the senior independent Director.
Details of the procedure have been communicated to all employees.
Hunting in the Community Huntings contribution to, and involvement in, the community is determined by regional custom and best practice in those locations.
In this way, subsidiaries support a range of charitable and community projects in their local areas.
Community support is delivered in many different ways, from corporate sponsorship to individual employees being encouraged and supported to participate in charitable events.
During the year, the Group donated 56,000 2008 51,000 to UK charitable organisations and 106,000 2008 159,000 to overseas charities.
Of particular note is the annual Hunting Art Prize which, after a quarter of a century of supporting British art, was relaunched in Houston, Texas in 2006.
The Hunting Art Prize is among the largest art awards in the US and is the largest award in North America for painting and drawing.
In 2009, the 30th Annual Hunting Art Prize raised in excess of US$150,000, with the proceeds donated to the Linda Lorelle Scholarship Fund, an organisation providing financial assistance and guidance to students from disadvantaged backgrounds in the Houston area.
Hunting has announced that it will donate proceeds from the 2010 Hunting Art Prize to Oil Helping Hands, a non-profit charitable organisation in the Houston area providing assistance to oil and gas industry workers who face financial hardship.
Dennis Proctor Chief Executive 25 February 2010 www.
