68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:49 Page 30 Responsible business high standards of responsibility are at the heart of everything we do We believe that responsibility impacts In 2009, IMI formalised these values everything we do to move the business positively on profitability, returns to into a code of responsible business forward successfully.
We believe that To recognise the importance of We demand sound management of our it is vital for our future business The IMI Way and the huge efforts made responsible business agenda and aim performance that we continue, as a by employees to embrace it during to integrate this thinking within all Group, to engage in the values and the year, a new annual IMI CEO Award aspects of our business.
behaviours that set IMI apart.
for exceptional commitment to THE IMI WAY: Our Code of Our code of responsible business is a The IMI Way was introduced with the Responsible Business guide to help employees consistently first winners for 2009 announced in demonstrate their commitment to January 2010.
The most consistent factor in IMIs The IMI Way throughout our worldwide longstanding business success has IMI Responsible Business initiatives operations.
It can help determine the been our commitment to a guiding As a reflection of the values that right course of action, for instance, set of values that exemplify how our underpin The IMI Way, we take our in a feedback conversation with a employees behave.
Wherever anyone responsibilities to the environment colleague, in negotiations with a major works in IMI and whenever an IMI and the communities in which we customer or supplier, in an assessment employee is encountered, you can operate very seriously.
We put of our health and safety performance expect to see these values at work: particular emphasis on ensuring that or in a review of product innovations.
IMI people pursue excellence and The IMI Way has been translated into deliver results Presentation of CEO Awards for over 25 languages and during 2009 H&S Excellence and the IMI Way IMI people innovate and provide value left to right Mike Semens-Flanagan face-to-face training was given to all for Artform H&S, Martin Lamb CEO, to our customers our employees worldwide.
Further Sean Toomes for Flow Design Inc. IMI Way runner up, Svetlana Panchenko, IMI people act with integrity training sessions combined with on-line Cornelius H&S - Individual, Brian Crowe training tools are planned which will for Norgren Queretaro H&S runner up, Mike Marshall for Kloehn IMI Way, ensure that The IMI Way underpins Richard Aceves, CCI IMI Way - Individual.
28 68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:49 Page 31 our management of people, social, Legal compliance is very important for the annual audit to further improve environmental and economic issues all responsible businesses, including IMI.
the quality and distribution of this is aligned and integrated with the Unlawful activity of any kind information.
The results of the overall management of the business.
is completely unacceptable to us.
responsible business audit are To support this commitment, IMI is a The breach of the standards reviewed by the Board and statistics signatory to the UN Global Compact, identified during the Severe Service from the annual audit are published on which establishes standards for investigation in 2007 prompted a our website www.
human rights, labour practices, the review of all aspects of control across 1.
Health and safety environment and anti-corruption.
the whole of IMI, particularly with We promote a strong health and We strongly believe that high standards regard to anti-corruption.
As a result, safety culture to minimise risk for our of responsibility are not just compatible a comprehensive programme of new people, the environment, adjacent with, but positively support growth and processes, procedures and training communities and other stakeholders.
has been implemented across the During 2009, we made excellent Group.
This programme is led by the In 2009, we continued to make good progress in improving IMI Chief Compliance Officer, a new progress on our initiatives in this area.
In spite of the position created in 2009, with direct Responsible business activities are challenging economic conditions we sponsorship from the Executive managed by a Steering Group chaired targeted increases in resource with Committee.
More routinely, we identify, by Roy Twite, executive director.
11 new full-time health, safety and monitor, and forecast legislative Quarterly calls are held with platform environmental appointments.
We also developments in order to maximise business presidents and responsible maintained capital expenditure in this opportunities and minimise risks.
business champions from across the critical area.
Our overall lost time Group in which best practice ideas Responsible Business priorities accident rates, as shown on page 7, on health and safety, customer The IMI Way sets out our four fell from 0.47 accidents per 100,000 engagement, supplier audits and responsible business priorities: hours worked in 2008 to 0.27 in 2009, energy efficiency are shared.
Health and safety of our responsible business progress This performance demonstrates a Supporting our customers is our continued inclusion in both the clear focus and commitment at all FTSE4Good and Dow Jones responsible business priorities levels across the Group on HS&E Sustainability indices.
Supply chain and manufacturing in matters.
We have increased low cost economies All of our businesses are required to resources, improved the quality have responsible business objectives as of resources, reporting and Energy efficiency and carbon part of their rolling three year strategic investigations and in particular seen management plans.
These include identification a positive step change in many of Our four key priorities are reviewed of future risks, opportunities and our sites which had previously been at least annually to ensure that they measures to ensure full alignment of underperforming.
each business with the Groups four Utilising the IMI Safety First, Safety The performance of our business units responsible business priorities, as Always slogan we are committed on these four key priorities is assessed well as specific local objectives.
to effective communication and during an annual responsible business This also feeds into our Strategic Risk consultation on HS&E matters with all audit and throughout the year Assessment process.
Typical local relevant stakeholders, particularly with through other processes such as actions include measures to improve employees.
IMI requires those working our risk control surveys and financial health and safety, energy efficiency, for us directly, or on our behalf as assurance audits.
In 2009, we waste minimisation and recycling and contractors, to comply with our HS&E introduced a web-based data system steps to gain relevant health, safety standards and procedures.
for the collection and collation of and environment HS&E or quality accreditation in particular facilities.
IMI plc Annual Report 2009 29 68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:49 Page 32 Responsible business carried out across other IMI sites, In support of these general There are a wide range of excellent has been the successful roll out of commitments, IMI and each subsidiary examples across the Group, many of a new pictorial near miss reporting manages its activities to ensure which are highlighted elsewhere in this programme.
This has created that improvement in these areas is Annual Report, which demonstrate greater awareness of potential cumulative and constant.
In 2009, how we are helping our customers to risks by all employees, particularly Group-wide HS&E forums were again meet their own responsible business operators of a variety of nationalities.
held in the UK, USA and Mexico and the commitments.
For instance, our Fluid As a result of identifying risks and first pan-Europe forum took place in Power business, Norgren, has designed addressing them before they turn March.
In addition, we held Group-wide new proportional valves for its truck into accidents, Artform has seen a HS&E leadership conference calls customers for more efficient exhaust dramatic reduction in all accidents.
with over 200 participants across 20 gas recycling.
This is helping these countries that highlighted some of the customers with their environmental As well as the new IMI Way award in best practice initiatives that are being requirements and in particular helping 2009, we also introduced a CEO award implemented across IMI.
to make engines compliant with the for health and safety excellence, which new European standards.
considered significant achievements Examples of best practice included: across all of IMIs operations.
The first The fundamental proposition of our In 2009, CCI formally implemented winners of the award came from right Indoor Climate business is to help a structured HS&E framework with across the Group and individuals, sites customers reduce energy usage in a balanced scorecard approach and companies were recognised both residential and commercial to measure how the business was for their efforts.
As companies increasingly performing in each of the key areas.
and safety targets have been used seek to measure and reduce their The biggest challenge was to ensure as one of the main benchmarks for carbon footprints, our TA, Heimeier consistency of communication and determining the responsible business and Pneumatex products are ideally implementation across all of CCIs element of annual bonuses for the placed to help them meet their sites worldwide.
All CCI locations first time in 2009. targets.
For example, Indoor Climate showed a high level of commitment, runs seminars, which trained and 2.
Supporting our customers resources and participation to educated over 45,000 customers responsible business priorities deliver a significant cultural change in 2009, on the carbon and energy in the organisation.
Our continued success lies in creating efficiency benefits of hydronic superior long-term value for our Norgrens site in Queretaro, Mexico balancing in heating and ventilation customers and inspiring their trust.
uses a 12 element HS&E system systems.
We place significant emphasis on which is clearly understood and In our Beverage Dispense business, helping our customers to meet their endorsed by all employees.
Any many of our customers, which include responsible business commitments incident is fully explained to all the global soft drinks and beer from diversity targets to carbon employees who are then encouraged brands, have adopted extremely emissions recognising the to come up with ideas to help stretching responsible business opportunities for sustainability and prevent similar occurrences.
targets particularly on reducing their developing our respective businesses.
The site even has its own fully carbon footprints.
Cornelius now has Global concerns relating to energy trained fire response team which a range of more energy-efficient issues and climate change, whether competes in local competitions.
cooling and dispensing systems for driven by legislation or not, have a In Merchandising, Artform UK both carbonated soft drinks and beer positive impact on customer demand implemented a significant cultural which use between 40% and 60% for our products and services many change with the aim of improving its less energy than traditional systems.
of which are clearly dedicated to health and safety record.
One of the They have also made LED lighting energy efficient operation.
main initiatives, which has also been standard on all new systems to reduce 30 Responsible business 68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 22 3 10 15:39 Page 31 During CCIs global IMI Way shutdown, CCI Sweden employees volunteered in the community and helped to clean up the streets and canals in the town of Sffle.
Any areas requiring improvement are identified and an action plan is agreed with the supplier to correct them.
As a result of these audits we terminated our relationships with a number of suppliers who were not energy consumption.
Similarly, our been developed with full attention able to meet our strict responsible Merchandising business has utilised to minimising both employment and business requirements.
LED lighting for a major US retailer HS&E risks.
which has generated carbon emission 4.
Energy efficiency and carbon A major supplier conference was again management savings of, on average, 33 tonnes per held in China in 2009, focusing on store per year equivalent to planting IMI has an ongoing commitment to ensuring that regional suppliers 9 acres of trees.
reduce its CO emissions and become fully understand and can meet IMIs 2 more energy efficient in both our Our Severe Service business demanding legal compliance, quality products and processes.
This has specialises in providing high efficiency assurance and responsible business both environmental and cost saving products for demanding applications requirements, including adherence to benefits.
As shown on page 7 of this where even very small improvements the UN Global Compact.
annual report IMI measures its CO can lead to major costs and energy 2 As part of the supplier evaluation emissions by looking at tonnes of savings.
One specific example involved process, suppliers are subject to CO emitted per 1,000 hours worked.
CCI assisting a major global oil 2 rigorous and ongoing audits by our As detailed elsewhere in this report, company to meet new fugitive procurement teams, including a in 2009 IMI saw a sharp fall in its emissions standards by developing substantial team based in China.
activity levels with many of our sites new technologies that met the This process follows a risk-based operating on shortened hours leading customers requirements.
methodology for assessment and to an overall reduction in hours All of these examples demonstrate audit against our global responsible worked of 16%.
Consequently, whilst how, by engaging closely with our business measures.
In addition, IMIs we were pleased to see an 11% fall key customers on their responsible Risk Control team conducts regular in total CO emissions to 90,000 2 business agendas and initiatives, supplier visits and training of our tonnes 2008: 101,000 tonnes our we can generate end market procurement personnel.
key performance indicator has risen opportunities which create real In 2009, over 125 supplier audits took slightly from 3.3 to 3.5 CO tonnes 2 commercial advantages for IMI.
place and this process continues per 1,000 hours worked.
Supply chain and manufacturing in to be reviewed and enhanced.
information will be provided in the 2009 low cost economies Supplier audits typically involve a environmental and health and safety self assessment questionnaire IMIs manufacturing plants in emerging performance report that will be followed by a visit to verify the answers.
economies such as Mexico, China, posted to the IMI plc website, the Czech Republic and India have all www.
IMI plc Annual Report 2009 31 68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 22 3 10 15:40 Page 32 Responsible business All of our major factories have local We have a duty to be a responsible entrepreneurs to stimulate economic energy savings targets and initiatives business citizen and to meet our and social development.
in place and regular teleconferences commitments to these communities.
DebRA, a charity working on behalf help to ensure that ideas and best We want to show appreciation to of people with the genetic skin practice are shared around IMIs these neighbours for their support.
blistering condition, Epidermolysis operations worldwide.
Not surprisingly, To this end, IMI continues to Bullosa EB.
given the nature of its own products, demonstrate high economic, social Elsewhere, employees right across our it is our Indoor Climate business and environmental standards, remains businesses have been involved in a wide which continues to lead the way respectful of human rights and assists range of fund raising activities for across the Group with its approach our local communities through local charities and other good causes.
During 2009 charitable activities and community For example, our CCI employees in a major benchmarking review was volunteering.
We also make sure that Sffle, Sweden spent a day helping to carried out which identified that the we communicate appropriately with clean up local playgrounds, public areas business is in the top 10% of its sector all of our stakeholders.
One way that and nature paths.
At Artform in for emissions.
In addition to ongoing we support our local communities the UK, some of the more musically initiatives ranging from energy saving is through responsibly sponsoring talented employees formed a band and light bulbs and automatic light sensors recognised national and local charities held a summer concert which raised to a new low fuel consumption and causes, generally with auditable money for a local diabetes charity.
company car policy, Indoor Climate has accounts, that are most aligned In early 2009, IMI China sponsored a also embarked on a new energy with IMI or its companies regarding successful visit by the Birmingham efficient compressor programme location, supported cause or relevance.
This represented which will lead to further improvements.
Across all our businesses, we actively a mutually beneficial connection encourage positive contributions to Elsewhere in the Group our businesses between IMIs historic Birmingham local communities and environments, have been implementing a range of base and one of its key growth whilst still delivering the necessary initiatives aimed at reducing energy markets.
For IMI consumption and our overall Carbon people, responsibility and business Employee investment and talent Footprint.
As the global economy performance are directly and recovers and our activity levels development intimately connected.
increase again we would expect to see The geographical distribution of our the benefits of these varied initiatives During 2009, IMI continued to provide operations and activities across the improve our key performance indicator.
support for many charities with its world enables us to draw upon a broad The Group as a whole has now set three main corporate charities being: spectrum of talented people from a target to reduce its normalised diverse ethnic, cultural and business Care for Children, a charity that CO emissions by 10% over the 2 backgrounds.
In recent years, we have exists to relieve hardship, distress next three years to no more than accelerated the development of and sickness in abandoned and 3.2 CO tonnes 1,000 hours worked.
2 programmes and disciplines that will orphaned children in China by placing Regular updates on our achievement deliver the human resources necessary them with foster and adoptive against this target will be given in to maintain and grow our business.
future Annual Reports and on the Ensuring that the company has the CIDA Foundation, which provides Groups website.
appropriate expertise and skills at all students from underprivileged levels is a fundamental management Community engagement backgrounds across South Africa responsibility.
IMI has benefited greatly from the with a virtually free higher education communities in which we operate.
specialising in business studies In 2009 IMI conducted its first all to create a new generation of 32 Responsible business 68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 22 3 10 16:24 Page 33 employee engagement survey.
This was core competencies has been willing to take on new challenges in delivered globally and translated maintained in 2009, and will increase different countries or businesses.
Employees could even further in 2010.
Ensuring that This development and career complete the survey on-line or on we have people with outstanding management programme prepares paper.
The aim was to provide us customer relationship skills and the our most talented people for early with useful and practical information ability to turn insight about customers movement into senior positions.
about levels of employee satisfaction needs into innovative technical The Executive and platform Presidents and engagement and to enable solutions that add value is critical to devote time and energy to ensuring us to prioritise key areas to improve our continued success.
that we have the right talent in the employee satisfaction, to drive right place to meet our succession Each year, IMI actively recruits high organisational change and to support needs.
calibre graduates of universities the continuing roll out of The IMI Way.
across the world from a variety of IMI encourages its operating units The survey was piloted in June in disciplines and diverse backgrounds for to train and develop employees at Indoor Climate and then rolled out its prestigious graduate programme.
all levels through a wide range of across the rest of the businesses The programme consists of a series business-related education and in October.
The response rate of six month assignments over a training.
At the operational level each was an encouraging 66%.
Overall our two-year period in different IMI IMI facility ensures that employees employee satisfaction engagement locations around the world.
During receive suitable and continuing results were very favourable 2009, we have maintained our level on-the-job training and support, when compared against external of investment in this programme to with health and safety and benchmarks.
Action planning is taking ensure that we recruit and develop environmental matters being a place in 2010.
The survey will be the best engineering and commercial particularly important focus.
conducted again at the end of 2010. talent aligned with our growing The significant investment in training businesses.
and development for The IMI Way, IMIs internal high potential based on the articulation of IMIs core programmes, Aspire and Aspire Plus, Employees at our Norgren values and a detailed programme of Queretaro facility in Mexico took are designed to develop the most time out from their working day to ethics and compliance education and talented individuals, particularly those be trained in first aid.
training, has been the major focus of our investment in people during 2009.
We have ensured that every employee in every location has a clear understanding of the behaviours we expect from employees, the policies and procedures that apply Group-wide, and the sources of support and guidance that are available to them, including the IMI Hotline our confidential whistleblowing facility.
At the heart of IMIs professional competence lie two key elements Key Account Management and Engineering Advantage.
Our investment in developing these IMI plc Annual Report 2009 33
