1849 Black Sun ImpTob p20:Layout 1 30 11 09 20:48 Page 20 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Corporate Responsibility OUR RESPONSIBLE APPROACH Climate Change and Carbon Our Corporate Responsibility CR strategy is integral Management We remain committed to minimising our to our overall business strategy and is embedded environmental impacts and regularly review throughout the Imperial Tobacco Group.
our policy and performance at Board level.
Our environmental management systems are based on ISO 14001.
Analysing energy consumption and CO emissions throughout 2 the Group has been a key task for us during the year and we remain on course to meet our 2010 reduction targets relative to tobacco production for energy consumption, waste and waste to landfill and for absolute Overview International Marketing Standards which reduction in CO emissions.
2 Building trust with our stakeholders and are published in full on our corporate acting with integrity at all times is critical to website, as well as policies covering Employees our success, our global reputation and our employment, fairness at work and As a responsible business we take care long-term sustainability.
employee engagement, wellbeing and of our employees health and safety and health.
In addition, we provided training treat our people with fairness, dignity Key issues managed within our CR strategy and held a number of workshops to and respect.
Employee engagement is include business conduct and accountability, improve the business knowledge and fundamental to our success and we product stewardship and assessment, understanding of our employees, with actively promote two-way dialogue.
responsible sales and marketing, fairness a particular focus on occupational health and respect for employees, occupational Social plans related to the integration of and safety, product supply compliance health and safety, supplier sustainability, Imperial Tobacco and Altadis and agreed and science and stewardship.
environmental impact and community with European trade unions and works involvement.
Details of our performance During the year we also began an extensive councils have included comprehensive in each of these areas are available in our review of our Code of Conduct, which sets employee support measures.
out the responsible behaviours we expect The occupational health and safety of our from our employees.
The review will be In 2007 we identified five particular areas employees is of paramount importance to completed in 2010 and the updated of focus for the next five years: us and is monitored by the Board.
Our code will be communicated throughout ongoing programme of employee training further increasing transparency in how the Group.
and performance reporting is designed to we adhere to our Group policies Product Portfolio Balance reduce work-related injury and ill health, empowering local management to We continually review our product portfolio and has been a key area of focus during better address CR issues for unnecessary complexity ensuring that this period of organisational change.
we meet the needs and preferences of our product portfolio balance Our Corporate Responsibility Review will consumers whilst recognising increasing be published in early 2010.
Data will be supplier sustainability product stewardship and regulatory independently verified by SGS United demands.
Reducing the complexity of our better carbon management.
The accuracy and portfolio by rationalising or re-specifying reliability of our CR progress has been Following the acquisition and integration brand variants and improving systems and reported on by Corporate Citizenship.
of Altadis we are now planning a further processes is being managed by a newly review of these issues to ensure that we established cross-functional team.
A new have the right CR framework in place for approach to complexity evaluation and the enlarged business.
reduction will be rolled out in 2010.
The review will also take into account the Supplier Sustainability views of our new Stakeholder Panel, We work with our suppliers to safeguard which was convened this year to critically future supplies and improve social, appraise our performance.
The panel environmental and economic standards includes representatives from our main in the supply chain.
The scope of our stakeholder groups including consumers, commitment covers tobacco, non-tobacco customers, suppliers and employees.
materials and sales and marketing-related items.
Our 2009 focus has been on A summary of our 2009 achievements in reviewing our procurement activities in our five focus areas is outlined below.
order to further improve supplier practices.
Policies, Standards and Management We continue to work with the Social Accountability Responsibility in Tobacco Production Our Corporate Responsibility Review, which has further We continually review and communicate programme to monitor the performance information on our performance, will be published on our website in early 2010. our policies and standards so they are of our tobacco suppliers.
We are also a aligned with our developing business and Board member of the Eliminating Child universally understood by our employees.
Labour in Tobacco Foundation and Visit the CR section of our website We updated a number of our corporate encourage supplier compliance with www.
com documents in the year, including our international standards on child labour.
20 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p21:Layout 1 30 11 09 20:52 Page 21 01 02 2 OPERATING REVIEW In this section: 22 Our Diverse International Footprint 23 United Kingdom 24 Germany 25 Spain 26 Rest of EU 27 Americas 28 Rest of the World 29 Case Study: Morocco 03 31 Manufacturing 32 Logistics Our Total Tobacco Portfolio 01 Our Rizla brand is the worlds leading papers brand.
02 West is our second best selling cigarette brand.
03 Gold Leaf is positioned in the growing value fine cut tobacco segment in the UK.
