Business review Strategy Corporate responsibility we are focusing on our five key priorities.
This will allow us to be efficient with our resources Corporate responsibility CR is very and to benefit from the growth opportunities in emerging markets.
important to the Inchcape Group Ethical behaviour and we continue to be committed The Groups business ethics policy defines to integrating socially responsible the core ethical behaviours expected of employees.
In particular, the Group: behaviour into every aspect of how has zero tolerance of bribes or we operate and define ourselves.
facilitation payments: has zero tolerance of fraud or theft: has a strict limit on the value of corporate hospitality given or received, Introduction Governance and management including the provision or receipt of gifts: At Inchcape, we recognise that corporate Good governance is a fundamental does not make political donations responsibility CR is a long term programme, element of CR.
We have clear goals, which or incur political expenditure: constantly building on the foundations of are effectively communicated and have seeks to avoid actual or perceived a global approach to CR that is making demonstrated strong leadership, strong conicts of interest: responsible, economic, environmental and performance management and transparent social behaviour intrinsic to the way we work.
As a UK listed company, we are prohibits the misuse of information: required to comply with a variety of Inchcapes CR programme is recognised conducts appropriate due diligence legislation including the Combined Code.
by our continued inclusion in the FTSE 4 in the selection of our joint venture Details on our approach and how we have Good index.
We also take part in the and other partners.
complied are set out on pages 56-67.
We Carbon Disclosure Projects review.
have standards that are set for members of the Group globally within the Subsidiary Verification and assurance Our responsibilities Governance Manual dening our policies and procedures establishing the Inchcape The Board is responsible for the strategic This section of the Annual Report sets out the way of doing business.
direction of all CR and all its initiatives as Groups key principles of its CR programme part of the risk management programme.
and how we have taken further steps in our The Board is ultimately accountable to Subsidiary governance CR journey.
our shareholders for our CR Programme.
Management of the CR Programme has CR responsibility is delegated by the Board The Group has in place minimum been delegated to the CR Committee.
to the CR Committee, which has primary compliance standards across all of its Above all, the CR Committees role is to oversight for the programme and for setting subsidiaries.
These standards are set out in ensure that our day to day business and managing the CR agenda.
the Groups Subsidiary Governance Manual operations respond to the opportunities, and compliance is veried annually At Inchcape, we take responsibility for the and avoid the risks, posed by CR issues.
through the year end reporting processes impact of our activities on four core areas and through the Internal Audit reviews.
Through a network of locally based CR and key developments during 2009 have These policies, recognising that there may Champions, employees with global and focused on these: be variances in local laws, require that each local responsibilities support the work of the our people subsidiary complies to at least the standard CR Committee.
Our activities are focused set out in the Group policy and to a more through our CR Aware campaign.
our customers stringent standard where required by local our environment Health and safety is reviewed by Group law.
In this way, the Group can ensure that health and safety ofcers and as part of our communities despite variances there is a consistent the Internal Audit Programme.
approach to business taken across all core In particular, building on our 2008 pilot, functional activities, including legal, Human resources data is reviewed throughout 2009 we have been collecting governance, tax, treasury, finance and HR.
and veried ultimately by the Group HR data to enable us to measure the Groups Director.
Community engagement data CO footprint and we discuss these steps on 2 is reviewed by the CR Committee and Financial page 48.
We have been developing our CR the Executive Committee.
initiatives for our customers and our people.
Other information presented is reviewed Financial stability and viability are essential Finally, we have provided highlights of some by the relevant functional experts.
of our achievements in respect of the to the operation of the Company and Groups impact on the communities within therefore the sustainability of the Group and which the many businesses operate.
As set out on pages 16-17, 40 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section One Business review Progress against Objective What we did Goal attainment our 2009 goals Build a database from Collated 18 months data Recognising that which to determine CO 2 Reviewed the six month pilot data to ensure that CR is a long term reduction policies the methodologies complied with best practice programme, in 2009 and industry standards e. g. as regards conversion we focused on a small methodologies and approach number of core steps Rened the data collection process including that would cement the key elements foundations of our CR Programme and allow Validated the data us to develop a world Measured CO impact 2 class approach in the Highlighted anomalies and initial trends for review future.
We not only and additional focus met, but exceeded all our goals.
Collate Inchcape CR best Collated best practice from our top six markets practice policies UK, Belgium, Greece, Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore Shared best practices from our core markets Expanded the review to include all markets by verifying and enhancing the best practices with our global CR Champions Developed Group wide best practice policies what we can do today and setting ourselves targets for what we can do in the future Rolled out Group wide policies to all markets Focused on implementing all thewhat we can do todaypractices in all markets Refresh CR section of the Published Group wide policies on the website Inchcape website to raise Published information on community projects Learn about our 2010 awareness across the Group objectives on p 49 Shared best practice from our global CR Champions Our CR journey CR is an evolving journey.
We have taken a number of steps which have resulted in significant progress in raising our awareness of CR issues and in changing the way that we operate and how we can help our customers.
We believe that CR is an important part of our future and we are committed to building on the good work that has been done to date.
The past 160 years 2007 2008 2009 Inchcape has a New Customer 1st Core purpose CR strategy heritage of integrity strengthen and defined, values implemented and and a history of expandcorporate refreshed KPIs listed caring for its local strategy defined New people strategy Focus on CO 2 markets, its people Focus on encouraging announced emissions tracking and its customers community support for the Group www.
com 41 Business review Strategy Corporate responsibility continued Driven by our values Our areas of focus We believe it is the enthusiasm and spirit of our people that will shape and empower We believe in a focused approach to CR, to Inchcapes CR culture.
We combine the local knowledge, enthusiasm and expertise perform the acts that will make a difference of our employees worldwide with our clearly dened values, standards and policies to our people, our communities, our to enable us to contribute responsibly and sustainably to society.
Our customers We provide our customers with the Respect for People are at the heart of who we are, how we think and how each other we act: Inchcape is successful because ofus.
We celebrate information that they need to make an diversity, we value and learn from each other and feel proud to informed choice.
We support our customers be working with the best.
We have faith in each other and show CR goals through our green driving initiatives.
See more on page 43 Winning We are strong as individuals, but were even stronger as a team.
together We are part of a rich global network and together we achieve great things.
We enjoy working with each other and always achieve more when we do.
Our people Developing our people is key to us in order to ensure we have engaged employees in Treating every This is our company and we feel proud to be part of it.
We see as our own cost as a good thing, as long as it creates value.
What we hate winning teams.
is waste, so we think before we spend.
See more on page 44 Integrity without We have nohidden agendas.
We have an uncompromising compromise commitment to transparency and ethical principles.
We believe in a straight talking, human approach.
We take personal responsibility for what we say and do.
In an industry not famed Our communities for trust, customers choose us for our clarity, honesty and realism.
We support our local communities through a range of initiatives, to provide the most relevant help in the markets Pioneering An intrepid spirit is the essence of Inchcape.
We lead our in which we operate.
new ideas industry by example.
We liberate talent and prize initiative.
We are prepared to take risks drawing on our powerful global resources of creativity and insight.
See more on pages 46-47 Passionate We are committed to putting the customer first every time, every about day, everywhere.
We are energised by making our customers Our environment customers feel special, which we do by delivering Brilliant Basics and creating Magic Moments.
We are making great progress on understanding our impact on the environment so we are best placed Caring for our Each one of us plays our part in addressing global concerns to contribute to a sustainable future.
environment through our local, everyday actions.
We integrate an awareness of our environmental impact with responsible business decision-making and advance opportunities to reduce our See more on pages 48-49 industrys bearing upon our planet.
42 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section One Business review Our customers We place emphasis on the quality of our customer service and in 2007 we launched the Customer 1st initiative as part of the Inchcape Advantage programme to deliver outstanding customer serviceevery time, every day, everywhere.
Following extensive consumer research, we We believe that this focus on customer to drive more efficiently, how to improve their developed and implemented Customer 1st service and sales technology will help environmental impact and ultimately how processes, training and systems throughout us deliver a superior retail service to our to reduce their vehicle running costs.
In particular, this has customers.
Further, an improved customer We also have accessories available that allowed local management to set targets experience sets us apart from our help our customers manage their for each centre based on customer competitors and builds loyalty, resulting environmental footprint including low rolling satisfaction measured through Net Promoter in stronger relationships with our brand resistance tyres, which can reduce CO 2 Score NPS and sales and service funnel partners and leaving the Group better emission by around 2% and lower engine management analysis.
In 2008 the positioned to grow market share.
friction lubricants which can reduce CO 2 programme was expanded to include our emissions by around 1%.
This is described in Customer 1st in 2009 Our brand partners more detail on pages 14-15 of this Report.
We carefully select the brand partners We have introduced a system for tracking We carried out approximately 2,800 that we represent in each market.
The daily customer information for both sales mystery shop exercises in 240 retail automotive industry has made significant and aftersales operations including retail centre showrooms across the Group.
progress in reducing vehicle emissions centre trafc, sales leads, test drives and We carried out approximately 2,200 and we fully support the investment that is vehicle and service orders.
Results are mystery shop exercises in 225 service being made by our brand partners in this collected and monitored daily through centres across the Group.
In the UK, average new car emissions a dedicated award winning portal on We talked to 44,500 vehicle buyers and have fallen by over 13% in the last 10 years.
This information is 45,500 showroom visitors for our vehicle The biggest impact that motorists could aggregated overnight, providing reports sales NPS.
have on the environment is replacing and comparisons against brand, country, older high emission vehicles and having region and across time periods.
This allows We talked to over 54,400 service their cars regularly serviced.
Improvements us to measure, for example, the number customers for our aftersales NPS.
in CO emissions have been achieved 2 of orders taken as a percentage of leads Our NPS position has improved across the in all product segments.
As an industry and to set targets accordingly and gives Group in 2009. leader, Inchcape stays close to CO management a strong knowledge of the 2 technological developments.
automotive industry and detailed insight Supporting our customers into particular markets.
Improvements in CO emissions 2 Our customer understanding is facilitated We are committed to providing clear 2009 2008 both by our mystery shop in each of our information to our customers to help retail centressales and aftersales Industry average support them in their vehicle purchase operations and by quantitative analysis CO g km 149.8 158.7 choices.
This is provided in our showrooms 2 of our NPS results.
On a monthly basis, and on our websites.
Improvement 5.6% each retail centre submits feedback As part of providing a customer focused from 20 buyers and a further 20 visitors Inchcape weighted aftersales service, we offer our customers about their experience at the centre average CO g km 148.9 160.9 2 together with feedback for at least 20 an environmental vehicle health check which includes: Improvement 7.5% aftersales customers.
tyre pressure check Guidance on best practice and detailed recommendations on opportunities to CO test and emissions test 2 improve customer service are accessible air condition check to all retail centre employees via our portal.
engine lubricant test We use the Customer 1st programme to emissions test monitor both our own performance as the retailer for our brand partners and the In some of our retail centres, customers are performance of our third party retailers offered a freeGreen Test Drivewhen they where we manage the retail networks as visit us for a vehicle service.
The Green Test the distributor.
Drive shares tips with the customer on how www.
com 43 Business review Strategy Corporate responsibility continued Our people At Inchcape we believe that to really achieve success it is our people who will make the difference.
During 2009, as a consequence of our Our employee base is diverse and reects to our people and this allows us to need to reduce costs in response to the the different cultures and markets within create even more stimulating career economic downturn, we reduced the paths and personal growth for many which we operate.
This diversity creates number of roles across our Group by of our talented people.
In 2009 we have a range of perspectives that allow us to around 14%.
Despite this, we were able to constantly challenge and improve the made several changes within the Group maintain employee engagement and way we do things as we work towards our Executive Committee and each of these customer satisfaction at high levels.
We changes was a consequence of this goal of putting the customer at the centre believe that this is a direct result of our talent planning process.
conviction that it is our people who make Our analysis continues to validate our belief the difference and the actions arising that talented people who are aligned with Talent and performance from this.
our Companys leadership skills and values management Our people strategy has the ultimate goal yield higher levels of customer satisfaction of havingEngaged People in Winning and profit.
Talent planning and performance Teams.
We believe this goal will be achieved management sit at the heart of our people Going forward we will continue to focus through four areas of priority: strategy as we look to ensure we have the our efforts on ensuring that each of our right people in every role.
Whilst our processes the right people by becoming a magnet employees has a meaningful development are continuous there is a more detailed for talented people who live our values plan that takes into account their strengths, review and planning session conducted and enjoy working in winning teams development areas and aspirations as well within each of our markets and at the centre, delivering outstanding results: as the needs of the business.
We recognise at least once a year.
2009 was the third year that development is personal to each the right learning by equipping our of this process.
The process is designed to individual and is core to the growth of the people to excel today and provide ensure that we constantly upgrade our talent individual and through that, the growth exciting development opportunities for the and look to create the right development of the Group.
future, aligned to our business ambition: opportunities for all our people.
Inchcape operates in a constantly the right reward by recognising, Arising out of the talent planning process changing, evolving environment where celebrating and rewarding the contribution we have made several key people employees meet new challenges regularly.
our people and teams make to delivering decisions, including secondments, We know we can only achieve success if our challenging business ambition: each of us is growing, learning, developing promotions, lateral development moves, the right culture by creating a great mentoring, and in many cases enhanced and succeeding in our roles.
place to work where people choose to the development plans of the individual on Our employee survey results have told us make a real difference and deliver the the job.
As a global business we are also that we need to do more to support ultimate customer experience.
able to provide international opportunities employee personal development.
We have therefore launchedGrow with Inchcape our guide to helping individuals better understand what development planning is, how it applies to everyone and what we can do to really prepare for our future and reach our potential.
Grow with Inchcape demonstrates Inchcapes commitment to people development.
Employee communications During 2009, more than ever before, we have communicated with our employees regularly to ensure they were always well informed of the forces acting on us as a company, the state of the automotive industry in general, and to be transparent 44 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section One Business review in accordance with our values with the Employee safety actions we were taking.
Through the various forums and channels of communication we The safety of our people is of paramount were able to create much higher levels of involvement with our people on the importance to us.
Many of our people business priorities.
This was done in several handle hazardous substances and work ways including CEO roadshows, monthly with heavy machinery.
We monitor and report accidents and lost time incidents to employee meetings in several markets, a monthly Group wide newsletter, weekly ensure that the safety of our staff and Group accident statistics 2009 sharing of customer letters, and by cascading customers remains at the top of our Number of messages through the line management.
We regularly review our policies Location Group % accidents 2009 and procedures for our people and have Australasia 16 27 appropriate training programmes in place.
Europe 5 8 Employee survey North Asia 18 30 The 2009 position is to the right.
There is no South Asia 6 10 specic trend or consistency of accident Russia and Emerging Markets 13 9 Our annual Heartbeat survey is an UK 42 70 that has occurred either in a given location important part of our overall employee or across the Group.
We encourage our line managers to use the results of the survey to create action plans that will help Spotlight on Health, Safety and Environment HSE : Australia their teams increase the levels of their engagement.
We were delighted that over To support Inchcapes vision of becoming Overall, there has been an improved level 90% of our entire Group wide employee the worlds most customer centric automotive of compliance at all our Inchcape Australia population participated in the second retail group, many of our businesses are sites, with HSE measures now incorporated wave of Heartbeat in 2009.
We have seen working towards creating an HSE culture into core business KPIs.
Monthly meetings are an increase in the levels of engagement of best practice and zero harm to people, held with senior management to provide in our people and going forward we intend property and our environment.
There are updates regarding HSE performance for to continue this process.
many examples of excellent HSE initiatives their business units.
For example, Inchcape The hardworking HSE team are passionate Employee reward Australia, improved its HSE performance about safety and, following a year of great signicantly over the last year through a achievement in 2009, are now focused We recognise that it is our culture, our strategic focus on cultural change.
on further plans for the next two years.
values, and the opportunities we provide Their 2009 HSE strategy was so successful In consultation with the business, they our people that attract talented individuals it resulted in several excellent outcomes, have developed an HSE strategy aimed to us.
However we also recognise the need including a 30% year on year reduction in at moving beyond compliance to best to have well benchmarked, stretching yet number ofLost Time Injuriesin December practice and zero harm in the workplace stimulating reward opportunities for 2009, and a 20% year on year reduction in and look forward to continuing to drive everyone.
All of our reward programmes are number of injuries and days lost.
Inchcape HSE leadership and culture change.
aligned directly to the strategic requirements Australia was also able to reduce workers and expectations of our business and are compensation premiums by AU$ 600,000 by designed to reward for high levels of improving injury management systems and performance.
The rollout of online systems, such programmes have elements relating to as thecontractor induction systemand customer satisfaction in addition to financial theincident reporting systemand the measures.
Share awards and option plans development of safe work procedures, have are detailed on pages 69-70.
In addition we also contributed to these fantastic results.
have several local and Group wide schemes aimed at recognising people for high levels of performance and for demonstrating our values.
com 45 Business review Strategy Corporate responsibility continued Our communities With our extensive international interests, Inchcape rmly believes in supporting the many different communities and cultures within which we operate, often through sponsorship and support of local charities for local people.
We have highlighted some of the work that we have been undertaking in our communities.
4 1 Inchcape plants trees in Singapore 3 Borneo Motors is collaborating with the South West Community Development Council to plant more than one million trees in 6 the Pandan Gardens in Jurong East in Singapore by 2020.
The previous target of 100,000 trees was surpassed in November 2009.
It is hoped that the new greenery will be able to absorb some 22,000kg worth of CO annually.
2 2 2 Inchcape supports school project in Ethiopia Inchcape supports the Mother and Child Rehabilitation Centre MCRC in Ethiopia.
Taking in extremely disadvantaged children from Addis Ababa and beyond, the centre provides shelter, food, education, medical care and therapy for children and their parents.
MCRC aims to help them recover from past traumas and equip them through employment and professional training with the means to be independent and successful in the future.
Over 2009, our staff donated money, clothes and toys to this fantastic cause, while Inchcape plc sponsored a fundraising video about the school.
These ongoing contributions help ensure the programme continues to provide support and hope to these children and their mothers.
46 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section One Business review 3 Toyota Balkans is awarded 4 Inchcape Fleet Solutions IFS best partner of the WWF wins Green Apple Award Earth Hour Our UK vehicle leasing and management company was the only one in its sector to win On 28th March 4,000 towns in 88 countries switched off the lights as part of the global this in 2009.
The award recognised a newly Earth Hour campaign organised by World launched ISO 14001 accredited Wildlife Fund WWF.
Inchcapes business environmental management system that supports environmental management for in Bulgaria, Toyota Balkans, and its dealer network helped promote the campaign clients.
This includes a number of innovative to staff and customers and took part by online tools to help customers reduce their switching off electricity to their showrooms carbon footprint including:a CO tracking 2 tool that helps select lower impact and lower during Earth Hour.
Our business was given a special recognition award for being the cost vehicles, enhanced vehicle comparison WWFs best business partner for this project.
tools with vehicle-specic environmental impact tagging integrated within online quote systemE-Quotesand enhancements to its Grey Fleet driver management system providing guidance on how to cut fuel emissions and fuel use.
1 5 Inchcape Australias employee 6 Toyota Hellas in Greece takes volunteering programme part in Green Month Campaign In 2009, Inchcape Australia launched For the fifth year, Inchcape took part in Inchcape in the Community, an employee events in support of Toyotas Green Month.
volunteering programme where staff receive The first activity was an Eco-Driving seminar an extra day of paid leave per year to for staff to help reduce fuel consumption dedicate to a community project.
2 5 Inchcape in the Communityis an The second activity involved 50 Inchcape opportunity for employees to get involved volunteers successfully cleaning a beach andgive backto the community through in Aspropyrgos in cooperation with the engaging in an activity for any of the Mediterranean SOS Network and following charities:The Smith Family Hospice, Aspropyrgos Municipality.
The Salvation Army, Conservation Volunteers or Cancer Council Australia.
com 47 Business review Strategy Corporate responsibility continued In January 2009, following an internal Our environment review of the data collected and the collection process, it was agreed that the In 2008, the Group commenced collecting data on its CO footprint, measured 2 processes should be rened to maximise against three core Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
their robustness and enable independent verication, as appropriate.
Since that review, we have continued to collect data from our markets against Energy This KPI measures our global electricity and gas usage.
This data has begun For the last six months of 2008, and during 2009 data has been collated on the basis of megawatt hours for electricity and to provide us with insights into our CO 2 cubic metres for gas.
However, we consider that additional data collection is required in order to provide meaningful guidance.
Transport This KPI measures the movement of cars and parts from Namely: the point of ownership which means legal or contractual ownership to the point we cease to have legal ownership.
additional CO data is required in order 2 This includes test drives.
We calculate our CO footprint by 2 to understand if seasonality has an car or parts kilometres depending on the mode of transport impact on our data usage: with a CO multiplier.
2 whilst there are early indications of trend patterns in the data, there is insufficient Flights This KPI measures the impact of the movement of our people.
We have recorded the number of ights each ight leg counts data to establish if these are actual or as one unit and calculated our ight CO emissions with a 2 perceived trends: multiplier by ight kilometre.
verication of the robustness of our data.
We are ensuring that from the start of the process we are building in sufficient control points so that our data is capable of independent verication as part of our overall planning process for this element of our CR programme.
Early conclusions that can be drawn are: Analysing our CO footprint is providing us 2 with data from which we can evaluate how we can manage emissions and reduce costs in the supply chain.
For example, in some markets we rely on air freight to support our business, particularly around the import of critical supplies which can be dependent on aftersales requirements.
We will use the data to analyse if changes are appropriate to support our business requirements, reduce our CO footprint 2 and reduce costs, thereby benefiting our customers and our stakeholders alike.
Additionally, measuring our direct costs using a CO metric will present 2 opportunities to work closely with our brand partners as we can support their CR values and vice versa, ensuring that By recycling rainwater, using ground source heating pumps and solar power to heat there is a consistent approach throughout water, Inchcape Honda in Romford, UK uses around 30% less energy than a standard all elements of the supply chain.
48 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section One Business review We have reviewed our travel policy and As Inchcape operates three business have used alternative communications models Distribution, Retail and VIR where practicable, such as conference please see page 13 for more detail calls, video conferencing and virtual offsites.
there are variances in our CO footprint.
2 We will continue to implement these Direct comparisons between markets measures in 2010 as part of our CR operating different business models are programme.
Moreover, the cultural changes unlikely to produce meaningful results.
in our ways of working have been However, we are looking for opportunities implemented positively.
to exploit synergies between the business We have already introduced a number of models by having a consistent approach measures to protect our environment within to reduction and offsetting goals and by our ofces such as recycling bins, use of sharing best practices.
recycled paper and stationery and water purication systems.
Objective How we will do this Our 2010 Raising employee All employees to be part of the appraisal process goals engagement through the All senior employees to be part of the talent review process Having established various initiatives from our All senior employees to have individual development plans people strategy including solid foundations for our significant reward and CR programme, in 2010 development plans we will look to embed these practices within Extending our employee Continuing to implement Heartbeat across the Group our global operations, survey to the rest of our global Ensuring that follow up action plans are in place and implemented particularly focusing on employee base people and our CO 2 footprint management.
Extending best practice in Reviewing time lost through accidents and continuing to monitor health and safety to our impact on business operations worldwide Supporting our communities Continued focus on local initiatives in which we operate through focused initiatives Continued collection of CO Promote best practices throughout the business 2 data in order to establish Perform analysis for trends etc as sufficient robust and veriable trends and seasonal variations data is collated and eliminate practices which do not support both our CO 2 and business strategies Identication of CO reduction Based on above, review the opportunities that positively impact our 2 and or offset opportunities for CO footprint to support our objectives, our shareholders, our brand 2 our core markets partners, our customers and employees www.
