coRPoRate ResPonsIBIlItY Corporate Responsibility CR is key to the Informa The Groups UK benefits package was given the highest business and its people.
Its importance within Informa rating in the Britains Top Employer awards for 2009. increases year on year even in a difficult business In 2009, Informa launched an innovative new facility for environment.
Informas CR activities are carried out previous members of staff throughout the world.
Over globally across the business and incorporate many time, INFORMA-IN-TOUCH.
ORG, will help the Group build different areas such as employees, communities, a strong, global alumnus of talented former-employees, customers and the environment.
with whom the Group will remain in contact.
As mentioned in the Corporate Governance report on INFORMA-IN-TOUCH.
ORG offers a supportive peer page 43 to 44, Informas CR strategy is formulated and group for former staff enabling them to hear about new led by a CR Committee which is chaired by the Chief opportunities, business and social events as well as gain tips Executive, Peter Rigby.
The CR strategy has five key pillars: and advice in finding a new job, managing their career, and, Providing a Rewarding, Fair and if they choose it, self-employment.
A Network Coach, with Inspiring workplace for staff many years experience in executive coaching and personal development, is also on hand.
His job is to welcome new The quality of Informas people is the Companys single members and support their career development and biggest advantage.
The Group is rich in intellectual networking.
It is one of few, such proactive, corporate capital.
It has a responsibility to provide a transparent alumni networks in the world.
In time offline networking and unbiased meritocracy as well as invest in the HR tools amongst this group will be developed.
To offer users privacy, it is not open to current employees, In 2009, internal staff training known as the Informa but it does give Informa the opportunity to get back Academy was further developed.
It is delivered by the in touch with people who have moved when new Informa Group and is free to attend for employees from opportunities arise within the Group.
all of the Groups businesses.
Attendance at these courses rose from 853 to 1,253 staff in 2009.
Individual businesses ensuring Product Integrity and Quality are being encouraged to establish their own training Informa provides specialist information and services for academies: in 2009 Informa Business Information did so, the academic, scientific, professional, and commercial delivering specialist training directly to its staff.
Our readers and the people Informa continues to offer a flexible and attractive attending our conferences expect expertly researched, benefits package to staff on top of the competitive salary balanced, truthful and reliable content.
and bonus structures in place within each business unit.
managing Editorial integrity at Taylor & Francis Taylor & Francis T&F maintains the editorial integrity of their Finally, as a global publisher, T&F prides itself on its academic publications in three ways that are all closely related commitment to reflecting regional perspectives.
contributes to the desire to lead the debate in core subject areas through thought-provoking content.
Firstly, there is a rigorous peer review process made up of subject experts, mainly academic professors, to validate the T&F have commissioning staff located in the UK, USA, India content of T&Fs books and journals.
On the journal side, and Singapore.
Sales outside of the UK and USA account each title has an editorial panel, whilst books are reviewed for approximately 40% of T&Fs total sales and this figure is by three or more experts.
Sometimes this can lead to content growing each year.
T&F believes that in every respect the changes and, on the rare occasion, to an article or book being developing regions of the world are going to be increasingly abandoned altogether.
Secondly, T&F recognises that, as a humanities and social sciences publisher, it needs to be at the forefront of stimulating debate.
The peer review process plays an important part in this by ensuring that all content is challenged and debated before publication.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 55 the Year in Review coRPoRate ResPonsIBIlItY continued In 2009, a review of the Editorial and Content Code for energy usage within its offices, and in 2010 reporting publishing was conducted, and development of specific will include the impacts associated with business travel.
training sessions commenced to raise awareness of the maintaining and Improving code among Informa Business Information publications.
customer service levels Although the publishing code is relevant for the Groups academic books and journals, the integrity of those It is the Groups responsibility to anticipate, meet publications is ensured through the Groups peer review and exceed its institutional and individual customer process before publication.
The Group continues to develop its Shared Service Centres offering back office customer service An Editorial and Content code was drafted specifically for functions to group companies.
The Shared Service the conference businesses in 2009, and will be finalised Centres are expected to lead to cost savings as well as and launched during 2010. improvements to customer service levels.
T&F have commissioning staff located in the UK, USA, For example, the UK Shared Services main role is to India and Singapore.
Sales outside of the UK and USA support Informas businesses, so that they can focus account for approximately 40% of T&Fs total sales and on improving products and services, ensure customer this figure is growing each year.
T&F believes that in every retention and grow their businesses.
The Shared Services respect the developing regions of the world are going to centre does this by not only providing accounting be increasingly important to its business.
and customer operations support services to these managing environmental Impacts businesses, but also by processing first line external customer queries.
Informa continues to measure and manage the environmental impacts of its direct operations.
giving Back to the communities Previously the Group has focused on UK operations but in which it operates this year it will report on a broader geographical scope Informa has long encouraged its staff to be involved of its operations including North America, East Asia, in local community initiatives, as well as taking part in Australasia, and South Asia.
The Group continues to Group community activities such as fund raising for the report to investors via the Carbon Disclosure Project, and World Cancer Research Fund WCRF.
A survey carried saw its score in the index increase slightly this year.
out in 2009 showed how important these activities are to The Groups reporting in 2009 has been focused on Informas staff, as well as having a positive effect on the green Week Informa launched its first Green week in 2009 to build on 2008s also organised activities in their local offices from carpooling Green day.
The aim of the week was to set aside time in the to volunteering with environmental charities as well as corporate calendar to bring green issues to the fore and inspire getting rid of personal bins in offices and creating oneemployees across the globe to make positive green changes in sided notebooks from scrap printer paper.
their day-to-day working lives as well as to share ideas on how Finally, Facilities Managers were put to the test challenging Informa could reduce its corporate carbon footprint.
them to see who could reduce office energy use the most over The Group received a high amount of input from employees the week.
Eighteen offices across eight countries took up the to central competitions, for example sending in ideas for gauntlet with Taylor & Francis in Singapore eventually winning Greening Informas Products and photos on Going Green with a 42% saving achieved through simple measures such as at Informa.
There was also support from Peter Rigby, Chief reducing the air-conditioning by a few degrees, turning off all Executive, and his direct reports who competed in their own lighting and electronic devices when not in use, and keeping Green Games, a set of daily challenges on the five themes window blinds down to avoid heat gain from direct sunlight.
of mind, travel, waste, water, and energy.
Informa Australia also deserve a mention for making the greatest absolute saving before normalisation.
Competition between the competitive senior team was fierce with the ups and downs all captured in a daily blog.
Employees 56 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 communities with whom the Group works.
an additional 20,000 from corporate funds in honour of the response from staff, taking the total up to over 46,000.
Informa also recognises that these community activities are another way to help staff develop new skills.
In 2009, Banana Run Run for the children the Group developed a new community strategy which Staff across Informa continue to promote the Run for the includes offering all staff one day off per year to volunteer Children and continue to raise funds for Cancer Relief.
Informa hopes to see a significant Peter Rigby puts his own stamp on this community event portion of staff taking up this new opportunity.
by dressing up as a banana and having staff chase him looking Forward to 2010 around Regents Park in London.
The CR Committee has several key aims for 2010.
These Informa academy include the following: The CR Committee is working to improve the Profile of the staff engagement Informa Academy, to offer more internal programmes for staff by using distance learning and Video Conferencing Technology Engaging with staff remains an important part of the CR to deliver these programmes.
The decentralisation of CR to the businesses in the ESI business in 2009, will be developed further in globally and setting each business one key CR target are 2010 thereby reducing the Groups Carbon Footprint by underway.
minimising on business travel wherever possible.
community cR Database KPIs Staff are encouraged to spend one day for community Mindful of the need to provide the market with accurate activities.
This has been branded Be Involved with the data, particularly energy consumption, the CR Committee aim of encouraging team activities globally.
is looking to improve both the Groups CR database and KPIs in line with the Carbon Disclosure project.
haiti appeal The full CR report for 2009 is available on www.
Since the Haiti earthquake struck, Informa staff around the world have engaged minds and hearts and dug deep into their pockets to raise over 26,000 for the disaster relief in Haiti.
Peter Rigby has announced that Informa will be contributing Community Strategy Survey A Community Strategy survey was undertaken in 2009 which After analysing the results of the survey, and talking to gave the following results: MDs across the business, the CR Committee decided to: 99% of those that replied to the survey knew about retain its global relationship with WCRF through the Informas annual, and global, Go Banana event to raise Go Banana event: money for WCRF: encourage all offices to develop long-term relationships 86% of respondents said they would be interested in getting with organisations that are either local to the office, or involved with a local charity to their own office: and, have a strategic link to the business: 58% said theyd give time to both volunteering and introduce a global Informa Volunteering Policy: and, fundraising activities.
launch a new Community Month during which local charity partnerships will be highlighted across the business, and offer support and advice to staff interested in setting up partnerships in their region, or getting involved in volunteering.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 57
