CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Through the embedded risk management process within THE COMPANY RECOGNISES the Group, any signi cant social, environmental and ethical matters are brought to the attention of the Board.
SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL Code of Conduct AND ETHICAL MATTERS The Group maintains and requires the highest ethical standards in carrying out its business activities and has speci c guidelines for dealing with gifts, hospitality, corruption, fraud, the use of AND IT ENDEAVOURS inside information and whistleblowing.
TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT The Code of Ethics policies state that Directors, of cers and employees are expected to conduct business in accordance THE INTERESTS OF THE with the highest standards of personal and professional integrity.
The Code of Ethics is published on the Companys website.
GROUPS STAKEHOLDERS, Employment INCLUDING ITS INVESTORS, The Group has established policies which address key corporate objectives in the management of employee relations, EMPLOYEES, SUPPLIERS communications and employee involvement, training and personal development and equal opportunities.
AND BUSINESS PARTNERS, Inmarsat Global has a Staff Forum to extend two-way WHEN OPERATING ITS communications between employees and management and to allow the views of employees to be taken into account in BUSINESS.
making decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
The Staff Forum is an elected body constituted in accordance with prevailing legislation to provide the formal means of consultation on contractual matters, as and when required.
For the Groups other overseas of ces, the following employee relations practices are in place: for the Inmarsat of ce in Indonesia, there is an elected Staff Forum which operates in a similar way to the one in the UK: and in the Stratos of ces in: The Netherlands a W orks Council is in place: and Germany a W orks Council exists until May 2010 and then will cease to be active as staff numbers are below the minimum requirement for one to be in place following the sale of the German companys assets.
Perry Melton, Chief Operating Of cer, has been identi ed as having responsibility for health and safety issues within the Inmarsat Global operations.
Stratos has various managers responsible for health and safety across its operations.
The Group recognises its legal responsibilities to ensure the well-being, safety and welfare of its employees and to maintain a safe and healthy working environment for them and for its visitors and sub-contractors.
Regular health and safety audits are undertaken at operating sites across the Group and health and safety updates are available to staff to show what improvements have been made to their working environments.
The well-being of staff is important and this is re ected in the range of activities that the Group arranges for staff from social activities to improving health awareness.
Inmarsat Global runs annual corporate health promotion days providing employees with the opportunity to speak to In its 10th anniversary year, visiting health companies and practitioners.
TSF deployed Inmarsat services to support many missions around UK-based staff of Inmarsat Global are encouraged to the world.
support individual charities of their choice through the HM Revenue & Customs approved Give As You Earn scheme.
The payroll-based scheme enables employees to gain tax relief on their charitable donations.
26 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GMDSS is an essential service we are proud to provide to the maritime community.
INMARSAT REMAINS THE ONLY APPROVED PROVIDER OF SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES FOR THE GLOBAL MOBILE DISTRESS AND SAFETY SYSTEM Community Union ITU to familiarise government of cials from Safety at sea remains a primary commitment for Inmarsat six Central American countries with BGAN.
Inmarsat remains the only approved provider of satellite training is to educate engineers and technicians who will communications services for the Global Mobile Distress and be responsible for establishing communications for Safety System GMDSS.
This service is trusted throughout the government and humanitarian needs during a crisis.
world by mariners and by the rescue co-ordination centres that are integral to ensuring that a safety alert is actioned.
The Inmarsat worked closely with the ITU and TSF during the GMDSS service gives maritime users complete con dence that if recent earthquake in Haiti through the provision of terminals they send a distress call, it will be received by a rescue authority.
so that communications services used by TSF and key government departments could be used reliably.
Inmarsat In 2009, we also launched an additional maritime safety service, and one of its distribution partners, Vizada, provided the called 505 which enables safety services to be provided on ITU with a signi cant number of donated BGAN terminals, our FleetBroadband suite of services.
This does not replace enabling it to use the terminals to enhance its emergency the GMDSS service which is provided on other Inmarsat services.
communications capabilities and disaster response It does however provide mariners with additional peace of mind management plans.
The Companys Universal Service Obligations seek to support Inmarsat has made a charitable donation to the International the use of Inmarsat services, normally payphones, in rural Maritime Organizations IMO Safety and Rescue SAR fund villages in remote regions of the world, where terrestrial voice to support assistance for vessels off the coast of Africa.
This is services are poor or non-existent.
part of a five year agreement which was signed in 2005 to support the IMOs International SAR fund.
The International Maritime Bureau has been using the Inmarsat C SafetyNET service for several years to provide vital updates on reported pirate activity to approximately 70% of the global eet.
The service enables ship masters to access reports of pirate movements, giving them information to know which regions to avoid with high pirate activity and allowing them to re-route if necessary.
The Group continues its commitment to the support of Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF, the telecommunications relief aid organisation.
It has supported the charity for more than seven years through direct funding and the provision of free satellite terminals.
TSF is able to reach disaster areas quickly and to help other aid charities with their communications needs whilst also providing the opportunity for those affected to call relatives.
During 2009, TSF sent response teams to deal with crises in many different countries including the Philippines, China, Indonesia and more recently to assist following the earthquakes in Haiti and Chile.
Training teams to be able to respond quickly and effectively After Haitis earthquake, TSF provided reliable in times of a disaster is important and during 2009 Inmarsat communications using Inmarsat services to partnered TSF to participate in a Disaster Management support other aid organisations, local government Workshop organised by the International Telecommunication and individuals.
Inmarsat plc 27 Annual report and accounts 2009 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Environment actively to encourage the conservation of energy, water By their nature, the activities of the Group are judged to have and natural resources through the increased ef ciency and a low environmental impact and are not expected to give rise introduction of new and modern technology: and to any signi cant, inherent environmental risks over the next to encourage all employees to be proactive in their daily twelve months.
activities by: separating their waste into dry and wet waste r eceptacles: The Group does not manufacture satellite user terminals: ensuring that printer cartridges ar e recycled: however the terminals are developed by manufacturers who switching of f lights, computers, phone chargers and any provide health and safety guidance as to how terminals should other electrical items when not in use: and be utilised.
Controls are in place to ensure that antennae do r educing business travel and using more site-based not radiate any power at low elevation angles.
From mid-2010, technology such as video and audio conferencing.
Inmarsat Global will have oversight of the manufacture of its new global hand-held satellite phone.
The design and manufacturing The energy strategy for Inmarsat Globals principal place of processes have met all the relevant safety standards and disposal operations in London continued to focus on our consumption of requirements are included in the packaging for each handset.
During 2009, the Business Environments Department delivered a 9.4% saving in electrical usage compared to 2008 The Group currently operates a number of ground earth which reduced our CO emissions by 302,897 kg.
Further savings 2 stations, a microwave network, VSAT and telemetry and tracking will be achieved in 2010 when the project to install the new high facilities where there are satellite dishes which generate radiation.
ef ciency gearless passenger lifts is completed.
Access to these sites is restricted and there are regular health and safety checks to ensure that they are in protected areas Recycling has been embraced throughout Inmarsat Global and away from access by the general public.
Personnel who work our use of land ll sites has been greatly reduced.
Only 800 kg of at these sites are provided with relevant training as to the our building waste went to land ll compared to a 2008 total of 3 health and safety issues.
64,680 kg, which has resulted in a saving of 319m of land ll space 3 2008: saving of 234m.
Around 73,000 kg of the buildings waste Inmarsat Global has adopted the highest industry standards in which could not be recycled was sent to the South East London terms of space debris mitigation, including end-of-life graveyard Combined Heat and Power energy recovery plant where it was manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when they reach incinerated and contributed to the power generation for 48,000 the end of their commercial life.
The first disposal of one of the homes.
In terms of mixed materials, 48,000 kg was sent for Groups satellites was completed during 2006.
We were in full recycling during 2009. compliance with the relevant ITU standards for its disposal.
There are no near-term plans for decommissioning any of the remaining Energy and the environment continues to be a major focus in satellites.
The Group operates its satellites in geosynchronous 2010 and has the full backing of management with the objective orbits which are approximately 36,000km 22,500 miles above of continuing to reduce the carbon footprint of the business.
This orbit has signi cantly less debris than in a low earth orbit which is approximately 700km above the earth and Inmarsat has also agreed to provide sponsorship for an where several MSS operators have their satellite constellations.
environmental campaign to highlight severe environmental degradation across the Paci c Ocean.
Crew aboard a catamaran, The Inmarsat Group has over 1,240 staff represented by called Plastiki, which is built from 12,000 recycled plastic bottles, approximately 45 different nationalities.
Due to the size and travelling from San Francisco to Sydney, will use FleetBroadband nature of these activities, the Company has a degree of connectivity to draw attention to plastics trapped forever in the environmental impact on the local and global environment.
Paci c gyre and to the damage being done to sea and bird life.
However, it should be noted that the satellite industry and Inmarsat are extremely low on the scale of carbon generators.
Some of these environmental impacts include the use of natural resources, the consumption of energy and water, the production of a variety of waste, in addition to staff and visitors travelling for business purposes around the globe.
Inmarsats objective is to ensure that the Group does not have any detrimental effect on the environment through its business operations.
Inmarsat Global has adopted the following principles: to provide first class energy and environmental management practices: to comply with all relevant global environmental legislation and regulatory controls: to identify signi cant environmental and social impacts and establish objectives and targets for improvement: to recycle within Inmarsat Global a minimum of 90% of Inmarsat supports the Plastiki project, allowing generated waste and constantly to review the opportunity TV programmes and other media from mid-Paci c to use recycled products: highlighting plastics pollution of the ocean.
28 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Partnerships With the continued development of Inmarsat services, the Group has seen how they can be used in ways which bring social and environmental bene ts.
Inmarsats partners work closely with local companies and charities which are active in how they approach environmental and community matters.
The Group is delighted that through the use of its services, the Inmarsat partner network can make a difference in these areas and examples of this during 2009 are detailed below: BGAN terminals will play a crucial role in the launch of Angolas new national identity ID card project, which uses cuttingedge technology.
This is a five-year project involving the provision of optical memory cards initially to eight million Angolan citizens.
Mobile data collection vehicles equipped with BGAN terminals will be used to transmit registration data for the ID cards from remote rural areas back to data centres for processing.
BGAN terminals are being used by the University of California The UK Aerospace Rocketry Challenge encourages school San Diego researchers to support their archaeological survey students to learn the science in remote Mongolia as they search, in a non-destructive of aerospace and astrophysics archaeological search, for the tomb of the legendary by competing in building and Mongolian leader Genghis Khan.
ying a safe and stable rocket A leading conservationist who has devoted his life to saving to carry a fragile payload.
the orang-utan is keeping in touch via BGAN from his rescue centre in the Indonesian jungle.
A project at the Northeast Science Station in Siberia, which is a US-Russian initiative, is enabling a team of scientists to conduct eld courses to enhance undergraduates research into climate change, communicating via BGAN.
A four-month journey across southern Africa to promote key conservation areas is using BGAN to relay expedition news.
Students from a school in Dubai who undertook an expedition to Mount Kilimanjaro relied on BGAN to relay their progress online on a daily basis and to provide assurances to family as to the groups safety.
BGAN is enabling the Brazilian authorities to compile Education critical data on 2 million km of uncharted land within the During the year, the Company funded the Inmarsat Chair of Amazon rainforest.
Maritime Education and Training at the World Maritime University Severe weather reporters in parts of the US are using BGAN to support the education of maritime specialists.
Inmarsat to relay dramatic early-warning live footage of tornados and encourages internships with universities to provide students hurricanes to local residents.
with the opportunity to experience first-hand the engineering and technical aspects of satellite operations.
During the year, Inmarsat continued its support of the International Space University by funding two half scholarships for students on its Masters Programme.
WE HAVE COMMISSIONED Inmarsat has continued to support the American School in A PIECE OF PUBLIC POLICY London and its partnership with Quinton Kynaston State School in London to enter a joint team to the US National Rocketry RESEARCH TO INVESTIGATE Competition, as well as continuing its sponsorship in 2009 of the UK Aerospace Youth Rocketry Challenge UKAYRoC, WAYS OF ENCOURAGING which is an annual challenge for secondary school students to build a safe and stable model rocket.
This is one way in which AND SUPPORTING SCIENCE we have worked with others to stimulate an interest in science in schools.
We have also commissioned a piece of public policy IN SCHOOLS research to investigate ways of encouraging and supporting science in schools.
The research will analyse international comparisons in policy and outcomes to help inform UK policy makers when it comes to science policy.
The research work demonstrates Inmarsats commitment to developing the skills of future generations.
Inmarsat plc 29 Annual report and accounts 2009
