22 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business review continued Room to be yourself Our people IHG directly employed an average of 7,556 people worldwide during 2009 whose costs are borne by the Group.
When the whole IHG estate is taken into account including staff working in the Room to have a great start franchised and managed hotels approximately 335,000 people You will be treated with respect and we are employed globally across IHGs brands.
will make sure you have everything you Unless otherwise stated, any data in this section relates to the need to have a great start.
people directly employed by IHG and those who work in managed hotels or as part of our joint venture with AII Nippon Airways Room to be involved in Japan in total approximately 110,000 people.
You will have the opportunity to work with great teams, know what is going During 2009, our business faced a challenging trading on and make a real difference in your environment and we have been balancing cost reduction and workplace.
restructuring programmes while managing engagement for our people and guests.
Furthermore, we have been attracting, Room to grow retaining and inspiring people to deliver our core purpose, Great Hotels Guests Love.
You will be supported and given opportunities to develop yourself To achieve Great Hotels Guests Love the Group has, over the and pursue a rewarding career.
past three years, developed a clear articulation of our values and the behaviours expected from all employees, as well as creating Room for you the right environment for employees so that they can deliver our You will be rewarded and recognised for core purpose.
your contributions and we will value the Creating the right environment: Room to be yourself significance of your life beyond work.
IHG has developed an employment brand that provides the environment which helps our people to be successful.
As part of our brand, we make four key promises which are described as part of our Room to be yourself commitment.
People processes have been aligned to our commitment to ensure that we can meet a set of defined standards.
Displaying the right behaviour: Winning Ways Winning Ways, a set of behaviours that defines how IHG interacts with guests, colleagues and hotel owners, was developed in 2006 and integrated into the business in 2007.
IHGs people have embraced these behaviours with enthusiasm and creativity worldwide.
Focusing on the right activity: Great Hotels Guests Love During the past year, we have aligned Winning Ways and Room to be yourself with our core purpose so that people understand how the work they do delivers Great Hotels Guests Love.
We have communicated Great Hotels Guests Love extensively during 2009 and we have given our people clear direction on what is important for us as a business.
This effort will continue throughout 2010.
Minnie Zhu Personal Assistant Shanghai
