20 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 We endorsed the UN Global The National Business Compact the worlds largest Travel Association gave us corporate citizenship and its 1st annual CSR award.
Responsible business Corporate Responsibility CR is integral to the way we conduct our business and sits at the heart of our strategy.
As well as helping us to create value for IHG and build competitive advantage, acting responsibly plays a key role in our efforts to manage costs and drive revenue more effectively.
Focusing where we can make the most difference Responsible tourism Over the past two years weve been building a solid foundation to support our Having a positive impact on the CR strategy and activities, making sure we have the right policies, management communities where we operate is a and measurement systems in place.
In 2009, we set up a Corporate Responsibility central focus of our CR programme.
Committee to establish, drive and deliver our strategy.
Chaired by Non-Executive Tourism is an important source of Director Jennifer Laing, the Committee met twice last year.
income for many developing countries but the lack of a skilled workforce Our strategy concentrates on the two areas where we can make the most means they are often unable to benefit difference the environment, including reducing our carbon footprint, and creating from tourism opportunities.
We train economic opportunities in our communities.
To help us identify and tackle our potential employees in our communities priorities, we engage with our stakeholders.
Their feedback also helps us improve and work with local and regional our performance.
Chambers of Commerce and trade and industry associations to support Reducing our impact workforce development.
In China, for example, we launched the IHG Our approach to CR is based on innovation and collaboration.
Take the way weve Academy see Our people, page 17. chosen to tackle carbon emissions.
Rather than purchase carbon offsets, were working with partners such as hotel owners and suppliers to seek new ways to Given the economic downturn, our deliver real emission cuts across our business, through our Green Engage focus this year has been on maximising programme see story, right.
the benefits we bring to local economies via direct and indirect employment, taxes We believe there is a real competitive advantage in reducing our impacts and paid, local purchasing and donations to providing green choices for our guests.
But were also exposed to an increasing community projects.
We also signed up raft of legal requirements, particularly on the regulation of greenhouse gas to the UN Global Compact to align our emissions and other resources.
business with 10 universal principles, In 2010, our UK operations will have to comply with the Carbon Reduction including human rights and labour Commitment CRC.
This will compel companies to monitor energy usage and standards.
purchase carbon allowances corresponding to CO emissions.
To address these 2 We are currently reviewing our complex regulatory requirements, we set up a Carbon Strategy Team and have community activities and our revised discussed the issue with the IAHI to ensure our hotel owners are fully on board.
Community Strategy will be launched in 2010.
Our aim is to create a greater positive impact in the communities where we operate.
Long-life lighting systems used for new Holiday Inn signs will save an estimated $1.4m annually HOW WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com Responsible business 21 Travel and tourism generate more than 9%of global GDP Source: World Travel and Tourism Council.
The green hotel of the future Our virtual Innovation Hotel is an online showcase for what hotels might look like if they use green technologies.
The site allows guests to access our latest thinking and share their ideas with us.
Visitor comments are fed into the development of our CR strategy and Green Engage programme.
Innovation Hotel has won a number of awards over the last year, including: 2009 CSR Innovation Award from Hotel Magazine Worldwide Hospitality Awards for Best Initiative in Sustainable Development 2009 Hotel Report Awards for Innovator Driving change through Green Engage in CSR 2009 Launched in March 2009, our online sustainability tool, Green Engage, enables In 2010, we plan to make the site hotels to measure, manage and report on their hotel energy, water and more interactive take a look at waste consumption more effectively, as well as their community impacts.
com innovation The programme uses a hotels own site data to recommend specific actions on every aspect of the hotel life cycle, from picking a suitable site to choosing responsible cleaning materials and building more sustainable supply chains.
Geotourism with National It also produces reports which allow IHG, as well as guests and corporate Geographic clients, to review an individual hotels progress.
The InterContinental brand has been Green Engage is being rolled out progressively across our entire hotel estate working with the National Geographic and were supporting the system with a new training package, Green Engage Centre for Sustainable Destinations the fundamentals.
In 2009, 300 people took the course and we plan to roll to develop a responsible tourism it out further in the coming year.
strategy for its hotels and guests.
This partnership brings to life the brands aspiration to give guests an authentic Conservation through innovation taste of their destination.
The result is InterContinentals Five Principles of Geotourism: Integrity of Place Destination Appeal Community Appeal We believe minimising the disturbance of animals, plants and their natural Sharing our Stories habitats is a key element of responsible tourism.
In May 2009, IHG joined Minimising Impact forces with the Department of Plant Sciences at the University of Oxford, Find out more about the partnership at pledging up to $1 million over five years.
Our funding will help the university www.
com sustainable expand its efforts to map biodiversity hot spots around the world and identify areas that are either suitable or unsuitable for development.
Were using our Priority Club Rewards programme to part-fund the donation by asking members to switch from paper to online statements and over 330,000 members have now done so.
This simple change will save up to $400,000 a year and we will donate half of this to the project.
com conservation Over 900 hotels currently use Read our online Green Engage CR Report at www.
