26 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business review continued Corporate responsibility Stakeholders also help us improve our performance through feedback on our current programme and communications.
In 2009, Corporate responsibility CR is integral to the way we conduct our we responded to their comments by revisiting the community business and is at the core of our strategy.
As well as helping us aspect of our strategy and being more proactive in our CR to create value for the business and build competitive advantage, communications, making them more relevant for specific acting responsibly is playing a key role in our efforts to manage stakeholder groups.
For instance, we held a Green Day for costs and drive revenue more effectively.
employees at our UK head office, which we plan to follow up with With over 4,400 hotels worldwide and a new hotel opening every a CR section in our online Leaders Lounge and a green forum to day, we have a considerable responsibility and opportunity to provide staff with a more formal platform through which to share ensure our operations make a positive difference.
tourism also makes good business sense it reduces our costs, In 2010, we will update elements of our online CR report on particularly in energy, and shows our guests that we are acting on a quarterly basis, with a more comprehensive annual update issues that concern them, such as the environment and supporting available at the end of the year.
We will continue to explore ways the communities in which we operate.
of improving how we engage with stakeholders and seek more Our approach opportunities to share learning on CR through, for example, In February 2009 the IHG Board established a Corporate round-table events.
Responsibility Committee to set out and deliver the strategic Review of 2009 priorities of the responsible business objectives of Great Hotels Our CR strategy is based on innovation and collaboration.
We look Guest Love, and to make sure we have the right policies, for creative solutions to the environmental and social challenges management and measurement systems in place.
The Committee we face and work in partnership with our stakeholders to is chaired by Jennifer Laing, a Non-Executive Director.
It met twice implement them.
in 2009, focusing on developing our carbon strategy, defining the role of hotels in society and improving our CR communications.
Over the past two years we have been building a solid foundation of policy, management and measurement on which to base our Our CR strategy is concentrated on two main areas: CR strategy and activities.
This has involved putting systems in the environment, including reducing our carbon footprint.
place and working closely with our stakeholders to identify the We are aiming to make a nights stay with IHG more carbon areas that have the highest impact for them and our business.
efficient: and We have also made good progress on initiatives that help us our communities, particularly the creation of local economic address two of our industrys biggest challenges climate change opportunities and charitable work.
and the recent economic downturn, particularly its impact on local We engage with stakeholders to help us identify and tackle our communities.
Through key initiatives such as Green Engage, our priorities.
Our stakeholders include guests and corporate clients, online sustainability programme, the IHG Academies and the hotel owners and franchise holders, local communities, employees, Innovation Hotel we are measuring and managing our shareholders, suppliers, academic institutions, non-government environmental impacts, and providing jobs and training organisations, governments, and institutional stakeholders.
We opportunities in our communities.
elicit their views through a range of processes including forums, We aim to make a night with IHG more carbon efficient meetings, individual interviews, surveys and our award-winning Tourism is an important source of wealth for many countries, online virtual Innovation Hotel where guests and members of the particularly developing countries where tourism may be the public can access our latest thinking and share ideas for creating primary force driving economic prosperity.
At the same time a green hotel.
Visitor comments inform the development of our the industry faces increasing pressure to balance its economic strategy and any future green products and services.
performance with its social and environmental impacts.
We believe the tension between tourism and the environment can be creative, providing an opportunity to innovate.
We have chosen to tackle carbon emissions by seeking new ways to reduce and manage emissions across our hotel estate rather than through purchasing carbon offsets.
This provides an opportunity to work closely with our business partners, such as hotel owners and suppliers, to identify and implement practical, cost-efficient measures that are both sustainable and responsible.
Online Innovation Hotel BUSINESS REVIEW Business review 27 Given the economic downturn, our focus this year has been on maximising the benefits we bring to local economies via direct and indirect employment, taxes paid, local purchasing and donations to community projects.
Green Engage recommends that hotels take actions such as forming partnerships with local businesses, employing local people, and supporting local community projects.
It also surveys their grass-roots activities, such as in-kind donations, grants and volunteering programmes.
Developing countries are often unable to benefit from tourism opportunities because they lack a skilled workforce.
We train potential employees in our communities and work with local and regional Chambers of Commerce and trade and industry Through Green Engage, our online sustainability tool, we are associations to support workforce development.
In China, we working to deliver real emissions cuts through new and better ways launched the IHG Academy, working with renowned educational to design, build and run our hotels.
Launched in March 2009, Green institutes in the region.
The IHG Academy provides hospitality Engage enables us to track and report on our key environmental training for local people and subsequently offers them employment impacts.
It also allows our hotels to identify the most appropriate within our growing portfolio of hotels.
We now have 25 Academies solutions to their local environmental risks.
The system is helping in 11 locations, with 5,000 students enrolled.
us work towards our strategic aim of making a night with IHG more carbon efficient.
Awards Analysis of a representative sample of our portfolio of managed Our activities won several awards this year, including: and owned hotels demonstrated up to a 10% reduction in energy 2009 Hotel Visionary Award from Hospitality Technology consumption in 2009. magazine for Green Engage: Green Engage is being rolled out progressively across our entire Worldwide Hospitality Awards for Best Initiative in hotel estate and currently has over 900 hotels using the system.
Sustainable Development 2009 for Green Engage In addition to making it more intuitive, we are supporting the and the Innovation Hotel: system with a new training package for our staff and hotel owners The National Business Travel Association recognised our called Green Engage the fundamentals.
In 2009, 300 people took commitment to supporting societal needs and reducing the course and we plan to roll it out further in the coming year.
our environmental impact at its first annual Corporate Social Regulation and legislation Responsibility Awards this year: and IHG is exposed to increasing legal environmental measures, our sound corporate governance was recognised in a survey particularly on regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and of the top 100 companies listed on the London Stock other resources.
Exchange, conducted by consultancy firm Resources Global In 2010, our UK operations will have to comply with a new carbon Professionals IHG was ranked third.
This included high trading scheme, the Carbon Reduction Commitment.
This will ratings for our compliance, capacity and commitment to compel companies to monitor energy use and purchase carbon excellence in corporate governance across a range of areas, allowances corresponding to CO emissions.
2 including community, environment and people issues.
To address these and other complex regulatory requirements, we have set up a Carbon Strategy Team.
We review our carbon strategy Policies and Code of Ethics regularly with the CR Committee and have discussed this issue Amongst the Groups core values is the concept that all employees with our independent owners group, the IAHI, to ensure our should have the courage and conviction to do what is right.
franchise business partners are fully engaged.
We have detailed policies on the environment, human rights Responsible tourism means creating opportunities and the community and we have a global Code of Ethics and for local people Business Conduct.
Travel and tourism generates more than 9% of global GDP The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct consolidates and Source: World Travel and Tourism Council.
However, sometimes clarifies expected standards of behaviour and communicates the as little as 10% of the money spent on holiday remains in the ethical values of the Group.
It states clearly that IHGs reputation destination economy Source: International Tourism Partnership.
is built upon the trust and confidence of our stakeholders and We are currently reviewing our community activities so that IHG is fundamental to our operations worldwide.
A Confidential can have an even greater positive impact on the communities Disclosure Channel also provides employees with a means to in which we operate.
Our revised Community Strategy will be report any ethical concerns they may have.
The Code is applicable launched in 2010. to all employees and is available on the Companys website at www.
com investors under corporate governance.
28 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business review continued Performance and targets The following table outlines IHGs overall CR priorities, developments and achievements during the year and priorities for 2010.
The main headings, Innovation, Collaboration, Environment and Community reflect the current focus of our CR strategy.
CR priorities 2009 developments and achievements 2010 priorities Innovation Improved internal and external CR communications through Seek to develop commercial applications for our CR communications plan, the Innovation Hotel and online our CR innovations where appropriate in our CR report: hotels: and continued to update our CR strategy and integrated it fully make our Innovation Hotel more interactive.
into our Great Hotels Guests Love objectives: established our CR Committee to review and update all policies on an ongoing basis: and signed the United Nations UN Global Compact and joined forces on a conservation project with Oxford University to help inform future hotel design and operation.
Collaboration Our InterContinental brand partnered with the National Agree strategies to integrate CR into the Geographic Centre for Sustainable Destinations to develop brand planning process for all main brands: a responsible tourism strategy: refine our stakeholder engagement process: became a member of the UN Global Compact and are improve the way our employees engage with committed to aligning our operations, culture and strategies CR: and with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human continue to update Green Engage with new rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption: learning in 2010, focusing on making it refreshed our Green Aware Training to align with Green easier to use at the hotel level.
Engage and renamed it Green Engage the fundamentals.
Also trialled this as a web-based event: and refined our approach to community support by adding several new question categories to our general managers community involvement survey, and integrating it with Green Engage to make it easier for our hotels to use.
We continue to analyse this data.
Environment Loaded historic data into Green Engage to enable our hotels to Continue to roll out Green Engage to 100% track their current performance against previous performance: of our managed and owned hotels and expand to franchised hotels in all three Green Engage rolled out to all our managed and owned regions: hotels, and opened up to any other hotels wishing to participate.
Over 900 hotels now registered to use the system: ensure that Green Engage is used accurately and regularly by participating hotels: using Green Engage to measure our CR objective of making a nights stay with IHG more carbon efficient: and develop a carbon strategy: and decided against building a Green Hotel Room prototype at continue to build on our corporate office our UK head office.
Our online Innovation Hotel is sufficiently sustainability innovations using the helpful and, on reflection, we believe it would be more Innovation Hotel and Green Engage.
beneficial to consider how to make an entire hotel greener rather than focus on one room.
We will build this into our approach next year.
Community The IHG Academy was the cornerstone of our efforts to Use government regulation and legislation develop a more globally integrated approach to local worldwide to inform our community strategy: economic development initiatives across all our operating focus on further implementation and regions: expansion of the IHG Academy: used the results of our general managers community refine our current community policy based involvement survey to refine our community strategy: and on a review of our existing approach to continued to participate in an ongoing five-year study on community support: hotel energy efficiency with the US Department of Energy.
conduct a regular review of our community partnerships: and work with the London Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games to support the sustainability goals of London 2012.
For more information please visit our corporate responsibility website at www.
com responsibility and the Innovation Hotel at www.
