16 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 Do the right thing Show we care Aim higher Celebrate difference Work better together Our Winning Ways are how we behave every day.
Our people In challenging times its vital that we protect the heart of our business our brands and our people.
So we were delighted to discover that our people are more engaged and proud to work for IHG than ever before, says Tracy Robbins.
Its been a tough year for Delivering our core purpose everyone but thanks to the One of our priorities this year was keeping our people motivated and feeling valued hard work and enthusiasm of while finding ways to reduce our costs, provide a better service to our guests and our people were confident we open a new hotel every day.
If our employees feel motivated, they will deliver a better will come out of this downturn customer experience and great customer service is a real competitive advantage.
Its the Unfortunately, the downturn meant that we had to say goodbye to some people in people who work for us our corporate offices during the year.
But our strong culture and engagement levels who bring our brands and made it possible to manage difficult decisions and treat those impacted with care.
In return, were committed to making IHG a Over the past two years weve involved everyone working for IHG in shaping our place where people love to culture by being clear and open about the ways we expect everyone to behave, come to work.
Thats how well through our Winning Ways, and creating an environment where we respect our attract and retain the talent people as individuals, through Room to be yourself.
Results from our employee to help us become one of the survey, conducted in November, showed we took care to act in accordance with our best companies in the world.
values and explain our decisions clearly and sensitively our engagement scores continued to rise, with a record 91 per cent of people saying how proud they are of the Company see story, right.
Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, Managing even smarter Global Human Resources We want to inspire our general managers to be great leaders because we need strong leaders to keep people committed to our business and to help make us more efficient.
In difficult times, both are vital to achieving our core purpose.
To that end weve been working on developing our general managers and helping them progress by offering leadership training and assessment for promotion.
Were giving opportunities to learn new skills and share ideas in our groundbreaking Leaders Lounge see story, right.
And were using a range of cost-effective tools to help make sure our hotel owners have the skills to drive more revenue to their hotels and make the most of the IHG system.
Finding and developing talented people Its equally important that we find the management talent of the future.
This year we reviewed 1,300 of our leaders as part of our talent review process, fast-tracked graduates into our business through our graduate programme and helped our franchisees find the right leaders for their hotels and brands through our online general manager selection tool.
In order to give our guests a great experience every time they stay with us we need to make sure frontline employees understand what our guests value most about our hotels and service, as well as help them develop their skills and careers.
Were doing that by continuing to roll out the IHG Academies see story, right, our Stay Real training to Holiday Inn colleagues and bringing our Winning Ways and Room to be yourself to life in each of our managed and owned hotels.
HOW WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com Our people 17 Our eCareers website now holds Minnie Zhu 240,000 CVs Room to be yourself 1.
Photo by Barbie Zhang, taken at Holiday Inn, Xian Greenland Century City, Xian, Peoples Republic of China Happy staff.
Photo by Julia Wong, taken at Crowne Plaza Causeway Bay, Hong Kong Aiming to be number one.
12 Our people love working A strong reputation Developing inspired leaders for us For the third year running we were Our Leaders Lounge is giving our named Britains Most Admired company managers the chance to reach out and More of our employees than ever took in the hotel and leisure sector by connect with other managers across part in our November employee survey Management Today.
the world, sharing ideas and learning 91 per cent up from 89 per cent new skills.
and a total of over 89,000 colleagues.
We also received an award from the American Society for Training & This virtual community of IHG leaders All areas showed improvement on the Development, recognising our success provides timely tools, tips and articles previous survey and are better than the in employee learning and development.
that reinforce our strategy and help industry average.
A number of IHG people were recognised Importantly, all of the factors we use to It also allows our managers to have a personally for their achievements.
measure engagement improved, with two-way conversation with peers and Carleigh Chadwick, our UK & Ireland more people agreeing that our pay and our most senior executives.
Accessibility Manager won the Disability benefits are as good as others in the Champion Award 2009 at the Disability Its practical, cost-effective and industry, that we employ the best people Standard awards run by the Employers inspirational the insights and tips are and give them opportunities to develop Forum on Disability.
drawn from 10 years research into what their skills.
The Lounge provides people with Developing talent in China 85% agree they are given bite-sized chunks of learning that take While Chinas tourism industry continues training to do their jobs.
up no more than a few minutes of their its rapid growth, the availability of trained time and can be absorbed whenever it hospitality staff is struggling to keep pace.
Our Leaders Lounge was With our business in China expected to awarded the CIPD People Management 80% agree their manager gave double in the next three years, we need to Award 2009 for Excellence through them an opportunity for personal make sure we have enough fully trained technology.
staff for all of the hotels we will open.
Were helping to meet the demands of the industry by training 5,000 students a year 80% agree they have in our IHG Academies.
We partner with local institutions to provide hospitality courses that weve helped to develop and we now have 91% are proud to work 25 Academies in 11 locations.
course provides a combination of classroom-based theory, practical training at different IHG hotels and lectures from our hotel executives and 100% of our managers would frontline staff.
At the end of the course, recommend our Senior Leadership All of us together are smarter we offer students an opportunity to join programme.
than any one of us on our own.
IHG, so we can be sure were recruiting Andy Cosslett, Chief Executive, IHG.
Whats more, the people who join us from an Academy are already familiar with our Winning Ways.
Well create over 1 60,000 jobs over the next few years
