64 International Power Annual Report 2009 Board of Directors Mark Williamson 52 Bruce Levy 54 Chairman Chief Financial Officer Executive Director, North America Sir Neville Simms FREng 65 Mark was appointed Chief Financial Officer Bruce was appointed to the Board in June Sir Neville became a Non-Executive Director of International Power in December 2003.
2005, and is responsible for all aspects of of National Power in August 1998 and was His responsibilities include financial control performance in North America including appointed Chairman of International Power and reporting, tax and risk management.
plant operations, finance, energy trading in October 2000.
He is Deputy Chairman Mark joined the Company in September and business development.
Prior to joining of Ashridge Management College, Chairman 2000 as Group Financial Controller, with the Company, he was Senior Vice President of the BRE Trust and Chairman of Equiniti.
responsibility for the Groups financial and Chief Financial Officer at GPU, Inc. a Sir Neville was a Non-Executive Director reporting.
Mark is a Chartered Accountant diversified energy production and distribution of the Bank of England from 1995 to 2002, and prior to joining the Company he was at corporation.
Bruce is a member of the Electric Chairman of the governments Sustainable Simon Group plc, where he was the Group Power Supply Association, the national Procurement Task Force from 2005 to 2007 Financial Controller.
He is a Non-Executive association of competitive power suppliers and was a member of the Presidents Director of Imperial Tobacco plc and in the US and was its Chairman until January Committee of the CBI from 1998 to 2009.
Chairman of its Audit Committee.
Executive Directors Tony Concannon 46 Steve Riley 48 Philip Cox 58 Executive Director, Australia Executive Director, Europe Tony was appointed to the Board in January Steve was appointed to the Board in January Chief Executive Officer Philip joined the Company on 1 May 2000 2004 and is responsible for managing all 2004 and is responsible for managing all aspects of performance in the Australian aspects of performance in the European as Chief Financial Officer and was appointed Chief Executive Officer of International Power region including plant operations, finance, region including plant operations, finance, energy trading and business development.
energy trading and business development.
He is responsible for the overall management of the Company, and Tony is a Chartered Engineer and joined the Steve is a Chartered Engineer and joined the industry in 1982.
He has previously worked Company in 1985 holding senior positions leading the Executive and Operational Teams in implementing the strategies approved by in a number of business areas including power in two UK power stations before being station operations, trading and international appointed Managing Director, Australia the Board.
Philip is a Chartered Accountant and prior to joining the Company he was business development.
Tony was appointed in January 2000.
Steve is a Non-Executive Chairman of the Energy Supply Association Director of Shanks Group plc, a leading a Senior Vice President at Invensys.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Wm Morrison of Australia in December 2008.
Supermarkets PLC and Chairman of its Audit Committee, and is a member of the Presidents Committee of the CBI.
Sir Neville Simms Mark Williamson Bruce Levy Philip Cox Tony Concannon Steve Riley 65 Ranald Spiers 54 Alan Murray 56 Struan Robertson 60 Executive Director, Middle East and Asia Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Ranald was appointed to the Board in May Alan became a Non-Executive Director of the Struan became a Non-Executive Director 2008 as Executive Director, Middle East and Company on 1 July 2007 and Chairman of of the Company on 1 October 2004.
He Asia, based in Abu Dhabi and Singapore.
He the Audit Committee on 1 April 2008.
He is Chairman of the Health, Safety and is responsible for managing all aspects of was a member of the Managing Board of Environment Committee.
He was Group Chief performance in these regions including plant Heidelberg Cement AG until the end of 2008 Executive of Wates Group Ltd until January operations, finance and the development, and was previously the Chief Executive of 2004.
Before that he was Executive Chairman financing and construction of power and Hanson PLC, from April 2002 to October of BP Asia Pacific.
He is currently a Nonwater desalination assets.
He joined Hanson in 1988 and held Executive Director at Forth Ports plc, National Power in 1993, having previously various positions prior to his appointment Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust plc, spent 12 years with the BP Group.
Ranald as Chief Executive, including Finance Director and Tomkins plc and is the Senior Independent is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry of Hanson PLC and Chief Executive of Hanson Director of Salamander Energy plc.
Previously FRSC and a Chartered Chemist.
he was the Senior Independent Director at WS Atkins plc.
Non-Executive Directors John Roberts 64 Non-Executive Director David Weston 51 Anthony Tony Isaac 68 John became a Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of the Company on 18 May 2006.
He is David became a Non-Executive Director of the Tony became a Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is a member of the Company in October 2000.
He is He was previously Chief Executive of United of the Group Management Committee of the Senior Independent Director and was Utilities PLC, a position he held for over six Anglo American plc where he is Group Director Chairman of the Audit Committee until years.
Before that, he was Chief Executive of of Business Performance, a position he has held 1 April 2008.
He was previously the Chief Hyder Utilities and of Manweb.
He is a Fellow since 6 November 2009, having previously Executive of The BOC Group plc and is a of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the been Anglos Group Technical Director and Non-Executive Director of Schlumberger Institution of Engineering and Technology Chief Executive of the Tarmac Group and Anglo Limited and Hogg Robinson Group plc.
and the Association of Chartered Certified Industrial Minerals.
Prior to joining Anglo Accountants.
John is Chairman of the Royal American in 2006, David spent 25 years with Bank of Canada Europe Limited, Remote Shell and he held a number of senior Energy Monitoring Holdings Limited and management positions including President Viking Consortium Holdings Limited.
John is of Shell Canada Products, Chief Executive also a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock Officer of Shell Aviation Ltd. and Chairman New Energy Investment Trust.
and Chief Executive Officer of Shell Pakistan Ltd.
Ranald Spiers Alan Murray Struan Robertson Anthony Isaac John Roberts David Weston Business overview
