70 International Power Annual Report 2009 Corporate responsibility 1,333MW Capacity of our renewable portfolio 1,333MW 11% From 2005 to 2009, the average carbon intensity of our global portfolio fell by 11% 71 For a global power generation business like International Power, corporate responsibility means following fair and ethical principles to govern the way we manage and conduct our business.
Our approach to corporate Within this CR report we deal with: responsibility issues relevant to International Power Corporate responsibility CR forms an how we manage issues and develop integral part of our business decision making process and contributes to our policies competitiveness and reputation.
Our 2009 performance and highlights commitment is to ensure that International our CR priorities for 2010 Power is a responsible, efficient and successful company.
Our stakeholders It is important that we operate our shareholders, employees, customers, business in a manner which is sustainable.
suppliers, regulators and host communities This means we need to retain our expect nothing less of us, and we aim to competitiveness today and ensure we deliver on this.
continue taking steps so that our business is well positioned for the future.
Canunda South Australia Blackstone Massachusetts Pelican Point South Australia Corporate responsibility 72 International Power Annual Report 2009 Corporate responsibility At the global level there is uncertainty over Issues relevant to International Power what will replace the Kyoto Protocol on climate change when it expires at the end The CR issues relevant to International Power include: of 2012.
Negotiations in Copenhagen in December 2009 did not produce a legally environment binding treaty to reduce greenhouse gas c limate change and the regulation emissions.
However, we can expect there of carbon dioxide CO emissions 2 to be continuing pressure for such an m easures to control other environmental Hidd Bahrain agreement to be reached before 2012. impacts Measures to control other u se of natural resources environmental impacts h ealth and safety In relation to other atmospheric emissions, em ployees meeting the requirements of the applicable legislation in each of the countries and b usiness ethics and social performance regions in which we operate is the minimum level of compliance.
Many countries are Environment tightening their atmospheric emission European Wind Portfolio Netherlands limits and we respond to these requirements Climate change and the regulation of CO emissions through either plant modifications or changes 2 in operating regime.
Our response to the climate change challenge is the key CR issue facing the Group.
Our Use of natural resources shareholders expect us to create value in Fossil fuel in the form of gas or coal is the key the short, medium and long-term which natural resource that we use.
We constantly demands that we have a pragmatic and strive to improve the efficiency of our power sustainable strategy for our business which stations to minimise the amount of fuel used addresses the key issues for the power for each unit of electricity generated.
generation sector namely CO reduction, 2 Recycling of waste materials, such as oil, affordable power and security of supply.
or the sale of waste materials for other uses, Climate change, and the need for reduction such as pulverised fuel ash and gypsum from the flue gas desulphurisation FGD process, in greenhouse gas emissions particularly CO is, and will continue to be, at the top is another important focus.
2 of the global environmental agenda.
The The abstraction of fresh water by power measures necessary to combat global climate stations also represents a significant use of change represent one of the biggest natural resources.
Water is used mainly for challenges to our business.
Government cooling, and consumption varies significantly actions across the world to meet the Kyoto across the portfolio depending on the Protocol and other climate change initiatives geographic location of the plant and cooling to reduce CO emissions will, over time, 2 systems employed.
Many of our plants, which increase the cost of emitting carbon.
These are located in areas where fresh water measures will alter the economic balance resources are limited, use sea water or dry between different fuels, favouring lower cooling systems which dramatically reduce carbon and renewable technologies.
the quantity of fresh water required.
However, with these challenges will come new business opportunities to further invest Health and safety in renewable energy technologies, potentially Excellent health and safety performance including carbon capture and storage is critical for our business.
to provide all personnel at our sites with a safe place to work, and we seek to avoid any injuries to our staff, our contractors and our visitors.
Poor performance can have a detrimental impact on our operations and our business as a whole.
73 Employees We also take our societal responsibilities Effective internal communication is essential very seriously, whether working to enhance to ensure employees receive accurate the communities in which we operate or to information on the Groups strategic agenda, ensure that our employees are well treated.
major initiatives, corporate developments In those instances where we share ownership and position on industrial issues.
Being of a plant, we encourage our partners well-informed is a key driver in ensuring and, during the construction phase, our that employees feel respected, valued and contractors to adopt our CR policies, typically Bellingham Massachusetts become engaged in any Group initiatives.
through influence at business level Board meetings and contractual arrangements.
We endorse the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights.
This is How we manage issues and supported by our own Code of Business develop our policies Conduct the Code and human resources CR matters relating to International Powers policies.
We apply human rights principles activities are governed by the Executive rigorously for our own employees, and we Management Team, with the Chief Executive seek to influence our partners, contractors Officer CEO having overall responsibility.
and suppliers to apply the same standards.
The CEO is assisted by the Company The Code, which applies to all International Secretary, the Head of Operations and Power employees, includes clauses on Engineering, the Corporate Environment complying with our ethical, environmental Manager and the Corporate Health and and health and safety policies.
It also covers Safety Manager.
The CEO gives CR briefings competitive practices, conduct in the to the Board at every Board meeting, and the community and charitable donations.
The Board also receives a summary of GroupCode is made available to all employees, and wide CR issues in the annual risk report.
we make it publicly available on our website.
The Company Secretary is responsible for www The Code www.
com environment-andthe Code, and the Charities Committee.
society  our-policies Executive Directors of International Power and key staff within our business units receive Business ethics and social training in corporate governance, CR and the performance Equator Principles.
As a global power generation company, we Page Equator Principles page 74 recognise our duty of care towards protecting the environment and society in which we Day-to-day management of CR is performed live.
We also recognise that power stations, by our Regional Directors, Plant Managers both during construction and subsequent and employees.
Their work is overseen by operation, could potentially have an adverse the global and regional health, safety and effect on the local environment and environment HS&E management population if appropriate controls are not put committees and the Human Resources in place.
We, therefore, have a responsibility group.
All employees are expected to play to conduct our business with a genuine a role in enhancing International Power as concern for the world around us, in particular a responsible business.
CR policies relevant where our business has a direct impact.
to our business are reviewed annually by the Local business customs and practice may Company Secretary and the Director of vary considerably from place to place but, Operations and Engineering with the CEO.
as a Company committed to our FIRST core values, it is important that we operate consistently, responsibly and with ethical integrity throughout the world.
Page FIRST core values pages 8 and 9 Corporate responsibility 74 International Power Annual Report 2009 Corporate responsibility Stakeholder engagement Regulations key developments A core element of CR is to engage with key in climate change legislation stakeholders across the business regarding As indicated above, climate change the issues.
Such engagement includes the represents one of the key CR issues for following groups: International Power.
As such, our monitoring of, engagement in, and response to climate t he investment community through change legislation is critical to our business.
regular meetings with shareholders and Although the speed of development of such analysts and in response to specific queries Oyster Creek Texas regulation varies throughout the regions l enders through the application of social in which we operate, we will always ensure and environmental standards, such as the that we are actively engaged in advocating Equator Principles the Companys position during any legislative process.
o ur employees through regular structured HS&E meetings and more The development of environmental informal communications through the regulation in our core regions continues to intranet, CEO briefings and the Company change rapidly, and a brief summary of the magazine interconnect position as at 8 March 2010 is set out below.
HUBCO Pakistan k ey suppliers through the application North America of the Code and our procurement policy In the US, our assets in New England to the tendering process, and through participate in a regional carbon reduction monitoring of construction projects to scheme, the Regional Greenhouse Gas ensure that social and environmental Initiative RGGI.
This programme sets provisions are met carbon reduction levels for ten state areas in northeast US and requires credits be r egulators through meetings and obtained for any carbon emissions.
Due to information sharing initiatives, such as the economic downturn and a shift to lower the Joint Environment Programme with emitting natural gas fuels, the price of credits the UK Environment Agency has remained quite low, with recent auction t he local community through the prices clearing in the US$2 per ton range.
environmental and social impact A more comprehensive, federal carbon assessment process carried out during the legislation effort has stalled despite strong development of new assets, and through momentum during 2009.
The Clean Energy ongoing community engagement activities and Security Act Waxman Markey Bill, Compliance with the Equator Principles is that proposed the introduction of a cap and becoming an increasingly important aspect trade scheme for CO emissions was passed 2 of project development.
These principles by the House of Representatives in June, are a benchmark for lenders regarding the but was never voted on in the Senate.
With management of social and environmental Congressional elections approaching in late issues in project financing.
They require the 2010, it is unlikely Senators will be receptive social and environmental impacts of major to a vote on such major legislation during projects to be assessed and managed 2010.
However, the US Environmental according to internationally recognised Protection Agency EPA has taken steps standards.
They cover a range of issues towards regulating carbon, which could including corruption, workers rights, bypass Congressional activity.
The EPAs 2009 resettlement, indigenous peoples and Endangerment Finding for greenhouse cultural heritage, as well as environmental gases now allows it to declare CO a pollutant, 2 issues such as pollution control.
In 2009 the and therefore to impose carbon emission Executive Management Team, and key staff regulations.
The Greenhouse Gas Regulation members involved in project development proposal released by the EPA in September and financing, were provided with specific 2009 would impose best available control training on the Equator Principles.
Corporate technologies on all new or renovated power guidance has also been developed and stations.
The extent of the EPAs authority, distributed to Business Development teams.
however, has been subject to question and recent announcements by the EPA have put www www.
com off any specific action on carbon regulation until 2011.
The EPA has also proposed more stringent ozone, oxides of nitrogen NOx and oxides of sulphur SOx rules, although these are also unlikely to be introduced this year.
We were an active participant in the Federal carbon legislative process in 2009 and will continue to work with industry groups, Generators for Affordable Power 75 and the Electric Power Supply Association in Australia The Australian federal government proposed 2010, to shape environmentally responsible legislation.
The overall efficiency and low an emissions trading scheme across most industrial sectors the Carbon Pollution carbon intensity of the US power generation fleet positions the business well in the Reduction Scheme or CPRS in late 2009.
The governments targets are a minimum face of new environmental regulations.
5% reduction in CO emissions against 2000 2 Europe levels by 2020, with the potential for this European Union EU member states are Tejo Energia Portugal target to change to 25%, pending a global committed to meeting existing EU-wide agreement to cut CO emissions.
The 2 legislation designed to tackle climate change.
legislation proposed that the scheme would Under the Kyoto Protocol, the EU is planning be introduced from July 2011 with a period an 8% reduction from 1990 levels in of ten years where, in effect, no charge will greenhouse gas emissions by 2012, and be applied for a portion of emissions from is seeking to achieve this through a number coal-fired power plants, and our Hazelwood of measures.
Firstly, the EU Emissions Trading and Loy Yang B plants would be eligible for Scheme EUETS cap and trade mechanism this relief.
The scheme also included a fixed is designed to promote the reduction of price for carbon, of A$10 tonne, for the first CO emissions across European industry.
This proposed legislation In addition, the EU Renewables Directive has been approved by the lower House but sets individual national targets for the rejected by the Senate in December 2009. amount of electricity to be obtained through It is expected to be tabled again in May June renewable sources.
In December 2008, 2010 in the Senate, though agreement EU member states agreed new, longerbetween the two main political parties term binding targets: a 20% reduction in looks unlikely at this juncture.
greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 again from 1990 levels and 20% of energy use Middle East and Asia to come from renewable sources by 2020.
There is no imminent climate change These targets are apportioned between legislation expected in either the Middle East member states and implemented through or Asia.
Our projects in these regions operate new directives.
From 2013, full auctioning under long-term PPAs or power and water of CO allowances is to be implemented for purchase agreements PWPAs and many of 2 the power sector across the EU.
Although these have change of law protection, which no global agreement on climate change ensures that the offtaker takes responsibility was concluded at the Copenhagen talks in for any carbon costs.
December 2009, these political efforts are expected to continue, and in the event of Health, safety and environmental such an agreement, EU member states have management agreed to move to a 30% reduction target The global HS&E management committee in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020.
Our reviews the overall performance of businesses main risk exposure relates to its assets in the across the Group and defines global HS&E UK, as the continental European thermal standards and targets.
The global assets are operating under long-term management committee is supported by contracts with the ability to pass on carbon regional HS&E management committees, costs to the offtaker.
We have a trading desk which include representation from each plant.
to cover the EUETS and manage compliance We strengthened our CR governance by obligations under the scheme.
The trading establishing a Board-level HS&E Committee desk operates within strict internal risk in 2008, to oversee HS&E policy and the management limits in terms of matching its performance of the HS&E management power sales commitments with fuel committee.
It reviews HS&E reports as purchases and associated carbon credits.
The well as any major incidents and issues of Company includes provision for changes to public concern.
It meets at least twice a such schemes in its negotiation year at different power stations, where the of power purchase agreements PPAs.
Committee also discusses HS&E issues with The major environmental regulatory measure the plant manager and relevant on-site staff.
in Europe for our assets, in addition to those During 2009 the HS&E Committee met for CO, is the Large Combustion Plant twice, once in Melbourne, at the Australian 2 Directive.
This is expected to be superseded Corporate office following site visits to by the Industrial Emissions Directive IED Hazelwood and Loy Yang B, and the other at sometime in 2010 and this will take effect in ISAB in Italy.
At these meetings the Committee 2016.
Details of the IED are not yet finalised toured the power stations, reviewed HS&E but we are monitoring developments closely.
matters and met with employees.
Corporate responsibility 76 International Power Annual Report 2009 Corporate responsibility Maintaining corporate responsibility engaged to carry out an initial assessment standards of our corporate HS&E CR data.
For 2009 Our internal audit team reviews all this CR data has been formally verified International Power business units and by LRQA.
Their assessment assures: this includes an audit of controls over the International Powers data monitoring management of key CR performance.
They and calculation processes generate accurate receive a full internal audit every three years, and complete data, our data management with an interim audit mid-way through the systems are robust, and the CR section of Pelican Point South Australia cycle.
The internal audit department includes the Annual Report is credible to stakeholders.
a HS&E specialist, and additional technical The LRQA verification statement is available support is externally sourced where on our website.
We also work with partners www www.
com  to try to ensure that joint ventures and environment environmental-data associates receive an equally rigorous audit regime.
The Audit Committee and CEO Nearly all our power stations, where we have receive all audit reports.
operational control, have ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification, except those that Third party auditors assess our plants have recently been acquired or constructed First Hydro UK against the certification criteria required for and are in the process of working towards ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 environmental certification.
At businesses which are not and safety management systems, and for subsidiaries, we seek to agree with our compliance with the EUETS CO emissions 2 partners that we will jointly achieve the reporting requirements.
Register Quality Assurance LRQA were Policies Our CR strategy is to strive to protect and, wherever possible, enhance the circumstances of our employees, the environment and the host communities who trust us to do our job safely, competently and efficiently.
In order to implement our CR strategy, we have developed a number of CR policies, and these are set out in the table below.
These policies govern the way we do business and are used to set objectives and performance indicators on an annual basis.
Summary of key CR policies Environment We strive for excellence in environmental performance through legal compliance, certified management systems, stakeholder engagement and the efficient use of natural resources.
We use state-of-the-art, proven environmental technology at our new plants and seek to upgrade the older ones, and improve their efficiency where economically viable.
Health and safety We are committed to the best possible health and safety performance through management commitment, legislative compliance, certified management systems and continuing stakeholder engagement.
Employees We believe in fairness and equal opportunities for all our employees or applicants, regardless of race, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, age or disability.
International Power encourages employees or others with serious concerns about any aspect of work to come forward and express those concerns on a confidential basis, without fear of reprisal or victimisation.
Business ethics and We follow fair and ethical principles to govern the way we manage and social performance conduct our business.
We will conform to local societal norms and values enshrined in host countries laws, regulations, customs and business practices, so long as compliance does not breach our code of ethical behaviour.
In such cases we would seek to lead with new, higher, local standards.
In addition we aim to support the local economy, act as a responsible neighbour and employer and contribute towards the improvement of local health and education services.
The Code sets out in full all of our values.
This document, together with our full policy documents, are available on our website.
com   our-policies 77 2009 performance and highlights In order to measure the effectiveness of our performance we use a number of performance indicators.
2 The emissions intensity figures above take into account the significant quantities of energy used to produce desalinated water and steam at various plants.
Figures for equivalent electricity output at these plants have been calculated to reflect this and provide a correct representation of our emissions intensity.
3 Data on reportable environmental incidents and prosecutions is provided for those assets where we have operational control.
In addition, note that the European Wind Portfolio is currently excluded from this reporting.
4 Reportable environmental incidents are incidents where the reporting of an exceedance of emissions limits to the relevant authority resulted in a requirement to review existing operating practices.
Climate change and the regulation of CO emissions 2 Carbon intensity We measure the carbon intensity of each unit of electricity generated across our portfolio.
We use net reporting for CO, which reflects our ownership interest in a power plant and 2 therefore includes the net MW of joint ventures and associates, and also the electricity equivalent of energy used to generate products such as desalinated water and process heat.
The average carbon intensity of International Powers global portfolio has fallen in recent years from 0.736 kg kWh equivalent in 2005 to 0.653 kg kWh equivalent in 2009.
Note that Rugeley, our 1,050MW coal-fired plant in the UK, has had more operating hours in 2009 than 2008 due to the completion of the FGD and turbine repair works which has contributed to an increase in the carbon intensity of the portfolio in 2009.
Page Our portfolio pages 6 and 7 Corporate responsibility 78 International Power Annual Report 2009 Corporate responsibility CO emissions Regional CO emissions intensity, 2 2 compared to regional net MW Total CO Total CO kg kWh kg kWh 2 2 1 1 2 2 000 tonnes 000 tonnes equivalent equivalent by fuel type 2009 2008 2009 2008 North America 10,776 11,747 0.545 0.513 Europe 13,433 13,436 0.515 0.490 Middle East 8,926 8,354 0.393 0.396 North America 0.545 Australia 23,380 23,379 1.208 1.198 Asia 7,156 6,960 0.751 0.730 Europe 0.515 1 Based on net MWs owned during the year.
Middle East 0.393 2 The emissions intensity figures above take into account the significant quantities of energy used to produce desalinated water and steam at various plants.
Figures for equivalent electricity output at these plants have been calculated to reflect Australia 1.208 this and provide a correct representation of our emissions intensity.
CO by region Asia 0.751 2 The graphs and table above show how CO emissions intensity varies across our five core 2 regions.
Emissions from thermal power stations depend on the fuel they burn, the thermal kg kWh equivalent efficiency of the units and the operating regime they work under.
Hydrocarbon fuels, such as natural gas, inherently produce less CO per unit of energy compared to coal.
Modern 2 plants tend to be more efficient due to continuing improvements in technology.
The independent think tank, Centre for Global Development, has provided a figure of North America 6,499 0.6kg kWh for the global average intensity of worldwide power station CO emissions from 2 its Carbon Monitoring for Action CARMA database.
The figure has been calculated from a Europe 6,707 global database of over 50,000 power plants in 2008, including nuclear and renewable plants, and provides a useful benchmark.
The CARMA database also shows that emission intensities Middle East 2,454 vary significantly across the regions of the world, often reflecting the use of indigenous local fuel.
For example, the data shows that Australia has much higher carbon intensity due to the Australia 3,221 high proportion of coal-fired power stations compared to Europe, which has a large nuclear fleet, or the Middle East, which has predominantly gas-fired generation.
org Gas In general, our portfolio mirrors the global trends shown by the CARMA data.
Our emissions Coal intensity in North America is relatively low because our US fleet consists of mostly highly efficient Oil gas-fired plants and this helps offset the higher emissions intensity of the Coleto Creek coal-fired Pumped storage plant.
In Europe there are a variety of fuels and technologies in the portfolio, however our Renewables European renewables portfolio, with 1,189MW of wind generation in operation, contributes to net MW the low emissions intensity for the region.
The Middle East portfolio comprises largely modern and efficient gas-fired plants, and the majority of these make effective use of fuel by using waste heat from generation to produce desalinated water, which further reduces the emissions intensity.
Our Asian power stations burn a range of fuels including gas, coal and oil and the emissions intensities in Asia reflect this fuel mix.
Australia relies heavily on coal-fired power stations, which account for some 80% of the national electricity generation.
Our Hazelwood and Loy Yang B plants in Victoria were built to burn the abundant local brown coal, which produces higher CO emissions due to its 2 higher moisture content and results in a relatively high emissions intensity.
However, emission intensities from these plants are similar to those of the other major power generators in Victoria.
Initiatives that we are taking to reduce these emissions are described below.
Whilst we measure the carbon intensity of our output, and seek to reduce it, we do not have a specific target for reducing total CO emissions.
There are three principal reasons for this.
2 Firstly, we are a growing business and any fossil fuel stations we add to our fleet will add to our aggregate CO emissions level.
Secondly, we are a demand-led industry: we are obligated 2 to generate electricity to meet customer demand and we are committed to ensuring the security of supply.
Finally, the choice of fuel is often dependent upon client specifications which for new-build plants are specified during the bidding process and the most economic and secure fuel available in the local market.
0.0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 79 Generating electricity efficiently We use state-of-the-art, high efficiency turbines with proven environmental technology at our newly-built plants.
For example, at Fujairah F2 in the UAE, we are constructing a new 2,000MW, 130MIGD power and desalination plant, which is scheduled to reach commercial operation in 2010.
The desalination process is able to make use of waste heat from the power station and the combined process is very efficient.
The new plant will use Alstom GT26B gas turbine technology which, when taking into account the power it produces and the heat generated for the desalination process, has a very high thermal efficiency of over 65%.
Hazelwood Victoria We are reviewing the thermal efficiency at our power stations in all regions and implementing improvement programmes.
These range from steam turbine upgrades, improving combustion conditions and reducing the electricity used on site.
For example, Loy Yang B in Australia has undertaken several improvement programmes which have reduced the CO emissions intensity by 5% from 2001 to 2008 and reduced total CO emissions by 2 2 580,000 tonnes over the same period.
In addition, net thermal efficiency increased by 3% and on site electricity consumption reduced by over 10%, which equates to an energy saving of approximately 65,600MWh.
Initiatives to improve energy efficiency have continued through 2009.
An external consultant has been commissioned to complete an energy efficiency audit, which will form the basis of a new plant-improvement plan.
Investing in low carbon fossil fuel generation In 2009, we continued to invest in the development of low carbon technologies.
Our carbon capture and storage project at Hazelwood, in Australia, made good progress.
The pilot project first went live in April 2009 and has been successfully capturing 25 tonnes of CO per day.
The CO is removed from the flue gas and will be sequestered by mixing it 2 2 with ash water to form calcium carbonate chalk, which has numerous potential uses from building materials to adhesives.
The project has been supported by the Australian Federal Governments Low Emission Technology Demonstration Fund and the Victorian Governments Energy Technology Innovation strategy.
We have dedicated resources within our Operations and Engineering Teams to review technology trends and advances to ensure we are best positioned to participate in the drive towards a lower carbon environment internationally.
Expanding renewables In 2009 we continued to expand our renewables portfolio, which now has an aggregate capacity of 1,333MW.
We will seek to further expand our renewables portfolio by acquisition and organic growth through working with local developers.
Our wind expansion strategy focuses primarily on countries where wind energy operates within favourable regulatory regimes.
In October 2009 we completed the acquisition of AIM PowerGen Corporation, one of Canadas largest independent wind farm developers, from Renewable Energy Generation Limited.
The portfolio is concentrated in Ontario, with 40MW of wind farms in operation and 40MW under construction and planned for completion in 2010.
In addition, it has a development pipeline of 1,200MW in Ontario and across Canada.
Page North America regional review pages 36 to 39 Following our initial investment in Spanish Hydro, Juneda PV solar power project 2MW last year, we have continued to analyse various projects in our other key European markets and have begun to explore other solar technologies such as solar thermal power.
Our marine renewable energy subsidiary continues to explore site developments for the future deployment of Rolls-Royce backed, Tidal Generation Ltd TGL technology.
TGL, with whom we have an agreement, are commissioning a prototype deployment at the European Marine Energy Centre, located in the Orkney Islands.
The UK and European biomass generation sector is expected to grow significantly, driven by binding targets for both renewable energy and landfill diversion.
International Power has identified a number of small-scale opportunities for market entry, working with credible developers who have existing project pipelines.
Corporate responsibility 80 International Power Annual Report 2009 Corporate responsibility Measures to control other environmental impacts International Power has invested significant capital in FGD, a process that is fitted to coal-fired power stations to remove sulphur from emissions.
FGD was already installed at our Paiton plant in Indonesia and at the coal-fired plants in the Czech Republic our Czech business was sold during November 2009 and the Europe regional review contains more detail on this sale.
During the last year, work to install FGD equipment at Pego in Portugal and at Rugeley in the UK was completed and both plants are operating successfully.
Page Europe regional review pages 40 to 43 Loy Yang B Victoria The installation of FGD at Rugeley and Pego enables these two power stations to comply with the revised EU Large Combustion Plant Directives restrictions on sulphur dioxide SO 2 emissions.
For more information on FGD please see our website.
com  environment in-action Use of natural resources Our corporate environmental objectives and targets for 2009 required management to assess the potential for resource efficiency savings at their businesses.
Our Coleto Creek plant in the Rugeley UK US has set up a partnership with Boral Material Technologies and Coleto Coal Combustion Projects, to turn ash waste into a saleable product which can be used to stabilise soils or mix with concrete to improve its strength.
Recycling volumes in recent years have been as high as 68% for fly ash and 85% for bottom ash products.
Loy Yang B in Australia has been very active in optimising its water use efficiency over the past seven years, in response to continuing dry climatic conditions and as a precaution against potential longer-term climate change impacts.
A number of measures have been implemented to reduce the use of river and dam water, including a drainage recovery system, adjustments to the operation of the cooling towers and the installation of a new high efficiency air compressor station.
Such measures have resulted in savings of 3,200 million litres per year and achieved a 16% reduction in the water required to produce the same electricity output.
Projected savings in water costs of up to A$5 million per annum may be achieved through these measures should water availability be restricted.
81 Health and safety Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 1 Accident frequency rate for employees and contractors KPI 0.10 0.09 0.12 0.16 0.23 1 Fatalities 1 1 Note: Tihama Saudi Arabia 1 Data on accident frequency rates and fatalities is provided for those assets where we have operational control.
We are committed to the best possible health and safety performance.
Our key performance indicator KPI is the accident frequency rate AFR and is defined as the number of lost time accidents LTAs divided by the number of hours worked, multiplied by 100,000.
We define a LTA as 24 hours absence from work due to an accident or illness which resulted from a work related activity.
As well as incidents involving employees at all our sites where we have operational control, we also report injuries to contractors at these plants.
The AFR of 0.10 Hays Texas for 2009 remains a very low AFR when compared to our peer group.
It is important to provide all personnel at our sites with a safe place to work, and we seek to minimise any injuries to our staff.
In order to help us improve our understanding and management of health and safety at our sites, we are placing an increased focus on monitoring total recordable injuries any accident or injury, regardless of whether or not time is lost at work.
By identifying trends, sharing lessons learned, and taking action in response to these incidents, we aim to reduce the potential for more serious accidents.
Another key focus for 2009 has been active monitoring.
This looks at measures being taken to prevent accidents and ill-health, in contrast to recording accidents, which is a reactive measure.
Active monitoring includes training hours, the number of behavioural safety observations, safety tours performed and toolbox talks held.
This active and reactive monitoring data is compared on a regional basis, providing a global perspective on the best balance of measures to improve health and safety performance.
We are now two years into our behavioural safety programme known as Fresh Eyes, which is a key active measure widely adopted across the portfolio.
Fresh Eyes continues to gain momentum and many plants businesses are seeing improvements in their health and safety performance which are attributable, at least in part, to this programme.
The Companys global health and safety governance documentation has been updated in 2009 and nearly all the plants where we have operational control have achieved OHSAS 18001 certification, including many who now meet the revised 2007 standard.
Going forward, we will seek OHSAS 18001 certification for our corporate global health and safety management system, to ensure continuous improvement and legal compliance.
Finally, we are well advanced with work programmes to finalise the review of UK safety rules revised rules to be introduced in 2010.
Employees To communicate key issues effectively, a variety of communication channels have been developed.
Management briefings and functional forums are good examples of these.
We also produce an internal International Power magazine interconnect that is distributed globally to all International Power sites and offices.
The publication contains details on major Group news, industry developments that directly affect the Group, updates on regional progress and features on CR.
In 2009, International Power continued to roll-out IPR Connect, an intranetbased knowledge platform providing corporate employees across the Group with access to key information, services, policies and collaborative working areas.
Corporate responsibility 82 International Power Annual Report 2009 Corporate responsibility Business ethics and social performance Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 000 000 000 000 000 Community investment from 1 International Power and its subsidiaries 1,423 1,031 1,196 1,050 1,174 Community investment from our 1 joint ventures and associates 1,251 879 251 346 662 KAPCO fire fighters with the International Power sponsored fire truck Note: 1 100% of all donations included for subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, regardless of ownership percentage.
Our business partners range from governments and multi-national organisations through to local and small energy providers, whose ultimate customers rely on the generation of electricity for their well-being.
Local business customs and practice may vary considerably but, as a company committed to certain business values, it is important that we operate with ethical integrity in our business conduct throughout the world.
We therefore apply uniform standards across the Group which are set out in the Code.
The fundamental principle is that Paiton staff assisting with Indonesian the conduct of our business will be characterised by honesty and integrity, ensuring that we earthquake relief are seen as a good neighbour and a responsible and contributing member of the communities we serve.
We support the communities in which we operate by acting as a responsible employer and neighbour, and contributing towards the improvement of local amenities such as health and education services.
Donations are also made by our businesses to alleviate hardship and support relief efforts in response to natural disasters.
Employees also give their time freely within their communities, offering support for many CR activities.
We encourage our staff to participate wherever possible and support them fully in their endeavours.
More information about our community investments can be found on our website.
com  society Charitable giving The Companys Charities Committee oversees the award of charitable and other donations.
In addition to assessing requests and making awards in response to applications for assistance from a variety of charities and good causes, the Committee is also responsible for selecting the Companys community-based nominated charities and annual Flagship Projects.
International Power supports four major charities from our corporate centre.
During 2009, these were Crisis, The Queen Elizabeth Foundation, Sight Savers and the Koru Foundation.
Further information about our relationship with these charities is available on our website.
com  society nominated-charities The Company operates a Give As You Earn scheme to facilitate personal charity donations by our employees.
We also match monies that our employees raise for charity.
In 2009 International Power and its subsidiaries contributed 1,423,000 to charitable causes and other community projects.
Companies in which we share control or have significant influence joint ventures and associates contributed a further 1,251,000.
83 Flagship Projects Our Flagship Project programme has been running since 2001.
These are community projects, selected each year from staff nominations, corporately funded annually by International Power.
Flagship Projects can range in size and scope, but they all have a common goal: to improve the quality of life in the community.
Each year our regional businesses propose projects of special note for corporate Flagship status.
This entitles the chosen charity to around 100,000 of funding.
Due to the donation of 100,000 to the Australian bushfire relief projects, the Flagship fund in 2009 was reduced Apprentices from Rugeley carrying out a to 50,000.
This was divided between two community-based projects in the UK, which water wheel trial for the Staffordshire Wildlife Trust interactive energy trail were both nominated by our Rugeley plant.
The John Bamford Primary School, located near our Rugeley plant, will receive 35,000 to enable the construction of a community centre for use by various groups from the surrounding area.
Flagship funding of 15,000 was provided to the Staffordshire Wildlife Trust to enable the construction of an interactive, educational trail located in their headquarters.
The trail will provide school groups and the public with first-hand experience of renewable technologies, through the provision of large-scale working models of wind and hydro turbines and solar panels.
School children benefiting from our investment in the Traralgon Railway Reservoir Conservation Reserve, Australia Our corporate responsibility priorities for 2010 We are committed to running our business in a responsible manner and taking into account our obligations to all our stakeholders.
This includes making sound investments of resources to improve the environmental performance of our plants and the broader CR performance of our business.
We made good progress with CR in 2009, and will strive to improve in 2010, through the development of our CR strategy and management programme: refreshing our CR policies: reviewing the range of our CR performance indicators and further embedding CR issues into the corporate business development process.
We will continue to pursue opportunities to build the most efficient new plant, expand our renewables portfolio, and improve all aspects of our operations in terms of energy efficiency and the use of natural resources.
Ensuring that our health and safety programmes continue to deliver improvements in performance by promoting active monitoring and developing a process safety approach to health and safety management will be a continuing priority.
