67 Our people We work in a complex business environment where recruiting and retaining highly skilled employees is essential.
In 2009, we continued to attract, develop and retain talented people throughout our organisation.
International Power is a diverse Group, Attracting employees both in terms of our locations and employee In our organisation, like many others, getting backgrounds.
At the end of 2009, we the right people to join our business is critical employed some 4,000 people either directly for future success.
We seek to attract and or through our subsidiaries.
We work in retain high calibre employees, including those a complex business environment where with specialist qualifications, skills and recruiting and retaining highly skilled experience.
We also seek to recruit people employees is essential.
We have implemented who have the potential to develop and meet strategies to improve our capacity to attract, the advancing needs of the organisation.
develop and retain talented people The global energy industry faces challenges as throughout our organisation.
In addition, the number of engineers and skilled technical as a benefit of our growth strategy, when operators retiring exceeds the number we acquire power stations and businesses graduating with engineering degrees and from other companies, we obtain new groups technical experience.
This resource shortage of skilled employees, with whom we learn has the potential to affect International Power, and share best practices.
We are taking As a result of our regional management comprehensive steps to address this issue framework and business ownership across the business.
structures, our people policies reflect input Examples of our initiatives include: from both the corporate centre and local in the US, the power stations run skills management operations.
Our Senior training programmes for technical positions, Management Team takes seriously the providing tuition in how to operate in a establishment and implementation of our multidisciplinary environment.
At Hub power values, principles, guidelines and governance station in Pakistan, our apprenticeship standards.
In joint ventures or when working scheme, which gives local people access to with associates, International Power is professional training, is in its thirteenth year also committed to providing input into of operation.
We are also continuing to employment practices to ensure our operate apprentice and graduate schemes general principles are followed.
For example, our Our regional management teams are held Rugeley, Deeside, First Hydro and Saltend accountable for managing our power plants plants have all been successful in attracting to ensure we respect national cultures, good quality apprentices.
Both First Hydro comply with local employment regimes and our London corporate office have and embed our FIRST core values.
In 2010, recruited graduates, who embark on further a set of Global People Management Principles professional training with us.
Additionally, will be rolled out across the Group to provide our Engineering Succession Programme has consistency in the support and delivery of developed links with academic and industry local people practices.
These Principles will institutions to support graduate and shape the leadership of our Group and apprentice intake and develop engineers support our FIRST values and Code of for the future.
Page FIRST core values pages 8 and 9 www The Code www.
com   our-policies Business overview 68 International Power Annual Report 2009 Our people Leadership and management training Developing and retaining employees continues to be a focus throughout the whole Group, with various courses being provided We recognise that the skills and dedication of our employees will improve our through our assets.
In Europe, a management development programme was delivered competitiveness as we continue to face an increasingly challenging international market.
for new managers from a wide range of countries and assets.
At Deeside, our senior During 2009, we invested in developing our employees skill base to meet the needs of and first line managers participated in Hays Texas personal and professional development individuals and the organisation.
We are committed to providing employees with programmes, including leadership skills training, and further programmes will interesting and challenging roles, and opportunities to learn, develop and advance continue to be developed to allow for career progression and succession planning.
Where possible, we encourage internal applicants from within the Group Saltend, line managers have completed the First Line Management qualification, for all vacancies in order to give employees a broad range of experience.
Developing achieving Level 3 with the ILM.
and challenging employees not only helps In the US, we implemented a programme retain them in the business, but is critical for new managers, including training in the to enable effective succession planning.
areas of performance management and defining individual development plans.
In We develop our employees through local programmes and global initiatives.
To addition, a high potential development programme was initiated.
Throughout the enhance our ability to share knowledge and skills across regions, a number of year, management training sessions took place and employee compliance and sexual functional forums have been introduced.
A global Operations and Engineering forum harassment awareness training was given.
took place in 2009, with 60 attendees from In our Singapore regional office we across the business, to discuss common implemented a pilot leadership programme challenges affecting our plants.
In addition, called Coach in a Box.
This programme a global Human Resources forum took is designed to suit busy people, who are place during the year with colleagues always on the move throughout the region, attending from all regions to discuss people by allowing them the flexibility of participating priorities.
The bi-annual Finance forum in the programme.
The programme is aimed allowed all finance teams to update their at achieving sustained change via personal understanding of the latest accounting coaches, who are readily accessible to the standards, developments in finance and participants wherever they may be.
to share best practise around the Group.
The provision of technical training is also In the Middle East, a number of countries essential for the growth of our business operate a form of localisation whereby and continues throughout the Group.
employers are required to increase the We encourage people to study for national number of local staff in the workforce qualifications or accredited skills.
This requires detailed training of safety training initiatives have also programmes to be in place, and co-operation continued this year, and the Fresh Eyes with external training institutes and programme has now been introduced government bodies.
At our Umm Al Nar to all plants where we have operational plant in the UAE, we have established links control.
This initiative concentrates on with local universities and colleges to provide improving safe behaviour at our power management training to supervisory and stations through colleagues observing their middle management, English language peers at work and then providing feedback.
training for all, and we are participating in a regional initiative to establish an apprenticeship programme.
At Hidd Power Company in Bahrain, we have achieved a high level of localisation 55%, and we aim to increase this to 80% over the next five years, through graduate recruitment, with five new graduates joining each year.
The five most recent graduates have been registered to participate in the Institute of Leadership and Management ILM certificate which Hidd is pioneering in the Middle East.
69 Reflecting our commitment to employee Equal opportunities and diversity welfare, we offer employee assistance in the workplace programmes, health talks and education In line with our FIRST core values, we sessions often supported by local providers endeavour to ensure our employees conduct at many of our power stations.
themselves with the highest integrity at all times.
To help employees understand and Competitive pay, benefits and a number of follow consistent standards of conduct incentive plans are offered to attract and throughout our international operations, retain talented people in our organisation.
For Rugeley UK the Code has been developed for use by senior staff we continue to operate a number employees and managers and is reviewed of share-based long-term incentive plans.
We annually throughout our business.
view these as an integral part of our strategy to align the interests of staff with the Groups Recognising the very wide diversity of our performance, based on clear financial criteria.
employees and business partners across the globe, International Power is fully committed Communicating with employees to the provision of equal opportunities and Team briefings are undertaken on a regular the prevention of discrimination.
We believe basis at our power stations to ensure key wholeheartedly that it makes sound business Hidd Bahrain messages are rolled out to all staff in a timely sense to benefit from the wide ranging manner.
Additionally, the Chief Executive knowledge and experience of individuals Officer CEO hosts quarterly Connect in all sectors of the societies in which we Live CEO briefings.
These are all-employee have a presence.
conference calls which allow every employee Page FIRST core values pages 8 and 9 in the Group, from all parts of the world, to hear directly from Philip Cox about www The Code www.
Employees are also given society  our-policies the opportunity to ask him questions.
We continue to invest in the latest technology to support rapid communication with our colleagues around the world.
This year we continued the development of IPR Connect, an intranet-based knowledge platform which is gradually being rolled out to employees in our regional offices and subsidiary companies.
This tool will allow and encourage information sharing and collaborative working.
We also continue to share our achievements and communicate through our company magazine interconnect.
This publication is available to all International Power employees and keeps everyone informed about business news and developments.
