Directors report Business review continued Corporate responsibility Directly or indirectly, Interserves activities affect the lives of Delight our customers because we want our customers not many people across the world.
We recognise that conducting only to trust and rely on us but also to enjoy working with us our business in a way that minimises environmental impact, and be impressed at what we can do for them.
promotes positive interaction with the community and Live our Values because to make a difference our values maintains sound ethical standards brings benefits to all must be translated into behaviours.
Be accident-free because we value everyone working Interserves direction and behaviour are governed by: directly or indirectly for Interserve and will not put anyone at risk.
our Vision: Provide a trusted investment because our stakeholders are the Goals which we must achieve in order to realise the looking for a reliable, ethical, sustainable financial return Vision: and and growth.
the Values which will enable us to achieve the Goals.
Values We have developed a framework entitled the i5 which captures the values on which we want all of our people to base their behaviour: In partnership: we continually add value by becoming part of OUR VISION our clients teams and acting so as to improve their The Trusted Partner outcomes.
OUR GOALS Employer of choice Investing in people: we treat everyone with respect and help Delight our customers Live our values our people to develop their full potential so that both they Accident free Trusted investment and the business benefit.
OUR VALUES Integrity: we honour our commitments by acting in an open, In partnership Investing in people ethical, professional and friendly manner.
Integrity Individual responsibility Individual responsibility: we act responsibly by working Innovation safely, with consideration for those affected by our operations, and approach opportunities and problems with an Our duties under corporate responsibility are embedded deeply attitude that says, I can do something about this.
within all of these elements and form a fundamental driver for Innovation: we improve our performance through continual the way in which Interserve behaves.
learning and innovation and by sharing our knowledge.
Vision Interserve is a member of the FTSE4Good and Kempen Social Our Vision is to become The Trusted Partner of each of the Responsibility indices.
Our Project Services division was named people with whom we have a relationship, be they clients, Best Building Contractor with over 500 employees in the Best employees, shareholders, suppliers, members of the Places to Work in Construction 2009 awards organised by communities in which we are working or any other group or Contract Journal and sponsored by ConstructionSkills.
The: we want the be The trusted partner not just one of We manage our corporate responsibilities under three principal several.
policy headings: Trusted: we want people to know that they can rely on us to Health and safety behave properly and deliver what we promise.
Environment Partner: we shall act to the benefit of both parties and Ethical and social foster positive, long-term relationships.
Goals In order to realise our Vision we have identified five key Goals that we shall strive to achieve: Be the employer of choice because we want to treat people well and fairly, provide great career opportunities and attract and retain the very best people.
26 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 Formal safety management systems continue to be Health and safety implemented throughout the Groups operations.
The systems Creating a safe and healthy working environment is are specific to each business and provide appropriate fundamental to Interserve: being accident-free is one of our guidance to deal with the range of risks encountered by our core goals.
Throughout the Group there is a clear commitment employees.
During the year our Engineering Services business to developing a proactive safety culture across the full range of achieved certification for its safety management system and our activities.
We aim to make sure that none of our at the end of the year 93 per cent of operational employees employees, contractors or the people who interface with our were covered by safety management arrangements certified operations is injured or made unwell by the way we carry out to OHSAS 18001 2008: 88 per cent.
As part of our health and safety practices: Every employee has a responsibility for their own safety and A health and safety policy document is signed by the Chief that of their colleagues.
They receive relevant health and Executive.
Throughout 2009 Bernard Spencer, a member of safety training and are empowered through the Dont Walk the Executive Board, was designated as health and safety By programme to take proactive action to address unsafe champion: following the changes resulting from the creation conditions or work practices.
of the Support Services business another member of the Executive Board, David Paterson, has now assumed these Senior directors carry out periodic safety tours of a range of responsibilities.
operations to provide visibility of their commitment to safety and gain assurance as to the adequacy of the arrangements Senior directors are appointed with responsibility for health being made for health and safety management.
and safety in each division and these safety champions met four times during the year to review performance and guide We continue to be recognised for our health and safety the strategy onwards through continual improvement.
performance with national and local awards.
We received Managers have the responsibility for delivering health and 26 RoSPA safety awards including Highly Commended in the safety on site.
They are trained appropriately and are Facilities Management Sector awards, and our Defence unit supported by a team of over 30 full-time health and safety won the Presidents Award for having achieved more than professionals including specialists in occupational health.
Project Services received the International Safety Award from the British Safety Council for the 10th consecutive year.
2009 summary Unless otherwise specified, the data covers the Groups UKbased operations.
The absence rate due to work-related injury, measured in days per employee, fell to 0.082 2008: 0.093.
Injury incidence fell to 344 per 100,000 workforce 2007: 429.
No prosecutions against Group companies were completed during the year 2008: three prosecutions against the Group, relating to events that occurred in 2005 and 2006, were concluded, leading to fines totalling 32,500.
One prohibition notice was issued during the year Dont Walk By concerning the behaviour of a subcontract employee 2008: one.
During 2009 we refreshed our successful Dont Walk By campaign which underlines everybodys responsibility for the safety of No improvement notices were served on the Group others as well as themselves.
Initiatives included a new safety 2008: one.
awareness DVD in the Equipment Services division and a series There were two Dangerous Occurrences reported under of new posters highlighting potential dangers and actions that Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences can be taken to avoid them.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 27 Directors report Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued Progress against health and safety objectives and targets Measure 2008 outcome 2009 targets 2009 outcome 2010 targets Continue to deliver improving health and safety performance: All-labour reportable injury incidence rate 429 386 344 310 Fatalities 0 0 1 0 All-labour incidence rate of major injuries 115 71 70 66 Days lost per employee due to work 0.093 0.12 0.082 0.11 related injury Maintain the profile and importance of health and safety at all levels within the Group and for all stakeholders: Chief Executive and director responsible 82 safety visits carried out by Measure continues 91 safety visits carried out Measure continues for safety to visit sites in each operating Executive Board: each managing by the Executive Board: each company director achieved his individual managing director achieved his target individual target Managing directors to visit an average of Measure continues Measure continues one site per month Improve management of occupational health issues: Carry out health surveillance for 100% of 742 high-risk employees surveyed Measure continues 1,630 high-risk employees Measure continues employees in high-risk category approximately 41% surveyed approximately 89% Work-related sickness absence 1.12 1.07 Estimated at 1.03 days 1.02 days per employee Injury incidence All labour RIDDOR injuries - incidence per 100,000 1,000 200 All labour Employees 2009 2008 2009 2008 750 150 Fatal and major 70 115 56 102 500 100 All injuries 344 429 366 428 250 50 A total of 142 RIDDOR-reportable injuries to employees and 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2009 2008 contractors were recorded for 2009 2008: 156, representing an all-labour incidence rate of 344 injuries per 100,000 Employees workforce 2008: 429.
500 50 250 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 28 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 Incidence rate Incidence rate Injury numbers Injury numbers Environment We recognise that our activities can have both positive and Group Environmental negative effects on the environment and are committed to Policy Statement conducting our operations in a sustainable manner.
RENEWABLES is our major sustainable development programme The policy of the Group is to conduct its operations in serving both to guide our own behaviour and to help our an environmentally sustainable manner in order to clients manage their sustainability issues.
protect the environment for future generations.
In implementing its policy the Group will seek, through its operating companies, to ensure: Compliance with relevant environmental legislation and regulation Prevention of pollution RENEWABLES operates as a framework which addresses a full The efficient use of natural resources range of social, economic and environmental factors through The minimisation of waste and emissions to air 10 areas each mapped to one letter in the word that are and water aligned to the governments guiding principles and UK priorities.
Environmental awareness of all employees Effective monitoring of environmental performance Continual improvement in environmental performance The Group will set targets and objectives for the improvement of environmental management and will publish details of its environmental performance.
All employees have a role to play in care of the environment.
The Group has appointed a director to be responsible for environmental issues, and environmental responsibilities are allocated to line management throughout the organisation.
This policy will be subject to periodic review to ensure it continues to meet the Groups environmental requirements.
We have established a dedicated sustainability website, www.
com, which explains the RENEWABLES framework in more detail and gives further examples of how we have put it into practice and the benefits achieved.
The sustainability champion is Steven Dance, one of the executive directors.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 29 Directors report Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued Throughout the business we apply a structured approach to A Green Apple award for our commitment to sustainable minimising our environmental impact.
This includes: development and environmental best practice through the construction of an onsite water borehole at Cumberland Implementation and maintenance of formal environmental Infirmary, Carlisle.
The project, which began in 2004 and management systems registered to ISO 14001 such systems completed in 2009, provides the hospital with its own water cover 76 per cent of our UK employees.
Measuring our energy consumption and emissions and setting The Most Sustainable Project at the Global Water targets to improve performance.
Intelligence Awards 2009 for the Beckton desalination plant Carrying out environmental risk assessments and developing currently under construction in the Thames gateway.
In 2009 we once again participated in the Carbon Disclosure Delivering solutions to clients to enable them to minimise Project CDP.
We were highlighted as one of the top 10 their environmental impact.
companies in the FTSE 350 index in terms of our carbon Providing training to employees and our supply chain to raise performance and featured in the CDPs Carbon Disclosure environmental awareness.
Leadership Index CDLI, which identifies the companies in the FTSE 350 that have displayed the most professional Providing facilities to segregate and reuse or recycle waste.
approach to corporate governance in respect of climate change disclosure practices.
It comprises the top scoring Our commitment to effective management of environmental 10 per cent of companies in the FTSE 350 based on analysis impact was recognised during the year through a number of of the responses to CDPs 2009 questionnaire, which focused on awards: greenhouse gas emissions, emissions-reduction targets and risks The Sustainability in Real Estate award at the CoreNet and opportunities associated with climate change.
Only four Global UK Awards for our approach to integrating companies in Interserves sector classification Industrials are sustainability within the business including our work with the in the CDLI, with Interserve scoring highest among these.
Environment Agency, engagement with wider stakeholders and the development of the RENEWABLES programme.
We use a variety of indicators relevant to each of our operating companies to monitor environmental performance, but the A gold award by the Green500 carbon mentoring programme following core impacts are identified for the Group as a whole: for the progress made through energy-saving initiatives at University College London Hospital.
The programme is part of Greenhouse gas emissions from our use of energy, including the Mayor of Londons campaign to reduce carbon emissions electricity, gas, fuel in vehicles, transport and travel in the city.
Use of resources including water and timber As part of the KMI joint venture, the Environmental Project Generation and disposal of waste award for the Hodder Service Reservoir in the Construction News Quality Awards.
Our environmental KPIs measure progress against previous years.
As we defined them during 2008, 2009 is the first year in which we can show performance against them.
Unless otherwise specified, the following data covers the Groups UK-based operations.
Progress against environmental targets Target 2008 outcome 2009 targets 2009 outcome 2010 targets Reduce carbon emissions from energy used at UK Interserve fixed site 4.22 4.11 3.41 3.32 locations tonnes CO e per million UK revenue by 2.5% per annum tonnes m tonnes m tonnes m tonnes m 2 Reduce carbon emissions from fuel used in UK fleet and cars fuel cards 15.55 15.16 13.43 13.09 tonnes CO e per million UK revenue by 2.5% per annum tonnes m tonnes m tonnes m tonnes m 2 Reduce water consumption at UK Interserve fixed site locations 31.20 30.58 27.10 26.56 3 3 3 3 3 m water used per million UK revenue by 2% per annum m m m m m m m m Reduce waste generated at UK Interserve fixed site locations 22.63 22.18 22.13 21.69 kg of waste generated per employee by 2% per annum kg employee kg employee kg employee kg employee 30 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 Carbon footprint We have two emissions targets see page 30.
The first Greenhouse gas emissions can be categorised into three groups: encompasses all our Scope 2 emissions and a portion of Scope 1 the gas and oil used on our sites : the second, the transport Scope 1 Direct emissions: activities we own or control which fuel used in our fleet and cars, covers the remainder of release emissions straight into the air.
We met our targets in both these areas.
this includes gas and oil combustion in boilers and fuel diesel, petrol and LPG use in vehicles.
Our estimate of C0 e in 2009 is 17.90 tonnes per million of 2 Scope 2 Energy indirect: emissions resulting from our revenue 2008: 20.88 tonnes per million, a total of 33,385 activities but which occur elsewhere as a result of tonnes 2008: 36,505 tonnes in absolute terms.
This was the purchase of electricity.
apportioned: Scope 3 Other indirect: emissions resulting from our activities Tonnes CO e per million revenue 2 but which occur outside our control and are not 35 included in Scope 2.
Includes employees use of their own vehicles for business and travel by rail and air.
30 Currently excluded are staff commuting except when in a company vehicle and third-party impact through 25 our supply chain.
We have undertaken a number of initiatives to reduce fuel usage including: Using LPG vehicles across a range of contracts: these should Zero CO impact 2 produce 10 per cent less CO than the equivalent petrol 2 During the Elan Valley Aqueduct maintenance programme we version.
carried out waterproofing on masonry crossings.
We sourced mastic asphalt with a net zero CO impact: CO used during Use of video conferencing facilities throughout the Group.
2 2 Each use represents a saving on potential distances travelled.
manufacture, delivery and installation is offset by promoting energy-efficiency projects such as replacing paraffin lamps in Introduction of vehicle tracking in some contracts, enabling east Africa with solar-powered lanterns and supporting UK more efficient planning of vehicle movements.
We also used recycled aggregates, making the scheme as environmentally friendly as possible.
Resource use Water is used mainly to provide welfare facilities in offices.
A certain amount of process water is used in heating systems, We measure our emissions using carbon dioxide equivalent, cleaning operations and spray booth filters.
For our fixed sites 3 C0 e, the  measure of greenhouse gas we used an estimated 27.08m per million of revenue 2008: 2 3 3 3 emissions which converts the six greenhouse gases covered by 31.17m per million, a total of 50,502m 2008: 54,480m the Kyoto Protocol into carbon dioxide equivalents.
We thus met our target for the year see page 30.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 31 Directors report Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued Our water consumption over the past five years has been: Waste All fixed and temporary sites operate procedures to stream 3 m per million revenue and recycle waste wherever possible.
In offices this includes 40 recycling paper, printer cartridges and redundant equipment, 38.11 and on sites can include timber, metals and inert hardcore etc.
35 33.16 30 31.17 Total waste generated at fixed sites is estimated at 659.0 tonnes 28.41 2008: 609.4 tonnes.
This equates to 22.13kg per employee 27.08 25 2008: 22.63kg per employee, a reduction which met our target for the year see page 30.
20 Project Services operates a commercial waste service and 15 processes potentially recyclable material through a waste 10 transfer station.
During 2009 we collected a total of 57,423 tonnes from clients 2008: 45,963 tonnes and 5 processed 12,364 tonnes through the transfer station 2008: 17,404 tonnes.
A total of 8,947 tonnes 2008: 3,767 tonnes 0 of material was reclaimed including 155 tonnes of steel and 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 466 tonnes of timber 2008: 284 tonnes and 236 tonnes respectively.
This represents a recovery rate of 72 per cent 2008: 22 per cent.
Timber scaffold boards and formwork panels are sold and hired out in our scaffolding and formwork operations, and Pollution we operate a small factory producing wood-based products Arrangements are in place to record and address any pollution in support of our shop-fitting activities.
We have assurances incidents and environmental near misses.
No enforcement action from the suppliers of these products and of the timber for the was taken against Interserve or any Group company in 2009. factory that sources are registered with the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification or certified with the Forest Stewardship Council.
Avoiding pollution Avoiding pollution was a key objective during construction of the Kirkintilloch Learning Centre Extension near Glasgow Recycling timber as the Forth and Clyde Canal, a British Waterways historic At the Jumeirah Golf Estates contract in Dubai we recycled monument, runs adjacent to the project.
Measures taken scrap timber and plywood that had been collected from included creating run-off bunding along the lower end of the various sites as a mulch on the Earth Course, which hosts site with a filter trench to gather any contaminated water the Race to Dubai golf championship.
and silt, and the installation of further trenching along the line of the roof edge at high level on the site to gather run-off and deposit it into storm drains.
32 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 Ethics Social and ethical It is important that individuals throughout all of Interserves We believe we can help the communities in which we are operations retain a set of core values and approaches to the involved not just by undertaking our work responsibly but process of doing business.
The reputation of the Group and also by engaging in matters of local interest.
These themes the trust and confidence of those with whom it deals are are included in the Being element of our RENEWABLES among its most vital resources.
The protection of these is of framework, encompassing health and wellbeing and fundamental importance and is championed by Adrian Ringrose, communities.
Some examples of our engagement in these Chief Executive.
activities are included on our website www.
com within the Corporate Responsibility section.
We demand and maintain high ethical standards in carrying out our business activities.
We tolerate no form of corrupt In order to support the Companys goal of being the Employer practice and consider harassment of any employee for any of Choice and to encourage employee share ownership, the reason to be unacceptable.
To support an open and honest Company currently provides two all-employee HMRC approved operating environment, Interserve has a whistle-blowing share schemes for its employees the Interserve Sharesave policy and procedure.
Scheme 2009 and the Interserve Share Incentive Plan 2009.
These schemes were approved by shareholders at the AGM We have recently updated our ethics policy.
It is published held on 12 May 2009.
Further details can be found on pages 52 on our website www.
com and includes our and 53 in the Directors remuneration report.
principles of business conduct and rules governing how our people should behave.
Diversity and equal opportunities Diversity is fundamental to our business.
We operate in many different environments, in numerous roles, for a wide range of clients.
To do this effectively we need an equally diverse workforce, and in order to maintain our success we welcome the widest variety of people who have the appropriate skills and enthusiasm.
Once someone is part of the Interserve Group they have the chance to contribute and develop in whatever way their abilities and the opportunities we can offer them allow.
We need to make the most of all that our employees have to offer so that we can give the best possible service to our clients and develop our business for the future.
Fairness and respect for individuals creates the sort of positive atmosphere that generates its own success.
Our policy supports the fundamental belief that all our employees, including potential recruits, are equal regardless of gender, race, disability, sexual orientation, age, religion, religious belief Community well-being or any other reason that might be assumed to limit their contribution or potential.
Wherever we are working we try to contribute to the wellbeing of the local community, often by offering practical All employees have a personal responsibility for the practical support.
On the Harmondsworth immigration removal centre application of equal opportunities, demonstrated by respect project near Heathrow the local scout groups allotments for the individual, in their everyday dealings and working were located next door to the site.
Our project team donated relationships with colleagues, customers, suppliers and other topsoil, raised the level of allotment beds and undertook parties.
general garden maintenance to help the scouts in their horticultural endeavours.
We have an established policy that disabled persons, especially should they become disabled in the course of their employment with the Group, be employed where circumstances permit.
We endeavour to ensure that disabled employees benefit from training and career development programmes in line with other employees.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 33 Directors report Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued Employee consultation Employee development We believe in involving our personnel in matters affecting them Investors in People IiP is the national standard which sets as employees and keep them informed of all relevant factors a level of good practice for training and development of concerning the Groups performance, strategy, financial status, people to achieve business goals.
It provides a framework for charitable activities and other issues.
We achieve this through improving business performance and competitiveness through formal and informal briefings, through our Group magazine, Focus, a planned approach to setting and communicating business which is issued three times a year, and through our intranet.
objectives and developing people to meet these objectives.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
In order for our large and diverse workforce to feel a part of our vision, to focus on our goals and endorse our values it is important that we do what we can to help them understand Interserve and what it stands for.
We have developed a major employee communications initiative entitled The Big Picture.
The Big Picture provides answers to the questions that people often have about the organisation such as: who are you?
Developing employees potential Adrian Ringrose, Chief Executive, presents a Training Trust award to Meenal Gupta, Finance Manager on the UCLH contract in the FM division.
The Interserve Training Trust, established in 1983, is a charitable organisation that promotes training achievements by nominated Group employees.
Training Trust awards recognise significant effort on the part of individuals in pursuing personal training opportunities and objectives.
Our strategy is to gain IiP recognition, where applicable, throughout the entities we control.
Group Centre, Investments, Project Services and several contracts within Support Services all have accreditation, and Equipment Services continues to extend its IiP practices in its international operations.
We were one of the very first companies to join the governments Skills Pledge by making a public commitment to support all employees in developing themselves and work towards a relevant, valuable qualification to at least at Level 2 NVQ - the equivalent of five GCSEs at A-C grade.
Since then we have actively engaged with the Skills Council and have developed a programme offering cleaning apprenticeships and other qualifications in consultation with the National Employers Service.
It has been designed, with the input of our senior managers, to educate and inspire our people.
All new recruits take part The success of individuals committed to their personal training in a Big Picture session as part of their induction, engaging in a and development is recognised through the well-established dialogue and examining the questions above.
For this purpose Interserve Training Trust.
Following a record number of entries we have created a Big Picture pack which, in addition to the the Chief Executive presented 55 people from across the Group picture itself, contains a series of information cards, an outline with awards in May at a ceremony in front of the entire script and some other material.
34 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 Charitable giving For 2010 and 2011 Interserve employees have voted to support Interserve believes in contributing to the well-being of the Help for Heroes, a charity founded in 2007 to provide direct, communities in which it operates.
We have a programme which practical support to those wounded in UK military service.
operates at different levels: at Group level we select a charity every two years and make an annual donation: we encourage Beyond our chosen charity we involve ourselves in numerous business units to run charitable events, either for the Group local charities in the UK and internationally, both as a business charity or for another cause that is important to the area or and through the hard work of many individuals who take up the people involved: and we offer support for employees to causes that are close to them personally or to our clients.
have committed to corporate donations, for each of the next three years, of 25,000 for the Safer London Foundation the Our chosen charity for 2008 and 2009 was Shelter.
Shelter Metropolitan Polices charity supporting community-led crime provides advice and assistance to help people who have prevention reduction projects and 10,000 for Great Ormond become homeless find a way back on to their feet and into Street Hospital's Raising the Roof campaign.
donations to other charities brought the corporate total to 63,400 for the year.
To encourage support for the charity we have committees in divisional and business-unit locations across the Group which organise fund-raising events and assist individuals in undertaking sponsored activities.
As a result of their work, the commitment and dedication shown by many employees in their own sponsored activities and the generosity of numerous people in Interserve and beyond, 12,000 was raised in 2009 to complement the Company donation of 25,000.
Three Peaks Challenge Seven Project Services staff tackled the Three Peaks Challenge earlier this year climbing Ben Nevis, Snowdon and Scafell Pike in 24 hours and raised 5,600 for five good causes: South Tees NHS Trust, Teenage Cancer Trust, Lochabar Mountain Rescue, Wasdale Mountain Rescue and Llanberis Mountain Rescue.
Charity fundraising One of many events through which Interserve people raised money for a variety of charities: trainees from Project Services regional offices went on an activity weekend and took part in hill walking, sailing, a fancy-dress truck-pull, a raffle and a barbecue.
Some 55 staff were involved, raising nearly 5,000 for the NSPCC.
