32 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our business The range of services we provide has continued to increase.
During 2009 we have introduced new ways of helping our customers to Contents assure their customers of the quality of their products and we have added new capabilities to our services.
32 Introduction from the Chief Executive Of cer 32 Our business UR 'REEN, EAFARK WHICH HELPS CONSUMERS 33 Our values identify products that meet a range of international regulatory environmental standards, was launched 33 Our employees in 2009.
35 Our communities 36 Our environment Our main driver, as ever, is to provide the services that are needed 36 Our customers, suppliers and shareholders to help customers around the world improve their products and reduce their risk.
The bene ts that arise may be environmental, 37 Our corporate social responsibility CSR structure for example by showing customers how to reduce hazardous waste or developing energy ef ciency labelling programmes, or they may be in the safety of the product.
Introduction from the Chief Executive Of cer We are a world leader in the design of safe products, with particular We continue to insist on the worldwide strict application of our expertise in childrens toys.
Our centres of excellence in Chicago ethical standards, which are fundamental to the success of our AND, ONDON PROVIDE ADVICE TO SOME OF THE WORLD S LARGEST PRODUCT business.
Our work helps our customers improve the quality, brands to advance the design of safe products in the marketplace.
safety and sustainability of their products and enables consumers In partnership with industry and health bodies we collect and to rely on our customers claims for their products.
It is essential analyse safety data in connection with child accidents, and use to us that the advice we give and the services we provide globally this information to help our customers design safer products.
are independent and are seen to be so.
Our Code of Ethics and Compliance Code are designed and implemented to help us Our work includes testing compliance and effectiveness targets achieve this.
in the production of biofuels and ethanol, assisting customers to comply with ultra low sulphur diesel legislation, and helping This year we celebrated 20 years of operations in China.
In that to assess low energy and low emission equipment.
time China has achieved remarkable economic progress, with which Interteks growth and development has been closely linked.
We provide audit and consultancy services to corporations, Innovation, openness to global trade and increasing emphasis on non-governmental and regulatory organisations to improve the sustainability, have corresponded with developments in Interteks social and ethical impact of their operations.
Increasingly consumers service offerings, leading us to world-class expertise across a full range around the world want peace of mind that products they have of quality and safety activities.
We operate in many countries but purchased have not been created through social or ethical abuses in our dealings with employees, customers and other partners we of workers or unfair trade.
We audit factory conditions and work aim to provide the local approach, as the following report shows.
practices to ensure that they are legal, ethical and humane.
We work with corporations to develop bespoke global CSR standards and programmes to ensure that they exceed minimum social and ethical thresholds in their sourcing.
We have successfully initiated partnerships and collaborations with non-governmental and not-for-pro t organisations to improve standards.
4HE !MERICAN 3OCIETY FOR 1UALITY HAS CREATED THE 3PENCER UTCHENS R Social Responsibility Medal which each year recognises the achievements of an individual who has been an outstanding advocate for social responsibility.
Spencer Hutchens, after whom the medal is named, is a senior Vice President of Intertek in California, a global expert in the eld of quality control and an Academician for the International Academy for Quality.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 33 Our values Growth in employee numbers Our principal aim is to use our resources to add value to our 25,000 customers products and processes whilst employing the highest standards of integrity in business.
20,000 15,000 Our Mission Statement 10,000 We will: s PROMOTE A CULTURE WHERE MOTIVATED CUSTOMER ORIENTATED 5,000 employees can ourish, experience professional fullment and reach their highest potential: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 s ACT WITH INTEGRITY HONESTY AND RESPECT s VALUE EACH EMPLOYEE S CONTRIBUTION TOWARD ACHIEVING OUR Asia Pacic business objectives: EMEA s VALUE TRUST AND PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY AND Americas s RESPECT DIVERSE PERSPECTIVES EXPERIENCES AND TRADITIONS as essential.
Objectives Our focus this year has been on: In all our activities we aim to: s TRAINING s BE BOTH COMMERCIAL AND FAIR s THE STRENGTH OF OUR COLLECTIVE LEADERSHIP s RECOGNISE THE IMPORTANCE TO ALL STAKEHOLDERS OF ENSURING s COMMUNICATIONS WITH EMPLOYEES AND the health and safety of all our employees: s IMPROVING OUR CAPACITY TO ATTRACT RETAIN AND MOTIVATE EMPLOYEES s MAINTAIN OUR INTEGRITY AND PROFESSIONALISM AND s STRIVE FOR CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT AND INNOVATION Our policies We have framework policies in place that enable us to treat The following systems help us ensure that our values are maintained: employees fairly across the Group, whilst still giving local managers s ALL EMPLOYEES ARE REQUIRED TO SIGN THE 'ROUP S #ODE OF %THICS WHICH the authority and exibility to adopt what is right for their local area.
sets out our robust stance on upholding sound business ethics: As we grow, whether organically or by acquisition, we continue s OUR CENTRAL COMPLIANCE TEAM ENSURES THAT OUR POLICIES AND to promote and monitor these policies, which are concerned with procedures are properly applied in practice and that they remain matters such as fair recruitment, performance assessment, internal appropriate to the business: communications and remuneration.
s ALL EMPLOYEES HAVE ACCESS TO WHISTLE BLOWING HOTLINES %MPLOYEES and external parties also have access to a hotline through the The graph above shows how our workforce is distributed Group website: and geographically and why it is important for us to respect regional s OUR !UDIT AND 2ISK #OMMITTEE REGULARLY REVIEWS THE OUTCOMES and cultural differences.
Our human resource managers support from hotlines and compliance reports on behalf of the Board.
the progress of our people through country-specic teams who are able to respond to local circumstances.
Our strategy is to develop Our employees and promote locally for the best blend of understanding of the local Our principal strength is the talent of our employees.
Our intention market, with provision of career progress opportunities for everyone.
is to unlock the potential of every employee to perform to the best We continue to give opportunities to the most talented individuals of his or her abilities.
This enables us to achieve maximum results to advance into international management.
for them, our customers and shareholders.
At 31 December 2009, we employed 25,183 people, an increase of 5.6% over the prior year.
The growth in employee numbers in each region over the past five years, is shown in the following graph.
The largest increase was in the Asia Pacic region where more than 55% of employees are based.
Because we operate in so many countries, we have adopted a framework of human resource procedures and policies to ensure a fair and consistent approach to employee matters around the Group.
34 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Report As part of our equal opportunities policy, people with disabilities are Information about employees given the same consideration as others when they apply for jobs.
It is important to monitor progress in matters such as diversity, Depending on their skills and aptitudes, they enjoy the same career employment of disabled people, training, employee retention and prospects as other employees.
If employees become disabled every safety, to attain the best results for the Group.
The more information effort will be made to retain them in their current role or to look at we have, the better we will be able to make changes when they possibilities for retraining or redeployment within the Group.
necessary the Group aims to provide these employees with facilities, equipment and training to assist them in doing their jobs.
Group-wide human resource meetings and intranet-based sharing of information are used to communicate objectives and share Our ongoing commitment to reduce workplace injuries continues knowledge and we have begun to introduce software that will, with good results.
In the USA, which accounts for some 10% of once extended around the globe, provide us with more detailed our workforce, there was a significant reduction in the injury rate and consistent data.
for 2009 compared with 2008, which was a statistically good year.
Hazard awareness, safety training and local cultural development Information for employees are helping to reduce injuries.
Good communication is the basis of every successful relationship and we continually look for ways to increase two-way Also in the USA we are targeting specic safety training needs communication opportunities with our employees.
We particularly through learning paths assigned by job responsibility and we use need to ensure that our employees are aware of our ethical, risk online monitoring of and documentation for particular groups, such and safety procedures.
as the employees who deal with dangerous goods shipments.
In several countries an incident log is maintained and posted on the The development of virtual communities through the extended intranet, allowing management to view injuries or near misses at intranet allows us to communicate and promote best practice other locations and discuss lessons learned with their employees.
in matters such as safety or marketing around the Group more speedily than before.
The health and safety of our employees is of paramount importance to the Group.
We aim to provide a safe working environment and With the increasing range and complexity of our activities we are ensure that our employees have the information and knowledge investing more in the ow of information up, down and across the to perform their duties safely.
We are committed to maintaining Group to enhance commitment to Group values and consistency high standards and complying with relevant local legislation and in how we support customers and each other.
We have extended guidelines in any area in which we operate.
We continually seek to the use of our intranet to encourage Group-wide communication minimise harm to our employees and our procedures are regularly and knowledge sharing.
Our intranet is being built into an online monitored by our compliance team to ensure that they are being encyclopaedia of the Group, a home to internal communities, properly applied in practice.
a reference for policies and information and an e-learning forum.
7E CONTINUALLY STRIVE TO PROMOTE A SAFETY CULTURE N THE 5 THIS Online safety training began during the year.
In the USA our online has led this year to the creation of a safety committee that effects training programme was expanded to include additional safety, HSE improvements country-wide rather than on a business-line health and environmental matters and safety bulletins.
Health, Safety basis and better identies areas that need additional support.
& Environmental ash notications are used for notices that need to !LSO IN THE 5 ALL SAFETY REPRESENTATIVES ARE REQUIRED TO GAIN THE be issued quickly.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 35 We use face-to-face review meetings, safety meetings, regular Intertek in Taiwan supported the restoration work in Taiwan after the management meetings and, increasingly, country-focused devastation caused by Typhoon Morakot, not only with a donation newsletters to give and receive information.
to the Red Cross, but by offering free food microbiology and chemical testing and also giving several jobs to victims.
A Red Cross donation Employees are also able to use our condential telephone and was also made by employees in Vietnam to help the victims of email hotlines if they have any issues that they want to communicate 4YPHOON ETSANA THERE anonymously.
All hotline calls are investigated sensitively by our compliance managers.
Intertek in Singapore is a strong advocate of developing the scientists of tomorrow.
On average 30 students per year take part Our Intertek as One programme of cross-divisional liaison has in a structured intern training programme, enabling them to gain contributed to increased knowledge of the Group and to better valuable industry experience and enhance their academic training.
opportunities for our employees through regional and countrybased meetings, communications and workshops.
In Africa, Intertek donated 20 used computers to two schools IN THE RURAL AREAS OF WA:ULU.
WHICH WERE IDENTIlED Share interests AS NEEDING ASSISTANCE BY THE :.
"$EPARTMENT OF %DUCATION We are committed to encouraging our senior executives to align themselves with the interests of shareholders and the Groups %ACH YEAR NTERTEK EMPLOYEES VISIT AN ORPHANAGE CALLED ""EVIES."
URSERY performance through the ownership of the Companys shares.
which caters for children with different disabilities or who are infected The Company operates a long-term incentive share plan for senior with HIV AIDS, and provides the children with clothes, uniforms, executives and requires the most senior of them to retain some of toys, books, food and other items.
The orphanage is located on the the shares they obtain through this plan.
More information about NORTH OF :.
AND HAS BECOME PART OF THE NTERTEK FAMILY the plan is contained in the Remuneration Report which starts on page 53.
We are pleased to note that a number of our employees We also encourage the development of links with professional have chosen to invest in the Group and that some 5m of our peers, providing lecturers and examiners and contributing to shares were held by employees and Directors at the end of 2009. publications and presentations.
Our communities As an example, one of our Manchester based subsidiaries Because of the decentralised structure of our Group and the nature strengthened its relationship with its customers in the chemical of our activities, community involvement is organised at local level INDUSTRY BY HOSTING AN EVENING FOR THE.
ORTH 7EST S #HEMICAL by local managers.
We recognise the importance of our relationship Industry Association in 2009. with the communities in which we operate, and encourage our businesses and employees to undertake community service and charitable giving.
Here are some examples: In Thailand, where there has been ooding, our managers obtained the consent of a number of customers and were able to redeploy product samples not needed for testing giving toys, clothes and utensils to local recipients.
Following the earthquake disaster in China, we joined with other companies in donating 50,000 books to children in the affected area.
36 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our environment We aim to educate our employees so that we can all work towards We have measured our carbon emissions at 10 key sites over a better future for the environment.
The circulation of information the last three years to gain a better understanding of our energy concerning, for example, energy consumption, is one of the ways we use.
This has helped us track the impact of various initiatives on identify and enlist the help of all employees in minimising specic CO emissions.
Our Singapore laboratory, for example, showed and overall usage.
2 a much reduced CO footprint following initiatives such as installing 2 motion sensors, reducing uorescent lighting and adjusting Our customers, suppliers and shareholders air-conditioning settings.
At Intertek we: s MAINTAIN QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS IN OUR DIVISIONS AND Our compliance team carries out regular reviews of risks at key sites, continually monitor the service we provide: and as part of these reviews confirms that the sites comply with s VALUE AND SERVE OUR CUSTOMERS AS EMBODIED IN OUR CUSTOMER APPLICABLE ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION.
O MAJOR ISSUES WERE IDENTIlED focused mission statement: in 2009 and minor issues were corrected as part of the process.
s OFFER AN INTEGRATED AND UNIlED SERVICE ON A GLOBAL BASIS, OCAL OPERATIONAL MANAGERS REVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROLS ON AN s WELCOME FEEDBACK FROM ALL STAKEHOLDERS ongoing basis.
s HOLD REGULAR FEEDBACK MEETINGS WITH CUSTOMERS AND WELCOME their inspection of our premises: In common with many areas of Interteks business, the implementation s PROVIDE AN ACCESSIBLE FEEDBACK SERVICE TO ASSESS THE QUALITY of our framework policy on the environment is operated by local of service provided: and management in accordance with relevant local legislation and s C ONDUCT CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEYS guidelines.
A number of projects have been carried out at the local level during the year.
As a Group, we do not have any individual suppliers on whom we are overly reliant and we aim to treat all suppliers with fairness We have continued with the following initiatives: and integrity.
We strive to create relationships based on mutual s REDUCING PAPER USAGE BY INTRODUCING PAPER FREE DELIVERY TO CLIENTS trust and ensure payment of all invoices on a timely basis.
using electronic document management systems, using electronic communication with shareholders and increasing the use of the Our Compliance Code sets out our business principles including internet and intranet for communications including telephone calls: their application in business relationships.
The Code is available s INCREASING INVESTMENT IN LOW ENERGY EQUIPMENT in the Compliance and Corporate Governance section of our s INCREASING RECYCLING SCHEMES THROUGHOUT THE 'ROUP website at www.
s REDUCING CARBON FUEL TRAVEL BY HOLDING MEETINGS BY CONFERENCE call or Webinar and amending travel policies to include Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and  elements: a number of means are used to promote greater understanding s @GREEN OFlCE INITIATIVES HAVE REDUCED PAPER USAGE SAVED ENERGY and dialogue with investment audiences.
Our investor and cut costs.
programme includes: s REGULAR INDIVIDUAL MEETINGS WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTMENT Interteks compliance team takes an active role in identifying areas managers during the year: where the Group and employees can have a positive effect on s ROAD SHOWS IN MANY COUNTRIES reducing our environmental impact.
These include energy and water s REGULAR ANALYST BRIElNGS AND consumption, use of fuel by Group vehicles, reduced use of ozones @INVESTOR DAYS WHERE ANALYSTS AND INVESTORS ARE INVITED TO VISIT depleting substances and waste and by-product production.
some of our laboratories to meet our employees and observe work being performed.
We continue to achieve ISO14001 Environmental management and OHSAS18001 Health & Safety management accreditation in In addition, Intertek has an experienced investor relations team to THE 5 4HREE ADDITIONAL SITES HAVE BEEN ACCREDITED IN handle enquiries and report investor-related matters to the Board.
Feedback on the Groups investor programme has been positive and Intertek has a good relationship with investors and their representatives.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 37 During the course of the year shareholders are kept informed on Ethical policy the progress of the Group through reports on our financial results, Intertek prohibits the offer, giving or acceptance of bribes in any and other announcements of significant developments that are FORM NTERTEK PROHIBITS THE PROVISION OF IMPROPER BENElTS.
O released through regulatory outlets and our own website, which reward, gift or favour dependent on the outcome of any work will received a relaunch during the year.
We have introduced the be accepted by employees.
Employees shall operate free from any option of electronic communications with shareholders as a way conict of interest.
Employee policy Our corporate social responsibility structure Intertek will strive to provide a safe and healthy environment for Intertek has businesses in many locations around the world.
Our its employees to work in.
It will comply with national employee activities are organised to permit local or functional managers to legislation.
In the absence of any local prescription, employees will manage operations within the framework established by the Board be assessed solely on the basis of their ability irrespective of their of Intertek Group plc.
We consider local managers are best placed race, religion, colour, age, disabilities, gender or sexual orientation or to understand and react to their local business environment.
They their participation in legitimate union activities.
Employees diverse have the knowledge to apply policies with due regard to their perspectives, experiences and traditions will be respected.
Wherever relationships with local stakeholders such as employees, customers possible, employees personal growth will be fostered through the and communities.
The corporate social responsibility framework within which these Community and stakeholder policy activities are to be managed, was formally adopted by the Board Intertek will take into account, when making decisions, its impact of Intertek Group plc in 2007. on all relevant stakeholders.
General policy Business practices policy Interteks core businesses provide services that are ultimately of Intertek will carry out its work in an honest, professional, independent benefit to consumers and other stakeholders.
We test substances and impartial manner.
Marketing will be conducted in a manner for purity and performance.
We test products for safety and quality.
Procurement from suppliers whose corporate We measure air and noise emissions.
We review imports to assess responsibility policies align with Interteks will be encouraged.
We provide advice that can lead to greater efficiency of production or operation.
We carry out audits to help We have cascaded these policies through the management structure ensure that factory conditions and work practices are legal, humane and added them to our corporate intranet to disseminate them.
Intertek takes seriously the benets that our businesses Employees are encouraged to supply ideas and information concerning confer and will continue to endeavour in all its dealings to improve our CSR performance by contacting us through the intranet.
quality, safety and to bring about environmental benets through improved efficiency of products.
Overall and ultimate responsibility for the Groups CSR policies, issues and their implementation lies with the Chief Executive officer.
Environmental policy Intertek will strive to prevent its operations causing adverse impact We take a responsible and active role in the business communities in on the environment.
We will comply with national environmental which we operate.
Intertek is a member of a number of CSR related legislation and will endeavour to identify, monitor and control our associations such as CSR Europe, the Ethos Institute of Business and environmental risks.
We will seek to reduce emissions, efuents, Social Responsibility and Canadian Business for Social Responsibility.
waste and adverse effect on biodiversity.
We will commit to recycling We aim to increase our participation and membership of such bodies schemes and energy efficiency.
We will provide benets in respect in the future to show our commitment to being a significant player of environmental impacts through our testing of environmental in the corporate social responsibility arena.
standards and will operate safely.
