Corporate Social Responsibility Invensys is committed to supporting the principles of Reduced our environmental footprint and exceeded our economic success, environmental stewardship and social 5% reduction target for each of our environmental KPIs at responsibility.
We believe that by acting as a responsible our manufacturing locations: corporate citizen we will not only minimise business risk, 12% reduction in energy use but also enhance our reputation as a business partner and 13% reduction in CO emissions 2 employer.
Further, by advocating and resourcing staff 25% reduction in water use development and community engagement, we believe 21% reduction in non-hazardous waste generation that we can differentiate Invensys from other employers 24% reduction in hazardous waste generation and create a business where people want to work.
Eliminated all chlorinated solvent use at Invensys-operated locations The Invensys Code of Conduct Participated in the United Nations Global Compact UNGC The Invensys Code of Conduct is the central element of the and Carbon Disclosure Project CDP6 Invensys Compliance Programme.
It reflects our commitment Listed on the UK FTSE4Good Index Series to acting with integrity and in accordance both with local law Deployed sustainability awareness training to all employees and our own legal and ethical standards.
The Code of Conduct and completed our first Group-wide sustainability and applies to all employees in every part of the world, and is also wellness surveys intended to act as a guide to acceptable and unacceptable Published sustainability success stories on how our business conduct by agents, suppliers and customers.
The products, services and solutions help our clients with their Code of Conduct is expanded upon by policies approved by sustainability goals the Board.
More detail can be found in the first Invensys Sustainability As part of a review process of our Compliance Programme, Report, which will be available on our website.
and in line with our new Invensys brand and positioning, the Code of Conduct was reviewed and redesigned in 2009.
This While we are proud of our accomplishments, as a responsible new version is to be made available to Invensys employees company we acknowledge that we have more to do, and look worldwide, and is intended to reflect the changing world forward to reporting on further progress next year.
It will also be available on our website.
The Code of Conduct is the centrepiece of  strategy raising activities around the Compliance Programme.
Over the past year, we strengthened our commitment to sustainability by embedding a more formal sustainability The Code of Conduct sets out many of the principles of our approach into the strategy and operations of Invensys.
Our approach to corporate citizenship, including our commitment sustainability strategy and annual goals can be summarised in to environmental responsibility, workplace safety and a diverse three basic aspects that will provide focus for our efforts.
First, we are committed to reducing our environmental Compliance training footprint.
This means that we are focussed on minimising The Invensys Code of Conduct and policies are supported waste streams, and efficiently using energy, water and other by training, delivered online as computer-based training and resources.
Beyond traditional manufacturing operations, we also in classroom environments.
As part of the Compliance are looking to identify future improvement opportunities Programme, new and expanded training to accompany within product life cycles.
We will work cooperatively with the new Code of Conduct is to be released shortly for all suppliers to embed sustainable practices in our supply chain employees, accompanied by dedicated training for selected and to provide offerings products and services to support employee groups in areas of legal compliance.
The training our customers sustainability objectives.
We will continue programme will help our employees to understand their rights to respond to environmental issues resulting from historical and obligations as employees of Invensys, and to be aware of manufacturing operations.
situations where caution needs to be exercised in their work.
Second, we are committed to caring for the well-being of Sustainability employees and communities.
This means that we will support We believe that our commitment to sustainability improves our the I want to work here culture within the workplace by prospects of successfully achieving our long-term business developing programmes to improve employee wellness.
We will continue to improve our safety performance and compliance with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements.
Below we summarise some of our key accomplishments over We will provide focus to and enhance our community the past year: involvement efforts.
Reorganised the corporate Environmental, Health, Safety & Sustainability EHS&S function to align better with Finally, we believe that communicating our performance improved business and sustainability performance transparently is vitally important.
This means that we will make Developed and deployed the Invensys sustainability policy our successes and challenges public, and accurately report Improved our employee safety performance: financial, environmental and social metrics with material Reduced the Lost Work Case Incident Rate LWCIR by impacts on sustainability.
32% compared with the previous year Reduced the Total Recordable Case Incident Rate Approximately 8,100 Invensys employees responded to a TRCIR by 45% compared with the previous year global sustainability survey in early 2009.
Approximately 74% of responding employees agreed that Invensys conducts business in a responsible manner with respect to social, environmental and ethical issues an additional 20% remained neutral on the statement.
With respect to community 22 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Environmental KPIs Year ended 31 March Unit 2009 2008 % change % target Energy use manufacturing 42 sites MWh 175,353 198,982 12% 5% 1 non-manufacturing 113 sites MWh 69,393 nm nm nm CO emissions 2 manufacturing 42 sites tonnes 71,512 82,332 13% 5% non-manufacturing 113 sites tonnes 27,490 nm nm nm global fleet tonnes 13,865 nm nm nm business airline travel tonnes 20,363 nm nm nm 3 Water consumed 42 sites m 436,076 579,357 25% 5% Waste generated non-hazardous 42 sites tonnes 8,866 11,289 21% 5% Waste recycled non-hazardous 42 sites tonnes 5,787 7,594 24% nm Waste generated hazardous 42 sites tonnes 658 863 24% 5% Waste recycled hazardous 42 sites tonnes 191 287 33% nm Further details regarding environmental performance can be found on our website.
involvement programmes, employees showed the strongest Our carbon footprint is driven primarily by our manufacturing support for ongoing health and environmental initiatives.
operations 54%, with lower contributions from nonAdditionally, 66% of responding employees agreed that they manufacturing sites 21%, global fleet vehicles 10% and understand the concept of sustainability and how Invensys business airline travel 15%.
Going forward, we will look at is implementing it in our businesses an additional 24% ways to manage these other sources closely.
remained neutral on the statement.
As this is our first year of our formalised sustainability approach, we are pleased with The Board continues to be briefed on Group environmental the results and we are using the data to improve our employee performance and receives monthly reports on any communication and sustainability activities.
violations, citations, environmental releases or fines issued by governmental bodies.
In the past year, there were no Environment environmental releases.
However, the Safetran facility in Over the prior year, we continued to collect data on our Louisville, US, received a notice of violation associated with environmental KPIs from our manufacturing locations.
As a gap in record keeping from the Kentucky Department for a business we set a 5% absolute reduction target at our Environmental Protection.
Corrective actions were instituted manufacturing locations at the beginning of last year, and have and no further notices were issued.
The Invensys Controls set another 5% absolute reduction as a target for next year.
facility in Long Beach, US, received a notice of violation from the California State Water Resources Control Board for failing We have focussed on driving efficiency projects at our to make timely payment of the annual fee associated with manufacturing locations and have seen strong year-onwaste discharge.
The fee was subsequently paid and no fines year reductions in energy, CO, water, hazardous waste and or further notices were issued.
2 non-hazardous waste at levels exceeding our 5% reduction targets.
However, we recognise that the challenging economic Health and safety in the workplace environment over the past year has impacted usage of many Our strong commitment to safety continues to be reflected in manufacturing facilities and, in conjunction with our efficiency our injury illness incident frequency rates.
From April 2008 to projects, has created a higher than expected reduction in the the end of March 2009, the TRCIR fell 45% from 0.56 to 0.31 absolute KPIs.
Going into next year, we have a goal of continuous improvement in our safety Our Chippenham, UK location has taken steps to move performance.
We are proud of our significant accomplishments towards a bin-less office where traditional waste bins have in reducing injuries and injury rates, but recognise that we still been replaced by miniature desktop recyclers, which collect have more progress to make to keep all employees safe.
waste paper, card, plastic and glass.
The scheme has proved to be very successful and waste being sent to landfill has been Beyond traditional injury illness incident frequency rate reduced by about 36%.
Employees in our Chihuahua, Mexico measurements, we have developed a single Safety Awareness location conducted a thorough review of the facility to identify Metric SAM to drive and measure overall safety performance.
the primary users of electrical power.
By simply turning off It measures several leading EHS&S activities at an operational lights, refrigeration, and evaporative equipment when not in level, such as on-time closure of corrective actions, completion use, a 15% reduction in electrical use was achieved in the first of EHS training, safety tours inspections and environmental KPI month.
In Foxboro, US, operators installed controls and float improvements.
The SAM is measured and reported monthly, switches on the plating line which yielded a 17% reduction in and it is integrated into the overall metrics of each of the the volume of water used and an 11% reduction in the volume business groups.
We are pleased to report for the first time our total CO 2 contributions associated with global fleet vehicles, business airline travel and our non-manufacturing locations.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 23 Corporate Social Responsibility continued 1.0 Total Recordable Case Index Rate ensuring we comply with the labour laws of the countries in Lost Workday Case Index Rate which we operate and by creating an inclusive and respectful culture for our diverse workforce.
The Group seeks to 0.8 ensure that fair consideration is given to applications for employment received from people with disabilities and we 0.6 offer continued employment, training and advancement where possible to employees who are or become temporarily 0.4 or permanently disabled.
Dialogue with employee representatives and employees 0.2 The Invensys European Employees Forum, together with elected employee representatives, promotes dialogue 0.0 Apr 06 Apr 07 Apr 08 Mar 09 with management.
This group has regular meetings.
Globally we communicate with our employees through local Further details regarding health and safety performance can be found on our website.
communications networks, town hall meetings, skip level meetings and employee newsletters.
Our Chief Executive reviews the health and safety performance data, including any major incidents, on a monthly basis and Planning for future skills gaps presents it to the Board.
We are pleased to report that there Top talent in the organisation is assessed and developed were no major incidents, work-related fatalities, or fines issued through our annual Organisational Capability Review OCR.
by governmental bodies during the past year.
Our Eurotherm Through this review we manage internal global career location in Rockford, US, received a citation from the US progression for key leaders in line with our succession plans Occupational Safety and Health Administration concerning and also identify and develop future talent.
In addition, we training and measures to protect employees from hazardous use this process to ensure that leaders who are not performing chemicals.
Corrective actions were instituted and no fines or are given this feedback and given an opportunity to improve further notices were issued.
We continued to promote wellness programmes in an effort Aligning individuals with the Group to safeguard to improve the overall health and well-being of our employees.
our future Approximately 97% of our major locations offer wellness During the year we used our goal deployment and programmes with an average of four programmes per site.
performance management tools and processes to help The most common wellness programmes offered include our employees to understand the organisational goals and immunisation, medical tests, local gym access, and healthy objectives of Invensys and align them with their own.
Employees responding to a wellness managers are required to hold annual performance reviews survey in early 2009 expressed interest in a variety of wellness with all employees who report to them, where they can discuss programme offerings, and the majority of Invensys employees their performance, set personal objectives for the coming recognise that participation in wellness programmes provides year and, where appropriate, create a personal development broad benefits to Invensys as well as to themselves.
Approximately 10,500 employees are participating effort to continue to promote the I want to work here culture, in our performance management processes with goals for Invensys has committed to providing an environment that will 2008 09 and 2009 10 on our integrated system which was encourage employees to improve their personal wellness.
This equates to 51% of all employees and 100% of managerial and professional employees.
Other staff, Our Values such as manufacturing employees, are participating in local Our vision and mission act as a guide in meeting our business performance management processes.
objectives, but to be meaningful they must be underpinned by a set of values that we all share, which are the basis of how Competitive remuneration in an evolving environment we conduct ourselves and of how we do business.
This year we One of our values is meritocracy and we strive to offer have continued to create an I want to work here culture that competitive remuneration and benefits in each market in is based on the strong foundation laid in previous years.
which we participate through a system of differentiated base pay, cash and equity bonuses based on the individuals In 2007 we launched our mission, vision and objectives.
In 2008 contributions to Invensys success.
we launched our Invensys values of innovation, agility, integrity, meritocracy and courage.
More than 1,000 employees took Investing for the future with training part in workshops and meetings to help us develop these.
We are continuing our commitment to target a 2% of payroll investment in our employees learning and development in At our 2009 Annual Leadership Meeting, five awards were won each Invensys business through a newly established Centre by individuals and teams who exemplify the Invensys Values.
of Expertise that was established in March 2009.
This practice In 2009, we will drive Living the Values in the workplace to provides support for employees seeking to gain professional embed them in our everyday practices.
qualifications, access to leadership development programmes and many other learning interventions that enhance their Diversity in the workforce knowledge, skills and abilities.
As a global company with employees across the world, Invensys seeks to recruit the best individual for every position, Employee engagement regardless of gender, ethnic or national origin, religion, In April 2008 we launched our first Invensys-wide Employee sexuality or any personal characteristic not relevant to their Engagement Survey.
The response rate was 79%, indicating work.
We continue to respect and support the principles of that employees have a strong interest in sharing feedback the European Convention on Human Rights and the UNGC by and ideas about how we can improve our Invensys culture.
24 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Per 100 employees Based on industry benchmarks, Invensys-wide results show Process Systems was the lead sponsor for the Relay for that employee engagement in Invensys rates highly against Life, an event in Foxboro, Massachusetts benefitting other companies that have gone through a significant the American Cancer Society ACS.
Invensys matched transformation, as Invensys has done over the past several employee contributions, and was recognised by the ACS years.
Also, three key drivers for engagement were identified as the corporate partner of the year for this region of the at an Invensys level: state in 2007 and 2008. leadership An ongoing scheme where Invensys Rail donates 10 to the talent management and development International Tree Foundation for each UK-based employee customer focus who travels to work on foot, by bicycle, on public transport or by carpooling, based on a twice-yearly survey.
This has Business and functional teams have been working to resulted in the planting of over 1,000 trees around site implement action plans they created in response to Survey offices in the UK so far.
In 2009, leaders are reporting on their progress Sponsorship schemes coordinated by Invensys Rail, both against action plan commitments during Invensys deep dive academic where up to three local students studying reviews with the Chief Executive, sharing success stories and engineering-related subjects are sponsored per year, lessons learnt.
The goal is to increase employee engagement and offered work experience in the holiday periods and and spread best practices across businesses and geographies.
non-academic for employees and their relatives who are competing at county or national level in sporting We continue to strive to make Invensys a place where high or artistic events.
performing people choose to be, where they can enhance their The Invensys Controls site in Caxias do Sul, Brazil has lives and careers and are motivated to perform at their best supported its local community by collaborating with the and continue to better their performance.
Helen Keller Educational Association to provide meaningful training and employment to 13 hearing impaired people.
Community and charitable investment These employees have received general and job-specific We continue to recognise the importance of our relationship training, and are supported by 35 employees who are with the communities in which we operate and encourage trained in LIBRAS Brazilian Sign Language.
our businesses and employees to provide support.
Given the nature of our activities and the structure of the Group, The businesses within Invensys are encouraged to engage community contact is currently organised at a local level by with good causes to build relationships in the community and site leaders.
Our businesses provide a variety of programmes enhance workplace morale and cohesiveness.
We believe such as matching gifts, sponsorship of activities and paid that there is a business benefit in doing so as well as a social volunteer time to allow our employees to participate actively in benefit, and we remain committed to acting as a good community events.
Examples of projects our businesses have been involved in include: Employees of Process Systems and Invensys Controls in the Asia Pacific region raised money for relief efforts after the earthquake in the Sichuan Province of China in May 2008.
Invensys double matched the amount.
Process Systems employees in Australia and the US raised money by fundraising events and direct donations for Australian Bush Fire Relief Aid.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 25
