Delivering sustainability Sustainability and AMEC for improvement included better communication of the At AMEC, we believe that sustainable development impacts of our Operational Excellence programme and is a core part of our everyday business life, through the the need to realise benefits from enhanced co-operation services we provide and the way in which we provide within AMEC.
We have already taken steps to address them.
We want to achieve economic success in ways these concerns.
For example, employees were asked which uphold our values and Guiding Principles, about how Operational Excellence has improved their meeting todays needs without compromising the working lives and the results were included in our end needs of future generations.
of year publication: and the divisional restructuring is designed to improve collaborative working further We believe this makes good business sense.
integrating sustainable development into our business we have reduced overhead costs, increased skills, As well as addressing these company-wide issues, a developed new business streams and achieved strong emphasis has been placed on addressing more resource efficiencies.
Managers right across the organisation are developing local plans in consultation 2009 saw the roll-out of the Operational Excellence with their own teams.
We shall measure the impact Sustainability programme, delivering improvements of this in our 2010 survey.
in three areas, carbon management, stakeholder engagement and sustainability services.
Employee development has been a key focus of Operational Excellence and, in support, late 2009 saw AMEC was also added to the United Nations register the launch of the AMEC Academy.
This is the vehicle of Global Compact participants, in recognition of our that underpins and integrates all the various areas increasingly global portfolio and our commitment to of training and development across the business and continuous sustainability performance improvements.
delivers them using a consistent, integrated and accessible global approach into the future.
By identifying AMEC tracks over 40 corporate sustainability indicators business and individual requirements, we can ensure which we believe are most relevant to our business, meaningful training and development is in place to setting targets and checking on progress.
Full details achieve the best individual and business impact both in can be found at amec.
Our goal is to provide a clear, transparent picture of an individuals career framework Delivering to our workplace and the development opportunities available.
High quality engineers, project managers and consultants are a scarce resource and so attracting, 2009 was a milestone for delivery in our safety retaining, developing and protecting the people who management and performance, as we focused on work for us is vital to our success.
implementing the tools created through Operational Excellence and engaging our people across the world.
June 2009 saw over 11,000 people participate in By the end of 2009 we had taken almost 750 people, AMECs second global employee survey, a rise of three worldwide, through our Safety Leadership programme, percentage points over the 2008 response rate.
Our designed to equip our employees with the skills we employee engagement index score increased to 73 per need to effect excellence in safety performance in the cent favourable, up six percentage points, which took workplace and the wider community.
We distributed AMEC into the high performing companies norm, some 3,000 copies of our new AMEC Beyond Zero as measured by our external survey partner, Kenexa.
handbook, which launched our new safety essentials So listening to our employees and making changes and rules, and published it online for all our people to to address their concerns has made a real difference.
By the end of the year we were proud to say we Safety and sustainability continue to be seen by had achieved AMECs best ever safety performance, employees as key strengths for AMEC and there were exceeding the targets we set for ourselves.
significant improvements in views on our managers approach to performance management.
Areas raised 6 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials Delivering to our community Following consultation, AMEC also strengthened its Listening to community needs, respecting their rights long-term carbon reduction target to an 80 per cent and understanding where AMEC can help, support and reduction by 2050 compared with the 2008 baseline, nurture are all important in being a good corporate from 60 per cent.
This increase clearly shows AMECs citizen and a great company.
commitment to the climate change agenda.
2009 saw the roll-out of the office sustainability Delivering to our market place matrices as another key deliverable from Operational There is an increasing emphasis on the wider social Excellence.
Each office in AMEC now has a matrix in and environmental impact of projects with which AMEC place and is required to set four annual community is associated.
Working together with our partners and investment actions.
Employees across AMEC have supply chain, we are bringing tomorrows solutions to embraced this concept, spending their own time the marketplace, today.
fundraising for local charities, spending time with schools and universities and getting involved in Through our services, AMEC has an opportunity to environmental clean-up events.
Time spent in the make a significant contribution to global sustainable community helps to advance AMECs reputation, but development, helping to cut the worlds greenhouse also aids employee engagement and improves staff emissions and reducing environmental pollution morale all of which helps AMEC to attract and retain through clean technology.
In 2009 AMEC built on its the best employees.
renewables and low carbon energy solutions, delivering major projects in solar energy and continuing research In 2009 AMEC supported SOS Children as its global into carbon capture and storage.
In total, the donations AMEC made relating to our services, and renewables capabilities to SOS Children, and the many other local charities and projects can be found at amec.
our offices support, amounted to 540,000.
Our next move Delivering in our environment In 2010 we will continue to implement our Operational Minimising our impacts and maximising opportunities Excellence Sustainability programme.
We will continue to enhance the environment are core to our sustainable to provide sustainability tools which will enable our approach.
business to bring real improvements across the whole of the sustainability agenda, supporting our values and Being carbon efficient means we can both reduce principles.
Our programme includes: our impact on the environment and reduce cost.
Each office, as part of its sustainability matrix, set OO Continue to improve our employee development environmental targets relating to improved programmes as part of the AMEC Academy measurement of, and in reduction in, our carbon OO Continue to reduce our carbon footprint by setting footprint.
Each location is now required to report its local carbon reduction targets in order to meet our usage and costs relating to office utilities and business first milestone of 15 per cent reduction by 2013 travel, AMECs two primary sources of carbon emissions, using our new global online carbon OO Further develop and market AMECs sustainability accounting tool.
In 2009 early estimates suggest services, focusing on clean energy solutions and a 14 per cent reduction in carbon emissions, to 50,000 adapting to climate change tonnes.
Reductions in electricity use and in air travel OO Continue to further embed the Global Compact were partially offset by increased car usage.
principles within our business policies and processes.
Almost 6,500 AMEC employees have completed our online sustainability awareness training since it was launched in June 2009.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 7
