Earth & Environmental 1 Change Underlying million 2009 2008 % % Growth and client development, Revenue 400.2 18 3 470.8 both spurred on by Operational Excellence, EBITA 36.5 33.5 9 8 expanded our reach in select sectors EBITA margin % 7.8 8.4 60bps and delivered bottom line results.
Average number 2 of employees 4,337 3,933 10 Roger Jinks President 1 Growth measured against 2008 as restated for material acquisitions Earth & Environmental and movements in material currencies.
2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
Description of business Business overview Principal activities: Specialist environmental, The Earth & Environmental division is a leading geotechnical, programme management, engineering international environmental and engineering and consultancy services to a broad range of customers consulting organisation with full service capabilities in the public and private sectors.
This business operates covering a wide range of disciplines, including from a regional network and is typically characterised environmental engineering and science, geotechnical by a large number of small value contracts.
engineering, water resources, materials testing and engineering, engineering and surveying, and Locations: Around 150 offices, mainly across programme management.
North America but also Europe, the Middle East and South America.
Unlike AMECs other divisions, Earth & Environmental provides services from a branch network of around Revenue split: 96 per cent Americas, 4 per cent 150 offices, mainly in North America, but with an Rest of World.
increasing presence in the growth markets of Europe and South America.
With the vast majority of its Customers include: Alberta Transportation, Arizona activities falling outside the scope of engineering and Department of Transportation, Aventis Crop Science, project management services provided by the Natural Bank of America, Canadian Department of National Resources and Power & Process divisions, Earth & Defence, CSXT, Enbridge, ExxonMobil, FEMA, GE, Environmental enables AMEC to provide a broader Imperial Oil, National Grid, Newmont Mining range of services across the asset life cycle than many Corporation, State of Alabama, Suncor, Syncrude, competitor companies.
This halo effect can lead to Teck, US Air Force, US Army, US Navy.
AMEC becoming involved in major projects at the time of the environmental impact assessment, before they Significant contracts include: US Navy: global, multiple even get off the ground.
award construction contract, and modernisation projects for fuel facilities: Imperial Oil: environmental Services are provided for a broad spread of public and and geotechnical engineering work on the Kearl oil private sector customers across the life cycle of their sands cross-divisional collaborative project, Canada: operations.
Work is also performed for customers Guyana Goldfields, Aurora Gold, Guyana: studies and common to the Natural Resources and Power & designs for water and waste management, Process divisions.
geotechnical and other engineering: Department of National Defence, Goose Bay, Canada: prime The environmental services industry is large and consultant for site assessment and remediation: US Air fragmented, providing opportunities for growth through Force Center for Engineering and the Environment: bolt-on acquisitions.
In recent years, Earth & multiple projects at bases globally: Fairfax County, Environmental has added to its geographic footprint Virginia, US: stormwater consulting services: US Air and capabilities through acquisitions, mainly in North Force Civil Engineer Support Agency: design and America and Europe, and intends to make further construction of a solar array at Buckley Air Force Base, investments in the future.
Colorado, US: City of Wichita, Kansas, US: detailed analysis and certification of almost 100 miles of levees protecting the city.
22 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials The Earth & Environmental business portfolio is well Earth & Environmental has many small contracts with balanced both by end market, and in terms of the some fixed price commitments in respect of certain nature of services provided, with the vast majority of federal activities and other consulting projects.
the divisions employees being transferable between During 2009, Earth & Environmental continued market sectors.
The business is characterised by a to improve its geographical footprint and services very high number of small value contracts in 2009 capability through specific acquisitions, further the division was awarded over 15,000 contracts with details of which are given on page 24. an average size of US$40,000.
During 2009, Earth & Environmental improved its Markets competitive position through internal performance Earth & Environmental operates in a large and highly improvement and acquisitions in selected end markets fragmented market.
In 2009, the North American and regions.
The Operational Excellence programme is environmental consulting and engineering market expected to be a major contributor to further segment was valued in excess of US$50 billion source: enhancements in performance of the division in 2010.
Whilst AMECs overall market share is small, due to the nature of the market, the business has Services strong positions in certain end market sectors, notably Earth & Environmental operates a seller-doer natural resources, water and defence.
AMEC also business model employing specialist consultants.
maintains strong local market share in a number of the communities in which it operates, and also with select The following are examples of services provided by nationally operating commercial customers.
Earth & Environmental: Earth & Environmental works for resource, OO OO Archaeology Materials engineering, government and commercial customers in North construction monitoring America, providing services from environmental OO Architecture and testing impact assessments at the earliest stages of the OO Climate change project life cycle right through to advising on clean OO Oceanography and consulting up following decommissioning.
Other major market meteorology OO Ecological studies segments include waste, auditing and permitting, OO Programme management remediation, and industrial services.
OO Engineering design OO Remediation planning OO Environmental site In addition, a broad range of services are provided to and execution characterisation the US Federal Government, which is the largest OO Socio-economic studies procurer of environmental services in the world.
OO Environmental impact OO Tailings waste dump Here, customers include the US Air Force, US Army studies and permitting design and construction and US Navy, where services are as diverse as OO Geotechnical design monitoring remediation programmes, to fixed price design and and analysis delivery of airfield facilities at bases in the US and OO Waste management OO Infrastructure design around the world.
OO Water and air quality The European market for environmental services is OO Water management, smaller than in North America, and is also fragmented.
development and Underlying long-term growth drivers are stronger than protection.
the more mature market in North America, being driven by increasing regulatory pressures.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 23 Earth & Environmental continued Earth & Environmental provides consulting services in Financial performance other regions of the world outside North America and Revenue increased by 18 per cent to 470.8 million Europe, primarily meeting the global needs of existing in 2009 2008: 400.2 million, as a small decline in internationally operating customers.
the underlying revenue was more than offset by acquisitions and favourable currency movements.
Market drivers for this division include growth in The overall softening of the market was not offset, as environmental legislation: increasing corporate social had been expected, by US and Canadian government responsibility: increasing use of brownfield sites and stimulus spending.
Although the division saw growth increasing exploration of environmentally sensitive in the Municipal Water, Mining, and Federal sectors, regions by natural resources companies.
it was offset by weakness in the Industrial Commercial end markets.
Strategy EBITA increased 9 per cent in 2009 to 36.5 million During 2009, Earth & Environmental strengthened 2008: 33.5 million, with acquisitions and currency its competitive position through selective acquisitions.
movements offsetting a reduction in underlying EBITA.
Each of the acquisitions added to the branch network Overall EBITA margin declined 60 bps to 7.8 per cent of offices, and in addition, improved the divisions 2008: 8.4 per cent driven by lower utilisation rates.
capabilities as follows: Operational gearing is higher in this business because OO Philips Engineering Ltd. Ontario, Canada : of the seller-doer business model.
Hence, as the Infrastructure and design engineering economy weakened and projects were delayed, utilisation rates were impacted, despite ongoing action OO Arcas Consulting Archeologists Limited British to reduce the cost base.
Columbia, Canada : archaeological consulting OO Journeaux, Bdard and Assoc.
Inc. Quebec, The average number of employees in Earth & Canada : geotechnical, mining and environmental Environmental for the period increased by 10 per cent consulting.
compared to the previous year, with the increase reflecting the 2009 acquisitions, as well as the full year AMEC continues to see acquisition opportunities in effect of the Geomatrix acquisition June 2008. the environmental services markets in North America and Europe, and aims to make further selective 2010 will remain a challenging year.
However, the acquisitions in order to further improve its competitive Industrial Commercial markets are showing signs of position by way of increased capability and or recovery and US and Canadian stimulus spending is geographic footprint.
expected to increase in 2010 through to early 2011.
The growth fundamentals of Earth & Environmentals In particular, AMEC is seeking to expand its services core sectors continue to support longer-term growth.
offering and capabilities in the water sector.
Major agreements or contracts during 2009 are shown Further details on Vision 2015 can be found at on page 22. amec.
Further details on these, and other contract awards, may be found at amec.
24 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009
