Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 27 Stakeholders ITVs major stakeholders include shareholders, employees, suppliers, viewers and online users, UK and international broadcasters, and advertisers.
Diversity Employees ITVs diversity policy aims to ensure equality of opportunity Given the difficult economic environment, ITV has seen its irrespective of gender, marital status, race, origin, nationality, headcount fall significantly during 2009.
As at 31 December 2009, religious belief, disability, age or sexual orientation in recruitment, the Company had 4,026 employees 2008: 5,232 employees.
This also covers the arrangements for continued employment of and appropriate In tough market conditions, building employee engagement training for employees who become disabled whilst working and commitment is an even greater priority for the Company.
In 2009, ITV undertook regular staff surveys to track staff opinion, commitment and engagement see page 33.
ITV is an active participant in the major diversity forums.
Through these and direct activities undertaken by ITV regionally People development and nationally, the Company is committed to working towards Ensuring that staff have the necessary skills and experience to achieving a workforce fully reflecting the audiences it serves.
deliver the Companys corporate objectives in rapidly changing The table on page 29 gives further information on ITVs market conditions is a priority for ITV.
The Companys performance management process seeks to Communication ensure that ITV employees have clear and aligned objectives ITV recognises that creating an effective workplace requires which are evaluated each year.
All managers are required to free circulation of information at all levels across the Company.
undertake a formal Performance and Development Review Employees are kept informed about significant business issues with their staff.
In 2009, ITV refined its core training portfolio and the Groups performance using emails, the Company to focus on those core skills that best meet the priorities intranet The Watercooler and open forums with members of the business.
of the Management Board at each main location.
Regular ITV has also implemented a number of initiatives in 2009 that monthly leadership breakfasts are held for senior management, give employees broader experience and enhance companywho are asked to cascade the information to their teams.
These include the relaunch of the The Watercooler also provides a platform on which employees volunteering scheme which allows employees to use their can interact, discuss current corporate issues and register creative and media skills through a range of volunteering any matters of concern.
A 12 month Fast Track scheme allows The Company has a framework for consultation and informationtalented ITV staff at the beginning of their careers to sharing, under which Communication Groups on each ITV site build experience and skills on an accelerated basis.
are responsible for maintaining a regular two way dialogue Rewards and incentives with management on all issues concerning employees.
In order to attract, retain and motivate the best talent, ITV Health and Safety aims to offer all employees a competitive package of pay, The health and safety H&S of employees, contractors and benefits and incentives.
In January 2010 ITV completed its visitors at ITV is always a high priority.
A management system annual pay review and concluded that there should be no has been developed by the internal H&S team to meet the increase in base salary for any ITV employees.
However, to specific risk profile of the business and is supported by a provide recognition to its employees for their hard work comprehensive training programme.
H&S is communicated and loyalty shown during a difficult year, ITV made a share throughout the organisation by a network of local Committees, award to the value of 340 to all eligible employees and who report to the ITV H&S Steering Group.
The table on page provided an extra days holiday.
29 gives further information on ITVs H&S statistics.
ITV offers a number of initiatives as part of its benefits package to incentivise all employees: an annual bonus scheme for all ITV employees, which is dependent on ITVs performance against key financial and non-financial targets: an all-employee reward scheme, Create, which rewards employees for any new ideas that generate profit or improve the way ITV does business: and a Save As You Earn scheme which gives all employees the chance to save and build a stake in the Company.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Stakeholders 28 Customers Suppliers Our key customers are our viewers, our advertisers and ITV conducts business with a large variety of suppliers and other broadcasters.
believes that its terms are considered fair and reasonable.
To ensure ITV contracts with responsible suppliers, The heart of our business lies in delivering first-rate content environmental and health and safety questionnaires are to viewers, either directly via our family of channels, or via required to be completed as part of all tender processes.
A green and sustainable procurement agenda will continue To understand ITV viewers and their expectations of us more to be a key focus for the centralised procurement team.
fully, throughout 2009 we continued to commission an Procurement plays a significant role in driving corporate independent research company to recruit and survey our Vision performance.
A significant transformation within the Panel a fully representative panel of 10,000 adult television function and better accounting systems have enabled ITVs viewers and a smaller independent panel, My Digital Life, to procurement function to be integrated more effectively into obtain feedback from the online market.
This enables ITV to the way ITV conducts its business.
Procurement manages measure audience reaction to our programmes and content spending along category lines enabling it to manage spend on a daily basis and to achieve an in-depth understanding of more effectively.
There are central contracts in place for viewer reaction and preferences.
It also allows ITV to ask regular technology, broadcast, production and marketing spend, questions about the family of digital channels, using the panel with local deals only being used where a justification has to test new ideas and to find out peoples views on broader been agreed.
The success of the research has led it to be used by a wide range of areas within the business.
In 2009 for the ITV has a variety of suppliers who are key to the business.
first time it was used to help develop programme-related A number of the Companys major suppliers are involved merchandising opportunities.
in the broadcast of ITVs family of channels and include Arqiva, TNS, SES Astra and BT.
Key suppliers of programming and Viewers must be confident about the quality and appropriateness broadcasting programme rights include ITN, who provides ITVs of ITVs content and scheduling.
ITV observes the 9.00 pm national news programmes, Fremantle who produce Britains watershed and alerts viewers to material that may cause Got Talent and The X Factor for ITV1, the Football Association offence via announcements immediately before relevant and NBC Universal Studios.
ITV has recently signed a five year programming.
ITV has detailed compliance processes and an outsourcing contract with Accenture for them to provide ITV in-house compliance team that provides support and advice with technology operations and support services.
Services will for programme makers and commissioners before and during be transitioned to Accenture during 2010.
ITV maintains a responsive complaints handling engagement with these suppliers and seeks to manage the service via ITVs Viewer Services team, and viewers can raise risks involved in the reliance upon them, where possible holding any issues directly with Ofcom.
In 2009, 797 ITV programmes long-term contracts.
Other key suppliers include those who were complained about to Ofcom, compared to 1,026 in 2008, provide the technology for outside broadcast, for example and 13 Ofcom adjudications found breaches compared to O21 Television and SIS.
ITV has fide-risked its exposure to these 16 in 2008. suppliers by moving away from reliance on a single partner.
The relationship with advertisers is essential to drive advertising revenues.
ITV continues to build close relationships with the Community advertisers and agencies, to gain a better understanding ITV is committed to engaging viewers across the country on of their objectives and to enable ITV to meet those needs issues that affect their lives and have an impact on the more efficiently and effectively.
community in which they live.
Both on and off-screen, ITVs ITV Studios has supplied programming to broadcasters and network and regional teams play an important role in initiatives commissioners worldwide.
The business works closely with its which seek to encourage individuals to improve their lives, partners to produce and supply the highest quality content, support community projects or promote integration of which is commercially appealing and rewarding.
minority groups within their region.
In 2009 ITV was an active partner in the cross-industry and government campaign to improve the nations health and fitness.
As a founding member of the Business4Life movement, ITV supported the Change4Life campaign both on-screen and online by launching The Feelgood Factor.
This initiative involved network and regional programming with a focus on helping viewers make positive changes to achieve a healthier lifestyle for themselves and their families.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Stakeholders 29 In 2009 the ITV regional news programmes across the UK It is the Companys policy not to make cash contributions to helped give away 3.5 million of lottery funding in the Peoples any political party.
However, within the normal activities of the Millions competition.
Around 70 community projects received Groups national and regional news gathering operations there awards of up to 50,000 from the Big Lottery Fund.
Now in its are occasions when activity may fall within the wide definition fifth year, the Peoples Millions competition within regional of political expenditure contained in the Companies Act 2006. news programmes has helped give away more than 21 million Shareholder authority for such expenditure was given at the with hundreds of good causes benefiting as a result.
Annual General Meeting in 2009 and a similar resolution will be proposed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
During the year ITV engages in Diversity and Disability initiatives including the Group made no payments falling within the definition of our award-winning in-house signing facility, Signpost, political expenditure 2008: 7,968. which provides online signing services, news, information, entertainment and education in and about sign language.
Corporate Responsibility In 2009, Signpost won a national RADAR Award the Disability Networks People of the Year Awards for Doing it Differently.
ITV recognises the importance of Corporate Responsibility.
Full details on ITVs Corporate Responsibility objectives and Environment activities will be set out in the separate Corporate Responsibility report available on the Companys website, www.
Careful management of environmental matters is a priority The table below provides a summary of performance against for ITV.
During 2009, ITV undertook a range of activities as key Corporate Responsibility performance indicators.
part of our environmental management programme, such 2009 2008 as supply chain and carbon management.
1 Protecting the environment ITV continued to measure and monitor its carbon footprint CO2 emissions from business and environmental impact during 2009.
The reshaping of the 2 travel tonnes 6,831 5,867 business during the year, coupled with the ongoing focus on 2 Total CO2 emissions tonnes 46,383 50,471 resource management, has led to a reduction in both the Total waste tonnes 2,195 1,900 consumption of water and the size of the carbon footprint Total waste recycled 65% 36% of certain parts of the business.
This decrease reflects changes 3 Total water use m 86,656 93,175 in the property profile of the Company and changing operational practices.
Workplace profile % Female employees 48.2 49.0 Environmental legislation continues to evolve and ITV has 3 Ethnic minority employees 9.1 9.0 procedures in place to ensure new regulatory requirements 4 Employees with a disability 3.1 2.0 are identified, understood and proactively managed.
ITV is preparing to meet the regulatory requirements of the CRC Employees aged over 50 12.9 15.0 5 Energy Efficiency Scheme.
A cross business working group Health and Safety has been established to manage both the risks and Accidents requiring more opportunities presented by the requirements.
In preparation than three days off work 6 5 for this legislation ITV has identified a wide range of Major accidents 5 2 organisational responses.
Fatal accidents 0 0 ITV continues to operate an innovative waste management Access Services for ITV1 % of programmes contract with an external organisation that encourages waste Subtitling 94.5 95.5 reduction and the recycling of materials.
This contractual Audio description 17.3 13.2 arrangement has been in place since 2008 and the work Signing 5.6 5.3 associated with it has been recognised with ITV winning a Corporate Responsibility Award from the Management 1 UK only, including landlord managed sites.
Assistance with data compilation by Mason Hardy Ltd. Consultancy Association.
During 2009 ITV saw an increase 2 Calculated in accordance with the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology.
in the percentage of waste that was diverted from landfill 3 Percentage of those who disclosed their ethnicity.
and instead sent for recycling.
4 Percentage of those who disclosed their disability.
Donations The Company made contributions to charities and equivalent organisations amounting to 2 million 2008: 2 million in cash and 10 million 2008: 5 million in kind, totalling 12 million 2008: 7 million.
Further details will be set out in our Corporate Responsibility report.
