At Sainsburys we will deliver an ever improving quality shopping experience for our customers with great products at fair prices.
We will exceed customer expectations for healthy, safe, fresh and tasty food, making their lives easier every day.
12 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review With over 18 million customers each week Best for food and health Sainsburys has a real impact on UK consumers.
Sainsburys approach is to help and inspire Five principles underpin our activities.
As a leading customers to eat a healthy balanced diet by food retailer we focus on being the best for food promoting healthy eating and active lifestyles.
and health which is why we are committed to We aim to make products as healthy as possible sourcing with integrity.
Because we source from without compromising taste and quality and all over the world and sell in the UK we have to promote clear and transparent labelling to help show respect for our environment and play an customers make informed choices about the food active role in the communities we serve making they eat.
Sainsburys promotes healthy eating a positive difference to our community.
All this inspiring customers to cook via successful is possible through the commitment of our campaigns such as Feed your Family for a Fiver colleagues so that Sainsburys is a great place and simple tip card ideas, 50 per cent of which to work.
contain at least one portion of fruit or vegetables towards an individuals recommended 5-a-day.
Stakeholders trust the company to act responsibly Twenty-fi five per cent of the ideas on tip cards are on their behalf and this is an integral part of the also rated as healthier.
In the current economic climate, our values remain just as important and relevant As part of the Companys commitment to the and although customers are increasingly priceresponsible sale of alcohol, from September 2009 conscious, ethical and environmental issues remain we will be introducing a Think 25 policy across all important for them.
stores, building on the Think 21 policy introduced in September 2005.
Sainsburys was the fi first UK food retailer to publish an environment report which we did in 1996.
Highlights during the year We continue to report on environmental issues Basics: basics sales up 60 per cent year-on-year although the report is now expanded to cover the in the last quarter of the year.
We continue to apply fuller range of issues now commonly referred to our front of pack Multiple Traffi c Light labelling to under the umbrella of corporate responsibility.
all relevant products, including our basics range, making it easier for customers to make healthy and affordable choices at a glance.
Saturated fat: Dairy is one of the major contributors of saturated fat to the UK diet.
Our 1 per cent fat milk, launched in April 2008, has the same taste and calcium content as semi-skimmed milk but nearly half the fat and is now consumed in around two and a half million UK households.
140 Y EARS Sugar: We have reduced the sugar or sucralose in OF MAKING A all of our squash lines by ten per cent.
Over 65 per cent of our own brand bottled and carbonated DIFFERENCE squash and over 90 per cent of our own brand Corporate Responsibility squash contain no added sugar.
Report 2009 Fibre: In 2008 we introduced a number of products with higher fi bre content including a wholemeal basics loaf, one of our top three selling basics bakery products.
Sales of the new loaf almost doubled in the three months following its launch.
Sourcing with integrity Sourcing with integrity is about offering products that are better for customers, the environment and the animals, farmers and suppliers involved in their pr production.
Sainsbury ainsburys is c s is commit ommitt ted t ed to o o of ff fering ering British products at their best, when in Our 2009 Corporate Responsibility season and when the quality meets report will be published on 13 July customers expectations.
We have a long and is available online at history of supporting British farmers www.
co. uk cr and helping to raise capability and skills to create sustainable businesses and long-term relationships.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 J Sainsbury plc 13 Corporate responsibility review continued Sainsburys also recognises the value it can bring Sainsburys champions the Reduce, Re-use, to communities in developing countries and we Recycle approach to minimise waste from its are the UKs largest retailer of Fairtrade products, business and customer waste via packaging and accounting for around one-third of all UK Fairtrade food waste.
We are on target to send zero food sales.
In August 2008 we celebrated the first waste to landfill by the end of 2009.
We have also anniversary of our Fair Development Fund by promoted the re-use of shopping bags since the introducing dried fruit and nuts from Uganda, mid 1990s.
In April 2008 we increased the recycled Malawi, Mozambique and Zambia, the first food content of our single use bags from 33 per cent to produced from grants awarded at the funds launch 50 per cent and started issuing Nectar loyalty in August 2007.
A major aim of the fund, run by points to customers re-using their own bags when Comic Relief and financed by Sainsburys with shopping in Sainsburys stores in June 2008.
1 million over four years, is to develop long-term sustainable solutions for producers in developing Highlights during the year countries to meet Fairtrade standards and start Environmentally efficient stores: In August 2008 selling internationally on fairer terms.
we opened our flagship green store in Dartmouth, Devon.
The store has achieved reductions in its We remain committed to promoting high standards overall CO emissions by 54 per cent through the 2 of animal welfare and recognise that in using use of renewable energy and has reduced energy sustainable resources in our products, such as consumed from the national grid by over 50 per FSC Timber, we minimise the impact of our cent.
Rainwater harvesting has reduced mains products on the environment.
water usage by 60 per cent, saving around one million litres of mains water every year.
Most Highlights during the year of the energy saving features identified from RSPCA Freedom Food chicken: Sales of our Dartmouth are now being replicated in our RSPCA Freedom Food chicken are up over 130 per new stores.
Sales of all our higher welfare chicken including Freedom Food, Free range and Energy reduction programme for existing stores: Organic are up over 30 per cent year-on-year.
A project was launched in 2007 to improve the energy efficiency of our existing stores.
Over Cage-free Eggs: In February 2009 we became 200 stores have so far been completed, achieving the first major supermarket to stop selling eggs savings of over 53,000 tonnes of CO every year 2 from caged hens.
This means that over half a as a result.
In 2009 we will continue the scheme, million hens will no longer be kept in battery targeting 100 stores during 2009 10. cages, meeting our 2010 target a whole year ahead of schedule and two years before Carrier bags: Over the past three years the government legislation comes into effect.
company has reduced the environmental impact of its carrier bags by 63 per cent as measured by Fairtrade: Our Fairtrade sales this year hit the amount of virgin plastic used and over the 210 million, maintaining our position as the past two years has reduced the number of bags largest retailer of Fairtrade products in the UK issued by 58 per cent.
We now account for around onethird of all Fairtrade sales in the UK.
Food waste: Following the success of a food waste trial we are on track to send zero food RSPCA Freedom Food salmon: In June 2008 waste to landfill in 2009.
Food waste from 38 we launched our Responsibly sourced salmon, stores is currently sent for anaerobic digestion making us the first major supermarket to convert in Northamptonshire where it is broken down all our farmed salmon to the RSPCA Freedom Food into fertiliser and methane gas, used to generate standard.
All our fresh and smoked farmed salmon electricity.
This approach will be rolled out is now 100 per cent Scottish and meets the RSPCA nationwide in 2009.
Making a positive difference to Respect for our environment our community Sainsburys recognises that tackling issues such as Sainsburys stores are at the heart of the climate change involves working both upstream in communities they serve and with around 150,000 its supply chains and downstream with customers.
colleagues throughout the UK, we are a major On the issue of carbon reduction we are working contributor to local employment.
We support local hard to reduce our operational footprint by communities through programmes such as food improving the energy efficiency of stores and the donation schemes and Sainsburys Active Kids.
distribution network and by increasing the amount of renewable energy used.
14 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review continued Sainsburys participation in Red Nose Day on A great place to work 13 March 2009 also saw customers and colleagues Being a great place to work is rooted in Sainsburys help the company donate over 10 million to heritage and values.
The Company was one of the Comic Relief an increase of 32 per cent over fi first shops to actively recruit women in 1914 and the previous event.
We are the charitys largest we set up a training school in 1915 initially to help corporate partner having donated over 40 million women do the jobs of men away at war.
It was so in the past ten years.
successful that other retailers started advertising for Sainsburys-trained colleagues.
We are Highlights during the year committed to championing inclusion, diversity and Comic Relief: The 10 million donated to Comic fl exible working and we aim to recruit, retain and Relief this year will help to support some of the engage colleagues from backgrounds that refl ect most vulnerable people in both the UK and the the communities we serve.
Our colleague development programme You Can, Active Kids: We have now donated over 70 combines established and new initiatives to support million worth of sports equipment and experiences job opportunities for the long-term unemployed and to schools, nurseries, Scouts and Girlguiding UK disadvantaged and skills development for new and groups through our Active Kids scheme which existing colleagues.
Launched in November 2008 was launched in 2005.
In the year ending March it offers colleagues development opportunities 2009 we donated 18 million worth of equipment from support with literacy and numeracy through and resources, with more than 150,000 young to Level 2 NVQ qualifi cations.
people trying a new physical activity as a result.
We are on target to donate 100 million worth of Highlights during the year equipment by 2011.
You Can: We now have over 2,000 colleagues participating in You Can.
760 colleagues have Food donation: In 2008 09 we donated over been recruited in 2008 09 by providing job 5 million worth of surplus food to a network opportunities to the long-term unemployed and of charities across the UK through our Food disadvantaged, whilst around 1,300 colleagues are Donation programme.
now benefi ting from the online skills, job-related qualifi cations and apprenticeship opportunities Job creation: During the year ending March 2009 offered through You Can.
we generated 5,000 new jobs by opening 11 new supermarkets, 20 new convenience stores and Colleague bonus: 120,000 colleagues will share a number of store extensions.
We will continue a bonus of 60 million this year bringing the total our programme of store development in 2009 10 amount paid out over the last four years to over generating 6,500 additional jobs.
The bonus scheme is linked to the delivery of great service and product availability Alcohol: From September 2009 we will be as well as overall sales and profi t measures.
introducing a Think 25 policy across all of our stores, further encouraging the responsible sale of alcohol.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 J Sainsbury plc 15
