Corporate social responsibility report The company is a central part of the local communities in Skills Pledge a voluntary public commitment, made which it trades and proactively manages its responsibilities by the company, to develop the skills of employees from both a corporate and social perspective.
The board and support their working towards nationally has made corporate social responsibility CSR a part of recognised qualifications.
the daily culture of the business.
The companys CSR plan identifies key areas covering: people: responsible retailing: The company is committed to equal opportunities and the community and charity: environment: ethical working: elimination of discrimination, harassment and victimisation health and safety: good food.
This is achieved through the application of employment policies to ensure that individuals receive fair and consistent treatment.
At the time of writing, 50% of The CSR group meets monthly to progress business initiatives outlined in the CSR plan.
Minutes of these the workforce is female and 50% male.
meetings are reported to, and reviewed by, the board.
The company has also been recognised as an Age People Positive employer, by the Department for Work and Pensions, and has been recognised by the Corporate The company aims to be an employer of choice in the UK, through its ongoing investment in award-winning Research Foundation, in association with the Guardian training and development, policies on equality, newspaper, as one of Britains Top Employers, for six a competitive remuneration package and the consecutive years, including 2009. encouragement of employees to participate actively in the The company continually benchmarks its remuneration long-term business strategy.
The company aims to set the industry benchmark in these areas and to be the best.
package, to maintain its industry-leading qualities.
In addition to market-competitive pay rates, the companys Providing a great service to its customers starts industry-leading bonus and share scheme is available to all with its employees, who are trained to the highest employees, depending on their length of service.
In this connection, the company awarded bonuses and shares industry standards.
SIPs of 20.5m in the year, an increase of 25% In relation to training, the company held over 700 separate 2008: 16.4m.
Of the payments, 91% were made to training courses in 2008, attended by 12,000 delegates, and employees below board level, with approximately 79% promoted over 600 bar and kitchen staff to management of payments made to employees working in our pubs.
The company has won many training awards over the years: in January 2009, the company was awarded three Responsible drinks retailing further National Innkeeping Training Awards, by the British As a retailer of alcoholic drinks, the company fully Institute of Innkeeping, including the Best Training supports practices which promote responsible drinking and Programme in Managed Estates.
has developed several initiatives and policies to ensure that it acts in a highly responsible manner.
The company does In addition, the Advanced Diploma in Leisure Retail not participate in irresponsible retailing practices and Management, run in conjunction with Leeds Metropolitan avoids any actions which would be seen to encourage or University, is offered to all pub and area managers at condone irresponsible drinking.
The company has Wetherspoon: to date, over one-third of all pub managers established a code of conduct for responsible retailing which details its approach in this area.
This includes: have completed the programme.
We believe this diploma to have been the first in-house programme in the licensed trade which allows employees to gain a professional qualification taking all reasonable precautions to ensure that those while working.
The programme was extended to include a under 18 years of age cannot buy or obtain alcoholic degree top-up, also in conjunction with Leeds Metropolitan drinks.
This is achieved through operating a Challenge 21 University, offering an alternative to full-time study.
policy in all pubs, supported through staff training and monitored through regular audits to ensure compliance.
The quality and volume of the companys training courses ensuring that it does not serve alcohol to anyone who ensure that employees feel motivated and supported, is believed to be intoxicated.
providing them with the necessary skills to carry out their not offering any promotions or incentives which jobs to a consistently high standard.
encourage customers to drink irresponsibly.
In August 2009, the company was awarded a funding The company seeks to develop close partnerships with contract with the Learning and Skills Council to offer a local authorities and the police.
All pubs are required to Level 2 Apprenticeship and Skills for Life qualification become a member of the local pubwatch scheme, if one numeracy and literacy.
Over the next year or so, these exists, to assist in building relationships across the qualifications will be made available to all employees.
In many locations, a company pub manager As part of this process, the company has signed the chairs the scheme.
Where there is no pubwatch scheme, 44 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Corporate social responsibility report the company will work with the local police and council promote efficient purchasing which will both to establish one.
A company representative sits on the minimise waste and allow materials to be recycled, National Pubwatch Committee, and the business where appropriate.
financially supports the Drinkaware Trust, the British adopt efficient waste-management strategies which Institute of Innkeeping and the Portman Group.
reduce the amount of waste going to landfill or other disposal sites.
The company was the inaugural winner of the strive to minimise any emissions or effluents which Responsible Drinks Retailing Award, partly sponsored by may cause environmental damage.
the Home Office, and also helps to fund charity raise awareness of environmental issues among organisations such as Responsible Drinks Retailing.
all of its employees and suppliers partners.
In addition to this, several Wetherspoon pubs have ensure appropriate training, in environmental issues, been recognised, at gold, silver or bronze level, as the of all employees.
Best Bar None for promoting a safe, secure environment.
Over the past 12 months, the company has complemented Community and charity its policy with several initiatives, including areas around Historically, pubs have always been a focal point of any energy-efficiency, recycling, ethical working, suppliers and community.
The companys aim is to continue that health and safety.
tradition by supporting and building relationships with the local community, through employment, charitable giving Energy-efficiency and investment, while providing a convivial meeting The company recognises that energy consumption is place.
Ensuring that the company provides full access to unavoidable.
However, it also acknowledges its those with disabilities is a priority.
Wherever possible, the responsibility for the resources which it uses and that company utilises local suppliers and businesses.
good environmental management is an essential part of being a responsible business.
Charitable giving The company is the largest single fund-raiser for the The companys energy group is responsible for maintaining CLIC Sargent charity Caring for Children with Cancer, a continual focus on improving its pubs energy-efficiency.
a partnership now in its seventh consecutive year, raising In 2008 and 2009, the company undertook an installation 2.6 million to date, with a pledge to raise a further programme, ensuring that virtually all pubs have electricity 500,000 each year.
During the past financial year, smart meters.
This has provided the company with the company employees and customers raised 532,875. information to report and communicate energy consumption effectively.
This has helped the business to make a significant The biggest individual fund-raising event is the annual reduction, of 11%, in like-for-like energy consumption.
Kick for CLIC Sargent five-a-side football tournament.
This brings together over 100 football teams to compete To achieve this, the company regularly communicates ideas in regional heats which culminate in the final stage of the and initiatives to pubs about how they could reduce their tournament at Wembley stadium.
Last year, this event energy consumption.
This is supported by weekly was won by those from The Spread Eagle pub, management reporting to pubs, including energy Birmingham, and raised over 171,000. consumption for the previous week, an energy-efficiency rating and energy-saving top tips.
Many of these top tips Every pub is also encouraged to support a local charity, were generated through a company suggestion scheme.
through fund-raising, sponsorship and volunteer work.
Staff are reminded to participate in the Save It campaign The company makes further donations to local good switching off lights and equipment, when not in use.
causes, including sponsorships, raffle prizes, computers for schools and unwanted furniture for local institutions.
The company also ensures that, when new pubs are developed or current ones upgraded, equipment and Energy and the environment processes are introduced to minimise ongoing The company is committed to fostering the preservation energy consumption.
and protection of the environment, while recognising its wider social responsibility.
It is the companys policy to: Recycling The company aims to reduce the amount of waste which minimise the extent of the environmental impact it sends to landfill or other disposal sites, through a of its operations, as far as is reasonably practicable.
combination of packaging reduction and the recycling of conserve energy through minimising consumption waste products.
The company recycles ordinary materials, generated as a consequence of daily business.
During the and maximising efficiency.
minimise the use of materials which may be harmful financial year, the company recycled 11,790 tonnes of to the environment.
waste, including 20 tonnes of aluminium, 3,333 tonnes ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 45 Corporate social responsibility report of cardboard, 1,750 tonnes of cooking oil, 414 tonnes of Health and safety paper, 231 tonnes of plastic and 42 tonnes of steel.
The health and safety of customers and employees is critical: therefore, the company looks to promote the Glass-recycling will be a major focus for the current year.
highest standards of safety, throughout the business, by ensuring that employees attend appropriate training.
The business generates over 30,000 tonnes of glass per annum.
The company has joined forces with Biffa, its Providing the correct training helps to ensure that pubs waste-disposal partner, to roll out glass-recycling across are operated within the law.
The company successfully recycled 6,000 tonnes of glass in the year and aims to increase this to The pubs are regularly assessed for risks, with relevant solutions identified to address them.
The pubs are 75% of the glass supplied to pubs.
In addition, the business has a dedicated supply chain for its food, bottled drinks and non-consumable products.
Good food This means that deliveries to pubs can be consolidated, The company aims to improve continually the quality of its food offers and provide customers with required with any recycling material returned to the companys recycling operation, on the return journey, thereby saving information about the product range, to allow them to road miles.
The company is also working with suppliers, make informed decisions about their food consumption.
over the course of the next year, to reduce packaging This includes nutritional information for all dishes via the materials brought into the pubs.
In 2008, the company Web site and a new printed leaflet available in all pubs.
This information also includes Guideline Daily Amounts.
won a Green Apple Award in environmental best practice for its efforts in recycling, from the Green Organisation.
The menu is coded, so that customers can easily see those Ethical working dishes which contain 5% fat or less or count towards the The company carries out its business honestly, ethically and five-a-day fruit and vegetable target.
Specific information on the company Web site also provides information for with respect for the rights and interests of all of those involved.
The company expects relations with customers, those with food allergies or intolerances.
Braille and suppliers and business partners to be mutually beneficial and large-print menus are also available in the pubs.
expects its business practices and standards to be upheld.
The company has strict specifications for all of its products, to ensure that high standards of quality and Working with suppliers The company promotes long-term relationships with its safety are met.
For example, the sausages which the suppliers, working closely with them to maintain the company sources from the award-winning Welsh Sausage integrity and continuity of service expected by its customers.
Company contain only British pork, with no artificial colours or flavours: the company uses only dolphin-friendly tuna: the cod, haddock and salmon The company seeks to ensure that both its own activities and those of its suppliers are socially and environmentally in its dishes are from recognised, sustainable fisheries.
The companys environmental policy commits it to working with suppliers, contractors and partners to All of the companys food suppliers are accredited by the minimise environmental impact and to encourage British Retail Consortium.
sustainable sourcing and, wherever possible, to obtain products from across the UK.
For example, eleven pubs in The company is working closely with the Food Standards Scotland source fish locally for their pubs, while 100% Agency FSA to reduce, over an 18-month period, the British beef is used in its beef & Abbot Ale pie, chilli, salt, saturated fats and sugar levels in its menu offering, cottage pie, lasagne, steak & kidney pudding and in line with the latest FSA guidelines.
In 2009, the company became Eat Out magazines winner The company is the single largest supporter of in the best town & local pub category.
In 2008, the microbreweries in Great Britain and Northern Ireland and company also became Eat Out magazines winner of is regularly acclaimed for its commitment to real ale, MenuMasters Best Menu 2008 in the kids category.
actively supporting brewers of all sizes across the UK, to This was in recognition of the work carried out to ensure that customers can enjoy a diverse range of real increase the organic, free-range and healthy products on ales which are a unique part of the UKs national the childrens menu.
In addition, the company serves heritage and culture.
There are 193 Wetherspoon pubs Tierra Lavazzas  sustainable listed in the CAMRA Good Beer Guide 2010, a larger coffee.
Also, at least 50% of the PG tips tea comes from proportion than that of any other pub company.
