Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 39 Corporate responsibility review Employment Community We want to be We do not exist in recognised as a isolation.
Instead, we Company where are an integral part of talented people of all the communities in disciplines, from which we operate.
We managers and are determined to play engineers to on-site our part to the full, operatives, can do their through financial best work.
donations as well as practical support.
People are the lifeblood of JKX they are the basis We value our people and their communities, of our success to date and the foundations for providing financial support and practical assistance our future.
All our operations are managed with local interests in mind, thereby A key employment objective is to be recognised as a increasing public confidence in the integrity of our Company that enables its people to achieve their assets and underlining our commitment to HSEC potential and contribute to our continuing success.
In order to reach this goal, we recruit, train and develop outstanding people, whether they are recent In 2009 we introduced a structured system for graduates or experienced professionals, giving them stakeholder dialogue in key operational locations.
In the tools and the rewards which will enable them to particular, this system has influenced the way in enjoy excellent long-term careers.
which we now manage carbon emissions.
Background does not matter to JKX: talent and Community support is overseen by the General commitment do.
We have established policies in Director in each location.
Engagement is measured place to ensure equality of opportunity and avoid in monetary terms and reported to the Group HSEC discrimination on the grounds of race, gender, manager as well as to local management.
In practical terms, our community support frequently Outside the UK, we provide pay and conditions which involves using the Companys plant and machinery are comfortably above the norm.
Not only does this as well as manpower to provide much-needed mean we have access to the most talented assistance.
For example, our on-site fire service in individuals, but it gives those individuals and their Ukraine took part in five fire-fighting incidents in the families a depth of training and a breadth of local community during 2009. opportunity that is rare in their communities.
We Our policies and reporting processes will be the also give our local workforce the chance to relocate subject of renewed focus during 2010. to other regions to gain further experience.
Charitable donations and volunteering Each operating entity has a limited budget for good causes and we handle charitable donations at a local level.
40 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Turning policies into practice During REDUCING 2009 we made important strides towards reducing carbon emissions by 12.5% by 2012, well ahead of the EUs target.
A key component of our drive to improve our environmental performance lies in encouraging all partners working in our locations to utilise more  plant and equipment whenever practical.
We have worked closely with procurement departments and site managers to specify and procure items including cranes, compressors and vehicles that conform to the best environmental The pre-qualification process for contractors insists option.
When plant and equipment requires renewal, that all equipment must be of a certain age and we encourage people to consider options which condition and as far as is reasonably practicable satisfy the needs of the environment as well as the pose no environmental threat.
Vehicles on JKX MANAGING business cover many miles during the year and make a significant contribution to our corporate carbon footprint.
Effective traffic management can make a real difference to emissions while at the same time enabling us to reduce operational costs.
Following the extensive review carried out in 2008, we have continued to monitor our traffic management plan, assessing training issues and improving our journey management initiative.
For example, we introduced personal fitness testing for drivers during 2009.
Our HSEC Plan requires greater monitoring during 2010 with the aim of reducing exposure hours for drivers.
We are considering certain initiatives from the OGPA Land Transport Safety Recommended Practices in order to remain compliant with industry best practice and to demonstrate continuous improvement in transport management.
Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 41 Corporate responsibility review In the locations where we HELPING operate, JKX is a major employer with the clear potential to be a positive force in the local community.
Our support extends from providing our own resources to help at local projects and incidents, such as fire-fighting equipment and heavy plant, to financial assistance.
In Ukraine, we combined both strands of that policy through the purchase and the subsequent installation of a childrens playground at Novo Sanjary during 2009.
The playground, which is situated outside the childrens ward at the local hospital and easily visible from its windows, is a clear expression of our commitment to and involvement with the communities which contribute so much to our performance.
The investment in equipment cost of $12,000 plus our time invested in installation is already paying dividends through the pleasure that local children are gaining from the playground.
