34 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility review We aim to be a good corporate citizen, supporting our people and their communities, and minimising our environmental impact.
Company-wide commitment to CSR Robust processes Our Company and our performance are inextricably We have robust policies and standards in place to linked to the way we interact with our people, the oversee our CSR commitment.
These cover: environment and the communities where we Safety reporting and incident management operate.
We are committed to being recognised as a good corporate citizen and neighbour, supporting Exposure man hours our people at work as well as in their broader lives Occupational health provision and record keeping and minimising our impact on the environment.
Environmental reporting and incident Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is embedded management in our organisation and led by the Chief Executive Officer.
The role of our Health, Safety, Environment Continuing Professional Development and and Community HSEC manager, who reports to the implementation CEO, is to create a framework for the management Human resources practices, covering areas such of the Groups non-financial impacts.
as equal opportunities Each quarter, the Board is provided with a report on Handling of charitable requests key CSR issues.
A full Board-level review of progress was completed in December 2009 and plans were Local community relations agreed for 2010.
These include further enhancing Reporting under regulations such as RIDDOR and our focus on continuous improvement and also on OSHA requirements the awareness among staff of key HSEC issues.
We aim to comply with all local laws and regulations Within each operating company, a nominated and expect our partners to reach the same individual has executive responsibility for health, standards.
In practice, we frequently exceed these safety and environment.
Fully trained and minimum requirements.
experienced in all relevant aspects of HSEC, these representatives are also familiar with local culture, Open culture regulations and working practices.
To ensure We encourage our people to report all incidents, no Group-wide consistency, they report not only to the matter how minor.
If incidents are not reported, we general director of the local operating company but can neither learn from our experiences nor improve also liaise with the Group HSEC manager.
We operate a no-blame policy and in recent years have made progress towards a culture that embraces open reporting.
Initiatives include report forms and post-boxes that enable workers to report incidents anonymously.
However, there remains much work to do in what is an area of continued focus for the CSR team.
Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 35 Reduced carbon Improved health Secured Introduced a emissions by and safety OHSAS 18001 structured 12.5%, putting record, with a accreditation system for us ahead of decrease in and commenced stakeholder schedule to TRCF Total ISO 14001 dialogue in key comply with EU Recordable Case accreditation.
Corporate CSR objectives Key targets for 2010 Protect people by providing information Reduce the TRCF by 0.5%.
and advice: promoting and assuring a goal-setting system of compliance.
Meet or exceed the HSEC performance benchmark set by the Association of Oil and Gas Producers OGP.
Influence stakeholder organisations to embrace high standards of health and Prepare PPC for OHSAS 18001 accreditation.
safety and to recognise the social and economic benefits.
Prepare JKX for accreditation for ISO 14001.
Seek to optimise the use of resources to Identify opportunities to improve charitable and worthwhile activities.
deliver our mission and vision, and enhance our reputation as a good Maintain OHSAS 18001 accreditation.
Complete and implement the 2010 Carbon Management Plan.
Develop new ways to establish and maintain an effective health and safety Introduce BBS & Health Monitoring COSHH initiatives.
culture in a changing economy, so that all employers take their responsibilities Identify opportunities to improve training and competence assurance.
seriously, the workforce is fully involved and risks are properly managed.
Identify opportunities to improve consultation and Community Liaison Plans.
Exemplify Oil and Gas sector best practice in managing our resources.
Seek opportunities for improved contractor selection and management support.
Achieve higher levels of recognition and respect for health and safety as an integral Improve contractor risk based approach to HSEC Management.
part of a modern, competitive business.
Identify opportunities for improved Risk Management and Continue to work with the business to Assessment activities.
prevent catastrophic failures in major hazard industries.
Examine opportunities to improve waste disposal and recycling.
Undertake and encourage research, and Identify opportunities to improve the contribution of local HSEC staff.
enforce the law where necessary.
Identify opportunities for improved hazard, near-miss and incident reporting.
Identify opportunities to improve Emergency Response plans.
