32 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Corporate social responsibility Ethics The Group has an organisational culture that encourages ethical We expect our people to uphold high ethical conduct and a commitment to compliance with the law.
standards wherever in the world our business The Group Finance Director chairs the Business Ethics Committee.
The Committee comprises senior management representatives drawn from across the Group and is tasked with monitoring the operation of the Business Ethics Policy and working on ways to best promote compliance across the Group.
The Policy was revised and updated in February 2009, translated into nine languages, issued in both hard copy and electronic format and widely publicised.
The Policy is available on the Groups website and agents were sent copies and asked to indicate their continued compliance.
New web based Business Ethics training was developed during the year and is being rolled out in 2010.
The on-line training is mandatory for the Groups key compliance risk employees, who have been asked to indicate their continued commitment to compliance with the Policy by completing an annual certification.
The certification also requires confirmation that all known or suspected violations of the Policy have been reported.
Telephone helplines and an email address, where concerns can be raised confidentially, are used to encourage the reporting of suspected or actual violations of the Policy as well as operating as a forum for employees to ask questions.
An ethics register is maintained, and the Board receives regular reports and updates on ethics matters as well as on the implementation of the Policy.
There were a number of internal investigations undertaken into allegations of unethical behaviour during 2009.
Appropriate disciplinary action was taken based on the facts and circumstances and this included four terminations for violations of the Policy.
We will continue to take prompt action to deal with any known violations.
The policy was revised in February 2009 and made available in nine 2 languages.
New on-line web-based training courses, containing hypothetical examples and scenarios tailored to Wood Group businesses is being rolled out.
In conjunction with the roll out, more than 20 half-day Business Ethics training seminars were held.
Energy Supporting Energy Wood Group AR 2009 Front - Final.
