At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
LWCF is the frequency of all injuries resulting in lost time away from work.
Both frequencies are measured per million hours worked.
Safety As an integral part of our business we will In 2009 we saw a reduction in TRCF of 2% compared to 2008.
Our maintain a healthy workplace and aim to LWCF reduced by just over 13% compared with 2008, reflecting a reduction in the frequency of more severe incidents.
This was achieved prevent accidents.
through a series of initiatives, with a focus on improving leading performance indicators.
We introduced a Frontline Focus campaign to drive effective implementation of our base safety programmes at the frontline of our operations, where the potential risks to our people are greatest.
As part of this, more than 500 people in senior management and health and safety roles engaged in a variety of activities to enhance the quality of our programmes.
Our progress was recognised by a number of external awards including our US-based Power Plant Services business which was named as one of Americas Safest Companies for 2009 as listed by EHS Today a magazine for environment, health and safety leaders and our joint venture, TransCanada Turbines, which was awarded Best Safety Performer by Work Safe Alberta.
Another area where significant progress was made in 2009 is the application of best practice to asset integrity and process safety.
This has become an increasingly important topic for our clients.
The Chairmans annual health and safety awards continue to recognise our colleagues who achieve outstanding results in improving performance.
Health Promoting and enhancing the health and well-being of our employees, their families and the communities in which we work is important.
We are committed to reducing instances of occupational illness, sickness, absenteeism and increasing awareness of healthy lifestyle options.
We provide guidance, analytical tools, assistance and support 3 to develop health programmes tailored and managed by our local 1 businesses.
We participate in a number of inter company 2 health and sport challenges around the world.
Our Frontline Focus campaign aims to ensure effective implementation of our base safety programmes at the frontline of our operations.
As a board member of the Corporate Alliance on Malaria in Africa CAMA we are part of the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria GBC.
Wood Group AR 2009 Front - Final.
