30 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Corporate social responsibility Environment As an environmentally responsible organisation, we are striving to We will aim to minimise the adverse increase our efficiency in terms of energy consumption and reduce our environmental impact of our activities, carbon emissions.
work with our customers to minimise their To better understand carbon management and ways to reduce carbon impact, demonstrate our commitment use in our operations, a Carbon Footprint Pilot was introduced in 2009.
Five businesses, comprising offices, repair shops and manufacturing with actions rather than words and remain based businesses participated in the programme.
The programme focused on further improvement.
adopted the UK Carbon Trust calculator to measure and monitor the carbon footprint of the operations.
The objectives were: test how we assess and measure our energy consumption identify areas and targets for improvement explore potential solutions for saving energy analyse the results of the pilot and share our learning across the Group Following the success of the pilot, it is being expanded in 2010.
We are also working to get all our UK businesses ready for the introduction of Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC regulations.
As a key element of our 2010 environmental campaign, in June 2010 we will be holding a global environmental week, which will seek to highlight and share best practice initiatives.
In addition, one of the main ways in which we can have a positive effect on the environment is through helping our customers to reduce their impact.
Our existing offshore operations, subsea and pipeline engineering skills mean we are well placed to provide support to offshore wind, wave and tidal energy developments.
We are also involved in emerging opportunities for carbon capture and sequestration CCS.
During 2009 we have been involved in several environmental projects including 1 3 the Beatrice Wind Farm Demonstrator Project, South West Regional Development Agencys Wave Hub renewable energy project, the design and project management of two offshore substations for AREVA T&D on the Sheringham Shoal Offshore Wind Farm, and front end engineering and design for CCS in connection with Masdar in Abu Dhabi.
In 2009 we set up Wood Group Renewable Energy Services to focus on the wind turbine after market and we are also involved in the marine renewable business.
Five companies participated in the 2 Carbon Footprint Pilot.
Employees in Perth volunteered to plant 3,500 trees at a planting organised by Men of the Trees.
We provided conceptual and detailed design for OCEANLINXs prototype wave energy device, offshore Australia.
Energy Supporting Energy Wood Group AR 2009 Front - Final.
indd 30 01 04 2010 14:05 At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 31 : Community We continued to support an extensive range of local and international Caring for our communities is important to us charities spanning health, education, the arts, and the prevention and we encourage all our people to engage in and reduction of poverty.
We have a well established Employee Community Fund supporting charities and fundraising efforts involving community projects at a local level.
Children in Equatorial Guinea enjoyed receiving Christmas presents thanks to a toy drive organised by employees in the Malabo and Rebola areas.
In the USA we were involved in a number of initiatives, including the annual MS150 bike ride, to raise money for Multiple Sclerosis MS and a new partnership with the Alley Theatre.
The Group is also a long term supporter of the Grampian-Houston exchange which provides opportunities for student nurses to experience health care in the UK and USA.
In the UK we have an active community programme including sponsorship of the North East Scotland final of the national KNEX challenge, a programme designed to introduce primary school children to engineering.
We are a long term supporter of the annual Aberdeen International Youth Festival, the worlds premiere participatory youth arts festival.
In Australia we supported Melbourne Citymission helping homeless young people rehabilitate into society.
In India, a team taking part in the Mumbai Marathon 6k Dream Run helped raise money for Children in Pain CHiP, supporting the public school system.
In 2010 we look forward to maintaining and developing the partnerships that we have already established with various charities.
We encourage our employees to support their local community, and, through them, broaden our approach and find more projects where we can offer longer term commitments to the communities in which we operate.
The MS150 team, cycled 80 miles 1 2 from La Grange to Austin to raise money for Multiple Sclerosis MS and raised over $170,000.
Employees participating in the Mumbai Marathon 6k Dream Run helped raise money for Children in Pain CHiP, supporting the public school system.
The national KNEX challenge is a programme designed to introduce engineering to primary school children 3 and encourage them to see it as a potential career in the future.
Wood Group AR 2009 Front - Final.
