BUSINESS REVIEW With our Sustainability 2017 targets in place, baseline data Sustainability taken as our performance in the 2006 07 year has been established and we have developed appropriate key performance Johnson Matthey is a world leader in environmental technologies indicators KPIs to enable us to measure performance.
Progress and, with a significant proportion of profits generated by products during this first full year of the initiative is summarised in the that directly benefit the environment, sustainability is a key table on page 30. element of our strategy for the future growth of the business.
The KPIs for monitoring progress towards the target of Sustainability is fundamentally about the best long term halving key resources consumed per unit of output have been way to run a business.
There is growing concern globally, developed through consultation with all of Johnson Mattheys including among our employees, our customers, our facilities worldwide.
The top three key resources were identified communities and others with whom we work, about the way for each facility and from this electricity consumption, natural countries, companies and individuals are using the worlds gas consumption and water use clearly emerged as most resources.
This is affecting people now in many ways and our significant to the majority of the group.
decisions and actions today will affect future generations for a In these early stages of our Sustainability 2017 initiative, long time to come.
employee engagement has been a key focus.
A detailed Throughout Johnson Matthey we are committed to the two year communications plan is being delivered with the principles of sustainable development and strive for outstanding aim of giving employees a clear view of the importance of resource efficiency and carbon neutrality.
Going forward, we aim sustainability to the overall business strategy and equipping to further develop and enhance sustainability as a core them with the information they need to take forward their competence and key driver of competitiveness for our business.
This will be delivered through our Sustainability 2017 initiative.
During the year a leaflet, poster, in house magazine article and intranet area were produced and distributed across the Sustainability 2017 group.
The Johnson Matthey Sustainability 2017 Awards have In December 2007 we launched Sustainability 2017, a been launched to recognise the outstanding contribution of challenging long term vision for the whole group that sets our individuals or teams in working towards achieving the vision.
direction and aspirations to make Johnson Matthey a more Over the last year one day sustainability training sessions sustainable business for the future.
Our aims are to at least were run to help employees put the Sustainability 2017 Vision double our earnings per share whilst achieving carbon neutrality, into practice in their day-to-day work.
Around 130 employees zero waste to landfill and halving the key resources that we around the world attended the sessions and a number of them consume per unit of output by 2017, the 200th anniversary of have since used the training materials and delivered the the founding of the company.
The full statement is available on programme to colleagues at their own sites.
Further tailored the companys website at www.
training sessions for specific functions such as Purchasing and Sustainability 2017 was defined following an assessment Environment, Health and Safety EHS are being developed for of the risks, major impacts and future commercial opportunities 2009 10. open to the business.
There are two key thrusts to the vision.
A dedicated microsite is under construction which will The first is about being more efficient with the resources we provide a central source of information on every aspect of our use as a business and the second is about designing new sustainability programme.
Due to be launched in 2009 10, it will products that help our customers to be more sustainable and provide a means for employees across the group to share their competitive.
Some of the progress we have made towards comments and ideas.
An enhanced sustainability section on the achieving the vision are presented in summary in this report.
companys corporate website will also be developed during Further details can be found in Johnson Mattheys Sustainability 2009 10 which will provide a wider range of information both Report which will be published on the companys website in for employees and other stakeholders.
2009 10 and Beyond Progress in 2008 09 Going forward, Johnson Mattheys businesses will continue We have focused on fully embedding sustainability into our to develop and work towards delivering their annual plans.
routine management processes and since the start of 2008 09 A particular focus will be the further establishing of business all of Johnson Mattheys businesses have established and level targets and the development of strategies to achieve them.
implemented their own sustainability plans as part of the To assist with this a Group Sustainability and Technology Leader groups annual financial budgeting process.
All of the businesses has been appointed to work closely with the divisions sustainability plans have the common corporate objectives as in developing business metrics and governance practices relating their foundation and are tailored as appropriate to the to sustainability and in identifying cross company technologies.
This approach encourages Work will continue to measure progress against the group commitment at a local level and takes advantage of Johnson targets and to develop aggregated group targets from those Mattheys culture and methods of working.
identified at the business level.
We will also look to identify the We have continued to refine our metrics and methods of common ground in our businesses where additional group measurement to enable us to monitor our progress objectively.
targets could be developed in the future.
Studies have continued to assess tools for the carbon footprinting of our processes and products, and for examining the comparative impacts of products throughout their lifecycle.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 29 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Progress Towards Sustainability 2017 Targets Baseline 3 Sustainability 2017 Aspiration KPI 2006 07 2008 09 2017 Target 1 At least double earnings per share Underlying earnings per share pence 82.2 89.6 164.4 2 Achieve carbon neutrality Total global warming potential tonnes CO equivalent 386,074 370,787 0 2 2 Achieve zero waste to landfill Amount of waste to landfill tonnes 16,555 5,535 0 2 Halve key resources per unit of output Electricity consumption GJ 000 1,469 1,351 735 2 Natural gas consumption GJ 000 2,146 2,260 1,073 3 2 Water consumption m 000 1,909 1,951 955 1 Data presented is for the period 1st April 2006 to 31st March 2007.
2 Data presented is for the period 1st January 2006 to 31st December 2006.
3 Data presented is for the period 1st April 2008 to 31st March 2009.
Our Products We will also look to further collaborate with our customers, suppliers and other partners to understand their priorities Many of Johnson Mattheys products and services are regarding sustainability and to maximise the benefits throughout environmentally or socially beneficial in their own right or in the the supply chain.
way they are used by our customers.
We develop catalysts that reduce harmful emissions from both vehicles and industrial Communication with Stakeholders processes.
Our autocatalyst products alone have prevented over four billion tonnes of pollutants from reaching the Johnson Matthey has a wide range of stakeholders with an atmosphere since their introduction in 1974.
We also supply interest in hearing from or working with the company at both the global chemical industry with catalysts and process a corporate and business level.
Our stakeholders include technology know-how to enable our customers to build and customers, employees, fund managers, shareholders, operate their chemical processes more efficiently.
communities, governments, non-governmental organisations and The development of the chemistry of precious metals national and international trade associations.
We communicate underpins many of Johnson Mattheys products and technologies.
with our stakeholders throughout the year and engagement is Our understanding of the physical and chemical properties of integrated into business decision making processes.
the precious metals has contributed to the development of a The company is actively involved with both the Chemical wide range of environmentally and socially beneficial products Industries Association CIA and the European Chemical including emission control catalysts for vehicles, platinum based Industry Council Cefic.
We have also continued to play a anticancer drugs for chemotherapy treatments and catalysts for leading advisory role through participation in a number of fuel cells.
The recycling and refining of precious metals are a sector trade associations and government bodies.
The company core competence of Johnson Matthey and we offer a range of is actively involved with national and local government to recycling and refining services to our customers around the inform the development of policy in areas where Johnson world.
Our knowledge and expertise in this area give us a firm Mattheys technology and products can play a pivotal role, for foundation from which to tackle the task of further improving example in improving air quality and enabling the shift towards the resource efficiency of our products in manufacture and use.
more sustainable consumption and production.
Our core skills in fine chemicals underpin a number of our Neil Carson, Chief Executive of Johnson Matthey, is a products which are used in the areas of medicine, health and prominent member of the Corporate Leaders Group which safety.
We manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients, used has provided valuable suggestions to UK government and the by pharmaceutical companies in drug preparations, and opiate European Commission on climate change issues.
Neil is also a products, such as morphine and codeine, which are used to member of the Advisory Board for the Cambridge Programme relieve pain.
A number of the companys senior The growing market for sustainable products presents a management are involved in the UK governments sustainability key opportunity for future business growth.
Our sustainability and climate change initiatives.
strategy is focused on improving the sustainability footprint Johnson Mattheys executives have also made a of our existing products and in developing new sustainable contribution to a range of organisations and committees, such products and services for our customers, enabled by our as the Carbon Trust, and the company continues to participate experience in catalysis, precious metals, fine chemicals and in numerous government consultations.
We have also continued process technology.
We will continue our high level of to support the activities of Forum for the Future and the investment in R&D and will draw on the expertise of our people.
30 - Johnson Matthey The company meets regularly with all of its major minimum standard and in many cases our policies and systems shareholders.
At these meetings matters relating to sustainability are in advance of these.
Over the last year further initiatives and corporate social responsibility CSR may be discussed have been undertaken to improve our operational together with the performance and development of the groups performance.
Details of our policies, initiatives and progress can businesses.
be found in the Sustainability Report on the companys website at www.
com and are presented here in summary.
As outlined in the Corporate Governance section page 42 Managing Sustainability the board has embedded environmental, social and governance Johnson Matthey has adopted the principles of corporate social matters into its risk management processes and formally responsibility and embedded them into our risk management reviews the area once a year.
These matters are monitored by processes.
Since 2003 we have formally reported annually on the CSR Compliance Committee, a sub-committee of the Chief our social, environmental and ethical performance in a separate Executives Committee.
A description of the committee can be CSR report.
Through the launch of Sustainability 2017 we have found on page 42. defined our own vision and direction and in July 2008 we published our first Sustainability Report.
This represents a Policies and Management Systems Environment, Health and Safety transition for Johnson Matthey and is linked to our move to A written policy statement, formulated and agreed by the actively manage our impacts and opportunities more efficiently Chief Executives Committee, forms the basis of the group EHS than in the past.
The board approves this policy statement To ensure further progress, sustainability needs to be part which is signed by the Chief Executive and is available at each of the fabric of the company at all levels.
We are managing site throughout the group.
This policy is presented in full in sustainability across the group according to five elements: the Sustainability Report and on the companys website at financial: governance: social: health and safety: and environment.
Environmental, Health and Safety Management Financial Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities Financial viability is a key element of sustainability.
Continued throughout the group to provide the highest level of protection growth in profit is an important aspiration of our Sustainability to the environment and to safeguard the health and safety of 2017 Vision and we have set a target to more than double our its employees, customers and the community.
Our EHS policies earnings per share by 2017.
Details of our progress are outlined provide the guiding principles that ensure high standards are in the Financial Review on pages 10 to 14, in the Key achieved at all sites worldwide and afford a means of Performance Indicators section on pages 8 and 9 and in the promoting continuous improvement based on careful risk Five Year Record on page 106. assessment and a comprehensive EHS management system.
The two major thrusts of our vision are about being more The group EHS management system is reviewed regularly efficient with the resources we use and designing new products to ensure that it reflects international best practice and our that help our customers to be more sustainable.
Using less growing understanding of the practical application of sustainable resources as a business will save us money.
It will enable us to development.
maintain or improve our margins and allow us to invest more in The corporate objectives, policies and group EHS R&D and infrastructure.
Designing innovative new products for management system define accountability and set the standards our customers will allow us to maintain or strengthen our against which conformance audits are assessed.
This system is competitive position in the markets we serve today and benefit available to all employees via the company intranet.
All facilities from the growth opportunities in emerging markets within the have developed local policies to meet the requirements of sustainability sector.
We have started to evaluate the monetary savings realised EHS compliance audits are an integral part of Johnson to date in our businesses through implementation of their Mattheys corporate EHS management system and are vital to Sustainability 2017 plans.
Early indications suggest savings in the maintain continuous improvement in all aspects of EHS.
All region of up to 10 million have been achieved so far with Johnson Matthey operated manufacturing and research and similar savings projected for 2009 10 and beyond.
More robust development facilities are included in the audit programme.
evaluations of the financial benefits of our sustainability The audit frequency for each facility is determined by the scale, programme will continue over the coming years.
inherent risk and past performance of the operation.
Audits review conformance with the group EHS management system Governance and compliance with national legislation, as well as providing an opportunity to share best environmental, health and safety Johnson Matthey embraces a culture of continuous improvement practices.
in all aspects of sustainability.
We drive continuous improvement The Group Occupational Physician undertakes health through corporate policies, a comprehensive management management reviews of all operational sites to provide system and the commitment of our employees.
Johnson consulting advice to guide the prioritisation and planning of Matthey has key policies in the areas of Environment, Health programmes to optimise workplace health protection and and Safety EHS : Employment: and Business Integrity and Ethics promote workforce sustainability.
All businesses undertake which provide the framework for managing environmental, annual health management continuous improvement planning social and governance matters.
to structure programmes and services to meet changing Our well established policies and management systems business needs.
apply to all operations worldwide.
Legal requirements are a Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 31 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW All audit reports, including health management reviews, are Preparations also continued to implement the Globally reviewed by the CSR Compliance Committee and appropriate Harmonised System GHS for chemical classification and follow up is taken on any outstanding issues.
During January 2009 the European detailed compliance audits and seven one day audit action Union commenced enactment of GHS and work is well reviews were completed during 2008 09. underway within our European businesses to ensure we meet Our review last year of the investigation reports on the the requirements of the legislation timescales.
incidents at BPs Texas City refinery and the Buncefield oil As part of our continuing improvement programme on storage facility generated a number of actions to integrate product stewardship, internal systems to cover further chemical relevant learning into our existing EHS management systems.
control regimes, such as the US Toxic Substances Control Act, During 2008 09 Group EHS has worked with Aker Solutions were upgraded.
We have also recruited a further three EHS & Risk Consultancy Services to develop a process risk compliance specialists to our corporate product stewardship management vertical audit tool for use alongside our EHS audits.
teams since the start of 2008 09 to support our efforts.
The project aimed to prioritise our major manufacturing sites On 2nd December 2008 Johnson Matthey Inc. JMI was on a risk basis and enable pragmatic process safety measures to sentenced in the US District Court, Salt Lake City, Utah for a be developed through gap analysis of the difference between single felony violation of the US Clean Water Act CWA, the scale of hazards and the suitability of the existing controls.
namely knowingly rendering inaccurate a reporting method in The first pilot process risk management audit was carried January 2000.
The conviction arose from a federal investigation out at our facility in Germiston, South Africa in December 2008. into wastewater practices at the companys Salt Lake City The audit concentrated on high consequence low probability refinery that began in 2002 and led to prosecution by the US events and revealed some valuable new opportunities to Department of Justice.
JMIs conviction followed the September further understand and minimise risk.
Further process risk 2008 conviction of two former managers of the Salt Lake City management audits are planned during 2009 10. refinery who had entered guilty pleas to a single felony under the CWA.
The outcome for JMI came about by means of plea ISO 14001 agreements entered into with the federal government following Over the past year continued progress has been made to a successful challenge in Utah state court to the underlying implement ISO 14001, in line with our target of achieving permit that was fundamental to the indictment.
As a result, registration at all major manufacturing sites by 2010.
At the end of nearly all the charges in the indictment were withdrawn.
2008 09, 32 sites had achieved ISO 14001 registration representing The criminal violation related to the selective screening of 80% of our manufacturing workforce.
All other manufacturing waste water samples for compliance analysis.
Even though there sites have plans in place to achieve registration during 2009 10. was no harm to the environment, the company was ordered to Training pay a fine of $2.25 million and contributed $750,000 to the Training is vital to ensure continuous improvement in National Fish and Wildlife Fund.
JMI will be on probation for environmental, health and safety performance.
The two managers were also placed on probation seminars on high priority health and safety topics were completed and ordered to pay nominal fines.
Their employment with during the year across the group.
A project management Johnson Matthey has been terminated.
In further resolution of training course at our plant in Shanghai gave facility managers the issues arising from this investigation, JMI has entered into a and engineers from across Asia the opportunity to enhance three year Compliance Agreement with the US Environmental their understanding and share best practice on improving the Protection Agency effective 2nd December 2008.
EHS aspects and impacts of significant development projects.
Following this, the course content was reviewed and expanded Policies and Management Systems Human Resources to provide attendees with a greater level of guidance on how Johnson Mattheys human resources policies are implemented to deploy robust project management techniques.
It will be through the corporate human resources standards which set relaunched across the group during 2009 10. requirements for operations throughout the group to follow.
Regular meetings are held in both Europe and North These standards are generally in advance of legal requirements America to provide an opportunity for our EHS professionals and provide internal consistency.
They are supported by to network, share current best practices and discuss the impact detailed regional procedures or individual business procedures.
of future EHS based legislation.
Similar meetings will be held in All of these policies and procedures are subject to regular Asia over the next year to provide further networking review to ensure that they continue to reflect both regional opportunities within our Asian EHS teams.
best practice and local legislation.
Site specific human resources policies and procedures are communicated to staff at inductions Regulatory Matters and Product Stewardship and through staff handbooks.
Human resources policies and risks Johnson Mattheys corporate REACH compliance programme is are examined by the Chief Executives Committee and the CSR well advanced.
Key REACH pre-registration requirements were Compliance Committee.
The groups policies on equal successfully completed to ensure efficient future phasing of our opportunities and training are published on the website and are substance registrations and several hundred declarations set out below.
covering various product ranges were submitted.
We continue to collaborate in industry consortia under the auspices of trade Equal Opportunities Policy associations to share the costs and technical efforts for compliance The group will recruit, train and develop employees who and individual substance registrations remain on track to meet the requirements of the job role, regardless of gender, commence in 2010.
During 2008 09, a corporate REACH ethnic origin, age, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
com cr reach was launched to support The policy recognises that people with disabilities can often be our customers and enhance supply chain communication.
denied a fair chance at work because of misconceptions about 32 - Johnson Matthey Total Employees by Region Total Employees by Division Gender by Region Average headcount for 2008 09 Average headcount for 2008 09 As at 31st March 2009 continuing businesses continuing businesses % Male % Female Corporate and Rest of Central Research World 100 325 699 Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Asia 80 Europe 1,715 934 Environmental 4,618 Technologies 4,754 60 40 North America Precious 2,491 20 Metal Products 1,948 0 Employee data relates to the financial year 2008 09 and excludes 841 employees transferred out Europe North Asia Rest of Group of the group with the completion of the sale of the Argillon Insulators and Alumina businesses on America World 26th November 2008. their capabilities and seeks to enhance the opportunities Johnson Matthey facilities have established policies and available by attempting, wherever possible, to overcome obstacles, procedures through which employees can raise employment such as the need to modify equipment, restructure jobs or to related issues for consideration and resolution.
A confidential improve access to premises, provided such action does not and secure whistleblowing website and telephone helpline is compromise health and safety standards.
Similarly, employees also in place to give all employees an additional means to raise who become disabled will be offered employment opportunities any issue of personal concern.
We value the diversity of our Supply Chain people as a core component of a sustainable business and Management of the supply chain and contractor activities is a employment applications are welcomed and encouraged from core component of the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 series of all sections of the community including minority groups.
Supply chain and contractor management Training and Development of People Policy questionnaires are a requirement of achieving and maintaining The Management Development and Remuneration Committee registration and as such, ISO registered Johnson Matthey sites of the board takes a special interest in ensuring compliance with require the completion of appropriate questionnaires.
For those the Training and Development of People Policy objectives to: sites without ISO registration, the group EHS management system provides policy and guidance on both supply chain Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of employees.
Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
In March 2009 around 20 people from our businesses European procurement teams met to review and discuss Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
Participants also shared their ideas Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
on best practice and as a result, development of a sustainable procurement policy for the company has been initiated.
Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
In April 2009 Johnson Matthey conducted a corporate Understand employees aspirations.
social responsibility audit of one of our most important suppliers, Anglo Platinum Limited.
The purpose of the audit was Provide development opportunities to meet employees to verify that Anglo Platinums policies and philosophy on the potential and aspirations.
non-financial elements of the sustainability triple bottom line are aligned with Johnson Mattheys position.
Six critical elements were scrutinised: management of sustainable development: Policies and Management Systems Business Integrity and Ethics ethics: labour: environment: health and safety: and communities.
The company strives to maintain the highest standards of For each element the audit team reviewed Anglo Platinums ethical conduct and corporate responsibility worldwide through published corporate policies, then verified them with local the application of the principles within its Business Integrity and manufacturing site management and finally with groups of Ethics Policy.
These issues are further safeguarded through workers.
The audit revealed that Anglo Platinums policies and corporate governance processes and monitoring by the board philosophy on corporate social responsibility are in line with and its sub-committees.
All employees have a duty to follow the those of Johnson Matthey.
principles set out in the Business Integrity and Ethics Policy.
It is integrated into the Group Control Manual and is available to staff at all sites.
The policy is presented in full in the Sustainability Report and on our website at www.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 33 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Human Rights Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of effective Whilst we are confident of the human rights performance of employee communications and particularly the value of face to our own operations we recognise that business practices in the face dialogue.
We communicate through our in house magazine, supply chain are not always transparent and represent a risk that attitude surveys, regular news bulletins, presentations to staff must be managed.
Every effort is made to ensure the issues are and team briefings.
Employees are also encouraged to access managed effectively.
We support the principles defined within the the companys intranet and website.
United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the The company supports employee share ownership and International Labour Organisation Core Conventions including employees have the opportunity to participate in share the conventions in relation to child labour, forced labour, nonownership plans, where practicable.
Under these plans, discrimination, freedom of association and collective bargaining.
employees can buy shares in the company which are matched Compliance with and respect for these core principles are by a company funded component.
Employees in six countries integrated within the risk assessment procedures and impact worldwide are able to contribute to a company share assessments which are undertaken when entering into business ownership plan or a 401k approved savings investment plan.
in a new territory and within the due diligence processes when Through these ownership plans Johnson Matthey current and making an acquisition or entering a joint venture.
former employees collectively held 1.76% of the companys shares at 31st March 2009.
Johnson Matthey also sponsors pension plans for its Social employees worldwide.
These pension plans are a mixture of Our people are respected as the companys most valuable defined benefit or defined contribution pension arrangements, resource and they will continue to play a vital role in the savings schemes and provident funds designed to provide process of building a sustainable business.
We are committed to appropriate retirement benefits based on local laws, custom recruiting high calibre employees and providing them with the and market practice.
information, training and working environment they need to Johnson Matthey continues to maintain good and perform to the highest standards.
We encourage all our people constructive relations with all recognised trade unions which to develop to their maximum potential and support them with collectively represent 34% of all group employees worldwide.
human resources policies and practices that are strategically From 2nd June to 11th July 2008 production was affected at linked to the needs of our business and our customers.
the companys precision casting plant in St Catharines, Canada Our success depends on the skills, qualities and wellbeing by a six week strike involving 47 members of the USW United of our people.
We have an effective, streamlined recruitment Steelworkers union.
The matters at issue were finally settled by procedure to meet our steady requirement for high calibre local negotiations and production resumed on 12th July.
Other graduates and offer a variety of career foundation training to than this one event no working time was lost within the group engage new recruits.
We also offer training and development due to employee action.
programmes at middle and senior manager levels.
Our aim is to As a result of the global economic slowdown, a number retain high potential and high performing staff.
Training is provided of Johnson Matthey sites around the world have had to reduce at our facilities around the world with a high level of attendance employee numbers and adjust working patterns, particularly by employees from Asia, reflecting the increasing importance of those facilities which supply the automotive related markets.
We also encourage employees from acquired In most cases these adjustments necessitated the release of businesses to attend programmes to expose them to our wider agency and temporary staff although some have also required company culture and help them integrate.
Presentations from redundancies amongst permanent staff.
These difficult decisions senior executives anchor all these programmes to the companys were not taken lightly.
In all cases appropriate consultations strategies and progress.
were held with those affected and, where appropriate, their Providing career development opportunities for employees union representatives, in accordance with local legal and best assists staff retention and, in turn, succession planning and the practice requirements.
Recruiting well qualified staff is vital to support business development in new and emerging Activities in the Year markets.
This challenge will be met through appropriate There have been a number of key initiatives during the year manpower planning, local recruitment and the encouragement with a strong emphasis on working together to achieve the of international mobility.
Cross divisional movement is encouraged Sustainability 2017 Vision, employee recognition, people amongst our employees and monitored as an important part development and assured wellbeing programmes.
of the annual management development and succession Working together, both internally and with our many planning review process.
We have continued to develop the stakeholders, is helping to support our Sustainability 2017 goals.
management skills inventory database which provides the group Employee teams have focused on improving resource efficiency with a powerful means of helping to identify and match suitably to deliver improvements in manufacturing processes, waste qualified internal candidates to promotional and development management and energy efficiency.
Team efforts to develop opportunities globally and or across our divisions.
more sustainable products and services have led to new catalyst solutions for our customers and more efficient methods Employee Relations and Communication of manufacture in our own factories.
Our work with suppliers The quality of our employee relations is a priority for Johnson and customers to develop a more sustainable supply chain has Matthey and the company is proud of the high level of already revealed opportunities for improvements in transport, commitment and loyalty from its employees.
We have a low packaging and materials use.
Emphasis on sustainable personal voluntary staff turnover 6.4% in the financial year 2008 09, development programmes for employees and investment in see page 9 with many employees staying with the company local communities has enhanced our reputation as an admired for their whole careers.
We have continued to strengthen and improve An annual review of community investment activities communication and engagement with employees through site across the group has been carried out and shows that 95% of satisfaction and attitude surveys.
This year Emission Control Johnson Matthey operations with over 50 employees Technologies ECT, our largest business, ran a global attitude participate in activities within their local communities.
These survey of all its employees.
Over 76% of the employees invited activities are wide ranging and include charitable giving, support to participate completed the survey and overall satisfaction for educational projects, the advancement of science and levels were very positive with 81% of participants feeling economic regeneration projects.
Employees also participate in satisfied or very satisfied working for ECT.
Summary results activities or hold community related roles outside of the work have been published and ECTs employees have been briefed environment.
The company is supportive of this broader on the findings.
Three specific action areas have been identified community engagement, allowing employees time off during for improvement within the business which will help to build a working hours as appropriate.
Further information on the survey To support the further development of our community will be published in this years Sustainability Report.
investment programmes around the world, Johnson Matthey Employee understanding of Johnson Mattheys policies and has joined the London Benchmarking Group LBG, a group of commitment to their implementation to maintain and enhance more than 120 major companies who develop and share best the reputation of the company has remained a priority.
Through our membership of LBG, we are Compliance training for managers in their responsibilities for beginning to evaluate our community investment programmes employees, commercial contracts and company assets has been using its successful and widely accepted model.
As a first step, maintained during the year through online learning programmes we have introduced more robust systems for our data collection and seminars.
processes which we have implemented for our 2008 09 data The corporate sickness absence rate during 2008 09 was reporting.
2.0% compared to 2.1% for calendar year 2007 2.1% for We will continue to offer further support to sites in 1st January 2008 to 31st March 2008.
Most businesses are developing and implementing meaningful community investment increasing their investment in sustainable health and wellness programmes through the application of the LBG methodology programmes to support the longer term health, wellbeing and and through sharing best practice across the group.
Charitable Programmes Johnson Mattheys long history of support for charitable causes Community Investment continues today through group and business programmes.
The We have a strong tradition in Johnson Matthey for our good causes we support are aligned with issues to which the group community relations.
We have an important contribution to makes a contribution and to issues about which our employees make to the economic development of our local communities, are passionate.
not only as an employer but also through collaboration and In 2008 09, Johnson Matthey supported 48 charitable investment, both financial and in kind.
causes through its corporate annual donations programme.
We are actively involved in programmes worldwide that These included support for organisations working in the areas promote good community relations to foster a relationship of of environment, medical and health, science and education, social understanding, trust and credibility.
Guidance on site welfare and international development.
44% of these corporate requirements is detailed in the group EHS management system.
donations were in support of medical and health causes.
A total of 37 additional charitable causes received one-off donations through the corporate programme during the year.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 35 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Total Global Warming Potential Total Acid Gas Emissions Tonnes CO equivalent 000 Tonnes SO equivalent 2 2 500 400 Tonnes Tonnes 400 million million 300 Tonnes sales sales CO excluding Tonnes excluding 2 300 equivalent precious SO precious 2 000 metals equivalent metals 200 200 2004 369 365.2 2004 489 0.4837 2005 397 362.1 2005 480 0.4376 100 2006 386 288.5 2006 450 0.3362 100 2007 380 221.0 2007 416 0.2417 2008 09 371 206.5 2008 09 334 0.1859 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 09 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 09 Global warming potential data has been restated using the latest Total acid gas emissions from 1st January 2008 to 31st March 2008 were greenhouse gas conversion data published during 2008 e. g. DEFRA.
2 Total global warming potential from 1st January 2008 to 31st March 2008 was 106,000 tonnes CO equivalent.
2 In 2008 09 we initiated a specific programme of support A corporate reporting system is in place to report and focused on promoting the understanding and awareness of investigate occupational illness cases arising as a result of science among children and young people, further details of exposure to workplace health hazards.
The incidence of cases which can be found in the Sustainability Report.
We believe that reported during 2008 09 was 5.5 cases per 1,000 employees encouraging the next generation of scientists is very important 5.8 cases per 1,000 employees in calendar year 2007, 3.5 cases to the sustainability of our industry and we will continue to per 1,000 employees for 1st January 2008 to 31st March 2008. contribute our resources and expertise.
Accidents are actively monitored and detailed statistics are During 2008 09 the company also contributed 500,000 compiled monthly at group level.
In March 2009 the incidence to the University of Cambridge to support chemical of greater than three day accidents at Johnson Matthey was engineering research, particularly in the area of catalysis and calculated as 4.48 per 1,000 employees, an increase of 39% reaction engineering.
Our funding will also help support compared with 3.22 restated in March 2008.
The total construction of new chemical engineering facilities at the number of accidents that resulted in lost time was 95, a 40% university.
increase compared to the previous year.
During the year, the Johnson Matthey continues to operate its annual charity of total accident rate increased by 17% from 8.86 restated to the year programme and employee views are considered when 10.39 per 1,000 employees per year.
The total lost time deciding on the charity.
The international Red Cross and Red accident incident rate per 100,000 hours worked increased by Crescent Movement was chosen as our charity of the year for 33% from 0.40 in 2007 08 to 0.53 in 2008 09.
In 2008 09 the 2008 09 and further details on the partnership are available in number of days lost per 1,000 employees per year was 115, an the Sustainability Report.
Johnson Matthey sites around the increase of 58% compared with 73 restated in 2007 08.
All world also lend support to many other charities locally and accidents were thoroughly investigated to determine root causes nationally through donations, employee time or loans of and assign appropriate preventative and corrective actions.
Following steady improvement in our accident statistics in In the financial year to 31st March 2009 Johnson Matthey previous years, our performance in 2008 09 has highlighted the donated 495,000 to charitable organisations.
This figure only need to revitalise Johnson Mattheys accident prevention includes donations made by Johnson Matthey and does not processes.
The company has recently launched an initiative to include payroll giving, donations made by staff or employee introduce EHS Learning Events to all facilities to help drive a time.
The company made no political donations in the year.
reduction in the rate of injuries resulting in lost time.
An EHS We will continue to support a wide range of charitable causes Learning Event would typically occur when opportunities to in 2009 10. improve the safety of the workplace are identified or when situations are observed which may necessitate at risk behaviour in achieving the required tasks or activities.
Employees and long Health and Safety term contractors will be invited to briefly note any learning events.
Health and safety is a key element of our sustainability strategy.
This will provide site managers with a valuable new source of As a business we are committed to providing our employees information about the working environment that could result in with a safe working environment and supporting and enhancing injury, and employees will gain a sharpened sense of the risks their health and wellbeing.
Any accident is unacceptable and our around them.
As the system becomes embedded we are target is zero greater than three day accidents.
confident this should result in reduced incidence of lost time injuries across the group.
restated Environment Environmental, Health and Safety Targets Environmental responsibility is a key element in making Johnson Johnson Matthey continually monitors environmental, health Matthey a more sustainable business.
The company has an and safety performance to identify priority issues and to drive impact on the environment in many ways: through the improvement.
resources we use, the way we operate our processes and the A new corporate sustainability target has been set to action of our products and services on enhancing the reduce the annual incidence of occupational illness cases by environment for others.
at least 30% over the next five years.
The longer term aim We undertake a comprehensive annual review of group continues to be to eliminate the occurrence of occupational environmental performance which covers all manufacturing and illness cases as far as practicable.
Data presented here is for All sites within the group will aim to continue to make the 2008 09 financial year whereas previously, data has been progress against the target of zero greater than three day presented on a calendar year basis.
Leading and lagging indicators have been integrated environmental data has been restated to reflect changes in the into site improvement plans to better monitor performance business, for example divestments and site closures.
All of the manufacturing facilities across the group made We will complete new environmental, health and safety progress against their individual environmental improvement policies and guidance to support existing EHS related targets during the year and our five year performance is shown governance within the group EHS management system.
These in the tables on pages 35 to 37.
The groups total energy will focus on areas of specific interest to Johnson Matthey consumption increased by 7% and our total global warming operations and include process safety, chemical exposure, potential GWP reduced by 2%.
Relative to sales excluding occupational illness and occupational travel.
The policies and precious metals these increased by 3% and decreased by 7% guidance will be issued to all sites and appropriate training respectively.
The absolute reduction in GWP demonstrates will follow.
early progress towards our goal to become carbon neutral and was achieved through increasing our use of green energy Verification and Assurance sources and from reducing harmful emissions from our The board, Audit Committee, Chief Executives Committee and manufacturing processes.
Total emissions of acid gas primarily CSR Compliance Committee review sustainability issues as part oxides of nitrogen, NOx reduced by 20% in absolute terms of the companys risk management processes.
The board and by 23% relative to sales excluding precious metals.
The total believes that the internal measures taken to review the amount of waste generated during the year decreased by 3% sustainability information provide a high level of confidence.
across the group and by 7% relative to sales excluding precious Third party assurance of our full Sustainability Report has also metals.
Waste to landfill decreased from 20,977 tonnes in 2007 been commissioned.
The full Sustainability Report will be to 5,535 tonnes in 2008 09 which represents solid progress published on the companys website at www.
com in towards our Sustainability 2017 target on waste.
During the year, July 2009. water consumption for the group decreased by 5% in absolute terms and by 9% relative to sales excluding precious metals.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 37 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW
