50 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our business contributes to local communities and wider society by providing vital resources for social and economic development, and by creating wealth and employment in remote and underserved communities.
We are a major contributor to the economy of Kazakhstan and provide substantial support for Government infrastructure and services at a local level.
We fully understand that, alongside providing these benets, Organisation and responsibilities we must operate responsibly by providing fair, safe and healthy The Board of Directors has a Group HSE Committee, led by workplaces, protecting the environment and developing communities.
the Senior Independent Director, Philip Aiken.
This oversees the Doing so will directly enhance shareholder value, our primary objective, implementation of HSE policies, sets related standards, monitors by increasing access to capital and lowering operational costs.
performance and guides operational management.
The Committee Operating responsibly will also boost our reputation and maintain meets three times per year, always combining formal meetings the cooperation of local communities, as well as helping us attract with site visits.
and retain the best employees.
Our Group Head of HSE, who in 2009 reported to the Development We continue to develop our data collection systems for corporate Director, coordinates the implementation of HSE policies and systems responsibility, so that reporting is in line with international standards.
throughout the Group and advises the Group HSE Committee Unless otherwise stated, the information within this report is for our on progress.
Copper and Power Divisions, which in 2009 represented 96% of our A Fatal Accident and Serious Incident Review Panel assesses each total workforce and 70% of turnover.
fatality and serious incident investigation and the action taken as MANAGING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY a result.
This panel comprises of the Group HSE Committee, the Good health, safety and environmental HSE management is not Chief Executive, relevant senior managers and Jeff Smith, a former just responsible, it is essential for efficient, cost-effective operations.
chairman of Wardell Armstrong LLP, an independent safety expert.
As a UK-listed company, our shareholders expect our management Each of our businesses has an operational HSE committee chaired practices to meet international standards, and we are working hard by its general manager and comprising senior operational and to ensure this is the case.
As a minimum we comply with the law HSE managers.
These operational committees are responsible for in each country where we operate.
For instance, Kazakhstan law developing policies and systems, reviewing incidents and improving stipulates limits for emissions to air and water, contractual obligations performance.
The Copper Divisions committee met three times in to employees, social investments under licence agreements, and 2009, and discussed items including occupational injury and illness standards of health and safety.
We go beyond compliance where rates: safety and environmental controls, training and certification: practicable.
Our approach is to manage HSE risks at a local level, and disciplinary action taken in response to poor safety performance.
with oversight from the Group.
Divisional HSE teams implement our policies and systems on a day-to-day basis.
Every employee is responsible for their own safety, for others affected by their actions, and is required to follow our HSE HSE ORGANISATION CHART policies and procedures at all times.
Policies and management systems Board of Directors Each division has HSE policies in place which describe their commitments and responsibilities in these areas.
These are based on guiding principles agreed at Group level.
The Copper Division is in the process of integrating its management systems for health and Group Health, Safety and safety and environment, and is recruiting specialists to do so effectively.
Fatal Accident Review Panel Environment Committee As part of this work, the East Region has developed a new HSE management structure, which it plans to test in 2010.
If this model proves successful we will roll it out across the Copper Division.
Chief Executive officer At the end of 2009, 17 facilities were certied to the international environmental management standard ISO 14001, of which seven received their certication in 2009.
Fifteen copper sites held the Group Operational Health and OHSAS 18001 health and safety certicate, the same number as Development Director Safety Committee in the previous year.
Implementing the standard has not had a noticeable impact on reducing fatalities and, whilst we continue to ensure our management systems reach international standards, Group Health, Safety and we do not plan to pursue further formal certication at this stage.
Environment Manager We believe it is better to focus our efforts and investment on operational measures to directly improve performance.
Divisional CEOs Divisional Health, Safety and Divisional Health, Safety and Environment Committees Environment Managers OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 51 In 2009, we began to develop a broad set of key performance Division, one in the Power Division, and one in the Gold.
Two indicators KPIs for measuring our progress on corporate responsibility.
contractors in our Power Division also sadly died.
We will report We plan to start measuring these KPIs over the course of 2010 and contractor fatalities across the Group in the 2010 Annual Report.
will begin reporting on them when data is available.
Rock falls were the most common cause and led to eight deaths.
HEALTH AND SAFETY See the case study below for examples of our efforts to reduce this Mining and processing copper and minerals involves working with kind of incident.
Four fatalities involved moving machinery.
There was large, heavy equipment, explosives and hazardous chemicals often a substantial reduction in falls from height, the primary cause of fatalities underground and sometimes at extreme temperatures.
Our employees in 2008. also experience common workplace hazards from driving vehicles, While every death is a tragic loss, there has been a 53% decrease in working at heights and operating machinery.
the number of fatalities since 2008.
Our operations investigated every We believe it is challenging but entirely possible to prevent accidents, fatal incident and serious incident and reported their findings to the as long as the right approach and management systems are in place Group HSE Committee and, where appropriate, to the Fatal Accident and sufficient equipment and training provided.
Our long-term ambition and Serious Incident Review Panel.
Our fatality and serious incident is to provide a safe workplace free from injuries and illness, though investigation reports comprise a full description of the incident we acknowledge that this will require considerable management including photographs and sketches, plus an analysis of the focus and investment.
work area, procedures followed and protective equipment used.
This information is used to identify the root cause of the incident Fatalities and preventative measures for the future.
The reports are sent to We deeply regret that 15 employees lost their lives in 14 separate the divisional Chief Executives and HSE committee chairman within incidents at Group operations in 2009, a rate of 2.4 fatalities per 48 hours of completing the investigation.
Thirteen of these were in the Copper COMMITTED TO RESPONSIBILITY reinforced by metal arch supports.
One square metre of this PREVENTING ROCK FALL solidifying foam can support up to 12 tonnes of rock, Our operations are introducing new technologies to prevent substantially reducing the risk of rock falls and roof collapse.
rock falls and roof collapses the most common cause of In 2009, we installed a seismic monitoring system at our Zhomart fatalities in our operations.
mine to identify changes in the stress-state of the rock, caused by For example, we have been working with mining engineers mining.
We have used a similar system at Zhezkazgan since 2007, Minova CarboTech on ways to strengthen rock.
Our Artemyevsky where it has forecast all subsequent rock falls and collapses of and Orlovsky mines are testing Minovas roof-bolting systems any signicance.
The Zhomart mines system can record even for tunnelling, as well as sealants and resins for lling cavities small fractures induced by mining.
The underground and surface and backlling behind arch supports.
The rock surrounding both sensors record around 60 signals a day, which we use to identify mines is unstable, increasing the risk of roof falls after blasting the coordinates of fractures and assess changes in the rock.
We usually backll the dome folds resulting from This allows us to determine trends in the spread of rock fractures these rock falls with materials such as concrete and timber, but and predict problems before safety is compromised.
We plan to roof collapses can still occur.
In 2009, this led us to suspend install seismic monitoring at mines in other regions, starting in some operations for over two months, but work resumed 2010 at our Orlovsky mine in the East Region, which is particularly after backlling with Minovas Carboll phenolic resin foam, prone to rock bursts.
52 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED We attribute the reduction in fatalities to improved production and will report their progress at Group HSE Committee meetings during 2010. controls, a greater emphasis on management responsibility and an increase in the number of site inspections.
We carried out 2,759 site Our Zhomart copper mine invested almost $3 million to improve safety inspections in 2009 and stopped operations on 830 occasions as a in 2009.
The mine purchased new underground vehicles and provided result of the safety violations found.
We carried out disciplinary specialist training and certication for their operators, who then pass on proceedings with 1,975 employees in relation to these violations, their knowledge to apprentices working with them.
The new vehicles and 49 employees lost their jobs.
We recognise that serious injuries are soundproof and air-conditioned, and are tted with additional and fatalities can cause both emotional and financial difficulties to lighting and rear-view cameras to improve visibility.
The mine also built employees and their families, and we provide financial support an underground service station for the vehicles, which has automated to the families of the victims of fatal accidents.
many hazardous maintenance tasks to further improve safety.
Occupational health Fatalities among direct Our aim is not only to prevent occupational ill health occurring, employees by cause in 2009 but to improve the health and wellbeing of employees, contractors, Rock falls 53% their families and communities.
All employees receive medical Moving machinery 27% examinations on recruitment and then on an annual basis, to prevent Vehicle accident 13% occupational diseases and detect and treat those that do occur at an Electrocution 7% early stage.
We pay particular attention to employees whose work exposes them to health risks such as dust-induced lung disease and hand-arm vibration syndrome.
The Copper Division has an occupational disease rate of 4.3 Fatalities among direct cases per 1,000 employees, and recorded 182 new cases in 2009. employees by cause in 2008 The shaft-sinking department has the highest rate of occupational illness, with 14.6 cases per 1,000 employees.
The professions most Fall from heights 28% likely to experience occupational disease are tunnellers 23 cases per Rock falls 22% 1,000 employees, truck drivers 21 cases per 1,000 employees and Moving machinery 19% blasters 15 cases per 1,000 employees.
Vehicle accidents 13% Electrocution 9% Most work-related illness in 2009 related to manual handling Other 9% and spinal micro-trauma from riding in vehicles on uneven surfaces.
We recorded 65 cases of chronic radiculopathy, a nerve problem that Injuries causes pain and numbness.
Exposure to mine dust is the next most We record work-related accidents in line with Kazakhstans regulatory common cause of occupational disease, leading to 55 cases of reporting requirements.
We are in the process of introducing the silicosis and chronic bronchitis in 2009.
We will be upgrading industry standard lost-time injury frequency rate, and will report this respirators across our facilities in 2010, to reduce the occurrence gure when it is available.
There may be an initial rise in the number of respiratory disease.
accidents reported, primarily as a result of improved safety training In 2009, the Copper Division developed a three-year health protection and greater awareness of the need to report incidents.
programme to ensure all facilities meet the requirements of our health MKM recorded an injury frequency rate of 15 per million hours and safety policies.
We are recruiting seven occupational health worked in 2009, down from 34 in 2008. specialists across the Division to help prevent, diagnose and treat work-related illnesses.
Future plans include establishing a dedicated Safety culture medical committee and the introduction of a standardised employee A safety culture built on training and awareness is fundamental to health monitoring system.
The programme will ensure all sites have reducing accidents.
Our health and safety policies are available in sufficient first-aid training, underground ambulance transport for English, Russian and Kazakh, and each employee receives a pocket emergency medical aid, and modern equipment in their health guide explaining 16 mandatory safety rules.
We also plan to establish rehabilitation centres for employees employees received safety training, including 8,795 manual workers with work-related injuries and occupational diseases.
2010 commitment In 2009, we reported a goal of training all senior managers and engineers Identify five priority projects within the Copper Division for in the NEBOSH occupational safety and health certicate.
We now plan, improving safety performance.
however, to introduce an internal certication based on the NEBOSH qualification.
We have invited an external specialist to develop an EMPLOYEES internal, mining-specific certificate in 2010, and to train up to 20 Kazakhmys is one of Kazakhstans largest employers, with our of our managers, who will pass on their training to their colleagues.
61,629-strong workforce representing around 0.8% of employed people in the country.
We aim to provide good working conditions, to In 2009, the Copper Division introduced a five-year health and treat employees with respect and uphold their human rights at all times.
safety management plan to reduce hazards, improve performance and further embed a safety culture.
The first phase involves reviewing Each division has employment policies appropriate to the cultural our approach, structure and management system to ensure we and legal requirements of its country of operation.
These policies systematically identify, assess and control all risks.
Once this is cover all aspects of employment and are designed to recruit and complete, operational sites will develop and implement their own retain talented and motivated employees across the company.
management plans within six months, and these will be approved Pay and benets by the Group and Copper Division HSE departments.
Competitive remuneration is essential for recruiting and retaining These site-specic plans will detail activities and define timetables a talented workforce.
An internal benchmark carried out in October and responsibilities for completion, as well as the required budget 2009 shows that the wages our Copper Division pays are higher than and resources.
The Copper Division operational HSE committee is in both average wages in Kazakhstan and the salaries paid by other the process of identifying five priority projects for improving performance, large mining companies in the country.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 53 COMMITTED TO RESPONSIBILITY NURTURING TALENT In 2005, we selected two talented young engineers to study for a Masters degree at Beijing Science and Technology University.
After interviewing 10 applicants, we chose two engineers, Sabira Makhambetova and Natalya Mutayeva, who worked at the Zhezkazgan and Satpayev facilities respectively.
These applicants displayed a high level of professional qualication, good knowledge of economics and production management, and excellent communication skills.
Both chose to study for a Masters degree in enterprise management, from a list of relevant courses offered by the Company.
In 2009, both engineers completed their studies and returned to higher-level, better paid positions at Kazakhmys.
Sabira now works as an economist in our capital construction investments department, and Natalya has become an equipment engineer in the procurement team.
Says Sabira, I am able to exploit all the skills I have acquired understanding of economics and knowledge of Chinese as our department closely works with Chinese partners.
I am grateful to Kazakhmys for providing me with such an opportunity to acquire a new speciality and to experience living in an exciting and completely culturally different environment.
At the end of 2009, we completed construction of a second technical Employee headcount by business college at Balkhash, where we will open a similar training centre for employees in 2010.
We require all employees to pass periodic Copper 57,279 Gold 1,036 operational, health and safety refresher courses and tests, and help MKM 1,061 Petroleum 91 many employees to retrain in a new speciality to help them develop Power 1,945 Head Ofce 217 their careers with us.
In 2009, 25,808 employees received professional training at our technical college, universities and mining schools in Kazakhstan and abroad.
There are currently 388 continuing their training at our technical college, 33 at Kazakhstani universities and 31 abroad.
Kazakhmys contributes to dened contribution pension schemes in In 2009, the Copper and Power Divisions spent over $900,000 on Kazakhstan, Germany and the UK.
These contributions are a legal external training, although this does not include the cost of running requirement in Kazakhstan.
The Company has share plans for senior our own training centres.
executives, which are described on page 75.
Equality and diversity Our Copper Division in Kazakhstan provides medical and dental We want to provide a fair and diverse workplace free from services at no cost to current employees, and at less than half price discrimination.
This benets employees, and ensures we profit from for their families and retired employees.
In 2009, medical facilities a workforce that reects the local population and the variety of skills across the Copper Division treated 15,657 people, of whom 6,380 and experience within it.
We are committed to recruiting, developing, were employees, 937 were retired employees and 2,213 employee training and rewarding employees based on merit.
disabled people with relevant skills, provided they can work safely.
The Copper Division also provides leisure facilities to employees Recruiting women is a challenge throughout the mining industry.
It owns two health resorts, a holiday facility and six In our Copper Division, around 35% of all employees, including childrens summer camps.
In 2009, 4,395 employees and 637 retired many of our engineers, and 22% of managers are women.
employees visited health and holiday facilities paid for by Kazakhmys.
Over 4,000 of our employees children spent their holidays at our Within Kazakhstan the Group employs a small number of non-Kazakh summer camps.
nationals, generally where there is a skill shortage or where those individuals bring particular experience or abilities which is unavailable.
Training and development A key aim is to ensure a transfer of skills and knowledge to existing Training is essential for employees to do the best job they can.
employees, in order to benefit the local workforce and reduce We invest in training and education for employees of all levels.
We provide formal education at colleges and universities, as well as courses in mining specialities at our own training facilities.
Our purpose-built technical college in Satpayev offers classroom training as well as operational and safety training both above and below ground.
54 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED COMMITTED TO RESPONSIBILITY IMPROVING AIR QUALITY We are installing electrostatic precipitators, developed by pollution control specialists Lodge Cottrell, at the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station.
Once installation is complete, these will capture 99.85% of ash in the air and reduce particulate emissions by an estimated factor of four substantially improving local air quality.
We plan to t the precipitators to all eight power units at Ekibastuz GRES-1 by 2013, and are in the process of testing the first unit, installed in 2009.
In 2009, we also introduced new coal burning technology at Ekibastuz GRES-1, developed by PolytechEnergo Russia.
Combined with the new precipitators, this technology will further reduce emissions.
The new technology provides an alternative to conventional dust-ring and will allow the furnace to burn optimum-quality design coal as well as lower-grade coal.
This will increase fuel efficiency, reducing emissions of nitrogen oxides by over 30%.
Another advantage is that the new technology enables coal particles to coarsen, and ash from burning coarsened coal has a greater surface area and is more easily collected by the precipitators.
This increases the ue-gas purication rate.
Whilst it is a first in Kazakhstan, the technology is tried and tested, as PolytechEnergo has installed it in over 50 projects in five countries.
Consultation and communication of environmental auditing is providing a performance baseline Keeping employees informed about our business strategy and to improve on and help us monitor progress.
matters that affect their work is critical to maintaining a loyal and Independent specialists KazEcoProject carried out environmental motivated workforce.
We communicate with employees in a variety of audits at 48 copper facilities between November 2008 and May 2009. ways, primarily through face-to-face conversations between managers Whilst they made some recommendations for improvement, and their teams, email, and also through a company-wide internal the auditors concluded that our Copper Division complies with newspaper and intranet site, both established in the past year.
Kazakhstans environmental regulations, such as permitted emissions and efuent levels.
In addition, our environmental protection teams Most employees are represented by trade unions, which negotiate performed 340 internal inspections in 2009.
These resulted in a plan collective employment agreements with our divisions.
In Germany, to install more water meters at our copper operations to improve employees are represented by a works council and approximately usage measurement.
55% of employees are members of the IG Metall union.
We make mandatory payments for the industrial efuent we create, In 2009, the trade union representing employees in Kazakhstan such as waste water discharge, tailings, ash and slag, and report engaged with management on issues including living and working emissions to the relevant authorities quarterly.
These payments conditions, food provision, and health and safety.
We also negotiated amounted to $36 million in 2009 for the Copper Division.
on measures implemented in response to the global recession and Environmental regulators carried out 96 inspections at our resulting collapse in copper prices.
These include the suspension of copper operations during the year to assess compliance several social benets such as preferential prices at health centres, with regulatory requirements.
and a shortened working week for certain employees.
The union held almost 100 meetings during the year.
We have commissioned London-based Golder Associates to perform a comprehensive audit in 2010, which will evaluate the Copper Our Youth Union boasts almost 18,000 members and supports Divisions social and environmental performance in detail, and younger employees joining the Company.
All copper staff under assess our compliance with the requirements of the World Bank the age of 35 are free to join.
The Youth Union runs work-related and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
We will competitions plus cultural and sporting events, as well as organising use the resulting recommendations to develop a medium-term charitable and volunteering projects.
2010 commitment Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions Open our second employee training centre at the new Balkhash At Kazakhmys we produce significant greenhouse gas emissions technical college.
through electricity use and heat production at our mines and production facilities, coal combustion in our four power stations ENVIRONMENT and fuel use in our vehicles.
Increasing legislation relating to Mining has substantial impacts on the natural environment, and we greenhouse gas GHG emissions from the use of fossil fuels aim to manage and minimise these both during operations and after may pose long-term risks to our coal mining, power generation site closure.
This means using energy, water and other resources and petroleum exploration businesses.
efficiently: reducing greenhouse gas emissions, waste, and emissions to air, land and water: and responsibly managing and restoring our We are committed to reducing GHG emissions from our operations land to prevent loss of biodiversity.
through energy efficiency and the use of technology.
In 2009, total energy use in our Copper and Power Divisions was 15.9 petajoules.
As part of the integrated HSE management systems our divisions are implementing, we are putting in place measures to systematically Total GHG emissions were 21.6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide identify and control our environmental impacts, and ensure we equivalent CO e for the two businesses combined 10.7 million 2 consider them when making operational decisions.
A programme tonnes for copper and 10.9 million tonnes for power.
This increase OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 55 in CO e from the copper business is because, in 2009, the Kazakhstan 2 Copper Division SO emissions tonnes 2 Ministry of Environment changed the method it provides for calculating methane and nitrous oxide emissions.
Our purchase of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power plant has clearly caused a large 189,099 increase in companywide emissions.
2009 189,099 Emissions to air 2008 492,970 Our copper smelters produce substantial amounts of sulphur dioxide SO2 which, if released, reduces air quality and aggravates asthma and other breathing difficulties.
Other emissions associated with Copper Division CO equivalent emissions million tonnes 2 our operations include nitrogen oxides NOx, arsenic, ash and dust.
We monitor and work hard to reduce all emissions our operations release to air.
10.7 In 2009, our copper smelters released 189,099 tonnes of SO2 2009 10.7 compared with 492,970 tonnes in 2008.
This significant reduction 2008 9.7 is due to our sulphuric acid production plant at Balkhash, which is transforming SO2 emissions from the complexs copper operations 1 Method for calculating emissions changed in 2009. into a valuable by-product, greatly reducing the amount of the gas 2 This gure has been restated from 9.2 MT in the 2008 Annual Report, as it now includes emissions from the East Region, which we previously reported separately.
By the end of 2009, production levels had risen to almost 800,000 tonnes of sulphuric acid after 18 months of operation and used 75% of the SO2 emissions produced.
The remaining SO2 2 restore a 3,500m former stone quarry at its Belousovsky mine, emissions for the plant totalled 105,514 tonnes during the year, previously used to store ash and slag.
The first phase of the well below the permitted limit of 126,904 tonnes.
restoration comprised levelling the area and laying subsoil and Water use and emissions topsoil.
The second phase of reinstatement will focus on promoting Water supplies are coming under increasing pressure in many parts biodiversity, although the area is fertile and we expect many plants of the world as populations grow and industrialise.
Mining uses large to grow back naturally.
volumes of water, posing the risk of competition with local communities Waste in regions where water is scarce.
Mining, metallurgical operations and power generation create large In Kazakhstan, water availability varies signicantly by season amounts of waste, which can cause environmental pollution if not and geography.
In some areas where we operate, water is scarce, properly disposed of and is visually unappealing.
This makes efficient water use critical Our mining operations produce waste rock and overburden, to the long-term viability of a number of operations.
In addition, all which we store in dumps and often use to backll mines and when sites need to carefully control the efuent they discharge into local rehabilitating sites after closure.
Copper smelting produces tailings waterways, to avoid pollution and maintain local water quality.
and slag, which is classed as hazardous waste and must be securely Total water use decreased by around 46% to 129,183 megalitres contained in dams to prevent leaching into the soil and water in 2009 2008: 240,624 megalitres.
There are three reasons for this sources.
Our power plants create solid wastes such as y ash and large reduction.
Firstly, the 2008 figure includes some water used slag.
Other wastes created include sludge from our wastewater by local communities, as well as our operations.
This will be excluded treatment facilities, slime from our sulphuric acid plant and in all future water data.
Secondly, we suspended zinc operations at general waste.
Finally, in Zhezkazgan, which suffers droughts in the dry In 2009, our Copper and Power Divisions generated 70 MT of waste, season, our copper operations have introduced a water recycling down from 120 MT in 2008.
We continue to seek additional ways system to reduce usage, as well as discharges into the Kara Kengir to beneficially reuse our wastes, for example in brick production.
Over five million cubic metres of treated operational and The Copper Division has also opened a tyre-recycling plant in municipal wastewater are now provided to underground mining January 2010, see the case study on page 56. operations at the South and Stepnoy mines.
Environmental awareness Increasing economic pressures and inefficient water use are Increasing awareness of the causes and effects of environmental endangering ecosystems in the Ili-Balkhash basin.
In October 2009, damage is essential for changing behaviour and improving we signed a water use agreement as part of an integrated water performance.
In 2009, we took part in a variety of events management plan for the area being developed by the Regional to this end.
Environmental Centre for Central Asia.
This commits us to a series of measures to reduce water use and efuent over time.
Examples These include: include improving the pipeline feeding the local settlement, and the The Kazakhstan Environmental Protection Ministrys exhibition installation of a water recycling system that will reduce annual water of natural resource companies: withdrawal from Lake Balkhash by 87 million cubic metres.
Public hearings in Ust-Kamenogorsk, Eastern Region, also attended Land management by Kazakhstans Environmental Protection minister: We recognise the need to minimise land disturbance and protect Meetings with the Environmental Protection Ministry at Nura-Sarysu: biodiversity throughout the life of our operations.
Local legislation requires us to rehabilitate sites that have closed down.
The Copper A workshop on climate change and ratication of the Kyoto Division sets aside provisions for this purpose as a condition of its Protocol held by the Climate Change Coordination Centre, a contracts and licences for subsoil use, and this amounted to $37 million Kazakhstan-based non-governmental organisation: as of 31 December 2009 2008: $48 million.
The reduction is due A workshop on environmental problems in the Karaganda region: to the 25% devaluation of the tenge early in 2009.
We also wrote and published various environment-related articles Our operations carried out various land management activities in and editorials in the local and national media.
2009, such as using overburden, ash and slag to backll mines and restore landscapes, and planting greenery on and around our sites.
For example, in 2009 the Copper Division hired a local contractor to 56 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 2010 commitment We are committed to helping further develop the Kazakh economy Develop a medium-term environmental action plan based on the and in 2009, along with the Government, founded Made in KZ, results of the audit carried out by Golder Associates.
a programme to support small and medium-sized companies in the country.
We are dedicated to purchasing products, equipment COMMUNITIES and services from these companies wherever they are available Our presence brings many benefits for communities, such as at the right quality and price.
employment, opportunities for local suppliers and investment in local infrastructure.
At the same time, our operations can cause In September 2009, we held a conference for local companies problems such as increased noise, dust and trafc, so it is essential in Karaganda, and invited them to tender for contracts to supply that we work closely with local people to minimise disruption and Kazakhmys.
We also announced plans to finance projects aiming ensure they benefit from our business.
to increase local companies capacity to supply us.
Following the conference, 122 companies expressed an interest.
We are already In many places, the local community only exists because of our working with 67 of these and have signed contracts totalling operations.
Our social investment is therefore not simply philanthropy $134 million for products ranging from construction materials our business depends on the development of communities where to tools and uniforms.
In October, we took part in a similar, our employees and their families can thrive.
We have a long history Government-run conference in Pavlodar, and renewed contracts of close involvement with local communities and, while this relationship with nine suppliers in the region as a result.
will evolve, we will probably retain a stronger social commitment than many other major resource companies.
Our Copper Division has established a dedicated working group for local enterprise development.
In December 2009, we also established In Kazakhstan, engagement about operational activities that may a local procurement working group comprising procurement specialists affect a community generally takes place through the local authority.
from all areas of the Copper Division.
The working group visited However, we increasingly consult directly with local communities.
suppliers in Karaganda, Pavlodar and East Kazakhstan to assess For example, in 2009 we met local families at Bozshakol and agreed their products and production processes and raise awareness of our to provide access to a graveyard found within the project boundary.
The Copper and Power Divisions Should the project expand, we will relocate the graves to a safe location spent $867 million on goods and services from Kazakhstan suppliers in close consultation with both the community and authorities.
in 2009 around 44% of total spending on goods and services.
Economic impacts The Copper Division has centralised purchasing to ensure greater Kazakhmys is one of the largest employers and taxpayers in Kazakhstan, quality control.
In 2010, we will introduce standard, higher-quality and our Kazakh revenue represents 2.5% of the countrys gross personal protective equipment across all copper facilities.
The vast majority of our 61,629 people are This will be produced for us by a local contractor, using Kazakhstan citizens, whose income taxes and spending also materials we purchase overseas.
contribute to the national economy.
COMMITTED TO RESPONSIBILITY FOSTERING ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT Our Copper Division has invested over $7 million in Kazakhstans first tyre-recycling facility, bringing operational, economic, employment and environmental benets.
Tyres for mining vehicles such as dump trucks and loaders are costly and in short supply in Kazakhstan.
To overcome these problems, our Zhezkazgan operations will send their used tyres to the new MysShina plant for the worn-out tread to be renewed, and we will buy back the re-treaded tyres for 40% less than the cost of a new tyre.
Because the plant is close to our mines, this approach will also reduce transport costs.
As the lack of recycling facilities meant used tyres were previously sent to landll, re-treading the tyres also reduces our environmental impact.
The plant has created 100 new jobs for local people, many of whom were unemployed.
Each year it will re-tread about 2,000 tyres, using technology developed by German company Schelkmann, which supplied the equipment and trained our employees.
The new recruits received around six weeks of classroom training before passing an exam.
Initial trials confirm that our investment will provide a significant return.
com 57 COMMITTED TO RESPONSIBILITY RESPECTING CULTURAL HERITAGE There are several important archeological sites located within the boundary of our Bozshakol copper project in northern Kazakhstan, which we are taking great care to protect.
In 2009, we selected expert archaeologists to carry out detailed surveys, document the artefacts found, establish whether they could be safely removed, and carry out the excavations.
The Margulan Archaeology and Ethnography Institute in Almaty supervised all work.
Detailed surveys confirmed the presence of 25 separate archeological sites, 15 of which were previously undiscovered.
These span a timeframe from 350,000 years ago through to the late medieval period, providing a comprehensive picture of cultural development in north-eastern Kazakhstan.
There are six Stone Age sites, a Bronze Age settlement, five Iron Age burial mounds, medieval burial sites, primitive mines and ceremonial monuments.
The sites, along with artefacts found there such as knives, tools, copper ore and bronze bullion, prove that ancient peoples in the area were highly developed in their use of metals and other materials.
These artefacts have been carefully excavated, and we plan to open a museum at the site to house them.
Our technical college in Balkhash is designed to train 1,300 students a Community and infrastructure development year in specialist skills for the mining sector.
Opened in September 2009, Our Copper Division invests heavily in the construction and the college has 245 full-time and 307 part-time students training in maintenance of social facilities such as schools and hospitals, various technical and mining-related subjects.
A training centre for and the development of roads and infrastructure near our operations.
employees will open at the college in 2010.
Tutors from the college We concentrate our efforts on projects closely related to our operations, currently train employees on-site.
A similar college in Satpayev has ensuring our investment benets the business as well as communities already seen 200 graduates complete their training since opening and strengthens our ties with local people.
In 2009, the copper business invested just under $88 million Every year, Kazakhmys sponsors over 200 university and college in education, healthcare, sports and culture, infrastructure and students to complete their education in Kazakhstan or abroad.
the environment, and sponsorship and charitable donations.
Our operations also provide internships for local college students.
This includes capital expenditure and ongoing support for facilities, For example, the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station provides placements and is by far the largest programme of its kind in Kazakhstan.
for students from Ekibastuz Polytechnic, and three college students Education is one of our priorities.
We are the largest corporate began internships in November 2009. contributor to education in Kazakhstan, and allocate $20 million We also invest in projects that encourage young people to participate annually for this purpose.
The Group runs 37 nursery schools and in sports.
March 2009 saw the completion of the Kazakhmys-sponsored provides financial support to schools and orphanages located near reconstruction of the Ulytau Sports Palace in Zhezkazgan.
These include a boarding school in Astana for orphans includes a number of sports halls and a health centre, where 800 people and children from low-income families the first of its kind in Kazakhstan.
each day can take part in sports including volleyball, basketball, rugby, Opened in September 2009, the school cost $30 million to build tennis, wrestling and boxing.
and can take up to 700 students each year.
There were 215 students at the end of 2009.
The school is equipped with workshops, 2010 commitment interactive classrooms and a media library, as well as a driving school, Continue work on a variety of community and infrastructure swimming pool and sports complex.
Students will gain qualications in development projects, including a kindergarten, park, museum, construction, transport, metalwork and catering, as well as benefiting sports stadium in Zhezkazgan, water infrastructure at Uaitas-Aidos from accommodation, medical services and broader skills development.
and a national library and learning facility in Astana.
Total social spend $87.9 million Education 19% Infrastructure 13% Public healthcare 16% Sponsorship and charitable Sport and culture 23% donations 29% Directors Report: Governance GOVERNANCE 60 Board of Directors 62 Governance Framework 72 Directors Remuneration Report 80 Other Statutory Information 83 Independent Auditors Report DRILLING AT ZHEZKAZGAN MINE This machine can drill around 25 holes per hour and the entire face will be drilled in 2.5 hours.
