Keller Group plc 25 Social responsibility Effective management of health and safety, environmental, ethical and other social risks is fundamental to the Boards duty of care to the Groups stakeholders, as well as being important to Kellers corporate reputation and profitability.
The rest of this report is organised under four headings, representing the main areas where our business impacts on others and where we recognise our responsibilities to society: Our workplace and people Our environment Our marketplace Our communities Our workplace and people Keller Safety Framework As a Group, we have a broad geographic footprint and operate across a range of diverse business cultures.
During the second half of 2009, we reviewed how safety is managed across the Group, with the intention of raising the safety performance of all our businesses up to the standard of the best, through a process of continuous improvement.
As a result of this review, we have adopted the Keller Safety Framework.
This is a system which links together different aspects of our safety management, including our Safety Goal, Principles, Policy and Minimum Standards.
The Keller Safety Framework is being rolled out during 2010.
The Board recognises that its responsibilities extend beyond Most of our businesses already have well developed safety financial results and related matters.
Effective management of management systems and for these businesses, meeting the health and safety, environmental, ethical and other social risks Minimum Standards will not require great change.
Where existing described together here as social risk is fundamental to the systems are less advanced, these standards will provide the basis Boards duty of care to the Groups stakeholders, as well as for the creation and implementation of an enhanced management being important to Kellers corporate reputation and profitability.
system, which should be in place by the end of 2010.
The Boards role is to: provide effective leadership: establish Safety performance in 2009 overall policy for the Group: and monitor the performance of the It is with great regret that we have to report a fatal accident at operating companies in relation to social risk, whilst the Chief one of our US sites in 2009.
The accident involved an employee Executive is ultimately accountable for the Groups social of McKinney, who was struck a fatal blow when a component fell responsibility.
Within each of our businesses, line management is from a third party-owned and operated crane.
Following this charged with: delivering performance that is socially responsible: tragic event, Job Hazard Analysis site forms which are used to supporting Group policy: and providing leadership within their identify potential hazards on sites and how to control them have business.
All employees are responsible for following Group policy been revised, to emphasise crane safety and body positioning.
with the support, direction and commitment of line management.
In follow-up training to all employees, an emphasis has been placed on increasing situational awareness at job sites.
Our Code of Business Conduct, which can be found on our website, comprises the guiding principles which govern our attitude to social risk and which promote honesty, fairness and integrity in our relationships with i employees: ii customers, suppliers and competitors: and iii the community environment.
26 Keller Group plc Social responsibility Continued Keller uses the accident frequency rate AFR and accident by EuroStat shows an EU-average rate of over-3-day injuries incident rate AIR to track the safety performance of its per 100,000 workers across the construction industry of 5,239 businesses, where AFR is the number of accidents per 100,000 for 2007.
The 2007 rates and 2009 in black of our European hours worked and AIR is the number of accidents per 100,000 business units are shown on the facing page.
employees and where accidents comprise fatalities, major injuries as defined by the Health & Safety Executive in the UK Australia and injuries involving more than three days absence.
The AFRs In Australia, the closest available industry comparator is the and AIRs for 2009 in the table below show that two of our construction industry Incident Rate published by the National divisions, Australia and the US, improved their safety performance Occupational Health & Safety Commission.
The preliminary rate year on year, whilst two others, CEMEA and UK, saw a for 2006 07, the most recent available, is 2,210.
This rate only deterioration in their safety performance.
We expect that the new reflects occurrences resulting in absence of one week or more, Keller Safety Framework will help all four divisions to improve their whereas the significantly better 2009 AIR for Keller Australia safety performance in 2010. of 684 reflects a broader category of incidents.
Changes in the annual Accident Frequency Rate AFR UK and Accident Incident Rate AIR The 2009 average AIR for members of the Federation of Piling 2009 2008 Specialists, the most appropriate comparator group for our UK AFR AIR AFR AIR business, was 1,031 2008: 1,308 indicating that Keller UKs US 0.39 749 0.42 830 safety performance in 2009, based on an AIR of 1,764 2008: CEMEA 1.56 3,499 1.04 2,489 1,192, was worse than the average for its sector of the industry.
Australia 0.31 684 1.23 2,688 The UK management team is committed to continuous improvement in safety and is actively leading a programme UK 0.88 1,764 0.60 1,192 to ensure that this improvement is delivered in 2010.
Excludes Resource Piling, Singapore acquired October 2009.
Being a responsible employer Comparisons with industry standards As a Group, we try to provide fair employment opportunity to US all irrespective of gender, creed, ethnic origin, nationality, sexual The common safety measure used in the US construction orientation, age or disability, whilst not offending, or being industry is the experience modification rating EMR.
The lower insensitive to, the traditions and cultures of countries in which the score, the better the safety record.
We believe in treating all employees with dignity the US foundation contracting businesses rose slightly to 0.73 and respect and do not tolerate any form of harassment, 2008: 0.66, although it still compares favourably with the discrimination or bullying.
We are committed to advancement industry standard rating of 1.00. based on merit and the importance of providing training and development opportunities to enable employees to increase An alternative safety measure used in the US is the total their contribution to the Group.
The 2009 RIRs for our US businesses are shown on the facing page, alongside the industry Businesses within the Group communicate regularly with all their average for 2008 the most recent published by the Bureau of employees using a number of forums and media channels.
All our US businesses have a lower better RIR include company newsletters, consultative councils, suggestion than the most recently published industry average.
schemes, electronic messaging as well as informal, companywide social events.
We encourage a two-way dialogue with all CEMEA employees and provide channels for feedback and comment Finding relevant industry average statistics for the territories in on the Groups activities.
which CEMEA operates is difficult, given the lack of up-to-date published information.
The most recent relevant data published Business RIR to industry average Category construction 2007 2009 3-day injuries per 100,000 workers special trade contractors Keller Group plc 27 Central Europe 6,892 Anderson 6,143 Case Foundation SW Europe 2,234 7,252 Hayward Baker 2.9 SE Europe HJ 2.2 4,906 1,216 Mckinney 2.8 NE Europe 526 Suncoast 3.4 216 2007 industry average 5,239 US industry average 5.1 All companies in the Group undertake a wide range of technical 1.
Develop an energy reduction plan.
training, such as the Drivers Licence qualification for equipment 2.
operators and the Keller Academy for the training of young 3.
Communicate how we meet our customers environmental needs.
The Group also undertakes significant non-technical management 5.
Implement an environmental compliance programme.
training using different management development programmes, including learning modules for local managers, strategic Progress against initial objectives development programmes and executive programmes for The first of these objectives is, surprisingly, proving to be the the senior management teams.
most challenging, in terms of establishing reliable baseline data on our energy consumption from which to identify improvement Our environment opportunities and to measure progress.
In businesses Environmental management is an essential part of our approach representing around half of the Group, we measured our 2009 to good business management, particularly as the Groups consumption of fuel used in principal offices, workshops and in construction-related activities can have direct environmental our motor vehicle fleet excluding plant and equipment.
Costs of waste disposal, energy and construction the start of 2010 this has been rolled out to the rest of the Group materials are expected to continue to increase over the long term, and extended to include the fuel used to operate our plant and so managing our environmental inputs and outputs is also integral equipment on site.
Our expectation is that this will enable us to reducing site operational costs and increasing efficiency.
to start reporting on our carbon footprint next year.
Developing a Group environmental programme Over the past two years, we have been developing a common Tree-planting at a site in Anpara, India, initiated by framework for the management of both risks and opportunities our employees.
that are generated by the increased focus on the environment.
It is important that such a framework reflects the different drivers economic and socio-political that determine where on the spectrum of environmental best practice the different regions in which we operate are positioned.
Whilst, as with safety, our ultimate goal is to raise the overall standard to that of the best-performing businesses, we recognise that this may take some time, particularly in those regions where environmental credentials are not as high up on the agenda of government bodies, regulators, customers, suppliers and the general public as they are, for example, in parts of Western Europe.
We have adopted an Environmental Policy which reflects the credentials of our most environmentally progressive businesses.
We expect all of our businesses to aspire to these credentials and to ensure that they become embedded in their business processes as soon as is reasonably practicable.
The policy can be found on our website at www.
Towards the end of 2008, we identified the following initial environmental objectives, some of which we anticipated would be met in 2009, whilst others were expected to take up to three years to achieve: 1.5 2.0 28 Keller Group plc Social responsibility Continued Hayward Baker works at the Dalles Lock and Dam, spanning the Columbia River in Oregon, US.
Notwithstanding the challenge of obtaining complete and reliable technique registered as a green technology with the Malaysian data, many of our businesses have introduced energy-saving trade organisation, which will enable public sector customers to initiatives, such as: switch it off campaigns: progressively continue using this technique in areas of environmental sensitivity.
replacing the motor vehicle fleet with more energy efficient vehicles: right sizing equipment, such that no more than the In the UK, we have trialled the use of carbon calculators for our required level of power is used: and post-project reviews of fuel works and have increased the use of low-carbon materials in our consumption on large jobs to identify energy efficiency products, such as crushed glass in stone columns.
to reduce the carbon footprint of our products, we recognise that we cannot eliminate it completely.
We have therefore offered The second objective to provide environmental awareness customers the opportunity to offset the residual CO from our training was again taken forward in 2009 by businesses work for a nominal payment, which goes towards supporting low representing around half of the Group.
Collectively, these carbon sustainable developments, mainly in the third world, such as businesses set themselves a target of training 31% of their hydroelectric power and improving farming techniques to reduce employees in 2009, against which they achieved a level of 18%, deforestation.
Our first contract to be offset was for a school in through initial presentations to management, engineers and siteCoventry, for which our customer achieved a BREEAM rating.
based personnel, followed up by regular environmental bulletins.
This is starting to be reflected in employee-initiated actions, such As to the final objective to implement an environmental as a tree-planting initiative recently undertaken by our employees compliance programme for most of our businesses, this meant at a site in Anpara, India.
reinforcing, or formalising, processes which were already in place.
Standard tools, such as regulatory compliance training material, The objective to appoint environmental champions was met, with inspection checklists, waste management plans and spill a network of 17 people appointed in 2009, who will be important prevention and response plans, have been provided and adapted catalysts for further progress against these objectives in 2010. as required to meet local requirements.
Collectively, those Periodic web-based meetings of these individuals are designed businesses which set targets for 2009 aimed to inspect 22% to maintain momentum by providing tools and support and of their sites during the year, against which 14% was achieved.
sharing knowledge and best practice.
Products and services with environmental benefits Communicating how we meet our customers environmental In addition to trying to reduce their own operational environmental needs has been achieved to varying degrees and in different ways impacts, our businesses offer a variety of techniques and services around the Group.
For example, Keller France has published its which can help their customers to meet their environmental Guide des Chantiers Verts, which describes all the measures needs.
These can be grouped in the following three categories: taken by the company to reduce environmental nuisance, such as noise, water pollution and waste.
In Malaysia, our business succeeded in getting our dry bottom feed vibro replacement Keller Group plc 29 Retired mineworkers visit the Ipswich Minefill project in Queensland, Australia.
where we are compacting nearly 750,000m of dredged sand to reclaim more land for the port authority.
Dam remediation work also makes up a significant part of our work and in the US, we worked on a large number of dams during the course of 2009.
Other schemes to improve ground environmental conditions in which we are regularly engaged include slope stabilisation, decontamination or containment of contamination and the preparation of brownfield sites.
Products for the environmental management and renewable energy sectors Keller ground improvement products and services are often supplied to renewable energy sectors, including wind energy and Environmental benefits of Keller products and services biofuel companies, and so are enabling the development of third In most of the regions where we work, we offer our customers parties environmentally beneficial technologies.
a choice between traditional foundations and more sustainable alternatives.
Many of our ground engineering techniques have Our marketplace lower environmental impacts than the more traditional foundation Group companies take a leadership role within their industry techniques with which they compete.
For example, our stone by providing employees, customers, suppliers and potential columns, using only inert stone, are generally considered to be employees with technical papers, seminars, field trips and site environmentally friendly alternatives to the steel or concrete visits.
Staff from companies throughout the Group maintain close products for which they are often substitutes.
contact with partner universities in order to share best practice and provide examples of their leading edge engineering.
Apart from stone columns, we commonly use other displacement systems, such as driven cast in situ piling and dynamic Many of our senior managers take a leading role in the geotechnical compaction, which create no spoil and therefore eliminate construction industrys professional associations and activities transport movements to and from landfill sites.
The soft-facing around the world, getting involved in writing building codes, reinforcing systems offered by our Phi business as an alternative specifications, guidelines, and industry-wide safety initiatives.
to sheet piling also reduce the need to remove soil and replace with expensive filling.
Instead, softwood timber can be used to Our communities create steeper retaining walls, enabling greater land use.
All Phis Companies within the Keller Group often play an important role timber is from a renewable material source, with a lower carbon in their communities.
While much of our work is undertaken in footprint than sheet piling.
remote areas, away from local populations, our companies support their employees when they engage with community We are also looking into ways of reducing the amount of carbon groups and local charities.
This brings direct benefits to the content in our foundations solutions, such as increasing the business, in terms of employee satisfaction and development, proportion of recycled materials used, reducing our energy as well as to the communities with which they work.
consumption where this is an option and increasing our use of locally sourced materials.
As efficient operations, our businesses For example, engagement with the local community has been have been doing these things for years and therefore, there is an important feature of our work at the Ipswich Minefill project limited scope for further improvement.
However, we continue in Brisbane, Australia, where we have been filling the cavities of to focus on these issues.
disused mines to stabilise the surrounding area, including a key stretch of motorway.
The retired mineworkers at Ipswich are Products to stabilise the natural environment highly respected in their local community and our project team Some Keller products are designed specifically to stabilise ground was delighted to be able to organise for them a tour of the site environmental conditions.
For example, we continue to work on a and presentation about the project.
significant number of land reclamation schemes, such as the new Khalifa Port in Abu Dhabi and the Port of Felixstowe in the UK,
