King sher plc Annual Report 16 People and Accounts 2008 09 Kingfi sher recognises the positive impact The plan to turn around B&Q China is one Employee engagement: measuring an engaged, motivated and well-trained example of this process in action.
A number to manage workforce can have on business performance.
of senior B&Q UK employees are now working Measuring employee engagement allows We believe this is especially true in retailing, in China, including Matt Tyson, who brings us to quantify how well we are maximising where the relationship and interaction 24 years retailing experience to the role of the talent within our organisation.
In 2008 09 between store staff and customers is Chief Executive of B&Q Asia, and Joe Riordon, we extended the Gallup Q12 survey which a crucial foundation of success.
who was previously Services Director at B&Q has been used successfully by B&Q UK since UK and is now leading the project to transform 2000 to more than 1,300 leaders across the Chinese customer proposition.
The Q12 survey generates one In 2008 09 we embarked upon a series of the worlds most comprehensive databases of new initiatives aimed at developing the Also part of that project are Robin Wilson on employee engagement, with some 5.4 million knowledge, skills and engagement of our and David Brown, who between them have people from 500 businesses completing it employees, whilst also building on others amassed 37 years retailing experience at each year.
B&Q UK, including a number of store openings and revamps.
Robin and David arrived in The two Q12 surveys conducted by King sher A genuine incentive for our store managers China in January 2009 to begin a six-month during the year tracked a rise in overall levels Coinciding with the roll-out of a series of assignment to help the local management of engagement from 3.75 to 3.95 from a international store operating standards, we teams achieve a change programme that maximum 5, described as a signi cant have implemented a new incentive programme touches every part of the business.
increase by Gallup Consulting and approaching for store managers and selected area managers the 4.24 mean score benchmarked as top in our largest operating companies including Practical training to deliver expert service performing.
Group businesses with notably B&Q UK, Castorama France and Brico Dpt Our businesses continued to break new strong or improving engagement among their France.
The standards cover key operating ground with learning and development leadership teams include Castorama France, basics such as the presentation of stores, stock programmes for their employees.
In the UK, which demonstrates world-class engagement and point of sale materials.
Managers whose B&Q launched two quali cations accredited levels, Castorama Russia, Brico Dpt and stores achieve the standards receive King sher by City & Guilds, the UKs leading vocational B&Q China.
shares equivalent to approximately six months awarding body.
salary, but the shares only vest if the standards In recognition of the continued improvements are then maintained for an unbroken period B&Q will be supporting up to 10,000 of its in its employee engagement, B&Q UK has, of three years.
Customer Advisors as they work towards for the third year running, been awarded the a new NVQ Level 2 in Retailing Skills.
B&Q remains Developing talent and sharing knowledge City & Guilds has also worked closely with the only UK business and only multi-site retailer The King sher Executive Group KEG and B&Q on the development of the UKs first to have received this award.
King sher Talent Group KTG continued to nationally recognised Home Improvement be the focus of our efforts towards identifying, Knowledge quali cation, which was launched B&Q continues to be recognised for its developing and retaining the next generation in October 2008 with up to 5,000 B&Q staff commitment to promoting age diversity.
Around of King sher business leaders.
Members set to undertake it in 2009. a quarter of its employees are aged over 50 of each group bene ted from a number of with a similar percentage under the age of 25. development opportunities throughout the Meanwhile, as part of the Groups corporate year, including a dedicated learning event responsibility agenda, Castorama France has for KTG members at the Groups annual developed a number of e-learning modules Management Forum.
for store employees focused on eco-products.
The training is designed to help them guide 01 During the year we also looked to exploit customers on how to make their homes more the unique advantages that come from being sustainable, covering areas including garden, the most  ed home decoration and building.
B&Q UK launched improvement retailing group, not least the a similar e-learning module for staff.
B&Q has ability to add value through sharing knowledge, also appointed an Environmental Champion experience and customer insight between in every store to help promote awareness of our established and younger businesses.
environmental issues among their colleagues.
01 City & Guilds training at B&Q UK Georgina Wilson is one of 420 employees who volunteered for a pilot running of B&Q UKs new NVQ Level 2 in Retailing Skills course.
