King sher plc Annual Report 18 Corporate Responsibility and Accounts 2008 09 Future Homes is King shers business-wide This work has enabled us to develop seven Eight of the nine King sher operating companies strategy to create sustainable homes of sustainability goals which set out our long-term have achieved at least the minimum action level the future.
As a home improvement retailer, vision for a sustainable business.
These goals are: of progress across all issues.
The next step one of King shers key priorities is to help Enabling sustainability in all our product is for King sher operating companies to meet customers live in homes that have a lower and services categories the policy target level on all issues by the end impact on the environment and are ef cient Ensuring our stores and operations are of January 2011.
Some operating companies in their use of energy and other resources.
ef cient and sustainable have already achieved the higher level on some We believe that embedding sustainability Making it easy for our customers to issues.
The only operating company that has in our business, including the products we create their homes in a sustainable way not yet reached the target to achieve minimum sell and our own operations, will help deliver Engaging employees to be champions action across all issues is Castorama Russia value to our customers, our shareholders of sustainability across our business one of King shers newest businesses with and other key stakeholders.
Being a good neighbour in all the seven stores.
King sher will be working with communities we serve Castorama Russia over the coming year Research has shown that there is growing Working with our suppliers, governments to ensure it achieves the required standard.
consumer demand for eco-products which and other stakeholders to make help customers reduce their carbon footprint sustainability easy and to nd solutions The Steps criteria were updated at the end of and save money.
Increasing sales in this area to common sustainability problems 2008 following the introduction of King shers is therefore part of King shers core business Using our sustainability strategy to create sustainability goals the previous year.
strategy to enhance shareholder returns.
value for the bene t of our business and King shers operating companies are required With the global economic downturn, a key shareholders.
to meet the new minimum action criteria focus is to use our buying and marketing within six months by July 2009. experience to bring affordable eco-products King sher also has a Corporate Responsibility to the mass market.
A number of King sher Policy and a range of CR policy standards The Company also measures progress against operating companies have already launched which set out our position on the key issues a range of CR Key Performance Indicators extensive eco-ranges, including B&Q UKs that relate to each of the goals.
which are subject to an annual review by the One Planet Home range and Castorama audit rm Ernst & Young LLP.
Frances La Maison co products.
King sher King sher is working to implement its is committed to driving innovation in order sustainability goals and policy standards Corporate Responsibility awards and to realise its vision of a sustainable future.
This is recognition designed to ensure that all of King sher In 2008 09, King sher achieved the following Future Homes isnt just about eco-products.
businesses achieve consistent standards recognition: It also aims to ensure that sustainability is within speci c timeframes.
Leader of the general retail sector in the integrated into all aspects of King shers Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2008 09 operations.
The initiative seeks to assure Targets and measurement and awarded SAM Gold Class status stakeholders that King sher is effectively King sher sets CR targets for each of the Ranked second in The Observer managing key nonfinancial risks, such as sustainability goals, which are reviewed on Good Companies Guide 2008 highest supply chain standards, timber sourcing an annual basis.
Speci c CR objectives have scoring retailer and chemicals.
been set for the Group Chief Executive and Awarded a Big Tick in the 2008 Business the Chief Executives of the three divisions in the Community BITC Impact on Society How we identify the issues UK, France and International.
Also achieved Platinum King sher is committed to engaging with against the objectives is reviewed in annual status the highest ranking in the BITC stakeholders to identify key issues.
For performance appraisals and linked to bonuses.
example, King shers Corporate Responsibility Report is reviewed by a Stakeholder Panel, In addition, King shers Steps programme roadshows are held for socially responsible sets out speci c criteria to be achieved by investment analysts and the Company is the King sher operating companies.
These involved in a range of Corporate Responsibility criteria cover 14 key issues and are grouped CR networks and forums.
into three levels minimum action, policy B&Q UK has over 3,000 products in its One Planet target and leadership position.
At Castorama France, eco-ranges against the criteria is measured twice a year.
A full list of our CR KPIs and our CR strategy are available on our website at www.
