BUSiNeSS review cOrPOrATe reSPONSiBiLiTY minimising the risks from our third-party relationships business We pride ourselves on partnerships, joint ventures or within our supply chain: minimising the financial and reputational impact of offering sophisticated betting non-compliance with CR legislation: and gaming products to a minimising health, safety and security risks to our business, our employees and the general public from our operations: modern market.
We value our understanding global environmental agendas and minimising the impact of increasing environmental costs on our reputation for fairness and operations: and integrity, behaving responsibly being a good corporate citizen and a respected neighbour in our communities.
We monitor our performance through appropriate KPIs reflecting We also recognise the each pillar of our CR strategy.
Further detail on these is given in our separate CR report.
Our progress has been good and importance of good employee remains aligned to our strategic aims.
relationships and high levels of Stakeholder engagement Our stakeholders are all those people who have influence over customer satisfaction.
our business and the industry we work in, and in turn those Our internal codes of conduct require business professionalism, who we influence during our operations.
Ladbrokes has a honesty and integrity in all that we do.
We seek to comply with wide range of stakeholders from our shareholders, employees all relevant legislation and to maintain good relationships with all and customers, through to our regulators and problem our stakeholders.
A leader in our sector We believe that we should engage with our stakeholders and Ladbrokes is committed to being among the leaders of our stay informed of their opinions.
This knowledge is vital to sector in responsible business practice.
The Ladbrokes brand the long term development of our business.
We have a is recognised and trusted wherever we do business.
This is comprehensive programme in place to make sure that we something we strive to maintain.
engage at all levels in our organisation, more details of which are given in our separate CR Report.
During 2009 our high standards of Corporate Responsibility CR were recognised by many index and award bodies.
In particular, we keep abreast of the policies and standards of the We were pronounced leaders in our sector in the Dow Jones most significant of our investors and the research organisations Sustainability Indexes DJSI and for the 7th year in succession which support them.
We review their reports on Ladbrokes and were included in the FTSE4Good Indices.
engage in an ongoing dialogue where appropriate.
We have again been listed as one of Britains Most Admired We also participate in a number of CR indices and disclosure Companies and in October, we won the  schemes, providing information on the Groups CR activities Building Public Trust Award BPTA for Sustainability Reporting.
and taking note of their feedback on our submissions.
The BPTA award recognises the greatest depth and relevance of sustainability reporting in the FTSE 250.
High standards For many years we have supported the Association of British Strategic aims Bookmakers ABB and the Remote Gambling Association The following CR issues have been identified as key to RGA in establishing industry-wide corporate responsibility supporting our business growth and form the pillars of our standards and promoting self-regulation.
CR strategy: maintaining high ethical and socially responsible standards We are meeting regulatory requirements in all countries throughout our operations: where we are licensed to operate and in particular those of promoting responsible gambling behaviours across our the UK Gambling Commission.
We continue to support the business and the industry as a whole: Commissions three key licensing objectives to: keeping our customers satisfied, well informed about and keep crime out of gambling: interested in the products and services we offer: ensure gambling is conducted fairly and openly: and attracting a diverse workforce and sustaining high levels protect children and vulnerable people from being harmed of competence, motivation and loyalty to the business: or exploited by gambling.
32 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp010-037.
indd 32 24 02 2010 07:50 All relevant personnel are trained to meet the required We continually assess our performance through third-party standards.
To monitor compliance we have a comprehensive audits e. g. mystery shopper surveys and monitoring customer programme in place, headed by our Compliance Director and complaints.
Our mystery shoppers scores are consistently overseen by our Compliance Committee.
This programme is above 83% customer satisfaction.
We are constantly receiving subject to internal audit.
We have been recognised again by the national WOW!
Awards for good customer service and Responsible gambling Angie Bowers from one of our Liverpool shops won the national Ladbrokes continues to work with its peers and national Betting Shop Manager of the Year 2009. governments to improve responsible gambling behaviour across the industry.
Our customer loyalty card OddsOn!
continues to grow with 260,000 new customers signing up in 2009 and a total of We have our own systems in place to ensure that our 770,000 customers altogether.
we have given customers are well informed, for example: about our products, back to our customers over 2.4 million free bets, with 1.8 million about problem gambling issues and for our online customers, of those in 2009. about their own gambling history.
Engaged workforce We provide inherent protection to try to limit the possible As our business becomes more sophisticated and technology financial impacts on our customers from excessive gambling, driven, we need to ensure that we sustain a high level of e. g. daily and weekly deposit limits and appropriate customer competence across the business and increase our capacity due diligence.
to respond to changing market needs.
We protect the young and the vulnerable through, for example, We recognise that our employees represent a centre of clear marketing standards, strict age limits, online age excellence for the industry one which we wish to maintain.
verification checks and self-exclusion arrangements.
A key part of our human resources strategy is to be a modern, For most people, gambling is an enjoyable and harmless leisure attractive and fair employer and to value and recognise pursuit.
However, for a small number of people gambling can employee loyalty.
Ladbrokes has a responsibility to help tackle problem gambling, understand its causes and We work hard to engage with our employees, most specifically promote its treatment.
We make our employees aware of the through our UK Staff Council.
symptoms of problem gambling and train them in how Ladbrokes also provides clear opportunities for development to respond.
and progression: all of which helps to maintain high levels of Ladbrokes was a founding member of the GREaT Foundation, employee satisfaction and minimise turnover.
Over the past year, formerly known as the Responsibility in Gambling Trust RIGT, all of our recruitment and training processes have been renewed the Independent Betting Adjudication Service IBAS and, to equip us for the fast changing industry we now operate in.
through GREaT, supports GamCare and the Gordon Moody During 2009 we launched our new management development Association formerly Gordon House.
programme Aspire, this complements our retail Get Set We developed our front-line training programmes with the programme for shop staff.
help of GamCare and we have trained all of our employees in Our rewards and benefits programmes are proving to be best in responsible gambling practice.
class initiatives, having won a number of prestigious awards this A key role for GREaT is to develop a national public education year.
These include: and awareness strategy as part of the overall prevention of Employee Benefits Awards 2009 Grand Prix Award and the problem gambling agenda.
The gambleaware website award for the Most effective motivation and incentive strategy: continues to perform well and the logo or website address Personnel Today Awards 2009 Award for excellence in HR www.
co. uk is carried on all our websites Through Technology: and and advertising.
HR Excellence Awards 2009 Most compelling motivation scheme.
Satisfied customers We provide our customers with an enjoyable, efficient, secure, All our development programmes link directly to our business fair and socially responsible service and all our employees are strategy and are paying dividends in enhanced performance.
trained to support this commitment.
Protecting our supply chain We are keen to drive brand loyalty and all that the brand stands We have a responsibility to assess the social, ethical and for, including trust and integrity.
We seek customer views environmental risks associated with our business partnerships, and encourage feedback on our employees and our services.
joint ventures and product sourcing.
33 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp010-037.
indd 33 24 02 2010 07:50 Business review Corporate responsiBility Continued This year we have fully integrated our Environmental, Socially Our ultimate goal is to reduce our UK Carbon Footprint by 21% Responsible and Ethical Purchasing Policy into our central by 2013. procurement process.
A good corporate citizen A safe and secure place to work We strive be a valued member of the communities in which we We aim for best practice health and safety standards throughout operate.
We recognise the links our employees have to their all our operations and we support a proactive culture of risk own communities and through Ladbrokes in the Community management.
Ladbrokes has teamed up with Liverpool City Charitable Trust LICCT we support their activities by giving Council as part of a pioneering UK scheme for better health something back.
The Council will now act as a single point LICCT has raised over 4.8 million for good causes since it was of contact a Primary Authority on health and safety issues established in 2003.
The funds have been raised by employees affecting all Ladbrokes shops across the UK.
During 2009 LICCT donated over Our health and safety record in 2009 was good.
We had no 650,000 to charitable and community causes across the UK.
fatalities or major injuries across our business and following In addition, Ladbrokes has donated over 700,000 to 117 health and safety inspector visits in the UK alone, there community safety, citizenship and problem gambling charities.
were no enforcement notices or notified non-compliances.
Over 1,700 of our staff were involved in our joint initiatives with Furthermore we had no prosecutions or convictions for health Cancer Research UK, including Race for Life, Run for Moore and safety offences.
These three events alone raised over 125,000.
One of the important risks to the health of our employees Governing well and our customers comes from breaches of security on our Our aim is to embed CR policies and processes within the day premises, such as robbery and theft.
We have invested heavily to day operation of our business.
The Chief Executive, who sits in CCTV which is installed across all of our UK Retail estate, on both the Executive Committee and the Board, is ultimately both to help reduce the number of incidents and to help protect responsible for CR matters.
The Chief Executive is supported by employees and customers.
the CR Team who provide an overview and advisory function for This year we have led the development of the Safebet Alliance the business.
a voluntary code of robbery security standards for London Overall governance of CR is the responsibility of the Executive Bookmakers.
The code has been developed jointly by the Committee and the Board.
CR and governance issues are given industry and the Metropolitan police with input from other full consideration by the Executive Committee and the Board stakeholders including local councils and trade unions.
when defining the Ladbrokes business strategy.
In addition, we carefully monitor and seek to minimise the CR risks are regularly reviewed by the business and are financial impacts of health and safety related claims from across considered by the Board, as appropriate, as a part of the our business.
corporate risk review process described earlier in this report.
A new carbon strategy CR matters are reported to the Board on a regular basis as a Our main environmental focus is on energy efficiency, resource minimum quarterly thus forming part of the Board calendar, along use and waste management.
with tailored director briefings and where appropriate, training.
Working with the Carbon Trust, we have now developed a The Board reviews the key CR issues and agrees the annual company wide Carbon Strategy.
This will put us in a good CR strategy.
Board members are provided with adequate place to meet the requirements of the UK Carbon Reduction background information to support their decision making.
The Commitment legislation which comes into force in April 2010.
Remuneration Committee also takes account of CR issues We have also identified cost savings through a number of when determining executive remuneration and benefits.
CR energy efficiency and waste recycling initiatives which will be governance and management processes are subject to internal implemented across the UK Retail estate.
audit and the reporting process is externally reviewed by our CR advisors, Acona Ltd. We have been working with Greenstar to manage our retail shop waste.
This service has now been rolled out to the whole Our full CR Report of the country.
Greenstar have been monitoring our waste and For further details of our CR policies and performance, please trialling a shop recycling scheme called GreenSpace in the refer to our 2009 CR Report which is available on the Nottingham area, which was rolled out to the rest of the country Companys website, www.
We are also making sure that our suppliers share our Further information on our approach to responsible business is also environmental commitment by working together to reduce our included in the Directors Report on page 43 of this Annual Report.
34 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp010-037.
indd 34 25 02 2010 21:37 Highlights of the Year January 8 Times Better Launch of the 2009 Ladbrokes Serious about Service Campaign 8 Times Better.
February Aspire The first team is put through their paces on our new Aspire management development programme.
March FTSE4Good Ladbrokes remains in FTSE4Good following both March and September reviews.
We have been members since its foundation in 2002.
Safebet Alliance Launch of Safebet Alliance in conjunction with ABB and the Metropolitan Police Robbery Security Code for London Bookmakers.
April 1st Class Club Launch of the new top-performers club.
The club brings together high performing employees from across the business to discuss future developments in the retail operation.
GREaT Foundation Founder member of the GREaT Foundation funding research, education and treatment of problem gambling.
May ClubLadbrokes New look for Ladbrokes staff benefits scheme www.
June Employee Benefits Awards 2009 Won the Grand Prix Award and the award for the most effective motivation and incentive strategy.
July HR Excellence Awards 2009 Won HR award for the most compelling motivation scheme.
August Carbon Strategy Development Ladbrokes engages the Carbon Trust to help develop its five year Carbon plan and setting a target to reduce its Carbon Footprint by 21% by 2013.
September Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Pronounced leaders of the gambling sector and one of only two global betting and gaming companies in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
Our overall score went up to 80% a rise of 9% from last year.
October Building Public Trust Award Ladbrokes won  prestigious BPTA award for its 2008 Sustainability Reporting.
The Sustainability Reporting in the FTSE 250 award recognises the greatest depth and relevance of sustainability reporting, through publicly available information provided to stakeholders.
November Primary Authority for Better Ladbrokes teams up with Liverpool City Council to act as a single H&S Regulation point of contact a Primary Authority for all health and safety issues affecting Ladbrokes shops all over the UK.
Personnel Today Awards 2009 Won the award for excellence in HR Through Technology.
Awards Ladbrokes won the National Customer Service awards The WOW!
Award for Best Retail Operation.
Betting Shop Manager of the Year 2009 Ladbrokes wins Racing Post SIS Betting Shop Manager of the Year competition.
December Britains Most Admired Companies Ladbrokes was again accredited as one of Britains Most Admired Companies.
Ladbrokes came 8th and was the highest scoring betting and gaming company in the Leisure and Hotels sector.
Gambling Commission age After a disappointing result in March, the Gambling Commission verification tests confirmed significant improvement in our Think 21!
This was further verified by our own independent audit.
The Full Picture Ladbrokes funds research by Deloitte exploring the important economic impact made by the betting industry on the British economy.
35 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp010-037.
