Corporate social responsibility for the year to 31 December 2009 Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings Laird involves a wide community of stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and local communities.
During the year Lairds membership of the FTSE4Good UK Index, a financial index series that is designed to identify and facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, was renewed.
Product Stewardship Laird designs and supplies innovative, value-added products that advance performance and protection across the electronics market, improving the quality of life for people who use them.
As a forward-thinking business, Laird recognises the need to behave as a good corporate citizen and pursue  design and manufacturing practices, via various strategies including maximising resource productivity and minimising energy intensity.
Within the Handset Metals unit all metals are recyclable and 100 per cent of metal process scrap is recycled.
In addition, in-house design technology is employed to optimise the strength of the metals, which in turn helps to reduce the amount required, thus making products lighter, which in turn reduces overall raw material use.
During the year two new technologies were introduced in the visual metals product line: PVD chrome finishing and the laser engraving of metal surfaces, replacing nickel chromium plating and chemical etching processes.
Lairds  product design strategies have delivered Beryllium-free Recyclable Clean Copper gaskets, which alleviate any environmental, safety and segregation concerns associated with the traditional use and recycling of Beryllium-based copper alloys.
Laird also manufactures a variety of EcoGreen gap filler and insulator products which offer a halogen-free option with uncompromised EMI shielding effectiveness and halogen-free casings for signal integrity products.
Laird actively develops products which encourage responsible energy use, including thermal management products for customers working with less energy-intensive LED lighting.
Business Ethics Laird believes that high standards of business ethics are critical in todays business world and therefore places high priority on compliance with all legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance of high ethical standards, within each of the territories and jurisdictions in which it conducts its business.
Laird commits to conducting itself, and expects all employees to conduct themselves, in an honest, ethical manner in all dealings on its behalf and to behave professionally and with integrity and fairness.
Laird applies these same standards to all business dealings with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Lairds policy is that businesses should compete enthusiastically and fairly in the marketplace and must comply with the relevant competition laws of each country in which it operates.
Laird launched a statement of Global Values and a Global Code of Conduct during the year, with the latter including policies and guidelines relating to human rights, equal opportunity, ethics, compliance, anti-harassment, conflicts of interests and regulatory compliance.
Laird implemented a global Ethics Hotline during the year to provide a confidential way for employees to raise concerns about inappropriate behaviour.
The hotline utilises an independent telephone and internet provider, offering support in local languages and has an internal escalation and resolution process driven by the Risk Management Committee.
A copy of Lairds Business Ethics and Conduct Policy statement is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Human Rights The International Labour Organisation, a tripartite UN agency bringing together governments, employers and workers of its member states in common action to promote decent working conditions throughout the world, has identified eight Core Conventions as being fundamental to the rights of human beings at work.
These Core Conventions cover: commitment to freedom of association and collective bargaining, equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value, the abolition of forced labour, the elimination of discrimination on grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, and the abolition of child labour.
Laird has expressed its support for the International Labour Organisation eight Core Conventions and has stated its commitment to the principles within these conventions.
A copy of Lairds Employment and Human Rights policy statement is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Empl oyee development and communication Laird recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its employees.
Consultation is encouraged at local level and performance and development reviews reinforce the link between business goals, an employees contribution and his her remuneration.
A leadership assessment tool has been implemented for relevant appointed and or promoted candidates.
Laird communicates regularly with its employees, including information on key events within the business and charity and community involvement and employee achievements.
During the year Laird held global monthly site meetings and Town Hall meetings led by the executive team, conducted employee satisfaction surveys, produced quarterly communications videos and launched an updated employee intranet website.
36 Laird PLC Electronic Industry Code of Conduct Laird is committed to ensuring that its supply base complies with the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct EICC, and has therefore implemented these requirements into its business systems and continues to audit and work with its suppliers to ensure compliance.
The EICC, a code of best practice adopted and implemented by some of the worlds major electronics brands and their suppliers, sets forth performance, compliance, auditing and reporting guidelines across five areas of social responsibility:  Labour  Health and Safety  Environmental  Management Systems  Ethics In 2008 a Supplier Assessment element was added to Lairds processes and in 2009 suppliers representing approximately 51% of Lairds largest suppliers, accounting for approximately 90% of total spend, were assessed.
2010 will see the completion of 100% of large supplier assessments.
Continuous Improvement Laird continued to see gains in its manufacturing processes, product quality and customer satisfaction ratings, alongside cost reductions, through its Six Sigma CIP Continuous Improvement Process programme during 2009.
The combined Six Sigma and CIP approach has established a foundation for best practice across Laird for problem solving and since its inception in 2005 has delivered solid results year on year.
The CIP programme was expanded during the year to include Design for Six Sigma and Advanced Lean Manufacturing at several major facilities.
With a well established system and infrastructure in place, Laird will continue to expand and broaden the initiative across all of its facilities to support its strategies and strengthen its capabilities.
Risk Management In 2008, a new risk management framework was embedded across Laird.
Under this framework, delivery of improvements in controls and operational risk management, including health, safety and environment initiatives, are driven by the Laird Risk Management Committee RMC, chaired by the President of one of Lairds business divisions and with senior representatives of all divisions and key corporate functions.
Risk management strategy, risk performance monitoring and oversight at corporate level rests with the Laird Risk Management Group RMG, to which the RMC reports.
The revised RMG is chaired by the Laird PLC Chief Executive and reports to the Board.
The RMC and RMG each meet at least three times a year.
Health, Safety and Environmental Policy A copy of Lairds Health, Safety and Environmental Policy statement is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Laird is committed to pursuing high standards of environmental performance including the maintenance of safe and healthy working environments and maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to stimulate continuous improvement and promote and develop good health, safety and environmental practices.
2009 has seen further progress in overall performance in the areas of Health, Safety and Environmental management, driven by the continuation of Lairds ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 integrated Health, Safety and Environmental management system accreditation programme: a joint standard to which twelve Laird facilities are certified, all of which successfully completed re-certification or surveillance audits during the year.
Three IMS certified facilities were downsized or closed during the year due to the economic downturn.
A further three major facilities are on schedule to achieve Integrated Systems certification in 2010.
This is in addition to the majority of Lairds main manufacturing facilities being ISO 9000 and ISO 9001 certified.
Lairds environmental strategy focuses on energy and greenhouse gas reduction initiatives, sharing successful ideas and best practice wherever appropriate across all plants globally.
Within this overall strategy, Laird continues to prioritise action at its largest plants, where the initiatives have the biggest immediate impact.
The results of the health, safety and environmental audits and their follow up are monitored by the RMC.
Health, safety and environmental training is provided, and reinforced via refresher courses where necessary, to designated employees and focuses on the perceived risk within each business.
Health and Safety Management Worldwide employee headcount for Lairds operations increased from c. 11,189 at the end of 2008, to 12,290 at the end of 2009.
The average number of Laird employees in 2009 was 11,765 2008, 14,718.
Laird records near misses, minor and reportable accidents, based on a uniform reporting standard, at all facilities along with total hours worked which together provides an aggregate annualised minor reportable accident rate per 100 employees.
In 2009, total reportable accident rates decreased 25% to 0.15 100 employees vs. 0.2 100 employees in 2008, on a 24% decrease in total hours worked.
Minor accident rates decreased 53% to 0.19 100 employees.
Laird PLC 37 Corporate social responsibility continued for the year to 31 December 2009 AVERAGE EMPLOYEE REPORTABLE ACCIDENTS HEADCOUNT PER 100 EMPLOYEES 15,000 0.3 10,000 0.2 5,000 0.1 0 0 2008 2009 2008 2009 2009 Health and Safety achievements  Lairds facility in San Jose, USA reduced total workplace accident rates by 100% in 2009 vs. 2008, recording zero accidents, on working hours up 35%.
 Lairds Chennai, India facility reduced total workplace accident rates by 50% from 0.4 100 employees in 2008 to 0.2 100 employees in 2009, on an increase in working hours of 43%.
 Lairds facility in Gothenburg, Sweden reduced total workplace accident rates by 100% in 2009 vs. 2008, recording zero accidents, on working hours up 7%.
 Lairds facility in Beijing, China was awarded a Beijing Development Area BDA 2009 Best Practice Award for Production Safety.
The BDA credited the provision of fluorescent safety armbands to employees travelling to from work, best practice fire drills and the achievement of the highest score on the BDA-administered Work Safety Supervision.
 Lairds Tianjin, China facility received various awards from the local government during the year, including a Safety Management award and a Social Welfare Model of Excellence award.
Environmental Management Detailed policies are developed, implemented and regularly reviewed by Laird and its businesses to reflect their specific trading activities and the associated risks.
Lairds minimum requirements are for its businesses to comply with local legislation and to operate continuous improvement programmes, to ensure that efficient use is made of all resources, including energy, water and raw materials, that emissions are restricted to within best practice levels, waste is minimised and accidents are prevented through comprehensive training.
Laird undertakes a rolling programme of environmental audits covering all of its manufacturing sites.
The formalisation of environmental management systems via the certified Environmental and Health and Safety standards promotes continuous improvement and allows consistent monitoring of energy source reduction, waste treatment and the re-use and reclamation of natural resources.
In 2009, while actual CO emissions and power consumption fell, reduction in revenue during the global depression meant that 2 Lairds CO emissions per m of sales increased by 9% to 70,379 kilograms per 1m of sales while power consumption relative 2 to sales increased 4% to 181,461 KwH per 1m of sales.
The fall in revenue in 2009, combined with increases in waste from transitional activity as Laird rationalised operations across sites and bought in-house production which had previously been outsourced, also resulted in increases in waste to landfill relative to sales, which increased 45% to 1,610 kilograms total waste to landfill per 1m of sales.
RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances RoHS is European Community Regulation 2002 95 EC which came into force on 1 July 2006.
The Directive restricts the use of six substances in electronic products: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls PBBs and polybrominated diphenyl ethers PBDEs.
As part of Lairds Restricted Substance Management Plan, Lairds facility in Shenzhen, China utilises an in-house RoHS testing facility to ensure product compliance.
This facility is testimony to Lairds proactive approach to RoHS compliance, which is driven by a plan implemented at all manufacturing locations to manage processes and procedures associated with the Directive and other customerspecific restricted substance product requirements.
The Shenzhen RoHS laboratory attained international CNAS professional certification to ISO 17025 standards in 2008.
Laird has also invested in in-house RoHS testing laboratories in Kunshan, China, along with screening equipment in Tianjin, China and Cleveland, USA, to enable internally verified RoHS and restricted substance product compliance.
38 Laird PLC In 2009 over 7,500 samples were tested for RoHS restricted substances in the laboratories in Shenzhen, Kunshan and Tianjin, resulting in net savings of approximately $1 million versus conducting the equivalent testing at an accredited third party laboratory.
To date there have been no instances of major non-conformance with respect to RoHS restricted substance compliance with Lairds customers.
REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances REACH is a European Community Regulation on chemicals and their safe use EC 1907 2006 which came into force on 1 June 2007 and will be phased in over an eleven year period.
Laird is committed to being proactive in the addressing of REACH compliance and will support implementation of the regulation as required.
Laird has completed a REACH baseline applicability assessment involving the classification and review of all products and preparations and the identification and survey of applicable suppliers in the EU and internationally.
At this time all applicable suppliers either have a REACH programme in place or acknowledge their intent to comply.
The implementation of a RoHS REACH database, to manage better material and supplier compliance data, is scheduled for 2010.
2009 Environmental achievements  Lairds Shanghai, China Handset facility installed energy-saving purified water fountains, replacing the need for barrelled water, resulting in savings of $6,000 p. a.
 Lairds Tianjin, China facility received a number of recognitions and awards from local government in 2009, including an award for excellence in environmental management.
 Lairds facility in Chennai, India successfully implemented a CIP project designed to eliminate the need for water-based degreasing in certain metal stamping operations.
Cost savings to date amount to $54,000 with the future elimination of the need to make an $110,000 investment in degreasing equipment.
The project has also reduced water consumption at the facility by 250 KL p. a. and saved 50 KwH per hour in electricity costs.
The same facility also works with customers to recycle packaging trays, reels and other materials where possible.
Materials are captured at point of use and returned to Laird for re-use, reducing the amount of waste materials and cost to the customer.
 Lairds facilities in Beijing and Shunde, China were awarded certificates from major customers during the year for satisfying requirements of their Green Partner and Green Procurement programmes.
Charitable Donations and Community Affairs The well-being of the communities in which Laird operates is important to its long term development and success.
During the year Laird gave 9,200 to charities 2008, 71,898, which included a donation of 54,263 to the Sichuan earthquake appeal.
Examples of charitable initiatives are:  Donation to UK charities including Marie Curie Cancer Care and Mencap.
 Support of local food banks with employee food contributions in North America and sponsorship of literacy programmes for individuals learning to speak English and or enhance their skills.
 Employee participation in blood donation drives in Penang, Malaysia and participation in a Salvation Army Open Day to raise funds for the construction of homes providing shelter for local children.
 Support for Guide Dogs for the Blind in the UK through the sponsorship of a trainee Guide Dog.
 Donation of 22 computers to a school in Sichuan, China which was damaged by the earthquake in 2008.
 Organisation of local community events such as a basketball tournament in Shunde, China and Red Cross donation drives in Beijing, China.
 Donation of batteries and components with a sales value of $25,000 to build 500 radios for earthquake relief efforts in Haiti in 2010.
