Corporate Social Responsibility A commitment to the local have, and minimising these is a central community part of our decision-making process.
At Lamprell we recognise the value of fulfilling our responsibilities as a corporate As a publicly listed company our aim is to citizen, believing that by doing so we will ensure that our reporting meets all the bring benefits to all our stockholders.
requisite levels of scrutiny for a business of our size and areas of activity.
Having been based in Dubai since 1977, the Maintaining our reputation by aligning our Company is rooted in a community within commercial goals with our ethical which it has worked for over 30 years and it standards is an essential part of achieving has both benefited from, and been a this aim.
contributor to, that communitys development during that period.
As a result Social initiatives of both this history and the international In 2009, we continued to work closely with nature of our business, we believe we are local communities, business partners and fortunate to have a local business with a regulatory authorities to make a positive genuinely global perspective, and a rich difference within the localities where we variety of cultures and backgrounds from operate.
In particular we at Lamprell are which to draw expertise and experience.
aware of the cultural mix of our employees with some 80% originating from India.
Formalising our principles Our commitment to act as a responsible Don Bosco Snehalaya is a project corporate player has long been reflected focused on the street children and youth, throughout the entire organisation, but living in the city of Vadodara.
With the Group has formalised this approach Lamprells support, the basic objective of by creating and implementing a set of Snehalaya is to provide shelter to the policies that state the principles by which young living on the railway platforms and we seek to manage our operational in the streets, and other vulnerable activities, work with our staff and host children who are in need of care and communities, and minimise our impact on protection.
Snehalaya provides food, the environment.
clothes, medicines, recreational facilities, counseling, job placement, contact with Our business, the provision of their families, and training in trades construction services to the oil and gas according to their capacities and industry, requires the highest standards individual circumstances.
They are given of engineering skill and Health, Safety and opportunities to interact with the public, Environment awareness.
Our fundamental to express their potential and their talents.
principle is to carry out these activities in This helps them to develop their self a way that delivers the best possible confidence and the awareness that they product to our customers whilst too can contribute something to society.
minimising risks and maximising rewards Ultimately, Snehalaya aims at enabling to our wider stakeholders.
these street children to return to a decent life within mainstream society.
Accordingly, when we make all our investment and operational decisions, we Lamprells training and development take account of the social and program called LEARN2WORK, environmental impacts that they may developed jointly with the DBMA in Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 28 Financial review We believe we are fortunate to have a local business with a genuinely global perspective, and a rich variety of cultures and backgrounds from which to draw expertise and experience.
Mumbai, India, was initially set up as a progression, and treat our people with A contributory factor again this year was training school for potential welders and respect, maturity and openness.
We also the encouraged use of the now fabricators who would ultimately join the invest significantly in building their skill centralised reporting system for Company after qualification.
We are confident that this approach administering first aid treatments.
This qualified employees joined Lamprell is the one most likely to enable us to system through the reporting and further to this scheme.
achieve our business objectives by analysing of first aid case trends, providing quality, continuity and growth.
identified potential areas for LTI.
The WORK2LIVE program introduced in Our policy is to ensure equal opportunity January 2008 to provide welfare, education in career development, promotion, As a result of this approach, we have and support to disadvantaged young training and reward for all of our maintained a strong track record in the people in the North West of India was an employees.
We aim to ensure that all our area of safety.
Lamprell has established a extension to the initial LEARN2WORK employees understand our business safety record which is exceptional for the program.
The concept of the program is to goals and our business principles through oil and gas construction industry and we provide sufficient support to the ongoing communications programs.
have seen ongoing, progressive disadvantaged such that they will ultimately improvements in these safety figures over acquire a working skill which will enable With a diverse range of nationalities the past five years.
them to become self sufficient.
This broad working within the Group, we also spectrum education and training program respect and recognise the value of The facilities individually achieved LTI will ultimately produce better educated and different cultures.
statistics as follows: LTI skilled members of society who can rise Frequency above the poverty line and become Health, safety, environment and LTI Rate productive members of society.
We believe security summary Sharjah 3 0.71 that both the wider community and Given the nature and demands of our Jebel Ali 1 0.29 Lamprell will benefit.
We have the business, ensuring a high level of Hamriyah 3 1.07 advantage of not only providing the financial performance in Health, Safety, LOEF 0 0.00 resources to provide this education and Environment and Security is absolutely Thailand 1 3.62 training but ultimately to provide direct essential, and Lamprell has a strong track employment within our Company.
We are very In line with our standardised and conscious though that there is no room centralised program, the Lamprell Group At the beginning of 2009 the above for complacency in HSES and we seek to of companies achieved an overall programs, which are related to the improve our performance year-on-year.
performance LTI frequency Rate of 0.71. provision of labour, were suspended due to the economic conditions at that time.
Health and safety However, whilst our own measurement of However, this is currently under review Internal measures for health and safety our safety performance is essential, we and the programs may be reintroduced in performance are very important to ensure also recognise the importance of external some form during 2010. focus on this area of our business.
Our analysis of our methods and have aim for 2009 was to maintain and improve achieved relevant accreditation by third People the developed safety culture within the parties of our capabilities.
Attracting, developing and retaining organisation, with all staff encouraged to talented staff is a major challenge for the report any activities they perceive as not In 2009 Lamprell maintained the oil and gas industry and at Lamprell we conforming to best practice through the accreditation with the management are fortunate to have high quality people incentive linked in-house Safety system certificate ISO 14001: 2004 and across the whole range of our services.
It Observation Audit Program so that any the updated Occupational, Health and is therefore vital for our continued areas of oversight can be rectified and Safety Assessment Series, OHSAS success that we encourage our staffs brought up to the highest possible 18001: 2007. personal development and career.
standard as quickly as possible.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 29 Across all our activities we seek to Corporate minimise the mark we leave on the sites at which we work.
Social Responsibility continued In accordance with this update Lamprell Waste Management Policy created and internally promoted the Jebel All businesses affect the environment Ali HSE Manager to the newly appointed through the use of resources and position of Group HSES Manager.
Our Waste Management Policy is therefore Environment consistent with our broader Across all our activities we seek to Environmental Policy, which includes a minimise the mark we leave on the sites stated commitment to minimise the at which we work.
A good example is at environmental impacts of our operations Hamriyah where, as we expand our and prevent pollution.
Our aim is to limit existing facility, we are seeking ways to our discharge of waste material wherever minimise our impact on the local we can and the policy lays out how we environment and increase our energy seek to achieve this goal.
Security Throughout our business by delivering During this year Lamprell maintained a the best possible product to our high level of internal and external security customers utilising the most up to date controls of its assets on behalf of all technologies, we also have a direct stakeholders.
These controls were in the impact on the environmental performance form of security procedures, a corporate of the rigs we refurbish by improving their wide security access system and systems and ensuring they conform to all continued physical security presence.
Quality Our policy is to strive to achieve continual Lamprell aims to achieve maximum improvement in environmental customer satisfaction and quality of performance.
We are committed to product.
In the pursuit of this objective preventing pollution and reducing the the Company will comply with all national overall impact of our operations on the and international standards and environment.
In addition, we maintain an requirements with respect to quality internal management structure for the assurance.
Lamprell will also strive to management of environmental issues optimise resources and reduce wastage which includes clearly defined in the development of our facilities and responsibilities for environmental training of personnel.
Whilst aiming to management capable of delivering this meet these objectives the Company policy commitment.
ensures cost effective jobs and services, and delivery on time.
At all times Lamprell aims to comply with, and where possible, exceed applicable legal Lamprell meets these objectives by and other requirements relating to the understanding customer requirements, organisation.
We are also committed to working together with our customers to monitoring and reporting of our meet those requirements, understanding environmental performance, setting our processes well and monitoring and objectives and targets for improvement measuring our activities.
Ultimately the and at all times provide appropriate training Company strives to continually improve and awareness programs for our staff.
the Quality Management Systems Feasibility plans are currently in progress and operations.
to join the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 30 Financial review 0.70 per million man-hours LTI frequency rate Safety at Lamprell Lamprell has maintained a strong track record in the area of safety and has established a record which is exceptional for the oil and gas construction industry.
Ongoing and progressive improvements in these safety figures has been witnessed over the past five years with the LTI frequency rate in 2009 at 0.70 per million man-hours compared with industry average of 3.03.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 31
