Sustainable Development Review GIVEN ITS IMPACT ON DIVERSE AUDIENCES, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IS OF CRITICAL IMPORTANCE TO LONMIN, OUR EMPLOYEES, THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE AND OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS.
Sustainable development is of critical importance to This summary is derived from our more detailed Lonmin, our employees, the communities in which we Web-based Sustainable Development Report, located operate, and our key stakeholders, given its impact on our website, www.
com, which provides on these diverse audiences.
We remain committed in-depth information including details on our to reporting on the progress of our sustainable sustainable development strategy and profile, development performance.
In this section of the 2009 management approach, performance and case Annual Report and Accounts, we publish a summary studies.
The Web-based Sustainable Development of sustainable development performance during the Report contains all the disclosures required in line year, focusing on our key sustainable development with the various sustainability reporting criteria and risks: includes an assurance statement by KPMG.
The global economic downturn: Fatalities, serious injuries and unsafe behaviour: Empowering Historically Disadvantaged South Africans HDSAs : Skilled work force: Housing of our employees: Noise Induced Hearing Loss NIHL : HIV AIDS and tuberculosis: Water resources: Energy resources: Minimising closure costs and environmental risks through integrated environmental management and closure planning: Stakeholder engagement: and Local economic development.
32 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Governance of Sustainable Development THE BOARD OF LONMIN IS COMMITTED TO ACHIEVING AND MAINTAINING THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND TO UPHOLDING ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES.
WE BELIEVE THAT THIS HELPS CREATE THE BUSINESS INTEGRITY NEEDED TO DELIVER ROBUST AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS RESULTS.
The Board has a Safety and Sustainability Committee, incidents.
We have adopted an industry-standard which is charged with monitoring the Companys rating scale which grades incident severity, and use performance in this area.
Full details of its activities the Incident Cause Analysis Method to investigate are reported on pages 69 to 72. incidents which are rated as level three equating to the loss of a limb to level five this would equate to Our commitments and policies multiple fatalities.
The aim is to identify root causes The governance of the Company is underpinned by and appropriate corrective and preventative actions.
the values set out in the Lonmin Charter and our The outcomes of all level three and higher investigations commitments in terms of sustainable development are presented to the Executive Committee and the are defined in the Lonmin Safety and Sustainable Safety and Sustainability Committee of the Board.
As a member of the International In 2009, all our operations remained ISO 14001 Council on Mining and Metals ICMM and the United certified, other than the Assay Laboratory whose Nations Global Compact UNGC, their principles certification has expired, although we expect this to have been integral to the development of our be reinstated by December 2009.
The PMR and the sustainable development approach.
Training Academy are ISO 9001 certified.
We intend to achieve OHSAS 18001 certification of our Implementation of our commitments and policies management systems by 2011.
The Lonmin Charter and the Lonmin Safety and Sustainable Development Policy set out our goals Auditing and assurance and values, and make certain high-level commitments.
The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board approves These are implemented through Safety and Sustainable the annual Company-wide internal and external audit Development Management Standards, which outline plan.
Audit findings are updated regularly and progress the minimum operating requirements for the Company on mitigation plans is reviewed by the Executive and drive us to deliver on policy commitments in a Committee on a monthly basis and regularly by the methodical and consistent way.
They are aligned with Audit and Risk Committee.
External auditing of ISO the requirements of South African National Standards 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 management and relevant international standards, particularly systems, and our Environmental Management ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001.
Programme Reports which form part of the annual external Environmental Performance Assessment Management systems audits are used to drive continuous improvement.
Our management systems are designed to help us We engage assurance providers who are manage the business in a systematic and controlled independent from the Company, have the necessary way, with the aim of delivering robust, consistent and individual and organisational competence and sustainable business performance in all areas, operate in line with best practice guidelines.
External including safety and sustainability.
assurance is provided on selected data in this report, The business faces risk, the successful the alignment of our policies and business practices management of which enables us to create a return with the ICMM principles and our reporting against on investment for our shareholders.
However, we can the Global Reporting Initiatives 2006 Sustainability never operate in a risk-free way and among the key Reporting Guidelines GRI reporting principles.
In constituents of our management system are risk preparation for this report, we have conducted an management and incident reporting and investigation internal audit on selected key sustainability indicators.
processes, under which operational management are responsible for reporting, rating and investigating www.
com 33 Governance of Sustainable Development continued External organisations and public policy positions Stakeholder engagement and reporting We are proud to be included in the FTSE4 Good We view our stakeholders as those individuals, Index and Johannesburg Stock Exchange Responsible communities or groups that influence our operations Investment Index.
We engage in external groups or are affected by our existence.
Identifying and where we believe this will assist our performance or responding to stakeholders expectations and enable us to influence policy or decision making at incorporating their feedback into our decision-making national and international levels.
The key groups in processes is an important strategic commitment.
which we participate are: Our approach to engagement varies with the nature ICMM we have been members of the ICMM of the stakeholder and the specific matters at hand, since 2004 and continue to value our membership.
ranging from legally-mandated formal engagement This is a CEO-led organisation representing to ad hoc informal meetings.
We engage actively leading international mining and metals companies.
with those directly affected by our operations, either As a voluntary member of the ICMM, we support through the nature of our business or through proximity their vision for the mining and metals industry to our locations, and with those stakeholders who being respected, widely recognised as essential demonstrate an interest in our business.
Our aim is for modern living and a key contributor to to improve relations by understanding stakeholders sustainable development.
Through our ICMM perspectives and expectations and then participation we also implicitly endorse the communicating our vision, strategies and plans, Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative: and explaining how these have been influenced by previous feedback.
UNGC we remain a signatory to the UNGC and continue to support the principles of this voluntary initiative, which require us to align our operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
We are also members of and participate in the International Platinum Association, International Chamber of Commerce, South African Chamber of Mines, the Institute of Business Ethics and a number of forums in a local context applicable to our individual operations.
We continue to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
34 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information Case Study: Planning Project Team A multi-disciplined team, consisting of geologists, mining and engineering specialists, metallurgists and financial analysts Bernab Kloppers Planning Systems Manager, Mining Engineering Centre of Excellence Building and maintaining a robust Life of Mine Plan, based on current mining projects, planned capital programmes and future concept studies, is vital in laying the foundations for the future success of the business.
In collaboration with the various disciplines across the business, we have modelled and analysed a multitude of scenarios, using the Lonmin economic model for each operating asset, including different mining methods and various recovery rate and pricing sensitivities.
This has helped us to understand what impact each scenario would have on the Plan, and ultimately on the value of our asset base and future cashflows.
At K4 shaft, for example, a significant building block in our future growth profile, we worked with the Planning Project team to enhance the value of the asset by seeking to achieve optimal future production whilst maintaining the planned low cost profile of the shaft.
Simultaneously, we modelled scenarios with the Process Division team regarding the right balance of ore hoisted from the shaft needed to achieve an optimal mix for downstream processing once the shaft reaches full production.
At steady state, K4 will contribute around 20% of our total Marikana production, so it is clearly vital that the planning and modelling supporting the development of the shaft are accurate and robust.
A ROBUST LIFE OF MINE PLAN IS CRITICAL IN MAXIMISING THE VALUE OF OUR ASSET BASE Bernab Kloppers www.
com 35 Summary of our Performance against our Targets The table below summarises our performance against our key targets and outlines our targets going forward, with indicating not achieved and indicating achieved.
Issue Progress Targets for 2009 and beyond Performance and additional targets Human capital We will comply with the principles embodied in the In 2009, there has been no reported United Nations Declaration for Human Rights incident of violation of the principles.
We will increase the literacy rate of our employees We have increased the literacy rate to 50% by 2009. of our employees to 47%.
We will aim to improve the literacy rates of our employees by 2% in 2010 based on our performance in 2009.
We will ensure that 40% of senior and middle In 2009, 41.3% of senior and middle management comprise employees from management comprised employees from designated groups by 2009. designated groups.
We will increase the participation of employees from designated groups within senior and middle management to 53% by 2014.
Not on track We will increase women in mining to 10% by 2012.
In 2009, we have increased the number of female employees at the mine to 6.8% and have increased the number of women in mining to 2.9%.
Although we were not on track to achieve our targets in 2009, we have implemented initiatives to enhance the participation of women in our workforce and thus believe that we will achieve our targets in 2012.
We will increase female participation at the mine to 11.6% in 2012.
Procurement We will increase our total discretionary spend with In 2009, we have increased our total 1 HDSA suppliers to 60% by 2009. discretionary spend with HDSA suppliers to 66.6%.
We aim to maintain at least 65% of our total discretionary spend with HDSA suppliers by 2012.
On track We will have 63% of our total discretionary spend with HDSA suppliers by 2010.
Safety We will achieve zero fatalities at our In 2009, regrettably three fatalities operations each year.
We will improve our LTIFR by 15% by As at the end of September 2009, 30 September 2009 baseline year 2008. we have improved our LTIFR by 0.96%.
We will improve our LTIFR by 10% by 30 September 2010 baseline year 2009.
1 The target of 50% stated in the 2008 Web-based Sustainable Development Report was incorrect and has been rectified to 60% by 2009.
WE ARE COMMITTED TO CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT IN OUR PERFORMANCE THROUGH A FRAMEWORK OF SETTING AND REVIEWING OUR POLICIES, OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS.
36 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Issue Progress Targets for 2009 and beyond Performance and additional targets Health We will increase participation of patients in our In 2009, the participation of patients in wellness programme by 20% by 2009. our wellness programme decreased by 51%, this partially being attributed to the restructuring and reorganisational process that was undertaken in 2009, with 17% of patients exiting as a result of restructuring, 28% defaulting from the programme and 6% commencing with ART.
We aim to increase participation of patients in our wellness programme by 20% in 2010 2009 baseline year.
We will train one workplace peer educator for In 2009, we have one trained workplace every 75 employees by 2009. peer educator for every 71 employees.
In 2010, we aim to maintain one active workplace peer educator for every 75 employees.
We will reduce our number of new NIHL cases In 2009, we have reduced our new by 30% by 2009 2008 baseline year.
diagnosed NIHL cases by 80.9% from our 2008 baseline year.
We will reduce our number of new NIHL cases by 10% in 2010 2009 baseline year.
All operations to implement a baseline survey on All operations have implemented baseline occupational exposure hazards and establish surveys on occupational exposure occupational hygiene monitoring and health hazards and have established surveillance programmes by 2009. occupational hygiene monitoring and health surveillance programmes.
Environment On track We will reduce our aggregate fresh water intake We have reduced our aggregate fresh by 15% per unit of production 2007 baseline year water intake by 12.16% per unit of by 2012. production since 2007.
Not on track We will reduce our aggregate energy consumption We have increased our aggregate energy per unit of production by 10% by 2012, thereby consumption by 3.77% per unit of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 5% production and our greenhouse gas 2007 baseline year.
emissions by 10.32% per unit of production since 2007.
On track We will reduce our quantities of waste disposed We have increased our quantities of waste of to landfill by 15% 2008 baseline year by 2012. disposed of to landfill by 23.4% since 2008.
This increase can be attributed to the increased disposal of calcium sulphite at landfill until such a time that alternative disposal options are implemented.
Excluding the contribution of calcium sulphite, we have reduced our waste disposal to landfill by 2% in 2009.
Housing We will convert five hostel complexes into bachelor We remain committed to the ultimate and or family accommodation in 2010. construction of 5,500 houses within the GLC.
However due to financial constraints the target date for completion of these houses is under review and will be discussed with the Department of Mineral Resources.
Community We will spend 41% of our five year financial We have spent 41.1% of our five year commitments on local economic development financial commitments on local economic projects as per the Social and Labour Plan development projects as per the Social by 2009. and Labour Plan.
We aim to spend 58% of our five year financial commitments on local economic development projects as per the Social and Labour Plan by 2010. www.
com 37 Case Study: External Affairs team Rekopane Development Forum established to ensure better collaboration between stakeholders Minah Yalezo External Affairs Consultant In recent years, we have introduced a number of programmes to support our key stakeholders, including traditional authorities, local government and organised labour.
These programmes include the development of communication channels between Lonmin and these stakeholders, the provision of educational and health services to local communities and the facilitation of infrastructure support to those lacking the necessary administrative resources.
These programmes are run in partnership with other related stakeholders a good example of this approach is the Rekopane Development Forum, established by Lonmin, in conjunction with the International Finance Corporation, last year.
We invited a number of stakeholders to the forum, including traditional authorities, local government, organised labour and other mining companies, with a view to creating a platform to ensure improved stakeholder collaboration on local community development projects.
Our objectives included collaborative project planning and mapping, information gathering and sharing around new possible projects, and regular identification of potential future areas of collaboration.
The forum is starting to make progress in establishing a strong multi-stakeholder platform for collaboration since its establishment, members of the forum are now co-ordinating and implementing 24 collaborative development projects.
WE ARE TAKING A PARTNERSHIP APPROACH IN SUPPORTING OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS Minah Yalezo 38 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Economic DESPITE THE IMPACT OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC DOWNTURN ON OUR FINANCIAL FLEXIBILITY, WE HAVE NOT DEVIATED FROM OUR BELIEF IN THE BUSINESS CASE FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND THE ASSOCIATED BUSINESS BENEFITS.
In 2009, Lonmins profitability and cashflows were Despite the impact of the global economic negatively impacted by the global economic downturn on our financial flexibility, we have not downturn.
Consequently, management initiated a deviated from our belief in the business case for major restructuring programme during the year, sustainable development and the associated business resulting in the voluntary separation and forced benefits.
Furthermore, we remain fully committed to retrenchments of employees.
This impacted our the values of our Charter and our commitments within progress towards increasing the number of HDSA the Safety and Sustainable Development Policy.
and female employees within the Company and Further information on the effect of the economic retaining key skills within the workforce.
Furthermore, downturn on each of these sustainable development due to the adverse change in our financial situation, aspects have been provided within the body of this we will not achieve our targets to construct houses report.
and undertake hostel conversions by 2011.
Additionally, the completion deadlines for a number of environmental and social projects have been extended in an attempt to reduce operational expenditure.
However, we have taken steps to ensure that this will not have a material impact on the business, our compliance or effect on the environment or communities where we operate.
com 39 Safety WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO THE SAFETY AND WELLBEING OF OUR EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS.
WE AIM TO MAINTAIN OUR STRONG CULTURE OF SAFE BEHAVIOUR, WITH ZERO HARM TO OUR EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS BEING A CORE VALUE OF THE BUSINESS.
Safety remains a major risk factor and mitigating the Through the implementation of these standards, risk of fatalities and serious injuries at our operations we continually strive to eliminate fatalities, reduce resulting from fall of ground, use of track bound injuries and near miss incidents, encourage positive mobile equipment, scraping and rigging remain key behaviour and enhance our training and awareness areas of focus.
The impact of our safety programmes, Our approach to safety is based on a number of management and leadership on our performance is key standards, implemented across our property, reflected by the number of fatalities, LTIFR and including: severity rate, as key safety performance indicators.
Visible leadership: which is crucial to our success Work related fatalities in 2009 in safety and a powerful aid in creating an It is with regret that we report the death of three of interdependent safety culture: our employees during 2009 as a result of fatal injuries Safe behaviour observations: are carried out as a sustained from the following incidents: lead indicator to our safety performance and we Mr Mantelana Mvela succumbed to his injuries conduct continuous risk assessments to minimise on 16 February 2009 as a result of a collision unsafe behaviour or situations: involving a loaded locomotive with a stationary Safety training and awareness campaigns: form an locomotive at K3 Shaft at our Marikana operations: important component of our safety management Mr Lorenzo Joseppe Myburgh succumbed to his systems: injuries on 10 March 2009 as a result of being in Incident Cause Analysis Method: through which contact with an unguarded electricity cable we investigate incidents and near-miss incidents, resulting in an electrical flash and subsequent with the objective of root causes being identified burn wounds to his body at K4 Shaft at our and preventative actions taken.
Findings from Marikana operations: and these incidents are critical to our efforts in Mr Clement Tshidiso Motlotla succumbed to his eliminating fatalities and are communicated injuries on 15 July 2009 as a result of a fall of across our operations: and ground at K3 Shaft at our Marikana operations.
Incident reporting: we report safety incidents We extend our sincere condolences to the families to the Department of Mineral Resources as and friends of these three men.
required by the Mine Health and Safety Act 29 In 2009, our Company wide fatality frequency rate of 1996, which is aligned with the International amounted to 0.04, which is the equivalent of our Labour Organisations Code of Practice on 2008 rate and is aligned with international trends as Recording and Notification of Occupational determined and monitored by the Department of Accidents and Diseases.
We remain committed Mineral Resources.
to achieving OHSAS 18001 certification for all our operations by 2011.
40 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Lost Time Injuries Notifications in terms of the Mine Health and The Company completed a restructuring programme Safety Act 29 of 1996 across our operations resulting in the reduction of our In 2009, we were issued with 35 notifications in workforce by approximately 20%.
This exercise relation to the Mine Health and Safety Act 29 of 1996, inevitably impacted employee morale and created a including section 54 notifications of the Act.
These significant distraction amongst the organisation.
The notifications are evidence of a stance by the reduction in headcount occurred mainly in low safety government on safety in the mining industry, risk areas and hence there was no real reduction in which we support.
the number of employees in the higher risk areas Awards of the organisation, such as the working faces.
While In 2009, we were acknowledged by the Association the actual number of LTIs reduced by 7.8%, the of Mine Managers of South Africa for our leading significant reduction in the total number of employees industry safety performance.
In June 2009, the and therefore man hours worked affected the association issued seven awards, of which the calculation of LTIFR, which consequently only showed Company won four, as follows: a reduction of 0.96% from our 2008 rate of 6.27 to Four million fatality free shifts was awarded to a rate of 6.21.
The severity rate for 2009 was 249.1, Lonmin Marikana: a 28% increase from the previous year.
In 2009, 33% of our LTIs were as a result of material handling, Three million fatality free shifts was awarded to followed by 15% as a result of fall of ground.
In 2010, 4 Belt Shaft: we are committed to reducing our LTIFR by 10% Three million fatality free shifts was awarded to from our 2009 baseline.
K3 Shaft UG2 section : and Three million fatality free shifts was awarded to East 1 Shaft.
During the year we were also recognised for our leading safety practice with regards to zero harm and K3 Shaft and Rowland Shaft were acknowledged for two million fatality free shifts and E2 Shaft for one million fatality free shifts.
com 41 Incidents per million hours worked Number of fatalities Our Employees WE ARE SUCCESSFUL WHEN OUR EMPLOYEES LIVE AND WORK SAFELY AND EXPERIENCE THE PERSONAL SATISFACTION THAT COMES WITH HIGH PERFORMANCE AND RECOGNITION.
In November 2008, given the impact of the global participation by HDSAs in Lonmin.
Incwala has an economic downturn on our profitability and 18% holding in the share capital of our Marikana and Limpopo operations and a 26% stake in our Akanani cashflows, we commenced a major restructuring and reorganisation programme across the business.
Our other business partners include Mvelaphanda Resources, which own 7.5% of the Consultation with the recognised trade unions and the relevant government authorities was extensive Pandora Joint Venture and 50% of the Dwaalkop Joint Venture: and the Bapo Ba Mogale Mining and encompassed the identification of areas of improvement and cost saving initiatives, with the Company which owns 7.5% of the Pandora Joint Venture.
During the year, discussions commenced consideration of compulsory retrenchment of employees as a last option.
The restructuring regarding the future ownership of Incwala Resources Pty Limited involving the HDSA shareholders of programme was undertaken as prescribed by the Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995 and in accordance Incwala Resources Pty Limited and their providers of finance and Lonmin.
with the Restructuring Framework Agreements as approved by trade unions in respect of Marikana, Preferential procurement Akanani and our Limpopo operations.
In 2009, We continue to work towards enhancing the 3,427 voluntary separation applications were approved, participation of HDSA companies in the procurement 258 employees were successfully redeployed and chains of our operations, in terms of goods, services 306 employees were affected by compulsory and consumables.
As part of our Social and Labour retrenchments.
Plan, we have set targets to increase our total The empowerment of designated groups, the procurement spend with HDSA suppliers to 60% by retention of a skilled workforce and the provision of 2009 and to 63% by 2010.
In 2009, we achieved and affordable housing to our employees remain our key exceeded our target for the year with a 66.6% HDSA sustainable development focus areas.
In 2009, our HDSA procurement groups refers to persons, disadvantaged by unfair spend was US$523 million and our spend from 2007 discrimination before the Constitution of the Republic totals US$1,310 million.
Our procurement strategy of South Africa Act 200 of 1993, came into operation.
targets HDSA companies and where this is not The definition of designated groups includes possible, we encourage existing suppliers to form employees who are disabled, women or employees partnerships with HDSA companies.
Aligned with our classified as African, Asian or Coloured and who have vision to create stable and economically independent South African citizenship status and who are based communities, we are also focusing on developing in South Africa.
supplier opportunities for local HDSA community Empowering Historically Disadvantaged members residing in the greater Lonmin community South Africans GLC, a term referring to communities situated within We remain committed to implementing the principle a 15 kilometre radius of our operations.
of equal opportunity and employment equity while Employment equity maintaining an appropriately skilled and diverse We promote the participation and development of workforce.
In line with the Constitution of South employees from designated groups within our Africa, the legislative requirements and our Charter, workforce.
In 2009, as a result of the restructuring we are committed to providing the necessary programme completed during the year and the results resources to deliver the requirements of the South of an audit which was undertaken by the Department African Broad-based Socio-economic Mining Charter.
of Labour, our employment equity plan has been Ownership and joint ventures revised with the targets from the plan and from the The Mining Charter of South Africa requires that at Social and Labour Plan as follows: least 15% of the equity of mining companies or 53% participation in management by designated equivalent units of production must be owned by groups by 2014: and HDSAs at May 2009, and at least 26% by May 2014.
10% of women in mining at our core mining and Incwala Resources Proprietary Limited is a South processing operations and applicable to certain African registered company specifically incorporated employment categories by 2012 and 11.6% of for the purposes of enabling broad-based equity women at the mine Company wide by 2010.
42 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Designated groups Percentage employees from designated groups in management In 2009, 41.3% of our management employees 60 comprised employees from designated groups, ahead of our target of 40% by 2009.
Additionally a number of initiatives have been taken in 2009 to manage and 50 expedite our performance Employment of women 40 We are committed to the employment of women at our operations, retaining current female employees 30 and to creating a culture that empowers women in the workforce.
We have not achieved our 2009 20 targets of female participation in the Company.
We have 6.8% women at the mine and 2.9% women in mining at our operations.
In 2009, 268 women exited 10 the Company, primarily as a result of voluntary separation relating to the restructuring programme.
0 Although we have not reached our target for the 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 employment of women at the Company, we have Financial year made progress in our attraction and retention Actual Target programmes focused on the employment of women in the last few years.
Since 2007, there has been a 46% increase in the number of women employed by the Company and a total of 15 projects have been Percentage women at the mine implemented to expedite the employment of women 16 in the Company.
Disabled persons 14 In 2009, 0.6% of our workforce comprised people with disabilities, which is equivalent to 2008.
In 2009, 12 we have further refurbished facilities to cater for 10 disabled employees.
Attracting and Retaining a skilled Workforce % 8 Impact of restructuring programme on employee 6 numbers As at 30 September 2009, we employed a total of 4 21,623 employees, a reduction of 16.7% from 2008, as a result of the restructuring programme.
Additionally, 2 as at 30 September 2009, a total number of 10,497 contractor personnel were registered on our database.
0 Due to improvements in data capturing systems, 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 our contractor figures in 2009, includes all contractor Financial year personnel registered on our database, including ad Actual Target Revised employment hoc contractors, external consultants, labour brokers, equity target service providers and volume contractors.
In previous years, a portion of these personnel were not registered on our database.
Retaining our employees We are committed to retaining employees with talent, those who deliver high performance and especially HDSA employees in management positions.
In 2009, as a result of the restructuring programme, the Companys net labour loss was 4,121, a significant decrease in labour from levels prevailing in 2007 and 2008. www.
com 43 Percentage Our Employees continued Availability and Affordability of Housing for our Group labour turnover permanent employees Employees Our approach to housing is centred around the 2009 2008 2007 2006 delivery of affordable houses which impact positively New recruits 1,136 3,815 2,831 1,424 on our employees quality of life in terms of reuniting Resignations 322 506 471 363 employees with their families, enhanced security and Deaths providing sustainable community living.
not work related 208 223 237 231 In recognition of the shortage of available and Dismissals 942 780 956 887 affordable housing and the social imbalances that the Retirements 52 126 147 80 legacies of single sex hostels pose, we have committed Retrenchments 3,733 2 15 133 to addressing these shortfalls through the conversion of all our 114 hostel blocks into family and bachelor Net gain loss 4,121 1,729 1,005 270 accommodation and the construction of 5,500 houses within the GLC.
Employee development Marikana hostel conversions We have extensive employee development Hostels are not an acceptable form of accommodation programmes in place encompassing both personal for our employees, and we have therefore made a and professional development requirements, including commitment that no employee of the Company will talent management and extensive training programmes.
reside in hostels in the future.
No new hostels will be All supervisors, management and professionally constructed and in terms of existing hostels, we are qualified employees are subject to an annual committed to converting all our 114 single sex hostel performance review process that guides performance complexes into 1,500 family and or bachelor management and identifies employee development accommodation units for category 3-8 employees.
In 2009, this accounted for 1,367 or 6.3% of Given the impact of the global economic downturn on our employees of whom 46.5% were employees from our financial flexibility, our target to convert all existing designated groups.
Career development plans are hostels by 2011 will not be achieved.
This target is in reviewed annually and are based on career pathways the process of being reviewed with the Department for various disciplines, outlining qualifications and of Mineral Resources.
To date, phase one of the experience required for employees to progress in their conversions has been completed by a consortium chosen careers.
To date, 6.3% of employees have of GLC women contractors, with a total of 29 hostels completed this process.
converted into 412 bachelor or family accommodation In 2009, 47% of our employees were considered units at a total cost of US$5.6 million.
In 2010, we functionally literate and numerate, thus not achieving expect to recommence our hostel conversion our target of 50%.
In 2010, we aim to increase the programme.
functional literate and numerate rate by 2%.
In 2009, 667 full time employees, 60 community members, Marikana housing 173 contractors and 299 part time employees We remain committed to the ultimate construction attended ABET courses and 28 supervisors of 5,500 houses within the GLC.
However, due to successfully completed the Front Line Supervisory financial constraints, the target date for the completion Development Programme.
In 2009, transition training of these houses by 2011 will not be achieved.
programmes, focusing on portable skills have proven Although the target is under review and will be to be successful, with 1,658 exit employees registering discussed with the Department of Mineral Resources, for the training.
The training has been made available it is expected that the rate of construction of these to all employees who exit the Company due to houses will be based on employee demand for home retrenchments.
In 2009, US$9.3 million was spent ownership.
In 2009, show houses of varying designs on training Company wide.
were constructed and will be exhibited to potential home owners and other stakeholders.
In March 2009, Employee engagement the Marikana Housing Development Corporation, a Employee engagement continues to be a key focus Lonmin Group company passed a resolution to sell for the Group.
Employees are kept well informed of the 1,149 houses owned by the Corporation to legal the performance and objectives of the Group through occupants of the houses.
team briefings, consultation with union representatives, weekly bulletins from the Chief Operating Officer, all of which is supplemented by local communications on a shaft and plant specific basis.
In addition, the Company operates an internal television network at our K3 Shaft, reaching a target audience of approximately 5,000 of our employees.
44 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Health WE ARE COMMITTED TO HONOURING OUR HEALTH AND SAFETY VALUES AND SUSTAINING AN ENVIRONMENT THAT PROMOTES THE SAFETY, HEALTH AND WELLBEING OF OUR EMPLOYEES AND THEIR FAMILIES, CONTRACTORS AND THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE.
The health and well-being of our employees and the In 2009, we initiated six monthly checks on communities where we operate is an integral part selected high risk employees so as to further of our success as a Company, and one of the enhance the early detection of hearing loss.
We cornerstones of our strategy.
have management systems in place to enable us In 2009, we implemented a baseline survey on to understand the relationships between each occupational health hazards and used this to refine employees exposure levels, health records and our occupational hygiene monitoring and health employment history, thus assisting with diagnosis surveillance programmes.
We continue to assess and treatment.
and monitor exposure to occupational diseases such We have achieved our target of reducing our as pneumoconiosis, occupational asthma, silicosis, number of new NIHL cases by 30% by September occupational dermatitis and platinosis and these 2009.
In 2009 we reduced our number of new incidents within our workforce remain low.
The diagnosed and submitted cases with NIHL from 236 principal employee health risks remain NIHL, in 2008 to 45 in 2009 this representing an 80.9% HIV AIDS and tuberculosis.
reduction in cases diagnosed with NIHL.
The total Eliminating Noise Induced Hearing Loss number of cases compensated in 2009 amounts to In common with the rest of the platinum mining industry, 45, including outstanding cases from previous years, NIHL is one of the most significant occupational which is a 80.4% decrease from 2008.
Seven cases health risks faced by our employees and contractors, from 2009 are pending qualification by Rand Mutual.
having far reaching effects on the quality of life of Managing HIV AIDS in the Workplace and in the those affected.
Greater Lonmin Communities By the very nature of mining operations, HIV AIDS is a serious and debilitating condition that employees and contractors are exposed to high has widespread social and economic consequences levels of noise, but we have committed to eliminating across South Africa and in the communities where exposure to noise levels exceeding 85 decibels we operate which we term the Greater Lonmin dB A.
Our current focus is to reduce noise levels in Community GLC.
We estimate that about one the work place through engineering interventions and in five of our workforce is HIV positive, which is to better utilise personal protective equipment.
More potentially a serious risk to our business.
specifically: We continue to respond to the HIV AIDS epidemic We continued to address equipment noise levels in a responsible, non-discriminatory and supportive exceeding 110dB A.
As a first step, we identified manner with the aim of minimising the social and the equipment generating the most noise, and economic implications within our business and within assessed the potential of noise reduction through the GLC.
Our strategic approach to managing HIV re-engineering or sourcing alternative equipment, AIDS is two-fold, prevention and treatment of the taking into consideration factors of efficiency, practicality, costs and reliability.
During the year Number of NIHL cases compensated we completed the research and development associated with fitting silencers to stoping rock 600 drills, purchased 4,000 silencers at a cost of circa US$450,000 and will complete the fitting of these 500 to the drills by December 2009: and We continued our extensive area noise and 400 personal noise exposure monitoring programmes.
Hearing protection devices are mandatory in work places with noise levels exceeding 85dB A, which 300 are clearly demarcated.
Our approach to training and awareness is geared towards changing the 200 behaviour of each employee and instilling a culture of responsibility for their own health, and 100 we offer our employees and contractors custom fit hearing protection devices.
All employees and contractors exposed to noise risk are screened 0 05 06 07 08 09 annually to allow early detection of hearing loss.
com 45 Number Health continued disease.
In 2009 we continued our partnership with Our wellness programme is designed to cater global mining companies to finance the research and for the physical and emotional needs of HIV positive development of a new HIV therapeutic vaccine, employees.
We offer and resource an Anti-Retroviral VIR 201, which is in stage three of research and Treatment ART programme, funded by the development.
employees medical aid insurance at no cost to the Free education, awareness and testing individual.
We have committed that free ART will be programmes are in place across the Company in offered to the employee for life, regardless of whether an effort to prevent the spread of the disease, to or not they remain employed by the Company, this address the associated social stigma and to provide being particularly relevant during the recent employees with sensitive, accurate and up to date restructuring and reorganisation processes.
These programmes are implemented 276 employees joined our wellness programme, through Voluntary Counselling and Testing VCT, taking the active participation to 518 employees, a mine induction programmes and ongoing awareness 51% decrease since 2008.
At 30 September 2009, campaigns by peer educators.
In 2009, 4,680 of our we have 962 patients on ART, a 3% decrease from employees participated in our VCT programmes, of 2008.
The reduction in the participation in both our whom 13% were tested as HIV positive.
To date, we wellness and ART programmes is partially as a result have 380 trained peer educators for the workforce, of the restructuring and reorganisational process and one for every 71 employees which exceeds our target employees who have defaulted from the programme.
of one peer educator for every 75 employees.
In 2009, Of concern to us are the circa 10% of patients who 206 active peer educators held 4,008 education left the ART programme in 2009.
Although the sessions and numerous one on one meetings reaching treatment is voluntary, we continuously strive to over 78,000 people.
In addition to our robust reduce defaulting through education and awareness.
workplace programme we have intensive community Tuberculosis testing, prevention and care programmes in place at Tuberculosis is one of the principal illnesses associated our Marikana, PMR and Limpopo operations.
We have a tuberculosis control 1,999 community members were counselled and programme in place, comprising early identification tested for HIV of whom 18% tested positive.
To date and appropriate treatment with quality drugs and we have 75 active peer educators, who have held over lifestyle management through directly observed 3,500 education sessions and numerous one on one treatment this is a World Health Organisation meetings, reaching almost 50,000 community members intervention to improve adherence to tuberculosis on issues such as HIV AIDS, tuberculosis and treatment.
In 2009, the Companys Tuberculosis cholera.
In 2009, we have continued with our homePolicy was reviewed and amended.
We continue to based care programme in our communities, where be vigilant with the identification and treatment of volunteers visit and care for terminally ill patients and extreme and multi-drug resistant tuberculosis through orphans.
Currently over 1,200 patients and 640 our tuberculosis control programme.
In 2009, 472 of orphans are being cared for on a regular basis, with our employees were diagnosed with tuberculosis, an over 50,000 visits made in the past year.
Of the 472 cases, 374 cases were pulmonary tuberculosis and 19 multi-drug resistant tuberculosis.
No new cases of extreme drug resistant tuberculosis were identified in 2009.
Multidrug resistant tuberculosis is exhibiting an increasing trend in our workforce.
ART and wellness programme participation Number of tuberculosis cases 2,500 600 500 2,000 400 1,500 300 1,000 200 500 100 0 0 05 06 07 08 09 05 06 07 08 09 Financial year Financial year Patients on ART Patients on Wellness 46 Number Number Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Environment WE ARE COMMITTED TO OUR GOAL AND VALUE OF ZERO HARM TO THE ENVIRONMENT.
ALL MINING AND PROCESSING ACTIVITIES WILL HAVE AN IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT, BUT MINIMISING THIS AND USING RESOURCES MORE EFFICIENTLY IS AT THE CORE OF THE COMPANYS APPROACH TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT.
We face a number of environmental risks, of which In 2009, our total energy use, of which all is nonthe most important relate to energy, water resources renewable, amounted to 6,613TJ which is an 11% and closure costs, which we aim to minimise through decrease from our consumption in 2007.
Our energy integrated environmental management and closure efficiency has increased by 3.77% on our 2007 planning.
Although our total energy use has improved since 2007, our consumption Accessing and Managing Energy Resources and efficiency since 2008 has deteriorated.
In 2009, Energy is vital to our operations, with electrical power in terms of our initiatives to improve energy efficiency of particular importance.
We seek to play our part in at existing operations, we have continued our focus addressing a number of risks in this area, including: on demand control management by shifting on-peak The low level of availability of uncommitted electrical energy use to off-peak periods: exploring options power in South Africa, which culminated in the regarding geothermal energy use and bio-energy load-shedding and consequent project deferral generation and further replaced low energy efficiency experienced by the mining industry in 2008: and motors with high energy efficiency motors and other The carbon emissions associated with electricity initiatives such as extending the use of solar water heaters and the disconnection of geysers where generation in South Africa, the vast majority of which originates in coal-fired power stations.
Greenhouse gas emissions We are committed to promoting the sustainable We have set targets to improve our greenhouse gas use of natural resources, responding to climate change efficiency by 5% by 2012.
In 2009, we emitted and driving the reduction of greenhouse gases by 1,594,827 tonnes CO equivalent of greenhouse adopting best practice technology, alternative energy 2 gases, in accordance with our 2007 scope of sources, improved control systems and management activities.
Although we have decreased our greenhouse practices.
Our approach to climate change remains gas emissions by 4.7% and 3.9% since 2007 and aligned with that of the ICMM and as a member 2008 respectively, our greenhouse gas emissions per company we recognise the significance of climate unit of production since both 2007 and 2008 have change on a global, national and local scale.
deteriorated, primarily as a result of lower production.
Energy use In 2009 our greenhouse gas emissions efficiency We have a target to improve our energy efficiency by amounted to 1.26 tonnes CO equivalent PGM oz.
com 47 TJ GJ PGM oz Kilotonnes CO equivalent 2 Kilotonnes CO equivalent PGM oz 2 Environment continued Accessing and Managing Water Resources Ground and surface water resources Our mining operations are located in water-scarce We aim to prevent pollution and environmental regions of South Africa.
Access to adequate water degradation to surface and groundwater resources, resources remains essential for our mining operations.
mitigate and remediate where contamination has Our management of water resources is an integrated historically taken place and to continue monitoring the three-fold approach to secure the availability of sufficient impacts of our operations on water resources and the water for our current and future mining operations: to effects of our remediation efforts.
Our water licences reduce our fresh water consumption by improving provide the regulatory framework for the management water use efficiencies and water recycling: and to of our water resource qualities.
We have proactive prevent the contamination of ground and surface management programmes in place which aim to water resources in the regions where we operate.
reduce the possibility of pollution and provide us with early warning of any incident, so that we can take Securing water for our operations appropriate mitigating actions.
In 2009, as part of our We have currently secured access to water resources storm water management control plan, the storm which we expect to be sufficient for our current and water storage facilities were constructed at the UG2 planned mining and processing needs at our Concentrator, BMR and at the Smelter at a total cost Marikana operations, assuming no major divergence of US$3.1 million.
Additionally in 2009, the new from expected rainfall patterns.
We continuously Wonderkop waste water treatment plant was seek opportunities to reduce fresh water commissioned at a cost of US$3.2 million.
consumption further through securing access to In order to monitor our impact on the receiving waste water or water of poorer quality.
We are in the water resources, we have 135 surface and in excess process of securing further water resources for our of 260 ground water monitoring boreholes in place Akanani operations in the Limpopo Province.
The results of the monitoring programmes and annual groundwater modelling are Reducing fresh water consumption interpreted to monitor the impact of our operations Fresh water for our operations in Marikana and at our on the receiving environment.
PMR is sourced from the regional water utility, while our Limpopo operations access freshwater from a Total freshwater intake regional well-field.
Ground water usage is limited to exploration activities.
We have set a target to reduce our aggregate fresh water consumption by 15% per 14,000,000 9 unit of production by September 2012 as at the baseline consumption in 2007.
In line with this target, 8 12,000,000 in 2009 we further implemented measures to enforce 7 the zero surface discharge policy to maximise water 10,000,000 recycling through closed system reticulation and 6 are establishing a Company wide real time water 8,000,000 5 balance model.
In 2009, we completed a study of the availability, sustainability and practicality of utilising 4 6,000,000 contaminated groundwater from our tailings facilities at Marikana to reduce reliance on fresh water 3 4,000,000 consumption.
This study indicated good potential for 2 the water source in terms of availability, sustainability 2,000,000 and practicality.
1 In 2009, our total fresh water intake from the 0 0 regional water utility and from the well-field in 05 06 07 08 09 3 Limpopo amounted to 8,885,360m which is a Financial year decrease by 24.7% and 4.0% from total intake in 2007 and 2008 respectively.
The total fresh water Total freshwater intake 3 efficiency has improved by 12.16% from 7.98m Total freshwater intake efficiency 3 PGM oz in 2007 to 7.01m PGM oz in 2009.
48 3 m 3 m PGM oz Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Minimising Closure Costs and Environmental Risks Financial closure provisions for unscheduled and through Integrated Environmental Management and scheduled closure are reviewed annually against the Closure Planning.
progress made in implementing the integrated mine We are committed to integrated land use management closure strategy and plans.
These provisions are also and biodiversity conservation by applying a risk-based audited annually by third parties and amended precautionary approach during all phases of our accordingly to ensure sufficient financial resources are operational life, including mine closure.
available at any given time to implement rehabilitation measures as required by the management programmes Mine closure planning and closure planning.
At 30 September 2009, we had In 2009, we established an integrated mine closure a provision covering the costs of site closures of strategy and plan for our operations, to be reviewed US$67 million, compared to US$50 million in 2008. every two years, which provides a strategic framework This provision is partly funded by Rehabilitation Trust within which all closure planning for our operations Fund deposits with the balance supported by bank can be managed.
The strategy informs all guarantees.
All new projects undertaken consider environmental management programmes at our closure measures.
Furthermore, the associated operations so as to ensure alignment with best closure costs are integral to the environmental impact practice and legislation and comprises conceptual assessments undertaken for the activities.
land use, spatial development plans and consolidated environmental plans which are based on risk assessments.
This gives rise to enhanced application of pollution prevention principles and reduced longterm financial risk.
Integral to the development of the strategy and plan were extensive stakeholder consultations which enabled us to obtain feedback into the sustainable use and management of our natural resources.
com 49 Communities WE ARE COMMITTED TO EMPOWERING OUR HOST COMMUNITIES AND IMPROVING THEIR QUALITY OF LIFE BY CONTRIBUTING TO THEIR LONG-TERM SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND PROMOTING THE BENEFICIATION OF OUR MINERALS.
The business case for empowering the GLC, a term Community Development describing the communities within a 15 kilometre Since 2006, we have focused our community radius of our operations and improving their quality development programmes on the commitments of life is straightforward, given that the success of outlined in the Social and Labour Plans for Marikana.
the business is dependent on the stability of these Our key focus areas are infrastructure development, communities.
To this end, we contribute to our educational support, health support and local business communities long-term economic development development, including commercial agriculture.
These and promote the beneficiation of our minerals.
projects have been selected and developed in close Additionally, stakeholder engagement improves collaboration with local authorities and government to Company-community relations, and guides us in ensure that we complement local development plans.
taking decisions that affect the community.
Our In 2009, US$5.7 million was spent on community community initiatives in terms of development and development projects and of this amount US$3.2 engagement are focused on the GLC and our million was spent on local economic development community development initiatives are also focused as per the Social and Labour Plans.
To date, we on our labour sending areas in Eastern Cape Province.
have spent 41.1% of our total five year financial commitments for local economic development as per Community Engagement the Social and Labour Plans, thus slightly exceeding The key objectives for community engagement our target of spending 41% by 2009.
Baseline socioare to understand community concerns and guide economic and quality of life indicators enable us to expectations: plan and manage community track our impact on sustainable development.
The development projects: and encourage community key community development projects and spend in self-reliance, governance and skills development.
Over the past couple of years we have learnt through our annual perception surveys that our approach to community engagement often lacked inclusiveness Key community development projects in 2009 and structure.
In 2009, we refocused our community Project Spend in 2009 US$000 engagement initiatives on the quarterly Rekopane Development Forum and GLC area meetings which Community skills development US$10 take place monthly.
These meetings are project Madibeng capacity building programme US$67 orientated and provide platforms for discussion of Local supplier development programme US$593 challenges, successes and progress of various North West water and sanitation project US$782 projects.
Community members are also provided with Water and sanitation the opportunity to become a part of the projects in Eastern Cape Province US$61 their areas.
Community matters are channelled Silindini Bridge Eastern Cape Province US$337 through our Human Capital and External Affairs Health care delivery US$35 Department to the respective departments where Rustenburg hospice US$95 they are addressed in direct consultation with HIV AIDS peer education and home applicable community members.
We also have a based care US$62 formal complaints register that is easily accessible Post matric bridging course US$62 with the option to remain anonymous.
Saturday School programme US$94 Personal computer laboratories US$15 Early childhood development US$30 School infrastructure upgrade US$770 Curriculum support software US$13 Annual career exhibition US$34 School nutrition programmes US$641 Permaculture and eco-schools US$40 Agisanang farming project US$533 Itireleng community co-operative US$24 Total US$4,298 50 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Sustainability Performance Indicators Measurement 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Employees Employees Number 21,228 23,804 24,122 25,967 21,623 1 Contractors Number 5,306 6,932 8,580 7,758 10,497 Designated employed in management Percentage 25.8 36 37.9 42.3 41.3 on a permanent basis Women employed on a permanent basis Percentage N. D. A 1.4 1.4 1.8 2.9 in mining operations Women employed on a permanent basis Percentage N. D. A 4.1 4.9 6.1 6.8 at the mine Employee turnover rate Percentage 15.9 1.1 4.1 6.6 23.3 Employees and contractors trained in ABET Number N. D. A 1,681 1,389 2,866 1,139 Occupational Health and Safety Fatalities Number 663 33 2 LTIFR Incidents million 18.10 12.50 10.80 6.27 6.21 hours worked NIHL cases compensated Number 278 570 490 229 45 3 Tuberculosis cases Number 286 338 504 533 472 HIV AIDS 4 Patients on ART excludes PMR Number 407 587 836 989 962 Patients on the wellness Programme Number N. D. A N. D. A N. D. A 1150 518 Environment 3 Total freshwater intake m 9,500,000 10,858,464 11,795,482 9,256,244 8,885,360 3 Total freshwater intake efficiency m PGM oz 5.60 6.00 7.98 6.77 7.01 Energy Terajoules 5,813 7,348 7,434 6,555 6,613 Energy efficiency GJ PGM oz 3.50 4.10 5.03 4.80 5.22 Greenhouse gas Kilotonnes CO 1,489 1,775 1,673 1,659 1,595 2 equivalent Greenhouse gas efficiency Kilotonnes CO 0.89 0.98 1.13 1.21 1.26 2 equivalent PGM oz Tailings disposed to tailings facilities Kilotonnes 12,832 15,519 14,487 12,649 17,068 Waste rock disposed to rock dumps Kilotonnes 1,415 1,376 1,203 1,128 1,343 Hazardous waste disposed of to landfill Tonnes N. A N. A N. A 42,857 55,906 and incineration General waste to landfill Tonnes N. A N. A N. A 8,279 7,199 Average tonnes of SO emitted per day Tonnes day 3.4 7.4 11.3 9.1 11.1 2 5 from point and non-point sources Communities Percentage spend of our financial Percentage N. A N. A N. D. A 24 41 commitments on local economic development projects as per the Social and Labour Plan by 2009 N. D. A No data available.
Where it is indicated that no data is available, this is primarily as a result of low confidence in the accuracy of the data or an absence of measurement of the data.
Due to improvements in data capturing systems, our contractor figures in 2009, includes all contractor personnel registered on our database, including ad hoc contractors, external consultants, labour brokers, service providers and volume contractors.
Not all of these contractors are employed on a full time basis.
The figure for LTIFR for financial year 2005 was identified during the 2005 assurance process to have the potential of being underestimated by 10%.
This was incorrectly published prior to 2009 the data represents total tuberculosis cases and not only pulmonary tuberculosis cases.
PMR patients access ART through their private medical aid schemes.
The data for 2007, 2008 and 2009 represents emissions from both point and non-point sources.
