M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:48 Page 46 46 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Our people Being an employer of choice Attracting and retaining the industrys best talent is at the heart of our Human Resources strategy and even more so when the economy is tough.
In 2008 09 we introduced new development programmes tailor-made for growing tomorrows leaders.
We also reinforced lines of communication between management and colleagues at every level of the business, so we could provide reassurance through this difficult period.
All of which underpin our 125 YEARS OF SERVICE strategy of being an employer of choice, since we know that great Above: Mystery shopping M&S stores are anonymously visited once a month twice in the people make a great business.
case of larger flagship stores by mystery shoppers who evaluate service quality.
In 2008 09, that was the equivalent of 6,326 visits, with staff achieving an Our people International We have concentrated above average 84% score.
Retail is the largest private sector employer on training managers who are building in the UK, and M&S is a significant contributor our overseas businesses to encourage towards this.
We employ around 73,000 consistency of the M&S brand, taking into people in the UK and a further 5,000 account local and cultural differences.
We have one of the lowest Your M&S Career Path All of our UK and employee turnover rates in UK retail, at 23% Republic of Ireland employees are supported for customer assistants and 12% for by Your M&S Career Path training and management.
Around 44% of our people learning programmes.
In-store, our customer have been with us for over five years assistants complete a thorough induction of and 26% for more than 10 years.
up to 26 weeks and work through four Developing our people possible levels of coaching cards.
In addition, We have redesigned our learning and section managers and store managers development programme to identify and receive targeted workshops, designed to train the next generation of leaders, as improve selling and cost management skills.
125 YEARS OF SERVICE well as to ensure talented people within our Below: Cycling Sam Sam Worton was a business are given the right sort of training warehouseman in the Nottingham store for more Rewarding our people and encouragement to develop.
He was given his nickname when he The M&S benefits package remains one of cycled to every M&S store in the country a journey Lead to Succeed Our flagship leadership the best in the retail sector.
New membership that took all his holidays for five years between 1950 and 1955.
He visited 243 stores from Aberdeen to programme Lead to Succeed targets the to the final salary pension scheme closed in Truro and covered a distance of 7,173 miles.
development of the 300 most senior M&S 2002, but we offer a generous retirement plan people.
It is designed to identify and develop where M&S matches employees contributions people for succession and is built around our by up to 12%.
M&S brand values Quality, Value, Service, One in three employees 26,000 participated Innovation and Trust.
in our Sharesave Schemes in 2008 09.
There was a 21% increase in employees Line managers Phase one of a new line joining Sharesave over the previous year due management development programme has to our low share price as well as employees been launched.
This is designed to develop coming out of options with a higher price.
the 2,000 line managers who are critical We are pleased that so many employees to the motivation and retention of talent want to invest in the business and believe across the business.
in its prospects for growth.
Academies We have developed our We have a number of initiatives designed GM and Food academies so we continue to make people feel well-cared for.
For example to innovate as a business.
Staff attend a we run two-year breast screening cycles.
Some variety of master-classes, from improving 27,000 were screened in the cycle that ended their core buying capabilities and range in February 2009, and a further 13,400 women planning in GM to their culinary and tasting will be screened in the new programme starting skills in food.
M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:49 Page 47 47 125 YEARS OF TRUST Below: Your views BIG represent staff views at a local, regional and national level.
Communication EMPLOYEE FOCUS We have had to make some difficult decisions this year, and we recognise that it is more 216 GRADUATES RECRUITED important than ever to clearly communicate 705 MARKS AND START PLACEMENTS with our employees.
We have a range of 26 EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEER AWARDS channels to do this: 612 EMPLOYEES CELEBRATED 25 YEARS The Top 100 briefing is designed to deliver WORKING FOR M&S Head Office messages to the top managers.
44 EMPLOYEES CELEBRATED 40 YEARS WORKING FOR M&S Additionally, BIG developed initiatives to Director Breakfast meetings have been improve overall business profitability and 165,000 HOURS OF TRAINING increased so that colleagues in-stores can efficiency: for example focusing on fill meet the leaders of different business units.
1,029 PEOPLE ATTENDED 330 WORKSHOPS productivity the process of getting stock IN OUR FOOD AND GM ACADEMIES In-store listening groups ensure issues onto shelves.
Working with store colleagues, 40,000 GREAT SERVICE AWARDS FOR STAFF can be communicated to Head Office: and BIG developed ideas to simplify the fill process WHO HAVE EXCELLED IN THEIR ROLE which has helped contribute to 4m in Quarterly results broadcasts to all M&S savings and to noticeably strengthen product employees to keep them abreast of availability in stores.
Looking ahead Despite the tough trading conditions, there Additionally we communicate with all of our is much to look forward to in the months ahead.
employees through the M&S intranet and Our employees will join in our anniversary employee magazine.
The annual employee celebrations, and are in the midst of a major opinion survey, Your Say, which has a response fundraising challenge to raise 1.25m for local rate of over 90%, looks at a range of issues charities in just 125 days.
Colleagues in every from job satisfaction to management store and office have selected their charities performance.
We now have three sets of and are coming up with creative ways to results from 2006 to 2008 to compare reach our target, so that we can give and we can see trends emerging showing something back to the communities that us where we are making progress and where have supported us through the years.
Our overall positive We look forward to tallying the results score for 2008 remained consistent with in September 2009. previous years at 70% and we will be striving Our business relies on people, and we 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION for the same when the 2009 results are in.
have worked hard to earn the reputation of Above: Theres no accounting for taste In his Representing staff views an employer of choice.
We have a clear 12 years at M&S, Simon Allison has gone from sampling sandwiches and sushi to pet food.
He More than 3,500 elected employee plan in place to ensure we recruit, train, now manages a team of 10, who develop our representatives from every part of the retain and develop talent, and in turn create a grocery, household goods, savoury snacks, beer, business sit on our Business Involvement high performance business.
These initiatives spirits and wine.
In his words, everything you need Groups BIG.
In this challenging year BIG for the party, and to clean up afterwards.
have been designed, developed and are now has played an increasingly important role being implemented to build for the future.
in representing colleagues views on The M&S twist Flora Benenson was recruited in They will stand the test of time.
1932 as champion of the Staff Welfare Service.
matters relating to work and employment.
In a report to then Chairman, Simon Marks, she Critically, BIG led the consultation process says: The youngsters should be allowed to use for stores and Head Office, successfully record players in the luncheon breaks and even given facilities to twist if they would like to... submitting counter proposals on behalf of employees that were accepted by the business and resulted in changes to Company proposals.
