Working towards sustainability McBride is committed to achieving a long-term successful Waste generated increased slightly to 1.3% including and sustainable business as the leading provider of the adverse impact of closing two factories and Private Label Household and Personal Care products.
Reused, recycled and recovered waste improved from 66% in 2007-08 As a Group we believe in the importance of social to 67% in 2008-09. responsibility in our business and the contribution it makes to our success.
Our approach to the environment, product Our accidents statistics have also shown a significant safety, health and safety in our operations, how we treat improvement with LTIs Accidents requiring more than people, our customers and suppliers, the communities in three days off work down to 125 2007-08: 160, this is the which we operate and other stakeholders, is embedded best result for four years and the accident rate measured in our Company culture and values.
in frequency per 100,000 hours worked at 1.4 2007-08: 1.7 is our safest performance for over nine years.
The issues of environment and climate change impact all our stakeholders.
For us the key to thriving in our Reducing our carbon footprint dynamic market is to set the standards, not merely follow Last year we reported we had installed over 5,000 solar them.
We remain aligned with the evolving needs of our panels on the roof of our Ieper Household factory in customers and our consumer markets.
It is this close, Belgium with the capability of producing 800,000 kWh proactive relationship that keeps us at the top of the per year.
Since going live in January 2009, the 5,000 panels Private Label sector.
have generated enough electricity to save the equivalent of 102 tonnes of CO. We are now installing a further 2 We are particularly pleased that this year McBride has 2,700 panels on the roof of our Ieper Personal Care been accepted into the FTSE4Good Index of leading factory capable of generating a further 425,000 kWh companies that meet globally recognised corporate per year or roughly 10% of the energy consumption of responsibility standards.
When fully operational the combined benefit will be to reduce CO emissions by 2 McBride continues to be involved in driving the concept over 550 tonnes per annum.
of Sustainable Cleaning through the AISE International Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Greener aerosols Products.
We were the first Private Label manufacturer Nitrogen makes up 80% of the air we breathe and to sign up to the Waste and Resources Action Programme has the benefits of being: WRAP Courtauld Commitment in the UK whose aims are to achieve an absolute reduction in packaging waste by Non flammable 2010 by integrating sustainability into our New Product Non toxic Development initiatives.
Environmentally friendly as it does not contribute to greenhouse gases We measure and report on the environmental impact Non oil based and therefore not influenced by of our operations.
In 2008-09 our eco-efficiency the oil price performance showed further improvements: These properties make nitrogen an ideal eco-friendly Kgs production per m water used 3.8% propellant for a number of aerosol products such as air Kgs production per m effluent generated -1.5% fresheners, furniture polishes and insecticides.
To date M water per tonne production -3.0% we have equipped one filling line in France to produce air Kgs production per tonne CO produced 1.1% 2 fresheners using nitrogen with a second line due to be Kgs production per G Joule of energy 0.9% installed this year to provide greater capacity.
Sustainability Teamwork Private Label sales in Poland 16% Growth in Private Label Personal Care sales The Private Label business in Poland continued to grow strongly with sales up 16%.
The growth in Private Label sales has been achieved by building a fresh commercial approach based on New Product Development, innovation, 8% customer service, further expansion of the product range in Poland and strengthened Private Label Personal Care sales are growing customer relationships.
McBrides Group wide sales of Personal Care were up 14% 8% on constant currency basis.
All three divisions showed growth of Private Label Personal Care ranges.
Liquid hand soaps, deodorants, skin care and baby care products showed particularly strong growth.
Growth in laundry liquids and sachets 12% Laundry liquid products and sachets are continuing to take a larger share of the total laundry category due to convenience of use.
McBrides laundry liquids sales were up 26% 12% on constant currency basis.
The Private Label sector overall is performing strongly with laundry liquids and soluble sachets up 21% and 15% respectively in the UK.
Private Label sales of laundry liquids in Europe were up 15% in Italy while in France Private Label sales declined 1%.
Growth in automatic Concentrated laundry liquids formulations dishwashing tablets continue to gain market at the expense of traditional laundry powders and standard laundry liquids.
15% Automatic dishwashing tablets are a core growth sector for McBride with sales up 26% 15% on constant currency basis.
Continuing growth in the Private Label share of the automatic dishwashing products across Europe underpin this growth with Private Label sales in France, Italy and Germany up 5% and 6% in the UK, New Product Development includes automatic dishwasher tablets in soluble sachets which have been launched this year.
Growth in speciality cleaners 3% Private Label speciality cleaners continue to grow in popularity throughout Europe.
McBrides Group wide sales of Private Label speciality cleaners were up 15% 3% on constant currency basis.
The volume of trigger cleaning products produced by McBride in 2009 has reached 85 million.
