Corporate social responsibility CSR report Introduction As a minimum, the Group seeks to comply with existing laws, McBride is committed to achieving a long-term successful regulations and best practice guidelines governing its activities and sustainable business as Europes leading provider of Private in each of the markets in which it operates and in many areas Label Household and Personal Care products.
We believe in standards exceed minimum compliance requirements.
We have the importance of social responsibility in our business and the senior management representation on various trade association vital contribution it makes to our success.
Our approach to bodies and we adhere to industry association guidelines.
the environment, product safety and health and safety in our operations, to how we treat our people, our customers, our Our policies and principles apply to every director, manager and suppliers, our local communities and other key stakeholders is employee in all our businesses across our global operations.
They embedded in our company culture and values and outlined in also extend to our supply chain.
For example, suppliers are selected the Policy on Social Responsibility and Business Ethics, published not only on the basis of specification, quality, service and economic on the Groups website at www.
co. uk factors but also on their own commitments to minimise the impact of their operations on the environment and to CSR more generally.
In short, McBride recognises its obligations to all those with whom it has dealings.
The reputation of the Group and the trust Management and governance of the Groups CSR activities and confidence of those with whom it deals are among its most The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and enhancing vital resources, and the protection of these is of fundamental the Groups CSR policies which are published on the Groups website importance.
The Groups Chief Executive is accountable for ensuring that the Group operates in accordance with these McBrides approach to CSR supports its ultimate aim of long-term policies.
The Group monitors the performance of its three divisions sustainable development of the business.
Further details are set out through rigorous performance management systems and key in our sixth Sustainability Report, published on the Groups website performance indicators that enhance its ability to monitor and at www.
co. uk, which includes detailed information on the improve performance.
Health, safety and environment managers activities, data, objectives, compliance status and achievements are present at all sites.
Detailed reports are prepared by the three during the past year.
divisions and submitted to the Groups executive directors who report any issues of major significance to the Board.
CSR principles There are a number of core principles in McBrides CSR policy Environment and sustainability framework: The Group is committed to making continuing progress in minimising the environmental impact of its operations and achieving The Environment and Sustainability we aim to continuously a long-term and sustainable business.
We endeavour to comply reduce the environmental impact of our operations and products with and surpass all relevant legislative requirements and industry Health and Safety we aim to provide safe working standards and use the best practicable means to continually environments underpinned by comprehensive internal safety improve our environmental performance.
This is supported by management procedures and external accreditation comprehensive internal environmental management systems, Employment Practices we strive to develop, motivate and the use of key performance indicators and achieving external engage our employees to help them give of their best and fulfil environmental accreditation for our operations.
Twelve sites now their potential.
We provide equal opportunity for all and do not hold the ISO 14001 accreditation and our intention is for all our tolerate discrimination and unacceptable behaviours manufacturing sites to achieve this accreditation.
The Community we work closely with the communities where we have our operations to make a positive contribution where This years environmental performance has been encouraging possible, recognising there is economic interdependence and reflects the emphasis put behind this area.
Although energy between ourselves, local businesses and local government.
costs have risen sharply our energy consumption and CO emissions 2 Business Ethics we have a strong code of ethics and expect both fell by 6%.
For the first time we benefitted from the installation all employees to behave with honesty, discretion, integrity and of over 5,000 solar panels on the roof of our factory in Ieper.
respect for all related parties Water consumption reduced by 8% year-on-year.
Water efficiency is monitored based on tonnes of production per cubic metre of water used by the business.
This measure improved by 3% in the year ended 30 June 2009 relative to the prior year, partially reversing the previous years decline of 4%.
Another key measure of eco-efficiency is production per cubic metre of effluent produced: this worsened by 2% but has improved by over 60% in the last five years.
McBride plc Directors report 26 Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate social responsibility CSR report The total amount of waste increased by 6% but fell 1% on a like Product safety McBride is committed to understanding safety issues related for like basis.
The proportion of waste recycled and recovered increased 67% and total waste relative to production volume to its products and for ensuring that they are suitable and safe for their intended use.
Our product safety policy statement is increased slightly to 1.3% including the impact of closing two factories and commissioning a new one 2008: 1.2%.
published on the Groups website at www.
This is supported by comprehensive management systems that reflect As a member of the Courtauld Commitment supported by WRAP legal and regulatory compliance as a minimum standard and cover raw material use and product assessments, labelling and packaging Waste and Resources Action Programme, we have continued to take an industry lead in lightweighting packaging of our products.
McBride contributes to voluntary initiatives on product safety by industry associations such as AISE International The development of more concentrated formulations for sale in all our markets leads to lower packaging levels and demonstrates the Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Products.
Groups commitment to setting the standards in delivering more environmentally friendly products.
Product safety evaluations are made in our operations without tests on animals.
Our animal testing policy statement is published Health and safety on the Groups website at www.
We support the development and acceptance of alternative product safety McBride strives to maintain a safe workplace at all locations in which it operates.
We continue to ensure that our business activities evaluation methods that reduce or replace the use of animals.
We do not request animal testing of products or ingredients by are undertaken in a responsible manner and in accordance with relevant statutory legislation and that all employees participate in suppliers and we maintain contact with our suppliers to ensure that our values on this subject are shared and specific requirements the development, promotion and maintenance of a safe and healthy working environment for employees, visitors and the public.
of individual retailers are met.
We have comprehensive internal safety management procedures Human safety and environmental assessments for Household and Personal Care products are carried out under the Dangerous that include maintenance of health and safety policy manuals, verification of regulatory compliance, risk assessment, individual Preparations and Cosmetic Products Directives respectively.
It is our policy not to sell products involving risks to human safety and site action plans, safety audits, training, formal incident investigation and provision of occupational health services.
There is also a strong or the environment under normal and foreseeable conditions of use.
All products are assessed before launch for human health and focus on the use of key performance indicators, external auditing and achieving exacting external health and safety accreditation for environmental impact.
Internal training is provided to ensure compliance with McBrides standards, and this training includes our Computer The REACh Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals legislation, regarding the safe use of chemicals, Based Training programme utilising modern technology to the full.
came into force across Europe in 2007 with the first formal actions required in mid-2008.
In the interim, efforts have been targeted All sites work closely with local enforcing inspectors who make regular visits, not simply to investigate accidents, but also to on data gathering and we now have a database that will support our REACh requirements and evidence our REACh compliance.
plan compliance audits and agree priorities.
Major exercises are undertaken at our sites, together with local authorities, to test action plans for dealing with site emergencies.
Such tests are useful learning exercises for all parties and help to underpin the disaster recovery plans developed for each site.
Five factories hold the OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety accreditation.
All accidents and major incidents are reported internally and are investigated fully to determine appropriate corrective and preventative measures.
Incidents that result in more than three days lost time are monitored.
In the year ended 30 June 2009, the number of lost time accidents improved by 22% to 125 and the frequency per 100,000 hours worked fell to 1.4 2008: 1.7.
McBride plc Directors report 27 Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate social responsibility CSR report The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents Corporate social responsibility CSR report continued Employment practices Procedures are in place to prevent unauthorised disclosure The success of our business is dependent upon the quality, of confidential information about the Group to competitors commitment and behaviour of our employees.
Therefore we and to prevent any attempt to improperly acquire trade provide clear policies and direction to our managers and strive secrets or any other confidential information from competitors.
for the highest standards in management practices.
We aim to retain and develop our employees and to help them to fulfil their A whistleblowing policy statement provides a procedure for career potential.
employees to air concerns about any suspected serious malpractice including fraud, corruption, bribery, criminal offence or other failure We provide equal opportunities for all in recruitment, selection, to comply with legal obligations.
promotion, employee development, training and reward policies and procedures.
We are committed to adherence with international However, we operate and encourage openness and honesty human rights standards.
We have no involvement in the use of in all our internal relationships and have systems for colleagues to child labour or forced labour in our business and check the status highlight shortfalls and to suggest improvements to anything in the of our overseas suppliers in this respect.
We do not tolerate unfair business.
We also have robust procedures for handling all types of discrimination of any kind.
We also comply with applicable national issues and grievances.
Our managers are training to form effective laws and industry standards on working hours and insist on high relationships with their teams which is based on respect and standards of personal behaviour from our employees.
honesty with an openness to new ideas and challenge.
We have a well-developed appraisal system, which feeds into Insider dealing is illegal and not tolerated within the Group: a thorough company wide talent review process, used to put in clearance to deal in the Companys shares must be sought by all place effective personal development plans.
Our own Management senior management from the Chief Executive or the Company Development Programme is highly successful and innovative.
Detailed guidelines on insider dealing In 2009 we are undertaking a major initiative on employee are available from the Groups website at www.
co. uk engagement to further improve our practices in this area.
Community activities Regular opinion surveys are undertaken of all staff to measure McBride seeks to play an active role in the local communities in and monitor employee satisfaction within the Group.
The results which it operates.
As well as providing significant employment of these surveys are used to develop action plans to improve opportunities, we aim to make positive contributions to these communication, motivation and engagement across the business.
communities, building goodwill and a reputation as a good On the basis of this years survey morale has increased by 4% versus neighbour and employer.
The Group is involved in a wide range of local community activities Business ethics and relationships including undergraduate sponsorships and support of the UK SIFE We expect employees to operate to high ethical standards programme, which works to mobilize university students to make a in compliance with our Policy on Social Responsibility and Business difference in their communities while developing the skills to become Ethics which outlines the principles behind our approach to socially responsible business leaders.
The Group also provides business.
All business dealings are expected to be conducted with support for the local statutory authorities via voluntary work and utmost discretion, integrity and respect for all parties as well as in advice, sponsors specific educational awards, provides careers compliance with local and national legislation.
We are committed advice for students and school children: provides mentoring support to providing high quality products and service in line with our to assist ethnic minority students into employment: provides work customers expectations: customer service is measured daily experience placements: supports local charities, promotes the UK and considered to be the primary operational performance governments Skills for Life strategy that aims to provide literacy, indicator across the Group.
language and numeracy skills to enable employees to function effectively at work and in society and hosts a wide range of factory We employ purchasing procedures that select suppliers on the visits for educational purposes or to exchange best practice.
basis of specification, quality, service and economic factors and favour those who operate in an ethical and socially responsible manner and who are committed to minimising their impact on the environment.
All contracts are based on fairness and equality of treatment for potential suppliers.
Under no circumstances are financial inducements or bribes permitted, made or accepted regardless of amount, whether direct or indirect, or to or from third parties.
McBride plc Directors report 28 Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate social responsibility CSR report
