DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder Consistent with best practice We have introduced a number of key best practice features into The major project undertaken by the Remuneration Committee the pay arrangements of our senior executives, including this year has been a detailed review and consequent restructuring the Executive Directors.
of Merlins pay arrangements ahead of our transition to life as a listed company.
Annual bonus plan deferred bonus plan The central annual bonus, in which all senior executives, including Merlins success has been built on an entrepreneurial and the Executive Directors, participate has been restructured innovative culture.
This culture has been underpinned by a for 2014:  but relatively simple pay model which has incorporated widespread share ownership throughout our A cap on individual bonus payouts of 150 per cent.
Whilst the Committee recognised that this model has been introduced.
required some adaption on Listing to the London Stock Exchange One third of any senior executives bonus payout must be to comply with best practice expectations of institutional deferred in shares for three years.
shareholders, our aim has been to make these changes whilst The Committee will have the facility to withhold deferred retaining the basic principles highlighted above that have bonus payments in exceptional circumstances.
supported Merlins commercial success to date.
Performance Share Plan PSP The pay structure that we have adopted which is outlined in full Senior executives will receive regular awards of shares under the in the Policy Report is now underpinned by four key principles.
Consistent with best practice, vesting of these awards will be subject to the achievement of challenging EPS and ROCE Performance orientated performance targets.
Rewarding performance is a core part of our ethos.
About Shareholding guidelines 75 per cent.
of our permanent employees participate in a Members of the Executive Committee will be required to build bonus plan and over 300 employees receive regular share up and retain a significant holding of Merlin shares.
For Executive awards or share option grants.
Directors, the requirement will be to build a holding of shares To reinforce the link between performance and pay, most worth 200 per cent.
employees are rewarded for the performance of their particular attraction.
Only the senior executives the Executive Policy Committee and their direct reports and central functions are Our policy is to pay senior executives fairly and in a manner rewarded for the performance of the overall Group.
In particular: For senior executives, including the Executive Directors, performance-related pay, based on stretching short term Salaries are set at competitive, but not excessive, levels and longer term targets, forms a significant part of their compared to peers and other companies of an equivalent potential pay packages.
There is potential for market competitive levels of total pay but only if stretching business targets are delivered.
There is greater emphasis on rewards for delivery of longer term performance targets than short term performance targets.
60 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Simple The remainder of the Remuneration Report is split into two For most of our employees, we have retained a high degree sections in line with legislative reporting regulations: of simplicity in our pay model: The Policy Report - contains details of the various Bonuses other than for senior executives are paid components of our future pay model.
The Policy Report will wholly in cash.
be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 Annual Bonuses are primarily based on profit targets for an General Meeting.
The use of share options will align middle management The Annual Report on Remuneration - contains details of to share price growth and value creation.
pay received by Directors in the period from Listing to the end of 2013 and also contains details of how we intend to Widespread share ownership implement our pay model during 2014.
The Annual Report We intend to ensure that widespread share ownership remains on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the an integral part of Merlins culture.
In order to achieve this, we 2014 AGM.
operate all-employee share plans that will enable all of our permanent employees to purchase a stake in our Company.
These plans supplement the two discretionary share plans that will be operated for senior executives Deferred Bonus Plan Charles Gurassa and PSP and the Company Share Option Plan CSOP for Chairman of the Remuneration Committee middle management.
26 February 2014 Other major decisions reached by the Committee during this year include: Annual bonus payments in respect of 2013 performance As outlined elsewhere in the Annual Report, Merlins financial performance has been strong during 2013.
On the basis of that performance, and also taking into account individual performance, the Committee agreed bonus payments for 2013 under the central annual bonus plan of 462,275 and 298,788 for the CEO and CFO respectively.
There are further details of these payments on page 71.
2013 PSP awards and CSOP grants With Listing taking place in the final quarter of 2013, the Committee felt it would be inappropriate to grant PSP awards and make CSOP grants in both 2013 and in 2014.
Instead, the Committee decided to make a single PSP award and CSOP grant to relevant individuals on Listing over shares with a value of approximately 1.25x the current annual award policy.
