90 Governance Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration and Talent Committee The Committee believes that the Remuneration Policy will enable the Company to continue to ensure that Directors are fairly rewarded with regard to their responsibilities undertaken, taking into account comparable pay levels and structures in the United Kingdom, Chile andthe international mining industry.
The Remuneration Policy is closely aligned with the Groups strategy to attract, retain and develop the best talent available to support the Group in the future.
The Companys Board balance remains predominantly Non-Executive, with only one Executive Director who is also Chairman of the Board.
The Executive Chairman does not receive variable remuneration and the Committee continues to believe that this is appropriate given his interest in the Companys shares.
Variable remuneration is an important part of the Groups remuneration structures for the Groups executives below Board level.
In order to allow shareholders to understand how the Group uses variable remuneration to align strategy and performance, we have included in the Remuneration Report an explanation of the remuneration As the Chairman of the Remuneration arrangements that were in place for the Antofagasta Minerals Executive Committee in 2013.
The Executive Committee are eligible to receive a and Talent Committee, I am pleased combination of base salary and other benets, an annual cash bonus based on individual and Group performance and awards under the to present the 2013 Directors Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan which rewards Group performance and encourages the retention of talent over the longer term.
An external benchmarking review of the fees paid to the Executive Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and senior management was Following the recent changes to carried out by Towers Watson during the year.
Following the review, remuneration reporting requirements some minor modications were made to senior management compensation.
However, it was once again decided not to make introduced by the UK government, anychanges to Directors fees.
The Committee also commissioned an independent externally this years Remuneration report facilitated evaluation of its effectiveness during the year which was includes the Companys Directors performed by Independent Audit Limited.
This evaluation concluded that significant improvements had been made in the last year or so Remuneration Policy which, subject tothe way in which the Committee and the Human Resources team at Antofagasta were dealing with compensation, succession planning and to shareholder approval, will take talent management, and led us to introduce a number of changes to further enhance the Committees effectiveness.
The outcomes of this eect from the 2014 Annual General evaluation are discussed in more detail in the Remuneration report.
Meeting and is intended to remain The Company also implemented a review of the Groups organisational structure during 2013 which resulted in several key in place for three years.
changes to better align roles with the Groups strategic objectives.
The Committee oversaw this process which also included a wider review of remuneration levels across the Group and the development of a platform to attract and retain talent.
The key activities of the Committeeare further explained in the Remuneration report.
During the course of 2014, the Committee will continue to monitor thestructure of remuneration arrangements to ensure that they reectthe Groups strategic objectives.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 91 The Companys approach to Directors remuneration reects the Basis of preparation of this report predominantly non-executive composition of the Board.
and compliance The Companys policy is to ensure that Directors are fairly rewarded with regard to the responsibilities undertaken, and to consider This Remuneration report has been prepared in accordance comparable pay levels and structures in the United Kingdom, Chile, with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and and the international mining industry.
Corporate and individual Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
performance is taken into account in setting the pay level for the It also describes how the Board has applied the principles of good Chairman as an Executive Director and this is reviewed annually in governance as set out in the Code.
During the year under review, comparison with companies of a similar nature, size and complexity.
theCompany complied with the detailed provisions set out in Section Remuneration levels for Non-Executive Directors are also reviewed in Dofthe Code except that as explained on page 80, the Executive this way, and take into account the specic responsibilities undertaken Chairman, who is the only Executive Director, did not receive any and the structure of the Board.
reward structured to vary with individual or corporate performance principle D. 1 and provision D. 1.1.
Unaudited information Directors Remuneration Policy The Remuneration and Talent Committee the Committee presents the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy, which will be put to shareholders as a binding vote at the Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Subject to shareholder approval, this Policy will take effect from the 2014 Annual General Meeting with the intention that it will remain in place for three years.
If the Committee is required or wishes to change the Policy within this period, it will submit a revised Policy to shareholders for approval.
Once the Policy is approved, the Company will only make remuneration payments to current or prospective Directors, or payments for loss of ofce, if the payment isinline with the Policy.
The policies that are summarised in this section are consistent with those that have been in place at the Company for a number of years.
The Committee believes that they are effective, simple to understand and support the continued growth of the Company.
The Policy is broken into a number of sections: a future policy table for Executive Directors, which sets out details ofthe remuneration elements: remuneration policies that relate solely to Non-Executive Directors: relevant policies relating to Executive Director remuneration, including recruitment, appointment letters, service contracts and terminations: and statements regarding the contextual information the Committee considers when reaching remuneration decisions in respect of theExecutive and Non-Executive Directors.
92 Governance Remuneration report PurposeOperation Maximum opportunity Executive Chairman Fees To provide appropriate Fees are the only element of compensation that the Executive In normal circumstances, the maximum annual compensation to reect the Chairman is eligible to receive.
However, the responsibilities of this role and Committee has discretion to exceed this in Fees are reviewed annually, with increases, if any, typically toexecute the Groups strategic exceptional circumstances, for example: taking effect from 1 January each year.
objectives at an appropriate if there is a sustained period of high ination: The Committee considers the following factors when reviewing levelof cost.
fee levels: if the Executive Chairmans fees are out of line To act as the sole element of with the market: and or corporate and individual performance: and compensation.
The Committee if fees for chairing or serving as a member feels that this is appropriate given the competitiveness of total remuneration assessed against ofany of the Boards Committees is out of the Executive Chairmans interest appropriate peers in terms of nature, size and complexity.
in the Companys shares both via The Executive Chairman receives a base fee for services a company controlled by him and Any increases will take into account the factors toAntofagasta plcs Board as well as additional fees forchairing as a member of the Luksic family, described under operation and will not be or serving as a member of any of the Boards Committees.
which provides alignment with excessive.
Separate base fees are paid for chairing the Antofagasta other shareholders.
Fee levels for additional roles within the Minerals Board and for being a director or for chairing certain Antofagasta Group are set based on the needs strategic subsidiary companies within the Group.
The Executive and time commitment expected and may be Chairman is currently Chairman of Antofagasta Railway determined and or paid in a combination of Company plc and Aguas fide Antofagasta.
currencies including US dollars and Chilean The Executive Chairman also receives a base fee for services pesos.
provided to Antofagasta Railway Company plc andAntofagasta Fees will also be increased to take account Minerals pursuant to separate servicecontracts.
ofChilean ination and may be reported as Fees are determined and paid in a combination of US dollars anincrease or decrease as a result of the and Chilean pesos.
The Committee may determine fee levels exchange rate impact of Chilean peso and or pay fees in any other currency if deemed necessary.
denominated fees, given all amounts in For comparison purposes, all compensation is in US dollars thisreport are reported in US dollars.
Variable The Committee does not consider it appropriate to make performance-related pay awards, such as bonuses, to the Executive Chairman given his role Remuneration as Chairman of the Board and his interest in the Companys shares both via a company controlled by him and as a member of the Luksic family.
Benets To provide appropriate benets Benets include the provision of life, accident and health In normal circumstances, the maximum value and reimburse expenses that are insurance.
However, the incurred in the performance of Committee has discretion to exceed this should The Committee retains the discretion to provide additional duties of the Executive Chairman.
the underlying cost of providing the pre-existing insurance benets in accordance with Company policy, benets increase, or if additional benets are shouldthis be deemed necessary.
provided and are deemed appropriate.
Pension The Executive Chairman does not receive pension contributions nor is he entitled to receive pension contributions under this policy.
Non-Executive Directors Fees To attract and retain high-calibre, Fees are reviewed annually and the competitiveness of total Non-Executive Directors fee levels follow the experienced Non-Executive fees is assessed against companies of a similar nature, size same policy for increases as the Executive Directors by offering globally and complexity.
Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee for services to Antofagasta plcs Board as well as additional fees for chairing or serving as a member of any of the Boards Committees.
Separate base fees are paid for services to the Antofagasta Minerals Board all Non-Executive Directors are members of both Boards, and for being directors of subsidiary companies and joint venture companies within the Group.
Ramn Jara also receives a base fee for services provided to Antofagasta Railway Company plc and Antofagasta Minerals pursuant to a separate service contract.
Fee levels are denominated in US dollars.
The Committee may determine fee levels and or pay fees in any other currency if deemed necessary.
Variable Given the predominantly non-executive composition of the Board, there are no arrangements for Directors to acquire benets through the acquisition Remuneration of shares in the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, to benefit through performance-related pay or to participate in long-term incentive schemes.
The Code states that remuneration for Non-Executive Directors should not include share options or other performance-related elements.
Benets To provide appropriate benets Benets may be provided to Non-Executive Directors following the same policy as for the Executive Chairman required in the performance of duties see above.
Pension No Director receives pension contributions.
The Code considers that the participation by a Non-Executive Director in a companys pension scheme could potentially impact on the independence of that Non-Executive Director.
As Directors do not receive variable remuneration, there are no provisions in place to recover sums paid or withhold payments made to Directors.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 93 Executive Chairman Recruitment policy Illustrative remuneration outcomes It is not currently expected that the Board structure at Antofagasta will change during the period of the Policy.
If a new Executive Chairman is The Committee does not consider it appropriate to make regular appointed or additional Executive Directors are appointed, base salary performance-related pay awards to the only Executive Director, Jeanlevels will be set taking into account a range of factors including market Paul Luksic, given his role as Chairman of the Board and his interest in levels, experience, internal salaries, interest in Antofagasta shares the Companys shares both via a company controlled by him and as and cost.
a member of the Luksic family.
Therefore, the Executive Chairmans pay levels do not vary with performance and the same amount of fees Other elements of annual remuneration will be set in line with the policy and benets are received under the threshold, target and maximum set out in the Future Policy Table.
The following exceptions will apply: performance scenarios as follows.
in the event that an internal appointment is made, the Committee retains the discretion to continue with existing remuneration Executive Chairmans total xed pay provisions relating to pension and benets: base salary and benets as deemed necessary and appropriate to secure an appointment, the Committee retains the discretion to provide variable remuneration in line with the structure of variable remuneration Maximum 100% of remuneration $3.615m provided to the Executive Committee as described on page 99 ofthis Remuneration report and in a quantum up to 500% of base Target 100% of remuneration $3.615m salary, or where this is not sufficient to secure an appointment, to provide variable remuneration in line with companies of a similar size, nature and complexity: and Threshold 100% of remuneration $3.615m as deemed necessary and appropriate to secure an appointment, $0 $1m $2m $3m $4m the Committee retains the discretion to make additional payments linked to relocation.
The chart shows the expected total remuneration receivable by the Letters of appointment and or service contracts will be entered into Executive Chairman in 2014.
This chart does not take into account onterms similar to those for the Executive Chairman, as summarised adjustments for Chilean ination which will occur under the terms of the inthe Service contracts and letters of appointment policy section Executive Chairmans service contracts or the exchange rate impact onpage 94. of Chilean peso denominated fees given all amounts in this report are reported in US dollars.
Each bar represents remuneration receivable In addition to the elements noted above, if additional Executive over a financial year plus the expected value of benets provided.
Directors are appointed, the Committee retains the discretion to make further cash or share awards on a one-off basis to new Executive Directors on appointment in accordance with the UKLA Listing Rules and, in exercising this discretion, will take into account the specic circumstances of the new Executive Director, including whether the Executive Director has had to forfeit existing incentive awards when accepting the appointment.
There is no prescribed maximum for awards in respect of forfeited existing arrangements as it will depend on the individual circumstances of the appointee and the value of forfeited awards.
Any awards made in excess of those made to buyout forfeited awards on appointment will not exceed 500% of salary.
With respect to the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, terms of appointment will be consistent with those currently adopted for the Non-Executive Directors as summarised in the service contracts and letters of appointment policy on page 94.
Variable pay will not be considered and, as such, no maximum applies.
Fees will be consistent with the Policy at the time of appointment.
In the unlikely event that a Non-Executive Chairman is appointed to the Board, the same considerations that apply to the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors will apply taking into account the additional responsibilities of the Chairman.
A timely announcement with respect to any Director appointment will be made to the regulatory news services and posted on Antofagastas website.
94 Governance Remuneration report Termination policy Non-Executive Directors It is the Companys policy that the Executive Chairman has letters Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment with the of appointment and or service contracts terminable on one months Company.
The Company has a policy of putting all Directors forward notice by either party at any time, and by payment of one months fees for re-election at each Annual General Meeting in accordance with the in lieu of notice.
Under the terms of the letters, if shareholders do not confirm a Non-Executive Directors appointment, the appointment will terminate The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors do not with immediate effect.
In other circumstances, the appointment may provide for any compensation for loss of ofce beyond payments be terminated by either party on one months prior written notice.
in lieu of notice, and therefore the maximum amount payable upon These letters require the Non-Executive Directors to undertake that termination of these letters is limited to one months payment.
they will have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities.
Service contracts and letters of appointment Name Remuneration Date of last Notice period re-appointment All Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available William Hayes 12 June 2013 One months for inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal written notice business hours and at the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior Gonzalo 12 June 2013 One months to and during the meeting.
Menndez written notice A summary of the key terms of the letters of appointment for all Directors The letters of Ramn Jara 12 June 2013 One months are set out below: appointment do written notice notprovide for any compensation for Juan Claro 12 June 2013 One months loss of ofce beyond Executive Chairman written notice payments in lieu of notice, and Hugo Dryland 12 June 2013 One months Jean-Paul Luksic therefore the written notice maximum amount Date of letter 12 June 2013 Tim Baker payable upon 12 June 2013 One months of appointment termination of these written notice appointments is Notice period One months written notice Manuel Lino Silva 12 June 2013 One months limited to one fide Sousa-Oliveira written notice months fees.
Remuneration Annual base salary for role as Chairman of the Board Ollie Oliveira Reimbursement of expenses Nelson Pizarro 12 June 2013 One months Entitled to receive additional fees for chairing or serving written notice as a member of any Board Committee Andrnico Luksic 12 June 2013 One months Termination Termination can occur at any time and at the discretion written notice of either party upon one months written notice Jean-Paul Luksic also has a contract for services with both the There is also a contract between Antofagasta Minerals and Asesoras Antofagasta Railway Company plc dated 1 April 2008 and Antofagasta Ramn F Jara Ltda formerly E. I. R. L. dated 2 November 2004 for Minerals dated 2 November 2004.
Neither contract has an expiry date, the provision of advisory services by Ramn Jara which does not but each of them can be terminated by either party on one months have an expiry date but can be terminated by either party on one notice.
The amounts payable under these contracts for services are months notice.
The amounts payable under this contract for services denominated in Chilean pesos and, as is typical for employment are denominated in Chilean pesos and, as is typical for employment contracts or contracts for services in Chile, are adjusted in line with contracts or contracts for services in Chile, are adjusted in line with Chilean ination, and are also reviewed periodically in line with the Chilean ination, and are also reviewed periodically in line with the Companys policy on Directors pay.
Companys policy on Directors pay.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 95 Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere Consideration of shareholder views in the Company The Company maintains a dialogue with institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts as well as potential shareholders.
This communication When the Committee reviews the Executive Chairmans salary annually, is managed by the Investor Relations team, and includes a formal it also reviews pay conditions across the rest of the Group.
This is set programme of presentations to update institutional shareholders and in the context of very different working environments and geographies analysts on developments in the Group following the announcement and is therefore not a mechanical process.
However, this acts as one of the half-year and full-year results.
The Board receives regular input into the pay review process.
The Committee does not currently summaries and feedback in respect of the meetings held as part of the use any other remuneration comparison metrics when determining investor relations programme as well as receiving analysts reports on thequantum and structure of the Executive Chairmans remuneration.
The Companys Annual General Meeting is also used The Committee does not consult with employees in connection with as an opportunity to communicate with both institutional and private the policy on the Executive Chairmans remuneration.
This ongoing dialogue allows us to respond to the needs and concerns of all shareholders throughout the year.
Remuneration Policy for other employees During 2013, the Company engaged in dialogue with shareholders and institutional shareholder advisory bodies in relation to a number Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group of topics, including the quantum of the Executive Chairmans total based on the principle that reward should be achieved for delivery remuneration and the absence of a performance-based component of the business strategy.
A significant proportion of the Executive of his remuneration.
The Committee continues to believe that the Committee members remuneration is in the form of variable pay.
Executive Chairmans remuneration arrangements are signicantly The Executive Committee is eligible to participate in the Longaligned with those of other shareholders and that they provide a strong Term Incentive Plan and Annual Bonus Plan, which are both link to the Groups strategic objectives and the long-term interests of subject to performance criteria aligned with the Groups strategy.
Taking into account the Executive Chairmans role, when The remuneration structure for other Group employees varies compared with companies of a similar size, nature and complexity, according to their role, location and working environment.
theCommittee is satisfied that the Executive Chairmans remuneration is both fair and reasonable.
The Executive Chairmans total pay level istowards the lower end of FTSE 100 Executive Director levels.
The Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors pay arrangements will continue to be reviewed each year in line with the Policy, taking into account the views of all of the Companys shareholders.
96 Governance Remuneration report Role and responsibilities of the Committee Remuneration and Talent Committee The Committee is responsible for setting the Companys Remuneration Policy and for reviewing the remuneration of any Executive Directors.
Membership and meeting attendance If the Committee recommends changes to the Executive Chairmans remuneration, these are submitted for approval by a committee of Number Maximum attended possible the Board comprising of the Companys independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing and Tim Baker Chairman 7 7 approving the remuneration of the Antofagasta Minerals CEO and determining his compensation for the performance-related elements William Hayes 7 7 of his compensation.
The remuneration for the other members of Juan Claro 6 7 the Executive Committee including awards granted under the LongTerm Incentive Plan and Annual Bonus Plan and the performance targets for each plan are reviewed by the Antofagasta Minerals CEO and recommended to the Committee for approval.
The Committee Key activities in 2013 is responsible for monitoring the level and structure of remuneration of the Executive Committee, reviewing and approving  an externally facilitated review of the related compensation, reviewing succession planning for the Executive effectiveness of the Remuneration and Talent Committee.
Committee, reviewing any major changes in compensation policies applying across the Groups companies that have a significant longCommissioned an externally facilitated review of term impact on labour costs, and reviewing compensation and talent theChairmans and Directors remuneration levels management strategies.
The Committees terms of reference are againstbenchmarks.
available on the Companys website www.
Commissioned an externally facilitated review of senior The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the managers remuneration levels against benchmarks.
No Director participates in the determination of hisown remuneration.
Reviewed the remuneration disclosure requirements set out in the new regulations introduced by the UK government.
Committee review Approved the amount of Executive Committee members A review of the effectiveness of the Committee was undertaken by remuneration, including performance under the Annual Independent Audit Limited in January 2013.
This involved a review Bonus Plan.
ofthe Committees papers, observation of a meeting and interviews with 20 Directors, managers and external advisors.
Reviewed the operation of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, including grants of additional awards.
Following discussion of the report in March 2013, the Committee has worked with the newly appointed Vice-President of Human Resources Reviewed the Groups Talent Management Strategy and to introduce a number of changes to enhance its effectiveness.
These included enhanced liaison with the Committees external advisors, an increased focus on talent development and succession Oversaw the internal review and reorganisation of the planning, improved information ow and more informed reporting Groups organisational structure.
tothefull Board on the Committees deliberations.
Oversaw the alignment of the 2013 human resources plan The Committee has monitored implementation of its development plan and calendar to the business strategy and planning cycle.
throughout the year and is confident that good progress is being made, particularly in the area of overseeing talent development.
Oversaw the review of all of the Groups main human resources guidelines, policies and procedures.
Advisors to the Committee Oversaw the standardisation of compensation practices During the year, the Committee received advice from Towers Watson.
Towers Watson is the Groups existing remuneration consultant Reviewed the Groups 2014 compensation structure.
appointed by the Committee and provided advice to the Committee on matters under consideration by the Committee during the year, Reviewed the 2012 Directors Remuneration report prior including updates on legislative requirements and market practice.
toits approval by the Board and subsequent approval by Towers Watson also performed a benchmarking review of Directors shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Towers Watsons fees for this work were charged in accordance with normal billing practices and amounted to $177,383.
Towers Watson is widely recognised as an independent global professional services rm and the Committee is satisfied that the advice provided was objective and independent and that no conict ofinterest arose as a result of these services and that Towers Watson has no other connection with the Company.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 97 The Companys legal advisors, Clifford Chance, also provided Non-Executive Directors advice on the operation of the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan, As was the case in 2012, there has been no change to the level the new remuneration reporting requirements and other legal advice of Antofagasta plc Board fees in 2013.
Directors fee in respect of the Antofagasta plc Board remains at The Committee also received assistance from the Executive Chairman, $130,000.
Given the core role which Antofagasta Minerals plays in although he does not participate in discussions relating to the setting the management of the mining operations and projects, and that of his own remuneration.
The Committee in particular consulted with Antofagasta Minerals represents the large majority of the Groups the Executive Chairman and received recommendations from him in business, all Antofagasta plc Directors also serve as Directors of respect of Executive Committee remuneration.
The fee payable to Directors of Antofagasta Minerals remains at $130,000 for members of the Board and $260,000 for the Chairman.
Therefore, the combined base fees Statement of shareholder voting payable to Non-Executive Directors of both Antofagasta plc and The table below displays the voting results on the remuneration report Antofagasta Minerals amount to $260,000 per annum.
at the 2013 AGM: The base fee for Non-Executive Directors is reviewed annually.
In 2013, the Committee commissioned Towers Watson to perform Resolution anindependent review and benchmarking of Non-Executive Directors fees.
In light of review, the Board is satisfied that the current fee Votes for 1,016,928,786 levels and structure are aligned with the Groups international peers.
99.06% The Board are not recommending any change this year, but will continue to review fee levels from time-to-time in accordance with Votes against 9,599,672 the Policy.
0.94% In addition to Board fees, Directors also receive fees for their Votes cast as a 86.56% contributions to Board sub-committees during the year.
This table percentage of Issued summarises Antofagasta plc Board Committee fees payable in 2013 Share Capital and 2012, which were unchanged.
Votes withheld 48,928,791 Additional fees Role $000 The considerable vote in favour of the Remuneration report confirms Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 20 the strong support the Group has had from shareholders regarding Audit and Risk Committee Member 10 theremuneration arrangements and the performance of the Company over the past year.
Remuneration and Talent Committee 16 Chairman Remuneration and Talent Committee 10 2013 Remuneration Member Nomination Committee Chairman 10 Executive Chairman Nomination Committee Member 4 The Executive Chairman receives a xed base fee and the provision ofbenets typical for such a position.
As there is no element of variable Sustainability and Stakeholder 16 remuneration payable to the Executive Chairman, the outcomes Management Committee Chairman described below are xed at the beginning of the year and do not vary with performance.
However, the Executive Chairmans interest Sustainability and Stakeholder 10 in the Companys shares both via a company controlled by him and Management Committee Member as a member of the Luksic family provides alignment with other shareholders and aligns his interests with the long-term success The Remuneration Policy does not allow for the payment of variable ofthe Group.
remuneration to the Executive Chairman or Non-Executive Directors.
As was the case in 2012, there was no change in the fees payable tothe Executive Chairman in his role as a Director of Antofagasta plc The Committee does not anticipate any changes to the implementation between 2012 and 2013 or his role as director of any subsidiary of the Policy during 2014. companies.
The single gure calculations in this report include payments for subsidiary board services and payments made to the Executive Chairman under his service contracts, which include an annual adjustment for Chilean ination as is typical for employment contracts or contracts for services in Chile.
Because some of the Executive Chairmans fees are paid in Chilean pesos, they are subject toannual exchange rate movements when reported in US dollars.
98 Governance Remuneration report Audited information Single gure table The remuneration of the Directors in the year is set out below in US dollars.
Amounts paid in Chilean pesos have been translated at average rates for the relevant year, which are set out in Note 34 to the financial statements.
As explained on page 97, Antofagasta plc Directors may also be appointed as directors of subsidiary companies and joint ventures within the Group and receive fees for these specic roles in addition to their Antofagasta plc and Antofagasta Minerals Board fees.
These additional fees areincluded within the amounts attributable to the Directors within the table of Directors remuneration below.
As explained in the Remuneration Policy on pages 91 to 95, Directors do not receive pensions or performance-related pay and are not eligible toparticipate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable toJean-Paul Luksic of $3,575,000 2012 $3,524,000.
The benets expense represents the provision of car usage terminated on 29 April 2013 and life, accident and health insurance for Jean-Paul Luksic.
2 During 2013, remuneration of $646,000 2012 $641,000 for the provision of services by Ramn Jara was paid to Asesoras Ramn F Jara Ltda.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Ramn Jara of $1,044,000 2012 $1,014,000.
The benets expense represents the provision of accident insurance to Ramn Jara.
3 Guillermo Luksic forewent his fees from 1 October 2012 until his death in April 2013.
Following his death in April 2013, proceeds of 500,000 received from a life insurance policy maintained by the Group forDirectors and certain executives were paid across to Guillermo Luksics estate.
4 Fees payable in respect of Ollie Oliveiras service as a Director are paid to Greengrove Capital LLP, a partnership in which Ollie Oliveira is a partner.
5 Nelson Pizarro was appointed to the Board on 24 July 2012 and the amounts shown above for 2012 represent fees payable from this date.
6 Andrnico Luksic was appointed to the Board on 9 April 2013 and the amounts shown above for 2013 represent fees payable from this date.
7 All Directors are covered by Directors and Ofcers Life and Travel insurance policies generally maintained by the Group.
Unaudited information Directors interests The Directors who held ofce at 31 December 2013 had the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: Ordinary shares of 5p each 31 December 1 January 2013 2013 1 Executive Chairman Jean-Paul Luksic 41,963,110 41,963,110 2 Non-Executive Director Ramn Jara 5,260 5,260 1 Jean-Paul Luksics interest relates to shares held by Aureberg Establishment, an entity which he controls.
2 Ramn Jaras interest relates to shares held by a close family member.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 99 There have been no changes to the Directors interests in the shares of The choice of these criteria, and their respective weightings reect the Company between 31 December 2013 and the date of this report.
theCommittees belief that any incentive compensation should be tiedboth to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas The Directors had no interests in the shares of the Company during the ofthe business that the relevant individual can directly inuence.
year other than the interests set out in the table above.
No Director had any material interest in any contract other than a service contract with Long-term Incentive Plan the Company or its subsidiary undertakings during the year other than in the ordinary course of business.
The Company introduced a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP at the end of 2011.
Eligibility to participate in the LTIP is determined each year The Group does not currently have any director shareholding guidelines on an individual basis and all members of the Executive Committee because the Executive Chairman, as the only Executive on the Board, currently participate.
The first awards under the LTIP were granted already holds an interest in the Companys shares.
on29 December 2011 and awards have since been granted annually.
The Executive Chairman is not eligible for any short-term or long-term Under the rules of the LTIP, Directors are not eligible to participate incentive awards and therefore does not own any shares that have inthe LTIP.
resulted from the achievement of performance conditions.
Under the LTIP, participants are eligible to receive phantom share awards conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares, which are paid in Executive Committee remuneration cash upon vesting and may be made to participants based on the price of the Companys ordinary shares.
The remuneration arrangements in place for the Executive Committee have been structured to align remuneration with performance, the Awards granted pursuant to the LTIP are split between Restricted Groups strategic objectives and shareholders interests.
The Executive Share Awards RSAs and Performance Share Awards PSAs.
Committee is eligible to receive a combination of base salary and other The RSAs are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference benets as well as variable remuneration in the form of an annual cash to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares subject to bonus and conditional cash awards based on the price of ordinary the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the shares of the Company granted pursuant to the Groups Long-Term RSAs vest.
The PSAs are conditional rights to receive cash payment Incentive Plan.
by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares subject to both the satisfaction of a performance condition and the The performance components of variable remuneration are selected relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the to incentivise the delivery of the business strategy, reward Group and PSAs vest.
individual performance and motivate the Executive Committee.
The PSAs granted in 2013 will be measured over a three-year performance period based on the following performance conditions: Annual Bonus Plan total shareholder return relative to the Euromoney Global Members of the Executive Committee are eligible to receive cash Mining Index: awards under the Annual Bonus Plan based on Group and individual performance.
The bonus plan focuses on the delivery of annual financial earnings levels: and non-financial targets which are designed to align remuneration growth in the Groups Resources and Reserves: and with the Companys strategy and create a platform for sustainable performance against measurable criteria for project execution, future performance.
development projects, sustainability and safety.
The performance criteria for the Annual Bonus Plan are set annually.
The average maximum available award for the Executive Committee Remuneration structure under the terms of the Annual Bonus Plan, which would reect maximum The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration arrangements in place individual and Group performance, is 71% of base salary.
In 2013 the for the Executive Committee are linked to performance, appropriately average award for the Executive Committee was approximately 42% stretching and aligned to the business strategy.
Variable remuneration of base salary.
Individual award levels are calibrated at the conclusion is a core component of Executive Committee remuneration and up to of each annual performance period as part of a review of performance 62% of the Executive Committees total annual remuneration may be against the criteria set for the year to ensure that performance targets achieved under the Annual Bonus Plan and the LTIP.
remain stretching and that high or maximum payments under each plan are only received for exceptional performance.
Individual award levels are also reviewed by the Committee.
Comparison of overall performance In 2013, the performance criteria for the Executive Committee under the Annual Bonus Plan were dened against quantitative criteria as follows: and remuneration business results, including profit, production, operating expenditure and capital expenditure: The following graph shows the Companys performance compared to the performance of the FTSE All-Share Index and the Euromoney business development, including the execution of growth projects Global Mining Index over a five-year period, measured by total and exploration and development: and shareholder return as dened below.
The FTSE All-Share Index has sustainability, including performance against measurable lost time been selected as an appropriate benchmark as it is the most broadly injury frequency rates and environmental and social indices.
based index to which the Company belongs and which relates to the London Stock Exchange, the market where the Companys ordinary shares are traded.
100 Governance Remuneration report Total shareholder return performance in comparison with the a 4.1%increase in salaries as there was no increase in benets for Euromoney Global Mining Index is one of the performance criteria Groupemployees as a whole in 2013. for Performance Share Awards granted pursuant to the LTIP Taking into account the current economic environment, local practice asdescribed above.
in Chile and the UK and general themes for restraint in the market, Total shareholder return is calculated to show a theoretical growth the Committee feels that the decision not to increase the Executive in the value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that Chairmans fees in 2013 was fair.
dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares at the closing price applicable on the ex-dividend date.
Total shareholder return for Relative importance of remuneration spend the FTSE All-Share Index and the Euromoney Global Mining Index iscalculated by aggregating the returns of all individual constituents The table below shows the total spend on employee remuneration, ofthose indices at the end of the five-year period.
the levels of distributions to shareholders and the taxation cost in 2012 and 2013.
Total Shareholder Return Remuneration spend Antofagasta plc vs FTSE All-Share Index % and Euromoney Global Mining Index % A 2012 2013 change 450 A A Employee 400 1 remuneration 409.2 440.9 8% B 350 B Distribution B 2 300 to shareholders 971.1 936.5 4 % C 3 250 C Taxation 871.6 681.5 22 % 200 C 150 100 1 The employee remuneration cost includes salaries, social security costs and awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, as set out in Note 8 to the financial statements.
50 2 The distributions to shareholders represent the dividends proposed in relation to the year, as set out in Note 12 to the financial statements.
0 3 Taxation has been shown above as this provides an indication of the contribution of the Groups operations in Chile to the Chilean State via its tax contributions.
The taxation cost represents the DEC 2008 DEC 2009 DEC 2010 DEC 2011 DEC 2012 DEC 2013 current tax charge in respect of corporate tax, mining tax royalty and withholding tax, as set out Antofagasta FTSE All Share Index Euromoney Global Mining Index inNote 10 to the financial statements.
Total Shareholder Return represents share price growth plus dividends reinvested over the period Total Return Basis Index 31 December 2008 100 This report does not disclose information in relation to the following, Source: Datastream.
which was not relevant for the 2013 financial year: payments for loss of ofce no such events occurred in the 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 financial year: Single gure remuneration of 3,184 3,330 3,521 3,598 3,615 further details on pension arrangements Directors do not receive Executive Chairman $000 pension benets: and Actual % increase 0.5% payments to past Directors no such payments were made in the year, with the exception of the payment to the estate of Guillermo Single gure fees of 3,116 3,232 3,438 3,524 3,575 Luksic of the proceeds of the life insurance policy referred to on page 98.
ExecutiveChairman Should such events occur in future, the necessary disclosures will be Actual % increase 1.4% made at the appropriate time.
Single gure benets of 67 98 83 74 40 The Remuneration report has been approved by the Board and signed Executive Chairman on its behalf by Actual % increase 46 % Note: The Executive Chairman is not eligible for any variable remuneration and this table does not therefore include variable remuneration.
Taking into account adjustments for Chilean ination under the Tim Baker Executive Chairmans service contracts, the exchange rate impact of Chairman of the Remuneration and Talent Committee Chilean peso denominated fees and the reduction in benets provided, 17 March 2014 the total remuneration paid to the Executive Chairman was 0.5% higher in 2013.
This comprised of a 1.4% increase in fees and a 46% reduction in benets.
The equivalent average percentage change for Group employees as a whole was an increase of 4.1%.
