REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction Chairman of the board.
No director played into any of the groups incentive schemes.
This report has been prepared in any part in discussion about his or her The committee considered in light of the accordance with the provisions of the own remuneration.
The committee also provisions of Schedule A to the Code Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 to received advice from external advisers and has concluded that, in view of the the Large and Medium-sized Companies during the year which materially assisted existing safeguards built into the review and Groups Accounts and Reports their consideration of remuneration matters mechanisms of the incentive schemes Regulations 2008.
This report also meets as follows: which ensure they only pay out on the the relevant requirements of the listing achievement of tangible deliverables rules of the UK Listing Authority and New Bridge Street provided set into the performance conditions, describes how the board has applied the benchmarking services in setting a claw-back is not required.
However, principles relating to directors executive remuneration: the committee has resolved to keep remuneration set out in the UK Corporate remuneration benchmarking and other the overall position on claw-back under Governance Code 2010 the Code.
remuneration data taken from various review.
It was decided, after reviewing publications of Deloitte LLP were also the matter, that the previous structure of This report will be put to an advisory vote used: the groups annual bonus scheme split of the companys shareholders at the Ernst & Young LLP and Pinsent Masons between the achievement of a profit target annual general meeting on Tuesday 2 July LLP provided advice in respect of and the achievement of personal and 2013.
The auditors are required to report certain executive remuneration matters corporate objectives would be retained.
"on certain parts of this report and to state and in respect of the company's share The committee also decided to leave the whether, in their opinion, that part of the incentive plans and aspects of directors' long-term incentive share plan ""LTIP"" report has been properly prepared in pension arrangements: and unchanged for 2013."
A detailed review accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Mercer Human Resource Consulting of the LTIP scheme is scheduled to take The report is therefore divided into Limited provided advice in relation to the place during 2013, following which a separate sections for audited and Chief Executive's pension arrangements.
resolution for its renewal in updated form unaudited information.
will be proposed at the annual general New Bridge Street, Ernst & Young LLP meeting in 2014.
Unaudited information: and Mercer Human Resources Consulting Limited were appointed by the committee Remuneration policy for executive Remuneration committee and provided no other services to the directors and senior executives The board has a remuneration committee company.
Pinsent Masons LLP are The committees policy is designed to the committee in accordance with the the group's general legal advisers and ensure that the main elements of the recommendations of the Code.
were not specifically appointed by the remuneration package are linked to committee.
These advisers have no other the companys annual and long-term During the financial year, the committee connections with the group other than as strategy and are appropriate in amount comprised Ivan Fallon chairman, John set out above.
and capable of attracting, motivating and McGuire and Anna Ford, all of whom are retaining executive directors.
It is the aim non-executive directors.
Lord Stone of The advisers' terms of engagement are of the policy to reward executive directors Blackheath also served on the committee available on request from the Company and senior executives by offering them up to and including the date of his Secretary.
competitive remuneration packages, which retirement as a director on 2 January are prudently constructed, sufficiently 2013.
Lord Alliance of Manchester, Andrew The board and the committee have reviewed stretching and linked to long-term Higginson and Alan White also attended the groups compliance with the Code on profitability and which do not encourage the committee by invitation.
It is the opinion excessive risk taking.
joined the committee on 1 April 2013 and of the board that the group complied with the will succeed Ivan Fallon as chairman of the remuneration-related aspects of the Code In particular the committee strives to committee in October 2013. during the financial year ended 2 March 2013. ensure that its remuneration package is: The committee members have no The company has, however, agreed a longpersonal financial interest other than as term incentive arrangement in connection aligned with the groups strategic plan: shareholders in matters to be decided, with Angela Spindler's recruitment, without aligned to shareholders interests: no potential conflicts of interest arising shareholder approval, as permitted by the measured against stretching targets, from cross-directorships and no day-toListing Rules and as described in more detail both in absolute and relative terms: day involvement in running the business on page 36. competitive and sufficiently flexible to and are considered by the company to be support the recruitment needs of the independent.
The committee has formal In setting the remuneration policy for business: written terms of reference which are 2013 the committee considered the paid in a combination of cash and share available for shareholders to inspect and structure and quantum of the basic pay options: and on the corporate website.
The committee award for senior executives against calculated over an annual and three-year met four times during the year, with full that available for all other grades of performance period.
staff and concluded that other than in cases of additional responsibilities The normal remuneration package for Recommendations and reports were being undertaken the same structure executive directors comprises basic provided to the committee during the be applied to the senior executives.
The salary, an annual performance-related year by Alan White, the Chief Executive committee also considered whether it was bonus including a deferred element with a Officer and Andrew Higginson, the appropriate to introduce a claw-back matching share award subject to a further N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 33 REMUNERATION REPORT performance condition, in the case of stage and at the vesting stage to ensure The committee considers the groups current directors, long-term share based that performance has been correctly performance on Environmental, Social and incentives, a pension, a company car adjudicated and to safeguard against Governance ESG issues when settling allowance and private medical insurance.
Variable pay and the remuneration of any executive director The committee strives to ensure that remuneration is normally linked to both and is of the opinion that the incentive the structure of executive remuneration, improvements in corporate and individual arrangements for senior managers do not including the balance between fixed and performance and is benchmarked to raise ESG risks by inadvertently motivating variable pay, is linked to the achievement attract and retain the highest quality irresponsible behaviour or the taking of of the long-term success of the group people.
The committee reviews the policy undue risks with the business.
compatible with the company's prudent on an annual basis and recommends risk policies and systems.
changes as and when appropriate, The charts which follow demonstrate the guided in this process by external potential achievable balance between fixed All pay and incentives are subject to consultants it appoints from time to time.
and variable performance based pay for the individual review and scrutiny of The remuneration policy will undergo a each executive director.
the committee, particularly in the case comprehensive review ahead of the annual of share incentives both at the award general meeting in 2014.
Analysis of Performance vs Non Performance related elements of Remuneration Package Fixed Pay Variable Performance Related Pay 30% 30% 70% 70% Alan White Dean Moore Basic salary The above salaries represent a 2.5% contained in the companys strategic longWhen determining the salary of the increase on the respective executive term plan.
They are therefore aligned to executive directors the committee takes directors salary in June 2012, which the strategic objectives of the company into account the levels of base salary for is broadly in line with the percentage and aimed at increasing shareholder value, similar positions with comparable status, increase awarded to the workforce as whilst being prudent and safeguarding the responsibility and skills in competitor a whole during the same period.
long-term future of the company.
organisations of broadly similar size and Dean Moore also received an additional complexity, in particular those existing 12.5% pay rise on 1 March 2013 to reflect The components of the normal annual in the home shopping and retail market additional responsibilities.
bonus scheme are made up as follows:- sectors: the performance of the individual executive director: the individual executive Annual performance-related bonus group profitability 70% : directors experience and responsibilities: The executive directors and senior corporate objectives 15% : and and the pay and conditions throughout executives participate in one of a number individual objectives 15%.
Salaries and conditions are of annual performance-related bonus reviewed on an annual basis and are schemes at the invitation of the committee.
The maximum potential bonus payable to subject to absolute improvements in group Each scheme is designed to thoroughly current executive directors for 2012 13 and profitability and individual performance stretch the performance of the executive 2013 14 is 100% of basic salary.
75% of against personal and corporate objectives and is linked to absolute growth in annual any bonus earned is payable in cash and and peer-group benchmarking.
Salary profit, the achievement of certain business in the case of current directors 25% is reviews also take into account salary levels targets and of personal objectives.
deferred net of tax into company shares within the workforce as a whole.
These targets are reviewed and agreed for two years under the Deferred Annual by the committee at the beginning of Bonus scheme and is eligible for a 1:1 The current salaries of the executive each financial year to ensure that they match on the pre-tax value of the shares.
directors are shown in the table below: are appropriate to the current market Awards of matching shares are made two conditions, the long-term strategy of the years from their date of award, subject to Salaries company and that they continue to remain terms of the employee's contract, provided stretching and challenging.
The targets are the executive remains in employment and Alan White 534,250 linked to KPIs which are drawn from, and are subject to a financial performance Dean Moore 338,400 relate to, the achievement of milestones condition requiring that growth in the 34 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 REMUNERATION REPORT companys earnings per share must at scheme was 50.4% of a maximum of personal objectives were to oversee least equal the growth of the retail price 70% for both the Chief Executive Officer implementation of the strategic plan, index over the deferral period.
improve customer choice of available delivery and return options, increase The performance targets used for 2012 13 b Corporate objectives 15% of bonus online and affinity sales, progress were based on a combination of a The corporate objective for the year in business development activities and profit target, improvements in customer review was related to improvements update strategic options for the group.
service and the achievement of personal in online trading performance.
Amongst Dean Moores personal objectives.
The performance targets for This was measured against twenty objectives were to manage the Simply current directors for 2013 14 have recently leading service measures and Be store start-up, deliver agreed targets been reviewed and, once again, will be benchmarked against a range index for the bad debt charge, review the based upon a combination of a profit totaling 100 points.
A score of 65.0% groups cost base and recommend areas target and the achievement of personal was achieved and therefore the of reduction.
The achievement for the and corporate objectives.
payment due under this element of individual performance objective elements the bonus scheme was 9.75 % of a of the bonus scheme for the executive For 2012 13 the achievement of each maximum of 15% for both executive directors was adjudged by the committee element the bonus was scored as follows directors.
and the group Chairman to be as follows: for both executive directors: c Individual performance objectives Alan White 11.25% a Group profit 70% of bonus 15% of bonus of a maximum of 15% The targeted adjusted profit before tax Several individual performance objectives Dean Moore 11.40% range for bonus purposes was 92.9m are established for each senior executive.
of a maximum of 15% to 97.8m to reflect the impact of the These are stretching objectives designed 53rd week in the prior year, compared to achieve exceptional improvements Based on the results of the three elements with the prior years adjusted result of against the prior year, or budgeted comprised in the annual bonus scheme, the 97.0m.
Adjusted profit before tax for results, or the delivery of a key strategic bonus payable for the year under review, 25% 2012 13 was 95.1m, therefore the bonus project linked to corporate strategy.
In of which is compulsorily converted into shares payment due under this element of the the year in review amongst Alan Whites and deferred for two years, is as follows: Name Alan White Dean Moore 2012 13 Bonus & Deferred Shares Paid 381,455 251,208 2012 13 Matching Share Award Contingent 95,364 53,802 Total 2012 13 Bonus & Matching Share Award as a percentage of Salary 89.3% 89.4% Share incentives the accounting impact and cost for Existing schemes Subject to the review of the committee, the company and the dilutive cost executive directors and senior executives for shareholders for a given share Long-term incentive share plan LTIP are considered for participation in one of commitment to an executive: At the discretion and invitation of the either the companys long-term incentive different performance conditions that committee, executive directors and certain plan or its executive share option schemes.
might apply to awards and options: or senior executives are eligible to participate The committees policy is that combined the recruitment of a senior executive.
The plan provides awards ie awards under both the plan appropriate incentives to reward sustained and the schemes shall not be made For the year under review no combined success through the achievement of other than where individual contribution awards were made.
challenging business targets, thereby to the performance of the group has been better aligning the interests of shareholders exceptional or on recruitment.
It is the intention of the it is the committees policy only to make committee to recommend that LTIP awards combined grants where full consideration are made again in 2013 14 and that the has been given to the following: LTIP be reviewed before being renewed at the 2014 annual general meeting.
"Long-term incentive share plan Description Maximum Annual Award % of Salary 150% Nature of Right A nil cost award over a fixed number of shares subject to the satisfaction of conditions Performance Period Three years Performance Requirements Total shareholder return ""TSR"" subject to quartile ranking of company against comparator group of companies calculated over a performance period over three years Additional Features None Currently the committee adopts a policy of granting awards of up to 100% of salary to both executive directors."
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 35 REMUNERATION REPORT Performance condition 2011 14 award 2nd quartile and CSOP share option schemes, The normal LTIP performance condition is 2012 15 award 1st quartile permitting annual awards of up to 200% based upon TSR.
TSR as a performance of remuneration, although there is no plan condition is considered appropriate for the Recruitment awards to make any CSOP or unapproved option following reasons: The committee has agreed a recruitment awards to executive directors in 2013 14, package for Angela Spindler, who is and none of the executive directors market research indicates that TSR is an expected to take up her appointment have any options outstanding under the appropriate and common measure for as Chief Executive Officer on 1 July executive share option schemes.
This includes special provisions FTSE 250 companies: for financial year 2013 2014.
For the All employee share schemes a TSR performance condition is in the period from her joining until the end of The group operates an HM Revenue & opinion of the committee closely aligned the 2013 2014 financial year, she will be Customs approved savings related share with shareholder interests: and eligible to receive a time pro rated bonus option scheme for the benefit of group a TSR performance condition more based on 125% of salary, subject to employees, provided that they have closely evaluates company performance the achievement of personal objectives completed at least six months service.
against a basket of comparator agreed with the Chairman on behalf of the Eligible employees, including executive companies in the same sector.
In subsequent directors and senior executives, may be years it is anticipated that she will be granted options over the companys shares The committee determines whether the eligible for a cash bonus up to a maximum at a discount of up to 20% to the prevailing TSR performance conditions for share of 125% of salary, with 40% of any bonus market price at the time of grant of the awards are satisfied by ranking the outcome deferred into an award of shares option, which subject to certain conditions company over a three-year performance exercisable after a period of two years, can be exercised after either three or five period measured from the date of grant subject to employment conditions, but years.
There is currently no intention to against a group of comparator companies without any additional matching awards.
invite eligible employees to participate in currently comprising: ASOS, Debenhams, the companys share incentive plan SIP.
Dixons Retail, Dunelm, Findel, Flying On an exceptional basis, and only to the Brands, French Connection, Halfords, extent necessary to compensate her for Shareholding guidelines HMV, Home Retail Group, J. D. Sports, awards made by her former employer The company has introduced formal share JJB Sports, Darty, Laura Ashley, Marks & which are forfeited as a result of taking up ownership guidelines under which the Spencer, Moss Bros Group, Mothercare, her appointment with the company, Angela Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Next, Provident Financial and Supergroup.
Spindler is eligible to receive two one-off, Director are respectively required to hold The committee determines from time share awards.
The first award, over shares company shares equal in value at the time to time which companies are to be to a value of up to 100% of salary, will be of acquisition to 200% and 100% of their added or removed from this comparator subject to employment conditions over two base salary respectively.
As at the year end group, including the treatment of any years.
The second award, over shares to the respective holdings are as follows as a company which ceases trading during a value of up to 200% of salary will also % of base salary.
For 2013, Sports be subject to the achievement of strategic Direct and Carpetright will replace HMV objectives measured over a period of Alan White 572% and JJB Sports in the comparator list.
three years, which will be agreed by the Dean Moore 339% Chairman on behalf of the Remuneration Vesting of awards Committee.
In addition, she is expected to Angela Spindler will be expected to attain For awards vesting in 2013 and beyond participate in the LTIP in accordance with her shareholding requirement over a 100% of the award will vest if the companys the policy agreed by the Remuneration 5 year period.
TSR is ranked in the upper quartile.
Depending on rank, where the companys Pension TSR is ranked between the median and The performance conditions for her upper quartiles, between 25% and 85% LTIP awards for financial year 2013 14, Defined benefit scheme of the award will vest.
The percentage award over shares to a value of up to 125% of Alan White is a member of the N Brown vesting at median performance is 25% of salary, will be 50% by reference to Total Group Pension Fund the fund, which the maximum award.
Shareholder Return, as described above is an HM Revenue & Customs registered and 50% by reference to stretching defined benefit scheme.
The group has also The companys TSR performance against conditions that will be set relating to made an unregistered promise of benefits in these targets is measured by reference to growth in earnings per share, requiring addition to those of the fund such that the publicly available data produced by the substantial improvement in financial overall group provides for him, at his normal companys brokers, Credit Suisse, and by performance in order to achieve maximum retirement age of 60, a pension accrual Datastream.
The results are then reviewed vesting, in each case measured over a rate of 1 40th of pensionable salary, which and ratified by the committee before any period of 3 years.
Earnings per share is defined as base salary only, to give a final award is made.
is considered appropriate because it is maximum pension of 2 3 pensionable salary easily understood and is a key measure at normal retirement age, including retained There are currently 3 LTIP awards extant.
of financial performance, closely aligned benefits and benefits earned in the fund prior Based on TSR performance as at 30 to the company's objectives of driving to 1999.
He is also provided with a lump April 2013, the company is situated in the profitable growth.
sum death benefit of four times pensionable relevant quartiles as follows: salary.
The pension is calculated on a final Executive share option schemes salary basis for service prior to 30 June 2005 2010 13 award 2nd quartile The company operates both Unapproved and from then on a career average revalued 36 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 REMUNERATION REPORT earnings basis.
As Alan White remained in Defined contribution scheme The policy is that the company does not service until August 2010, his previous period Dean Moore is a member of the defined make payments beyond its contractual of service with the group from 1985 to 1999 contribution scheme.
Members of obligations on termination.
In addition, will be included in full in the calculation of his this scheme pay contributions up to a executive directors are expected to current pension, subject to the above twomaximum rate of 6% of pensionable salary, mitigate their loss or, within existing thirds maximum.
with the company matching the level of contractual constraints, accept phased employee contribution.
The committee seeks to ensure No part of a directors pensionable salary contributes 6% of Dean Moores annual that there are no unjustified payments for includes remuneration other than basic pay.
salary into the defined contribution failure.
None of the executive directors scheme.
contracts provides for liquidated damages.
All members of the fund currently pay There are no special provisions contained contributions or sacrifice salary at the Benefits in kind in any of the executive directors contracts rate of 6% or 8% of pensionable salary.
Executive directors receive the following that provide for longer periods of notice The group bears the cost of providing the additional benefits: on a change of control of the company.
lump sum death benefit and the balance Further, there are no special provisions of contributions necessary to finance fund a car and fuel allowance: and providing for additional compensation benefits.
private medical insurance on an executive directors cessation of employment with the company.
The fund is now closed to new entrants.
Directors contracts Potential termination payments are Eligible employees who would otherwise It is the companys policy that executive summarised below: have been entitled to join the fund are now directors should have contracts with an able to join a new defined contribution indefinite term providing for a maximum pension scheme.
Potential termination Potential payment Potential payment in Name payment upon company takeover event of liquidation Alan White 12 months salary Nil unless terminated Nil unless terminated Dean Moore 12 months salary Nil unless terminated Nil unless terminated Apart from service contracts, no executive director has any material interest in any contract with the company or its subsidiaries.
Non-executive directors are retained on are on three month rolling terms.
This policy also letters of appointment.
All non-executive All appointments are subject to successful applies to non-executive directors.
appointments are on three year terms re-election upon retirement at the annual Brief details of non-executive and terminable upon up to six months' notice, general meeting.
Termination carries no executive directors contracts are save for Ivan Fallon and John McGuire who right to compensation other than that summarised below: Date of contact letter Notice Name Status of appointment period Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE non executive 16 May 2007 6 months Alan White executive 10 August 2002 12 months Dean Moore executive 20 December 2004 12 months Ivan Fallon non executive 10 April 2013 3 months John McGuire non executive 10 April 2013 3 months Anna Ford non executive 10 April 2013 3 months Andrew Higginson non executive 3 July 2012 6 months Fiona Laird non executive 1 March 2013 3 months Simon Patterson non executive 13 March 2013 3 months Ron McMillan non executive 1 March 2013 3 months Additional directorships both of these fees.
A further fee Executive directors are encouraged Non-executive directors of 5,000 was payable for additional work by the company to hold non-executive All non-executive directors have performed in respect of the chairmanship directorships in listed businesses.
Fees specific terms of engagement and their of the remuneration committee, 6,500 for for such directorships are retained by the remuneration is determined by the board the chairmanship of the audit committee executive director.
Alan White currently within the limits set by the Articles of and 3,000 for chairing the nomination holds a non-executive directorship with Association and based on independent committee.
The Deputy Chairman also Topps Tiles Plc for which he is paid a fee surveys of fees paid to non-executive receives an additional fee of 7,000 in of 41,000 per annum and with Direct directors of similar companies.
recognition of the further duties which Wines Limited for which he is paid a fee of The basic fee paid to each non-executive that post entails.
Alan White is permitted to retain director in the year was within the range cannot participate in any of the companys N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 37 REMUNERATION REPORT share incentive schemes or performanceresolved to increase the basic nonFTSE Mid-250 Index, also measured by based plans and are not eligible to join the executive fee to 47,000 with a TSR.
The company is a member of this companys pension scheme.
supplement of between 5,000 and index and accordingly it is felt to be the 8,000 for chairing a committee and most appropriate comparator group for Following a review by New Bridge 5,000 for acting as senior independent this purpose.
Street in December 2012 the committee non-executive director.
recommended to the board that the nonexecutive directors' fees be revised.
Performance graph Acting on the recommendations of the The graph shows the companys five committee, the board acting by those year performance, measured by TSR, directors not interested in the matter compared with the performance of the Total Shareholder Return Performance: N Brown vs FTSE 250 N Brown Group plc FTSE Mid-250 Index 250 200 150 100 50 0 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Financial Period Source: Datastream 38 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Total Return rebased to 100 REMUNERATION REPORT Audited Information: Directors remuneration and interests Emoluments The individual elements of directors emoluments for the year are as follows: PerformanceShare award Salaries Taxable related related 2013 2012 1 2 fees benefits bonuses gains total total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive salaries Alan White 542 1 382 613 1,538 2,765 Dean Moore 324 1 215 297 837 957 Non executive fees Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 17 17 17 Andrew Higginson 150 150 - Nigel Alliance OBE 15 15 18 Ivan Fallon 50 50 50 Lord Stone of Blackheath 32 32 38 John McGuire 45 45 45 Anna Ford 38 38 38 1,213 2 597 910 2,722 3,928 1.
Taxable benefits comprise the provision of private medical cover.
Included in the performance-related bonus awards stated above are 95,363 for Alan White and 53,802 for Dean Moore which after deduction of income tax are shortly due to be transferred to the deferred annual bonus scheme.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 39 REMUNERATION REPORT Pensions Details of directors' accrued pension entitlements under the group's defined benefit schemes are as follows: Change Value of Transfer Transfer in accrued net change value of Change value of Accrued pension Accrued in accrual accrued in transfer accrued pension at during pension at during pension at value during pension at 1 2 1 2,3, 4 3 3,4, 5 3 3 Mar 12 year 2 Mar 13 year 3 Mar 12 year 2 Mar 13 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Alan White 105 18 126 315 2,194 690 2,894 1.
As Mr White has given his notice to retire, the above pension amounts have been calculated on the assumption he will retire early but based on service to the year end.
Change stated net of inflation.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 1996.
Stated after deduction of the director's contribution.
The change in the transfer value includes the effects of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company and directors, such as gilt yield changes.
Voluntary contributions paid by the directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
Contributions paid by the company into the group's defined contribution scheme during the year in respect of Dean Moore amounted to 17,937 2012, 17,512.
Share options Details of directors share options are as follows: Market price at Date from At 3 Mar Granted Lapsed Exercised At 2 Mar Exercise date of which 2012 in year in year in year 2013 price exercise exercisable Expiry date Dean Moore SAYE 8,413 - 8,413 186.0p 01 08 2014 31 01 2015 8,413 - 8,413 The market price of the company's shares at 2 March 2013 was 397.0p 2012, 238.8p and the range during the year was 222.4p to 405.9p.
Exercise is subject to performance condition geared to Total Shareholder Return.
The total gains made by Alan White and Dean Moore on the exercise of the awards during the year were 472,534 and 229,051 respectively.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 41 REMUNERATION REPORT Interests Directors interests in shares of the company as at the date of this report are as follows: 2013 2012 Ordinary Ordinary Shares of Shares of 1 1 11 19p each 11 19p each Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 75,316,182 75,316,182 Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE non beneficial 19,731,784 19,731,784 Alan White 770,474 760,316 Dean Moore 289,219 224,572 Andrew Higginson 82,507 - Ivan Fallon 10,000 10,000 John McGuire 9,047 9,047 Anna Ford Ron McMillan Fiona Laird Simon Patterson Approval This report was approved by the board of directors on 17 May 2013 and signed on its behalf by: Ivan Fallon Chairman of the remuneration committee 42 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
