Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Embracing new remuneration reporting The turnaround of the Group has We have made no other changes to the Remuneration Committee continued during 2013 with a strong structure of our Executive remuneration overview financial performance having been during 2013.
The highlights of the year were: 144.08% of base salary were achieved by the Group Chief Executive and normalised Group profit before tax Group Finance Director respectively.
of 143.7 million with an increase in The Remuneration Committee were core non-rail normalised operating comfortable that these bonus payments profit to 185.5 million: were based on performance against 7% growth in UK Coach core financial and safety targets alongside service revenue: the achievement of specific personal secured 1.8 billion in contract wins: objectives set at the beginning of delivered over 180 million of free the year.
cash flow: reduced net debt by 82 million: We consulted many shareholders during strong improvement in ROCE: and 2013 on our remuneration packages Dear shareholder, delivered a total shareholder return and the Board will continue to liaise with I am pleased to be given the opportunity of 41% in 2013. shareholders on this important subject to introduce the Directors Remuneration as part of its ongoing dialogue with them.
Report for the year ended 31 December Against this background, our pay and We believe that the Remuneration Policy 2013. benefits must be at a level that will attract report for 2014 is appropriate for future and retain high quality management During the 2013 financial year we have years and we look to our shareholders who are fully incentivised to deliver continued to see a focus on Executive to approve the Report.
In line with the revised in an international market that places remuneration disclosure regulations that a premium on successful individuals.
came into force in 2013, we have split We have in our Executive Directors the report into two parts: individuals of proven ability and the Sir Andrew Foster The Directors Remuneration Policy changes we made to their remuneration Remuneration Committee Chair report sets out the Companys in 2012 helped the Company to retain 27 February 2014 remuneration policy for Directors for and motivate them.
This was very much three years from the date of the 2014 in the long term interests of shareholders.
AGM and the key factors that were After a pay freeze of two years for taken into account in setting the policy.
2012 and for 2013, the Committee has This policy is subject to a binding decided that a modest 2% increase shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM to base pay for Executive Directors is and after that at least every third year.
appropriate, effective from 1 January The Annual Report on Remuneration 2014.
A similar rise has been agreed sets out payments and awards made for other managers in the Group.
to the Directors and details the link between Company performance and remuneration for the 2013 financial year.
This report together with this letter is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
68 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Directors Remuneration Policy report In implementing its policy, the Committee gives The Group operates a leadership and Introduction full consideration to the principles set out in the development programme which includes This Directors Remuneration Report has been Code with regard to Directors remuneration an appraisal system for Directors and prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to and due regard is given to the guidance issued senior management.
In 2013 the appraisal the Large and Medium-sized Companies and by investor protection bodies and institutional system used balanced scorecards to assess Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment investors more generally.
performance against safety, customer, people Regulations 2013 the Regulations and has and community objectives.
The results of taken account of the Directors Remuneration Remuneration policy is reviewed on an ongoing the annual appraisal system are taken into Reporting Guidance issued by the GC100 basis against the Committees broad principles consideration when setting remuneration levels.
It will be submitted to and in light of emerging best practice in shareholders for their approval at the AGM corporate governance.
In carrying out its functions, the Committee has followed the The Committee believes that it continues provisions of Schedule A to the September to take into account the principles of sound 2012 edition of the Code which is published risk management when setting pay.
The by the Financial Reporting Council.
Further remuneration policy provides for a substantial information on the Code can be found on proportion of the current remuneration the Financial Reporting Councils website, packages of the Executive Directors to be frc.
weighted towards long term performance with the annual bonus also the subject of part In this section of the report we have provided deferral into the Companys shares.
Provisions details of the Companys remuneration policy also apply in the event of a misstatement of for Directors which is proposed to be applicable the Companys results and a broad range of from the date of the 2014 AGM and the key financial and non-financial targets are included factors taken into account when setting in our incentive programmes.
liaison takes place between the Remuneration and Audit Committees as part of an effective Remuneration policy for remuneration risk assessment process.
In Executive Directors line with the Association of British Insurers Commencing from the 2014 AGM, shareholders Guidelines on Responsible Investment will be provided with the opportunity to endorse Disclosure, the Committee ensures that the the Companys remuneration policy through incentive structure for Executive Directors and a binding vote at least every three years.
The senior management will not raise environmental, first binding vote on the Directors remuneration social or governance ESG risks by policy set out in this section of the report will be inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
put to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
More generally, with regard to the overall Remuneration policy is based on the following remuneration structure, there is no restriction broad principles set by the Committee: on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account corporate governance on ESG to provide a competitive remuneration matters and it takes due account of issues package to attract and retain quality of general operational risk when structuring individuals: incentives.
The Committee takes due account to align remuneration to drive the overall of remuneration structures elsewhere in the objectives of the business: Group when setting pay for the Executive to align the interests of management with Directors for example, consideration is given the interests of shareholders: and to the overall salary increase budget and the to provide the foundation for overall reward incentive structures that operate across and remuneration beyond the specific the Group.
roles falling within the direct remit of the Remuneration Committee.
com 69 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration structure from 2014 The table below sets out the key elements of the Companys remuneration policy for the Executive Directors with effect from the 2014 AGM.
Whilst there is no major change in policy identified in these tables, the Remuneration Committee always seeks to retain flexibility in setting pay and benefits.
This reflects competitive and other pressures which might affect our ability to recruit, retain and motivate key individuals.
Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment Base salary To provide a competitive level of The salary of individual Executive Directors is paid monthly in cash and is normally The Committees policy is to set base Not applicable.
salary as the main component reviewed annually.
salary at an appropriate level taking into of fixed remuneration.
Enables account the factors outlined in this table.
In determining base salaries, the Committee considers: the Group to recruit and retain The maximum annual salary increase Executive Directors of the calibre pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity in the FTSE 250: will not normally exceed the average required to fulfil the role and are key external market conditions: increase which applies across the wider to developing and implementing pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group: and workforce.
However, larger increases may business strategy without paying individual performance, skills, experience in post and potential.
be awarded in certain circumstances more than is necessary to do so.
including but not limited to: A greater increase may be granted if there is a substantive change to an Executives role or responsibility, for example following promotion, or if an Executives salary falls significantly increase in scope of responsibilities below market positioning.
The Committee may stage increases in these circumstances over of the role: a number of years and the increases may be contingent on performance in role.
to apply salary progression for a newly appointed Director: and When considering pay increases the Committee intends to use comparator groups that where a Directors salary has fallen will be based on groups of transport leisure and general sector companies of a similar size.
The Committee retains discretion to amend the comparator groups as necessary to make them more appropriate.
In such circumstances, the increase will not exceed RPI 10%.
Pension To provide competitive benefits in Executive Directors are provided a cash allowance in lieu of a pension provision in line with The Committees policy is that the Not applicable.
related line with market practice.
maximum cash allowance payable in lieu benefits funds to allow Executives to save of a pension will be 35%.
The Group Chief Executive receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 35% of salary.
Pension benefits are a fixed element of remuneration.
The Group Finance Director receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 25% of salary.
Only basic salary counts for the purpose of the allowance.
Benefits To provide competitive benefits as Executive Directors receive family private healthcare, death in service and life assurance The cost to the Company of providing Not applicable.
part of fixed remuneration in line cover 4 x base salary, long term sickness and disability insurance, a cash alternative to the benefits may vary from year to year in with market practice to enable the a fully expensed car, free travel on the Companys services and professional membership accordance with market conditions and Group to recruit and retain talent.
will, therefore, determine the maximum amount that would be paid in the form The Committee has discretion to provide additional benefits or remove benefits in order to of benefits during the policy period.
remain competitive or to meet the needs of the business, for example to provide relocation expenses, including financial tax and legal advice if applicable.
Any change to benefit provision will be detailed on an annual basis.
Performance To incentivise delivery of Bonus payments are paid following year end.
The targets for the bonus in respect of 2013 were as follows: related bonus performance objectives that are Bonus payments are not pensionable.
For the Group Chief Executive 70% bonus is subject to normalised financial targets, 30% subject directly linked to the financial and to non-financial targets.
strategic priorities of the business.
Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified corporate financial and non-financial objectives over a one-year performance period.
For the Group Finance Director 60% bonus is subject to normalised financial targets, 40% subject A portion of bonus is deferred to non-financial targets.
into shares, assisting retention of A proportion of the bonus payments is subject to mandatory deferral into shares for one year Executive Directors and aligning from award.
Dividends or dividend equivalents which may assume notional reinvestment are The Committee retains discretion to amend the weightings of the financial and non-financial elements their financial interests with those paid on these shares.
of the bonus from year to year and for each Executive as appropriate.
For the Group Chief Executive, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary and 50% of the The targets attached to the financial condition will typically relate to profit and or cash generation, bonus earned from 125% to 150% of salary is to be deferred.
For the Group Finance Director, are set on an annual basis and are intended to be achievable at threshold and stretching at maximum.
25% of the bonus earned up to 112.5% of salary and 50% of the bonus earned from 112.5% The numerical values of the target will not be disclosed in advance as the Committee considers to 150% of salary is to be deferred.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to this information commercially sensitive but will be disclosed when they are considered no longer standardise the percentage of the bonus deferred into shares if this is felt appropriate in the commercially sensitive.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the market price per share on the date of the award will be calculated on basis of the average market price share in the five days preceding the date of the grant.
70 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 In addition to the components described below, it is the policy of the Company to honour any commitments made to a Director before this policy takes effect or before he she became a Director.
Such commitments include the Group Chief Executives unfunded pension arrangement and his Retention Award, both of which are described on page 74.
com 71 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors continued Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment Performance Only the Executive Directors currently participate in the Companys bonus deferral The non-financial targets will be set annually based on strategic objectives for the year.
Other employees may be invited to participate in future years at the financial targets include safety, customer, operational excellence and people objectives and will continued Committees discretion.
be determined by the Committee on an annual basis.
The proportion of the bonus determined by performance against non-financial targets will only become payable when the Company achieves Achievement of each element of the bonus is assessed independently.
at least 95% of budget normalised profit.
Provisions exist that require the deferred shares to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary It is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the Remuneration Committee has determined that for the Company to restate materially the financial results upon which the bonus was awarded there has been an improvement in safety processes, procedures and outcomes during the year in the within a two-year period following the deferred bonus being awarded.
The proportion of the relevant business unit before any bonus is paid.
bonus that would be subject to this provision would depend on the extent to which the original bonus payment turned out to be false following the publication of corrected results.
For further details on the measures and targets which applied to bonuses in 2013, please see page 79.
Long Term To drive performance, aid retention Performance Share awards in the form of conditional awards, nil-cost options or forfeitable Executive Directors are eligible to receive a Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth.
The remaining half will be subject to the relative total Incentive and align the interests of Executive shares are granted annually and vesting is dependent on the achievement of performance conditional award of Performance Shares shareholder return TSR of the Company measured against an appropriate group of companies.
conditions measured over a three-year period.
Dividend equivalents can be paid on up to an equivalent of 100% of base salary Achievement of threshold performance results in 30% vesting for each part of the Award.
The performance conditions Shares There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
are aligned with the long term A proportion of the award is made as approved share options under an HMRC approved performance of the business, option plan structure.
This does not increase the gross benefit to the participant or the costs The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to amend existing performance conditions thereby driving participants to to the Company or shareholders.
to take account of any events that may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such adjustments were achieve outcomes that realise not made, the performance condition would not constitute a fair measure of the Companys EPS or Reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance criteria and other features shareholder value.
TSR growth over the period.
remain appropriate to the Companys current circumstances, and to ensure that there are no features of the plans that could inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
To drive performance, aid retention Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards of Matching Shares that are based on Long Term The maximum value of investment in any Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth.
The remaining half will be subject to the relative total and align the interests of Executive a personal investment in National Express Group PLC shares funded either through using an Incentive Plan year is 30% of base salary.
shareholder return TSR of the Company measured against an appropriate group of companies.
annual bonus award to purchase shares or through the pledging of shares held not already Achievement of threshold performance results in 30% vesting for each part of the Award.
Shares allocated to the LTIP.
Matching awards are made on the basis of up to four Matching Shares Participants only receive Matching being awarded based on the value of the investment for each National Express share There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
Shares subject to investing into pledged or purchased.
the business and therefore this The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to amend existing performance conditions mechanism adds an element of Reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance criteria and other features to take account of any events that may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such adjustments were buy-in to the remuneration.
remain appropriate to the Companys current circumstances, and to ensure that there not made, the performance condition would not constitute a fair measure of the Companys EPS or are no features of the plans that could inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
The performance conditions are aligned with the long term performance of the business, thereby driving participants to achieve outcomes that realise shareholder value.
Notes: the Companys audited accounts.
TSR measured against an appropriate group of companies Long term incentive arrangements has been used by the Company as a primary performance measure for awards made to LTIP performance conditions Executive Directors under the LTIP as outlined in this report.
The performance condition attached to one-half of an award Part A is based on the Groups The current LTIP rules expire in May 2015 and the intention is that these are renewed at the normalised earnings per share EPS growth performance in excess of inflation over the AGM in 2015 on the same terms but with the inclusion of a provision that would enable awards performance period three or five financial years commencing with the financial year in which to be reduced should it be necessary for the Company to restate materially the financial results.
The LTIP grant in 2014 will include a provision that will enable awards to be reduced should it The performance condition attached to the other half of an award Part B is based on the be necessary for the Company to restate materially the financial results.
Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance over the same fixed performance The Committee may grant awards under the Listing Rule 9.4.
2 which allows for the granting period relative to the TSR performance of an appropriate group of companies.
of awards, specifically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of an EPS and TSR have been chosen for the LTIP as the most appropriate measures of the Executive Director, without seeking prior shareholder approval, up to an equivalent of 100% of Groups long term performance, since EPS is an important growth measure considered within salary per annum.
The Company will explain the reasons for making any awards under Listing the Company and a driver of shareholder value and TSR improves shareholder alignment Rule 9.4.
and is consistent with the Companys objective of providing superior long term returns to shareholders.
On a change of control, Deferred Bonus Awards and Performance Shares will vest, except to the extent they are exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring company.
Vesting will To determine vesting of LTIP awards, the Committee retains independent consultants to test be subject to any performance conditions and will normally be reduced to reflect early vesting, the proportion of an award vesting under the relative TSR test and then reviews the conclusion unless the Remuneration Committee determines that a reduction in the number of vested of this analysis before shares formally vest.
The number or class of shares under award may With regard to the EPS targets, vesting is based on the Companys audited results with liaison, be adjusted on a rights issue, variation of capital, demerger or similar transaction.
as required, between the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
All employee share schemes The Committee believes that EPS growth as a performance measure for the long term Currently the Company does not operate any all employee share plans.
However if the incentives, in most normal circumstances, provides a transparent and accessible method of Company implements any all-employee share schemes in the future, the Executive Directors gauging the financial performance of the Company.
The Company calculates performance would be eligible to join such schemes.
against this performance measure by reference to the earnings per share figures reported in 72 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment Performance Only the Executive Directors currently participate in the Companys bonus deferral The non-financial targets will be set annually based on strategic objectives for the year.
com 73 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committees policy is for all Executive four Matching Shares based on an Executive Comparison with approach to Directors to have rolling service contracts Directors investment of up to 30% of salary remuneration across the Group with a notice period of 12 months, unless on and any all employee share plans operating National Express Group operates internationally an exceptional basis to complete an external at that time: and and accordingly, the remuneration policy for recruitment successfully, when a longer initial costs relating to but not limited to relocation: employees generally reflects the legislative and period reducing to 12 months may be used.
London Allowance: legal, financial, tax and labour market requirements in each separate visa advice and pre-employment medical jurisdiction.
The Group will always meet or The Committee would generally seek to align checks.
exceed national minimum standards for terms the remuneration of any new Executive Director and conditions of employment in each of following the same principles as for the current The Committee may make awards on our business areas, offering pay, terms and Executive Directors set out in the table above.
appointing an Executive Director to buy out conditions that are appropriate to each labour However, the Committee reserves the right remuneration arrangements forfeited on market in which we operate.
Base pay is set at to make payments outside of this policy in leaving a previous employer.
The Committee a level that allows us to recruit and retain staff in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee would take into account both market practice each relevant labour market and performance would only use this right where it believes that and any relevant commercial factors in related pay arrangements are based on the this is in the best interests of the Company, considering whether any enhanced and or achievement of business unit and individual and when it would be disproportionate to seek one-off annual incentive or long term incentive goals, objectively assessed.
Other than for award was necessary.
Awards made by way specific approval from a general meeting.
a small number of senior Executives in each of compensation for forfeited awards would be The elements that would be considered by business unit, long term incentive plans are only made on a comparable basis, taking account the Company for inclusion in the remuneration applicable at Executive Director level.
of performance achieved or likely to be package for a new Director are: achieved, the proportion of the performance Approach to recruitment period remaining and the form of the award.
salary and benefits including defined remuneration of Executive Directors Compensation could be in cash or shares.
contribution pension participation or a salary In the event that the Company recruits a new supplement in lieu of pension provision: In the event of recruitment or retention other Executive Director either from within the participation in the Performance Related than buy out awards as described above, the organisation or externally when determining Bonus pro-rated for the year of recruitment to Committee may also grant awards to a new appropriate remuneration arrangements, reflect the proportion of the year for which the or existing Executive Director under the Listing the Committee will take into consideration new recruit was in post maximum of 150% Rule 9.4.
2 up to an equivalent of 100% of salary all relevant factors including but not limited of salary.
If the commencement date is after per annum.
to quantum, the type of remuneration being 1st September in the year, no award would offered and the jurisdiction the candidate was normally be made for that year: Executive Directors recruited from to ensure that arrangements are participation in the Long Term Incentive Plan The contract dates and notice periods for in the best interests of both the Company and Performance Shares equivalent to up to the Executive Directors are shown in the its shareholders without paying more than 100% of salary, Matching Scheme up to table below.
is necessary to recruit an Executive of the required calibre.
Executive Directors service contracts and notice periods Notice period from Notice period from Director Contract date the Company the Director Jez Maiden 17 November 2008 12 months 12 months Dean Finch 16 December 2009 12 months 6 months The service contracts of both the Executive Directors, which are rolling contracts, contain a provision, exercisable at the option of the Company, to pay an amount on termination of employment equal to one years salary or, in the case of Dean Finch, one years salary, salary supplement in lieu of pension and car allowance.
The Director will not be obliged to mitigate his loss in relation to any payment in lieu of notice.
The Company will use the payment in lieu of notice provisions when the speed, certainty and protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such clauses are thought to be in the best interests of the Company and the circumstances surrounding the departure of the relevant Director justify their use.
The service contracts for the current Executive Directors are available to view on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee continuously reviews its policies on Executive remuneration and severance in the best interests of shareholders.
Guidance on best practice expectations is taken into account prior to agreeing Directors contractual provisions.
The Group Chief Executive is entitled, under an unfunded pension arrangement, to a pension based on the value of notional contributions of 25% of his salary, plus a 5% per annum notional return.
The pension normally becomes payable, at the earliest, on 1 April 2022.
All or part of it may be paid as a lump sum.
The Group Chief Executive may request early payment on a change of control.
The Group Chief Executive is eligible to receive a conditional Retention Award of Performance Shares equivalent to 100% of base salary per annum.
Vesting is dependent on the achievement of performance conditions measured over a five-year period.
Half of any award is subject to EPS growth and the remaining half is subject to the relative total shareholder return TSR of the Company measured against an appropriate group of companies.
Executive Directors are also provided with Directors and Officers insurance and are indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities incurred in the course of their duties, including the costs of defending actions against them.
74 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Executive Directors external appointments Under the terms of their service agreements, Board approval is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services.
Details of fees received by Executive Directors in 2013 are shown below.
Director Fee External appointment Jez Maiden 50,000 2012: 50,000 Synthomer PLC Executive Directors termination payments The Company may at its discretion pay in lieu of notice.
Payment in lieu of notice could potentially include up to 12 months base salary, benefits and pension which may be payable in instalments and subject to mitigation.
The table below sets out the treatment of other elements of remuneration that would normally apply for Executive Directors whose service with National Express terminates: Reason for Salary and contractual Performance Related Unvested Deferred Unvested Long Term termination benefits Bonus awards Bonus awards Incentive Plan awards Other Retirement, Disability, Payment equal to Bonus awarded Award vests Awards vest on the date of Fees for Redundancy, Death, the aggregate of subject to on the date of cessation of employment, unless the outplacement Sale of part of Company the basic salary satisfaction of cessation of Remuneration Committee determines and legal that employs participant, and the value of any performance employment it should vest at normal vesting date advice may or any other reason contractual benefits targets for the be paid The amount of award vesting will that the Remuneration for the notice relevant financial be subject to the satisfaction of Committee decides period including year performance conditions as at the any accrued but date the award is deemed to vest untaken holiday Awards will normally be reduced time pro rata to reflect time elapsed between grant and cessation of employment Other leavers Paid to date No award for year Award lapses Awards lapse in full on leaving 1 of termination, of termination on cessation of employment including any employment accrued but untaken holiday pay 1 Pursuant to Dean Finchs service contract dated 16 December 2009, if his contract is terminated for reasons other than for an event of default by the Executive such as gross misconduct, he is entitled, subject to the applicable performance conditions, to a pro rata bonus calculated up to the termination date from the commencement of the relevant bonus year in which termination takes place.
Subject to the circumstances surrounding the termination, the Committee in its discretion may treat the individual as an approved leaver ie: under the first section in the table above.
The Committee will consider factors such as personal performance and conduct, overall Company performance and the specific circumstances of the Executives departure including but not restricted to whether the Executive is leaving by mutual agreement with the Company.
In addition, the Committee will consider the above circumstances in considering whether awards in respect of approved leavers should be pro-rated to reflect the service completed.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
Share ownership guidelines In order to align the interests of the Directors more closely with the shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the Executive Directors are expected to build up a share fund equal to at least one years current salary over a period of five years.
The details of the interests of the Executive Directors in shares and long term incentive interests are set out on page 83 together with the extent to which each of the Executive Directors has complied with the guidelines as at 31 December 2013. www.
com 75 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors are also provided The remuneration of any new Non-Executive Remuneration policy for with Directors and Officers insurance and are Director will be determined following Non-Executive Directors indemnified by the Company against certain the same principles as for the current Non-Executive Directors appointments liabilities incurred in the course of their duties, Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have including the costs of defending actions service contracts with the Company and do against them.
not participate in the Groups pension scheme, annual bonus scheme or long term incentive In accordance with the requirements of the schemes.
Non-Executive Directors have letters Code, all Directors are required to stand for of appointment and are appointed for an initial election or re-election by shareholders each three-year term.
The original appointment dates of the typically expected to serve for two three-year Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are terms, although their appointment can be shown in the table below.
terminated either by them or the Company on one months written notice.
It is open to the Company to invite a Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors appointment dates Director to serve for a further period after the expiry of two three-year terms.
The letters of Date of Notice period by either appointment for the current Non-Executive Director appointment Company or Director Directors can be found on the Companys Sir John Armitt 1 January 2013 3 months website, www.
Joaqun Ayuso 1 June 2011 1 month Jorge Cosmen 1 December 2005 0 months Sir Andrew Foster 1 August 2004 1 month Jackie Hunt 13 September 2012 1 month Chris Muntwyler 11 May 2011 1 month Lee Sander 1 June 2011 1 month Tim Score 21 February 2005 1 month The table below sets out the Companys remuneration policy for the Non-Executive Directors with effect from the 2014 AGM.
Element Purpose Operation Maximum potential value Non-Executive fees To attract and retain persons The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set by the The Committees policy of a suitable calibre for a Board as a whole and those of the Chairman are set by is to set base fees at an group of this size and to pay the Remuneration Committee.
The fees are reviewed appropriate level taking into fees which are reflective of at appropriate intervals normally once every year.
The account the factors outlined responsibilities, competitive review takes account of fees paid for similar positions in the in this table.
with peer companies market, the time commitment required from the Director without paying more than estimated to be 60 days per year for the Chairman and is necessary.
20days per year for the other Non-Executive Directors and any additional responsibilities undertaken, such as acting as Chairman to one of the Board Committees or fulfilling the role of Senior Independent Director.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension entitlements or bonuses and may not participate in long term incentive arrangements.
A travel allowance may be paid to NonExecutive Directors for attendance at Board meetings held outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident.
76 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Assumptions used in determining the level of Illustrations of application Statement of conditions payout under given scenarios are as follows: of remuneration policy for elsewhere in the Group The Group operates across a number of Executive Directors Salaries are as at 31 December 2013. countries and accordingly sets terms and The chart below illustrates the remuneration Performance Share Awards are granted conditions for employees which reflect the that would be paid to each of the Executive at the maximum level permitted under different legislative and labour market conditions Directors under three different performance the policy.
that operate in each of our jurisdictions.
We scenarios: i Minimum: ii On-target: and Each Director will own shares with a value set Global People Standards to provide iii Maximum.
of 30% of his base salary and will receive up a framework for recognition and rewards to four Matching Shares for each National The elements of remuneration have been internationally.
We will always meet or exceed Express share pledged or purchased.
categorised into three components: i Fixed: national minimum standards for terms and Minimum performance scenario assumes ii Annual variable: and iii Multiple reporting conditions of employment in each of our fixed pay only and no variable payments.
period, which are set out in the future policy business areas.
Pay arrangements in our On-target performance scenario assumes table below.
businesses also reflect local performance with performance in line with the Companys personal increases based on achievement, expectations, resulting in 30% of maximum Element Descriptions individually assessed.
National Express believes vesting in respect of long term incentive Fixed Total amount of salary, pension in the value of continuous improvement, both awards and 50% of maximum payout, and benefits in respect of 2013 for the individual and for the Company.
The assuming 50% achievement of personal Company did not consult with employees in objectives, in respect of the annual bonus.
Annual Performance Related Bonus drawing up the Directors remuneration policy.
Whilst the bonus scheme has targets for variable including deferred element threshold, on-target and maximum, the LTIP When determining the remuneration of Multiple Long Term Incentive Plan only has targets for threshold and maximum.
Executive Directors, the Remuneration reporting Performance Shares and The value shown above in the on-target Committee takes into account business variable Matching Shares includes the values for on-target bonus and unit performance, including both financial threshold LTIP performance.
performance and safety improvements in the Maximum performance scenario assumes year.
Because of the wide variety in labour outstanding level of performance ie: market conditions and in exchange rate maximum bonus and full vesting of long term movements, pay rates locally are not normally incentives.
considered when considering Executive Director base pay reviews.
Share price appreciation is not allowed for.
The Remuneration Committee reviews and notes the salaries of senior Executives within the Group.
Performance Shares and Matching Shares are cascaded down below Executive level to senior management, aligning the senior 4,000 team to deliver value for the Group.
3,500 Consideration of shareholder views 3,000 The Committee is committed to an ongoing 2,500 42% dialogue with shareholders and seeks shareholder views when any significant changes 2,000 42% are being made to remuneration arrangements.
1,500 30% 23% The Committee reflected on the views of 1,000 27% 31% 23% shareholders from the AGM in 2013.
We remain 28% 500 100% 50% 28% sensitive to such views and sought to consult 100% 49% 27% many of our leading shareholders during 0 2013 and 2014 on remuneration issues.
We Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum explained the rationale for our actions in 2012 Dean Finch Jez Malden and reassured shareholders that there would be Fixed Annual variable no major changes to the remuneration policy in Multi reporting variable 2013.
The Committee will continue to monitor shareholder comments and retain an open dialogue as necessary.
com 77 Remuneration 000 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration The relevant sections of this report have been review of Executive Directors and senior During 2013 PwC provided advice to the audited, as required by the Regulations.
Executives salary levels: management of the Group on various matters approval of annual bonus payments: including pensions, information technology, Composition review of the Chairmans fees: internal audit and tax advice.
The individuals who served on the consideration and approval of performance Prior to 1 August 2013, NBS were the appointed Remuneration Committee during 2013, and targets to apply to the 2013 Long Term independent advisers to the Committee.
NBS those individuals who attended Remuneration Incentive Plan awards including the total has no other connection with the Group other Committee meetings, are set out below: shareholder return comparator group used than in the provision of advice on Executive and and the range of earnings per share employee remuneration and nor does its ultimate Name of Director Position targets set : parent, Aon PLC.
approval of 2013 award levels under the Sir Andrew Foster Committee Chair Companys share plans: From time to time, the Company submits the Lee Sander Independent Nontesting of performance conditions and remuneration consultant function to tender.
Executive Director approval of vesting of Long Term Incentive NBS and PwC are members of the Plan awards granted in 2010: Tim Score Senior Independent Remuneration Consultants Group and the setting targets for the Groups 2013 Director resigned voluntary code of conduct of that body is bonus scheme: 25February 2014 designed to ensure objective and independent review and approval of the draft Directors advice is given to remuneration committees.
Remuneration Report for the year ended Management attendees Position 31December 2013: The Committee is satisfied that advice received Dean Finch Group Chief Executive approval of the appointment of was appropriate, objective and independent.
 as new Stephen Connock MBE Group HR Adviser independent remuneration consultants from Fees in relation to remuneration Michael Hampson General Counsel and 1 August 2013 following a tender process: Advisor advice 000s Company Secretary consideration and recommendation to NBS 36 the Board for approval of the updated Jane Kingston was appointed a member of the PwC 35 Committees terms of reference: and Committee on 26 February 2014. review of advisers and fees paid to them.
Base salary Responsibilities Advisors to the Committee No increases were awarded to base salary for The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Material advice or services were provided the Executive Directors for 2012 or for 2013. to the Committee during the year by: determine the fees of the Chairman: Performance related bonus determine the remuneration and conditions  LLP PwC A summary of the 2013 performance related of employment including any termination independent remuneration consultants from bonus scheme is summarised below.
arrangements of the Executive Directors 1 August 2013: and Company Secretary: The maximum potential bonus payable to New Bridge Street NBS independent review the remuneration and conditions Executive Directors in 2013 was 150% of salary remuneration consultants up to 1 August 2013: of employment of the senior management for both Executive Directors.
For the Group Chief team: and Executive, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% Dean Finch Group Chief Executive: select and appoint any remuneration of salary and 50% of the bonus earned from Stephen Connock MBE Group HR Adviser: consultants who advise the Committee.
125% to 150% of salary is to be deferred.
For the Group Finance Director, 25% of the bonus Michael Hampson General Counsel, and The full terms of reference of the Committee earned up to 112.5% of salary and 50% of the Company Secretary: are available on the Companys website at bonus earned from 112.5% to 150% of salary is www.
The Group Chief Executive attends meetings to be deferred.
of the Committee to make recommendations Meetings The Committee has reviewed the performance relating to the performance and remuneration The Committee met four times in 2013.
Details against the conditions attached to the of his direct reports.
The Group HR Adviser of attendance at these meetings can be found performance related bonus and in addition, guided the Committee on reward matters on page 58. made an assessment of the performance of relating to the Executive Directors and senior the Group as a whole during 2013.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to Executives and the broader Group HR strategy seek any information that it requires from any and policy.
The Company Secretary acts as In respect of the targets applying to the annual employee of the Group.
bonus for 2013 for the Group Chief Executive The Committee members and management and Group Finance Director, a maximum of Following a competitive tender process, attendees did not participate in any discussions 105% of salary and 90% of salary respectively the Committee appointed independent directly relating to their own remuneration or was payable based on achievement against remuneration consultants, PwC, to advise on all performance during the year.
a sliding scale of challenging financial targets.
aspects of senior executive remuneration.
PwC A maximum of 45% and 60% of salary was appointed from 1 August 2013.
Main activities during the year respectively was payable based on nonDuring the year the Committee considered the financial targets that encompassed customer, following items of business: operational excellence and people objectives.
78 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 In relation to the proportion of the bonus determined to be payable, the Group must have achieved The amounts deferred under the bonus plan by performance against normalised profit at least 95% of its normalised profit targets for are deferred into shares awarded under the targets no bonus is payable unless the Company the year.
In addition, it is a pre-condition to the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan EDBP for one achieves at least 95% of budget and the maximum award of any bonus that the Remuneration year.
Receipt of the deferred shares is subject to amount is only payable on the achievement of a Committee has determined that there has been continued service and the same good leaver stretch target of 110% of budget.
The 2013 target an improvement in safety processes, procedures provisions and other terms as noted for the Long set in relation to budget was 132.6 million.
and outcomes during the year before any bonus Term Incentive Plan below.
As the financial targets are considered also includes provisions that require the deferred The 2013 target set in relation to net debt was to be commercially sensitive and potentially shares to be forfeited or repaid should it be to deliver a net debt of 799.1 million.
provide information to competitors, they will not necessary for the Company to restate materially its be disclosed in advance but will be disclosed 2013 results within a two-year period following the The targets set in relation to non-financial the following year.
The proportion performance are key strategic Group objectives of the bonus that would be the subject to these that are tailored to the responsibilities of each Non-financial objectives are logged with the provisions would depend on the extent to which individual Executive Director and, in aggregate, Committee at the beginning of each year and the original bonus payment turned out to be false are considered to be similarly challenging to the then performance is reviewed at the end of following the publication of corrected results.
range of financial targets set.
the year in detail before any bonus payment is determined.
The Committee believes that the The deferred bonuses awarded to both The table below summarises the performance non-financial targets are commercially sensitive Executive Directors in 2013 based on conditions attaching to the 2013 awards and the since they may provide competitors with insight performance to 31 December 2012 are actual performance and bonus value achieved.
into the Groups strategic plans and will not due to vest on 28 February 2014.
The Committee has full discretion in the payment be disclosed in advance.
The Committees of annual bonuses.
For any financial element intention is that a summary of these targets will be disclosed the following year.
Single total figure of remuneration Executive Directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director paid in the 2013 financial year.
Comparative figures for 2012 have also been provided.
2013 2012 Performance Value of Pension Performance Value of Pension Base Taxable related LTIP related Base Taxable related LTIP related 1 1 000 salary benefits bonus vested benefits Total salary benefits bonus vested benefits Total 2 2 Dean Finch 550 26 785 0 192 1,553 550 26 644 289 192 1,701 Jez Maiden 420 25 605 0 105 1,155 420 24 491 227 105 1,267 1 Taxable benefits comprise a cash alternative to a fully expensed car 20,000 for each of Dean Finch and Jez Maiden, health insurance and death in service and life assurance cover.
2 In addition, Dean Finch has an entitlement under an unfunded pension arrangement as described on page 82.
2013 Bonus Scheme % of salary Details Maximum bonus potential 150% Proportion of bonus subject to mandatory deferral into Company shares for one year from award Bonus potential at 95% of budgeted 22.5% for Group Chief Executive normalised profit before tax PBT 18.75% for Group Finance Director On-target bonus potential at 100% of 45% for Group Chief Executive Awarded on achieving budget budgeted normalised PBT 37.5% for Group Finance Director Stretch bonus for 110% of budgeted 90% for Group Chief Executive Awarded on achieving a stretch target of 110% of normalised PBT normalised PBT 75% for Group Finance Director Net debt 15% for Group Chief Executive 15% for Group Finance Director Non-financial targets underpinned by achievement of 95% 45% for Group Chief Executive Awarded on meeting key strategic Group objectives tailored to each of budgeted normalised PBT 60% for Group Finance Director Executive Directors responsibilities Threshold Maximum Bonus value achievable for Actual bonus Performance performance Performance Actual meeting threshold and maximum value achieved condition Weighting required required performance performance % salary % salary Dean Finch Jez Maiden Dean Finch Jez Maiden Dean Finch Jez Maiden Dean Finch Jez Maiden Normalised profit 60% 50% 95% 110% 108.4% 108.4% 22.5%-90% 18.75%-75% 82.89% 69.08% Net debt 10% 10% 10% 10% 3.75%-15% 3.75%-15% 15% 15% Non-financial targets 30% 40% 30% 40% 0%-45% 0%-60% 45% 60% 142.89 144.08 % salary % salary Total 100% 100% 785,000 605,000 www.
com 79 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued LTIP awards Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards granted under the LTIP in 2011 are scheduled to vest in 2014.
The performance period relating to these Awards ended on 31 December 2013.
Details of the performance conditions and the extent to which they have been satisfied are set out below: Performance Shares LTIP value achievable Threshold Maximum for meeting threshold and Actual LTIP value Performance performance performance Actual maximum performance achieved condition Weighting required required performance % salary % salary Dean Finch Jez Maiden Dean Finch Jez Maiden Below median of Median of 20th percentile of comparator 1 TSR 50% comparator group comparator group group 15%-50% 15%-50% 0% 0% EPS 50% 2013 EPS of 26.1p 2013 EPS of 29.3p 21.5p 15%-50% 15%-50% 0% 0% 0% salary 0% salary Total 100% 30%-100% 30%-100% nil nil Matching Shares LTIP value achievable Threshold Maximum for meeting threshold and Actual LTIP value Performance performance performance Actual maximum performance achieved condition Weighting required required performance % salary % salary Dean Finch Jez Maiden Dean Finch Jez Maiden Below median of Median of 20th percentile of comparator 1 TSR 50% comparator group comparator group group 18%-60% 18%-60% 0% 0% EPS 50% 2013 EPS of 26.1p 2013 EPS of 29.3p 21.5p 18%-60% 18%-60% 0% 0% 0% salary 0% salary Total 100% 36%-120% 36%-120% nil nil 1 TSR was measured against a bespoke comparator group of transport companies taken predominantly from the FTSE Industrial Transportation and FTSE Travel & Leisure sectors.
Long term incentives awarded in 2013 The tables below set out the details of any long-term incentive award granted in the 2013 financial year where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods.
Dean Finch Face value of Percentage of award 1 Basis on which award vesting at threshold Performance Performance Grant date Award type award made, 000 performance period end date conditions LTIP Performance TSR & EPS 10.04.13 Shares 100% of salary 561 30% 31.12.15 equally weighted LTIP Matching TSR & EPS 10.04.13 Shares 120% of salary 673 30% 31.12.15 equally weighted Chief Executives TSR & EPS 23.05.13 five year Award 100% of salary 541 30% 31.12.17 equally weighted 80 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Jez Maiden Face value of Percentage of award 1 Basis on which award vesting at threshold Performance Performance Grant date Award type award made, 000 performance period end date conditions LTIP Performance TSR & EPS 10.04.13 Shares 100% of salary 428 30% 31.12.15 equally weighted LTIP Matching TSR & EPS 10.04.13 Shares 120% of salary 514 30% 31.12.15 equally weighted 1 The face value in the tables above has been calculated by multiplying the maximum number of shares that could vest by the closing share price at the date of grant.
Performance conditions for LTIP Awards granted in 2013 Part A of the Award EPS Conditions EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2015 Percentage of part A of the Award that vests Less than 22.1 pence 0% 22.1 pence 30% 24.7 pence or above 100% Between 22.1 pence and 24.7 pence 30%-100% pro rata Part B of the Award TSR Conditions Rank of the Companys TSR Percentage of part B of the Award that vests Below median 0% Median 30% 20th percentile 100% Between median and 20th percentile 30%-100% pro rata Performance conditions for the Chief Executives five year Award Part A of the Award EPS Conditions relating to one half of the Award EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 Percentage of part A of the Award that vests Less than 23.4 pence 0% 23.4 pence 30% 28.3 pence or above 100% Between 23.4 pence and 28.3 pence 30%-100% pro rata Part B of the Award TSR Conditions relating to one half of the Award Rank of the Companys TSR Percentage of part B of the Award that vests Below median 0% Median 30% 20th percentile 100% Between median and 20th percentile 30%-100% pro rata www.
com 81 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Indicative percentage of LTIP awards vesting based on performance to 31 December 2013 The table below sets out the percentage of each extant award that would have vested if the performance conditions had been tested at 31 December 2013 without making any allowance for pro rata reduction for any period of less than three years.
TSR element EPS element Total Year of Award max 50% max 50% max 100% 2012 Performance Shares and Matching Shares 0% 0% 0% 2012 Chief Executives five year award 0% 0% 0% 2013 Performance Shares and Matching Shares 19.5% 0% 19.5% 2013 Chief Executives five year award 19.5% 0% 19.5% Pension entitlements and cash allowances Under the terms of their service agreements, Executive Directors are not entitled to become members of one of the Group pension schemes.
The Group Chief Executive receives a 35% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
In addition, the Group Chief Executive is entitled, under an unfunded pension arrangement, to a pension based on the value of notional contributions of 25% of his salary, plus a 5% per annum notional return.
The Group Finance Director receives a 25% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
CEOs pay in last five financial years The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive over the last five years, valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2 Chief Executive R Bowker D Finch D Finch D Finch D Finch Total remuneration 000 465 1,356 1,454 1,701 1,553 Annual bonus payment % maximum opportunity 0% 100% 100% 78% 95% 1 LTIP vesting level achieved % maximum opportunity n a n a n a 32.5% 0% 1 The incumbent Chief Executive during each of 2009, 2010 and 2011 did not have entitlement to any LTIP awards with attaching performance conditions whose final year of performance ended during that year.
2 R Bowker resigned as Chief Executive on 10 July 2009.
The National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus Plan Executive Deferred Bonus Plan Deferred bonuses awarded in 2013 based on performance to 31 December 2012 will vest on 28 February 2014 as set out in the table below.
During year As at At Market 1 January 31 December price at date Date of Date of 2013 Granted Vested Lapsed 2013 of vesting grant vesting Dean Finch 2012 75,417 75,417 0 218.5p 02.03.12 02.03.13 2013 79,523 79,523 28.02.13 28.02.14 Jez Maiden 2012 51,832 51,832 0 218.5p 02.03.12 02.03.13 2013 62,981 62,981 28.02.13 28.02.14 The market price per share on the date of award was calculated on the basis of the average market price share in the five days preceding the date of the grant.
Deferred shares will be required to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary to restate materially the Companys 2012 and 2013 results within a two-year period following the award of the bonus.
The proportion of the bonus subject to these provisions would depend on the extent to which the original bonus turned out to be false following the publication of corrected results.
82 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director serving during 2013.
The table includes only those columns in respect of elements of remuneration received by Non-Executive Directors.
2013 fees 2012 fees 000 Total 000 Total Notes Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2013 and as Chairman Sir John Armitt 225 225 on 1 February 2013 Joaqun Ayuso 49 49 49 49 Jorge Cosmen 45 45 45 45 Resigned as Chairman on John Devaney 19 19 225 225 31 January 2013 Sir Andrew Foster 55 55 51 51 Jackie Hunt 45 45 13 13 Chris Muntwyler 59 59 59 59 Lee Sander 73 73 69 69 Tim Score 60 60 60 60 In addition, a travel allowance of 4,000 is payable to Joaqun Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander for attendance at Board meetings held outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident.
In line with the decision not to increase the basic salaries of the Executive Directors in 2013, it was agreed that there would be no increase in the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors in 2013.
The fees payable to the Chairman also did not increase.
Payments to past Directors No payments were made to past Directors during the period.
Payments for loss of office All loss of office payments to any person who has served as a Director of the Group will be disclosed in this report.
No such payments were made in 2013.
Statement of Directors shareholding Directors shareholdings Executive Directors interests and share ownership guidelines In order to align the interests of the Directors more closely with the shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the Executive Directors are expected to build up a share fund as set out in the share ownership guidelines as described on page 75 of the Policy.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Executive Directors in office and their connected persons as at 31 December 2013 and the details of long term incentive interests are shown below: Other Shares held directly shares held EDBP interests LTIP interests Shareholding Current shareholding not subject to subject to Shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2013 Beneficially performance performance requirement 1 % salary % salary owned conditions conditions met?
Executive Directors Dean Finch 100% 166% 252,527 79,523 2,155,379 Yes Jez Maiden 100% 152% 168,919 62,981 1,249,310 Yes 1 The share price of 275.2p as at 31 December 2013 has been taken for the purpose of calculating the current shareholding as a percentage of salary.
Please see the appendices on page 87 for more information on LTIP awards.
com 83 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors shareholdings 200 180 Non-Executive Director interests 160 Non-Executive Directors are not subject to 140 a shareholding requirement.
Details of their 120 interests in shares and those of their connected 100 80 persons as at 31 December 2013, all of which 60 are held outright with no attaching performance 40 conditions are shown below: 20 0 At 31 December 2013 -20 -40 Sir John Armitt 6,000 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Joaqun Ayuso 0 1 Jorge Cosmen 88,860,685 National Express FTSE 250 National Express Group FTSE 250 Group Annual return Annual return cumulative return cumulative return Sir Andrew Foster 22,893 80 Jackie Hunt 5,000 Chris Muntwyler 0 60 Lee Sander 0 40 Tim Score 0 20 1 Jorge Cosmens holding includes shares held by European Express Enterprises Ltd which are shown on page 89 in the list of major shareholdings in the Company.
0 The Register of Directors interests maintained -20 by the Company contains full details of the Directors holdings of shares and options Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 over shares in the Company.
The mid-market price of the Companys ordinary shares at National Express Index Index National Express Group Group Annual return Annual return cumulative return cumulative return 31December 2013 was 275 pence 2012: 204pence and the range during the year ended 31December 2013 was 191 pence The second graph shows a comparison of to 276 pence.
National Express Group PLCs cumulative return Changes since year end and annual return since the commencement There have been no changes in the of the turnaround of the business from shareholdings of the Directors between 31December 2009 against that achieved by 31December 2013 and the date of signing a bespoke index of First Group, Stagecoach of this Annual Report.
Comparison of overall performance The Group has executed a strong turnaround The first graph shows a comparison of National with a new management team following a Express Group PLCs five-year total cumulative period of intense instability in 2008 and 2009, shareholder return against that achieved by the which involved a rights issue, debt restructuring FTSE 250 Index.
This index has been selected and the handback of the East Coast main line.
because the Company is a constituent of this Despite market concerns in 2011 and 2012 index and the Committee, therefore, feels that regarding the Groups macro exposure to this is the most appropriate index with which to Spain, underlying performance, measured by represent the Companys relative performance.
non-rail revenues, earnings and return on capital have all improved since then.
84 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Shareholder return over period Dec 2008 0 Shareholder return over period Dec 2009 0 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Group Chief Executive pay increases compared with total remuneration for UK employees The following table sets out the change in certain elements of the remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive from 2012 to 2013 compared with the average percentage change for the UK employee population.
The Group uses the UK workforce who receive taxable benefits and bonus as an appropriate comparator group as this avoids complicated exchange rate adjustments that would have to be used if we included employees in the Groups overseas operations in the calculation.
The Group Chief Executives remuneration disclosed in the table below has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus including any amount deferred on the basis used for determining the single figure.
The UK employee remuneration is based on the base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus of those UK employees that received taxable benefits and bonuses.
Average percentage increase from 2012 to 2013 Performance Base salary Taxable benefits related bonus Group Chief Executive 0% 0% 21.97% 1 UK employee remuneration 2.63% 12.37% 13.77% 1 The 2013 increase in taxable benefits was driven by an increase in healthcare premium.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below sets out the total spend on pay in the 2013 financial year and 2012 financial year compared with distributions to shareholders: 2013 2012 % increase from m m 2012 to 2013 Overall Group spend on pay including Directors 855.8 788.1 8.6% Profit distributed by way of dividend 50.3 49.3 2.0% Profit distributed by way of share buyback Statement of voting at 2013 AGM At the AGM held on 9 May 2013, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were as follows: For Against Number % of proxy Number %of proxy Total % of issued share Votes Resolution text of votes votes cast of votes votes cast votes cast capital voted withheld 2.
T o approve amendments to the rules of the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan 299,426,247 73.78 106,436,183 26.22 405,862,430 79.31 187,907 1 The total voting rights in the Company as at the date of the meeting were 511,738,648 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, each carrying one vote on a poll.
2 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolutions.
The Committee was pleased that the majority of shareholders voted in 2013 in favour of the 2012 Remuneration Report whilst remaining sensitive to those who voted against.
We had made some major structural reforms to our pay and benefits package for our Group Chief Executive in 2012 and these reflected serious concerns about our ability to retain him over the long term.
We engaged with our major shareholders who backed these improvements and the reasons for making them.
In view of the votes at the 2013 AGM, however, Directors have continued to engage with shareholders during 2013 14 and have made themselves available to those shareholders who wished to raise issues of pay and benefits.
These discussions have been advantageous and helpful to the Remuneration Committee and no changes are being proposed to the structure of remuneration for 2014. www.
com 85 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 Executive Directors base salaries After a pay freeze of two years, the Committee has decided that a modest 2% increase to base pay for Executive Directors is appropriate, effective from 1 January, 2014.
As of 1 January 2014, the current salaries for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are 561,000 and 428,000 respectively.
Performance related bonus The annual bonus for the 2014 financial year will operate on the same basis for the 2013 financial year and will be consistent with the policy detailed in the Remuneration policy section of this report in terms of the maximum bonus opportunity and performance conditions.
The targets themselves, as they relate to the 2014 financial year, are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in next years remuneration report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Long term incentives Long term incentive awards granted in the 2014 financial year will be granted in accordance with the policy detailed in the remuneration policy section of this report.
Non-Executive Directors fees With effect from 1 January 2014, it was agreed that the fees for the Non-Executive Directors would increase to 47,000 but there would be no increase in the fees payable to the Chairman.
The current fees for the Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2014 are as follows: Role Fees 000 Non-Executive Director 47 Chairman 225 Senior Independent Director 5 Chairman of Board Committee 10 In addition, a travel allowance 4,000 is payable to Joaqun Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander for attendance at Board meetings held outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident.
2 The TSR performance conditions applicable to the 2011 and 2012 awards are the same as for the 2013 awards and the relevant maximum and minimum EPS figures are 29.3 pence and 26.1 pence and 26.4 pence and 23.7 pence respectively.
3 The aggregate gain on the shares which were exercised in 2013 was 516,000.
Group Chief Executives five year Retention Award During year At Market price Market price Date from LTIP Share At 1 January 31 December on date of at date of Date of which Awards 2013 Granted Exercised Expired 2013 award exercise award exercisable Expiry date Performance Dean Finch Shares 261,407 261,407 210.4p 03.08.12 03.08.17 03.08.18 Performance Shares 257,973 257,973 210.0p 23.05.13 23.05.18 23.05.19 1 Details of the performance conditions applicable to the 2013 award are shown on page 81 2 T he TSR performance conditions applicable to the 2012 award is the same as for the 2013 award and the relevant maximum and minimum EPS figures are 28 pence and 25 pence respectively.
By order of the Board Sir Andrew Foster Remuneration Committee Chair 27 February 2014 www.
