Directors Remuneration Report 2013 Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present to you our Directors Remuneration Report for the 2013 financial year.
As shareholders may be aware, listed companies are now required to provide more detailed disclosures in relation to Directors remuneration and present such information in a different format.
There is a requirement to set out not only the remuneration which Directors have received during the financial year under review, but also the Remuneration Policy which the Remuneration Committee the Committee will be applying in relation to future financial years.
This has resulted in a change in format for the Directors Remuneration Report this year which I hope shareholders will find provides clarity and transparency in the way that our senior team is remunerated.
Changes in Remuneration Policy The new disclosure requirements are very timely in relation to the work undertaken by the Committee in 2013 in relation to the implementation of the Groups remuneration policies applicable for Executive Directors and Senior Management of NMC executives.
In the main body of this report, the Committee sets out its remuneration policy for executives, including the incentive plans which have been implemented to ensure that executives are aligned with the interests of shareholders in seeking to improve performance and enhance shareholder value.
The principal changes which the Committee have discussed and agreed in relation to executive remuneration, and which are set out in the Remuneration Policy Report, are: The implementation of a short term incentive plan STIP for the Executive Directors and other senior management for 2013.
The grant of awards under the long term incentive plan LTIP to Executive Directors and other senior management.
The rules of the LTIP were approved as part of the Companys IPO in 2012.
The Committee intends to make awards under this plan for this first time in 2014.
Further details of the STIP and LTIP are provided in the main part of the report.
Rewarding good performance The introduction of short and long-term incentives into the executive remuneration structure reflects our remuneration philosophy which is to provide competitive remuneration packages which reward strong performance in line with the Company's strategic objectives.
The use of performance based incentives, part of which is delivered in shares, seeks to align the interests of management with those of our shareholders and reflects market practice in the listed environment in which we now operate.
Alignment of base pay No base pay increases were awarded to any of the Executive Directors during the 2013 financial year.
The base pay of members of the senior management team was increased in May 2013 following a benchmarking exercise undertaken by the Committee during the year in conjunction with our remuneration consultants, Deloitte LLP.
Whilst the percentage increases awarded were above the levels awarded more widely across the NMC group, this reflected several years of pay freeze at senior management level and a reflection of the increased responsibilities and complexity of roles undertaken by the senior management team following the Companys IPO.
74 Consultation with shareholders In addition to consulting our principal shareholders on the implementation of the new executive remuneration structure, I also met or spoke with several of our external shareholders to discuss the Committees new arrangements with them.
I thank them for their positive support and contribution.
Our first Directors Remuneration Report last year received a 99.99% vote in favour and 0.01% voting against for those votes validly cast, which were from 92.36% of the Companys issued share capital: votes were withheld on the resolution from shareholders holding 2,275,476 Ordinary shares of the Company 1.23%.
The Committee were delighted with both the level of shareholder voting on the report and the significant level of support from shareholders for our remuneration arrangements.
The Committee sincerely hopes to receive your support for our new incentive arrangements at the AGM being held on 26 June 2014.
Finally, I would like to express my appreciation for the input of my fellow Remuneration Committee members during the year for their support and work to implement our new remuneration structure.
Lord Clanwilliam Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 75 Introduction This remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2013 complies with the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Listing Rules.
This report is drafted in two sections: The Directors' remuneration policy section will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
This section contains details of the remuneration policy that will apply from the 2014 AGM subject to obtaining shareholder approval.
The Directors annual remuneration report.
This section sets out details of how our remuneration policy was implemented for the year ended 31 December 2013 and how we intend for the policy to apply for the year ended 31 December 2014.
This report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
76 Directors' Remuneration Policy Report The information contained in the Directors Remuneration Policy report is not subject to audit.
This section describes the future remuneration policy for our Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Director Remuneration policy table The table below summarises the remuneration package provided to our Executive Directors.
Remuneration Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures element remuneration strategy Base salary To attract and retain Salaries are reviewed annually, with While there is no maximum None, although an individual's management of the calibre changes generally taking effect from 1 salary level, ordinarily, salary performance in the role will be required to deliver the Group's June.
Salaries may be reviewed at increases will be in line with considered when reviewing base salary strategy without paying more different intervals if the Committee increases awarded to other levels.
considers that this is appropriate.
To reward executives for the When setting base salaries, consideration However increases may be performance of their role.
is given to the following: made above this level at the Committee's discretion to take Remuneration levels at companies of account of individual a similar size and complexity in the circumstances, such as: FTSE, other UAE companies of a similar size and other international An increase in scope healthcare companies.
re s p o n s ib i liti e s. Salary increases elsewhere in the To reflect the individual's Group.
development in the role e. g. for a new appointment Business and individual performance.
where the salary may be increased over time rather The experience of the individual.
than set directly at the level The external economic climate and of the previous incumbent market conditions.
The Committee has also taken into account the tax treatment of salaries for UAE based management in setting base salary levels.
77 Remuneration Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures element remuneration strategy Benefits To provide benefits that are Benefits are set at a level which the The cost of benefit provision will None.
competitive relative to the Committee considers is appropriate taking depend on the cost to the employee's local market.
into account: Company of providing individual items and the individuals Local market practice.
circumstances and therefore Practice at companies of a similar there is no maximum value.
size and complexity, other UAE companies and other international healthcare companies.
The role and the individual's circumstances.
The Group provides a range of benefits which reflect typical benefits offered in the UAE including: Employee family accommodation.
Private Medical Insurance including family cover.
Life and Permanent Health Insurance cover.
Company provided transport facility including free air travel up to three times a year.
Annual family return flight to home country.
Reimbursement of reasonable personal accommodation and travel costs.
In the event that an Executive is required to relocate to undertake their role, the Committee may provide an additional reasonable level of benefits to reflect the relevant circumstances on a one off or on-going basis.
Other benefits may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
78 Remuneration Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures element remuneration strategy Retirement To provide a market competitive At the Committee's discretion, executives Whilst the Committee has not None.
may be eligible to participate in a local set an absolute maximum pension arrangement or receive a cash opportunity, the Committee will allowance or a combination of cash determine the level of benefit allowance and pension contribution.
based on what is appropriate taking into account: Local market practice, The Company currently does not operate Practice at companies of a similar size and complexity, any pension arrangements, but an end of service benefit, payable to the employee other UAE companies and when he leaves the Group, is accrued other international healthcare companies annually in accordance with local UAE laws.
The Committee retains discretion to The role and the operate pension arrangements in the individual's circumstances.
"future Short Term To provide a structure to attract, Bonus measures and performance targets The maximum bonus Performance is based on a mix of key Incentive Plan retain and motivate senior are set annually dependent on the opportunity is 100% of base financial, operational strategic metrics ""Bonus Plan"" executives of the calibre deemed strategic priorities for that year."
and individual KPIs measured over one required to manage the financial year.
Performance is determined by the Up to 50% of the award pays Committee after the year-end based on out for target performance.
At least 50% of the bonus is based on To align the interests of senior performance against targets.
Payout against the executives with those of operational strategic measures and shareholders by linking a The Remuneration Committee has the individual KPIs is subject to a gateway significant proportion of the discretion to amend the bonus pay-out hurdle in relation to the level of EBITDA potential remuneration to should the formulaic output not produce a achieved.
performance and delivery of result which in the view of the Committee strategic objectives.
fairly reflects overall performance or The measures that will apply for the individual contribution.
financial year 2014 are described in the To provide a bonus Directors' annual remuneration report.
arrangement which is clearly Any annual bonus achieved for a financial structured and transparent for year is normally paid 50% in cash and senior executives and 50% is deferred into Company shares shareholders which vest three years from award subject to continued employment.
There are no further performance conditions or other conditions which will apply to any deferred shares awarded with the exception of continued employment.
79 Remuneration Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures element remuneration strategy The Committee shall have the discretion to determine that a different balance of cash and shares applies.
Deferred awards may receive an amount paid in cash or shares, although it is intended that such amount will be paid in shares equal to the dividends paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number of shares vested.
This amount may be calculated assuming the reinvestment of these dividends into shares.
Payment of the cash element of any bonus is generally made shortly after the announcement of audited results for that year.
Awards may be reduced, cancelled or have further conditions applied in certain circumstances, these include but are not limited to mis-statement of financial results, a material failure of risk management or serious reputational damage to the Company.
The Committee may adjust or amend the terms of the deferred bonus awards in accordance with the plan rules.
Long Term To incentivise long-term value Awards vest based on performance Maximum award is 150% of The Committee shall determine Incentive Plan creation and exceptional measured over a three year period.
"In exceptional appropriate performance measures and ""LTIP"" business performance through Committee may determine that a longer circumstances the Committee their weightings for LTIP awards to be the achievement of stretching performance period may apply."
may grant awards of up to granted.
Such measures would Group financial targets.
normally be financial or linked to share Executives may receive an amount paid price performance and would be aligned in cash or shares equal to the dividends It is currently intended that LTIP with the long-term strategy of the paid or payable between the date of grant awards will be limited to 100% business.
and the vesting of the award on the of base salary but the number of shares vested.
This amount Committee retains discretion to The Committee has not yet determined 80 Remuneration Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures element remuneration strategy may be calculated assuming the grant awards up to the plan limit the specific performance measures for reinvestment of these dividends into if it considers that this is LTIP awards to be granted in 2014.
anticipated however that the principle measures used will be Earnings per Up to 25% of the award pays Share and Total Shareholder Return Awards may be made in the form of out for target performance.
conditional share awards, forfeitable shares, nil-cost options or a right to a Awards vest on a straight-line The performance measures and targets cash payment.
basis between target and that will apply for each financial year maximum performance.
and will be described in the Directors' Awards in the form of options may be annual remuneration report.
th exercised until the 10 anniversary of the date of grant.
Awards are subject to malus provisions.
Awards may be reduced, cancelled or have further conditions applied in certain circumstances, these include but are not limited to mis-statement of results, a material failure of risk management or serious reputational damage to the Company.
The Committee may adjust the term of awards in accordance with the plan rules.
Share option It is intended that awards would only To incentivise executive Maximum award is 150% of In the event that an award was to be plan SOP directors to increase the share be made under this plan in exceptional base salary.
In exceptional granted under this plan in exceptional price and deliver value for circumstances.
circumstances the Committee circumstances the Committee would shareholders.
may grant awards of up to determine appropriate performance Awards are granted in the form of market 200% of base salary.
Awards vest based on performance measured over a three year period.
Options may be exercised until the th 10 anniversary of the date of grant.
Executives may receive an amount paid in cash or shares equal to the dividends paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number of shares vested.
This amount may be calculated assuming the 81 Remuneration Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures element remuneration strategy reinvestment of these dividends into shares.
82 The Company also operates a shareholding guideline for Executive Directors and Senior Management details of this policy can be found on page 93 of the Annual Remuneration Report.
Committee discretion The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes but is not limited to the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
For share awards, in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or a demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other event the number of shares subject to an award and or any performance condition attached to awards, may be adjusted.
The Committee may amend any performance conditions applicable to the LTIP or SOP awards if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider an amended performance condition would be more appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy.
The Committee retains the discretion to make any payment which is not explicitly provided in this policy which is it obliged to make under UAE or relevant local laws.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Selection of performance measures The performance measures for the STIP have been selected, and for the LTIP will be selected, to support the delivery of short and long term performance of the business and shareholder value creation.
Targets are set each year based on stretching internal budgets as well as those financial and operational areas which the Committee feel are key to business performance: achieving or exceeding these targets will both return value to shareholders and reward the executive team for delivery.
The performance measures selected by the Committee may change from time to time to reflect any shift in Group Strategy, for example from a growth strategy to a consolidation strategy.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group Remuneration philosophy is the same throughout NMC that individuals should be remunerated based on their role, responsibilities, experiences and local market practice.
NMC has a variety of different roles from senior executives, to doctors to administrators and therefore remuneration levels and structures vary to reflect the different requirements and expectations of these roles.
The Committee does consider that it is important, however, that senior executives are all remunerated in a similar way to ensure that they are incentivised to collectively deliver the Groups strategy and create value for shareholders.
Executive Directors and senior managers will therefore all participate in the annual bonus plan and LTIP on principally the same basis for 2014.
The Committee has retained the existing benefits structure which applied to UAE based Executive Directors and Senior Management before the Companys IPO in April 2012.
A similar benefit structure is operated throughout the organisation.
The benefits included reflect the expatriate nature of senior management in the UAE and are similar in nature to the types of benefits which are 83 available to other expatriate employees in the Group.
The benefits include private medical insurance, which is mandatory for employees in Abu Dhabi, where the Group is based.
Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios The Committee has set a remuneration structure which ensures that a high proportion of the potential total reward available for Executive Directors and senior management is related to the performance of the Company.
To demonstrate this three scenarios have been illustrated below for each Executive Director.
These are based on STIP and LTIP awards of 75% of base salary.
Fixed pay Minimum No STIP pay out No vesting under the LTIP Fixed pay Mid performance 50% of maximum STIP opportunity 25% of LTIP shares vest at threshold performance.
Fixed pay Maximum performance 75% of STIP pays out.
LongFixed Annual Total Salary Benefits Pension term Pay Bonus compensation incentive Maximum performance 245,000 245,000 0 0 183,750 183,750 612,500 Mid performance 245,000 245,000 0 0 122,500 61,250 428,750 Minimum 245,000 245,000 0 0 0 0 245,000 CEO Dr BR Shetty Executive vice chairman Mr Khalifa Bin Butti 84 Fixed pay is comprised of the following: Salary Benefits Pension Total Fixed Salary with effect Paid in 2013 Pay from 1 January 2014 CEO Dr BR $408,400 $149,300 $0 $557,700 Shetty Executive vice chairman Mr $245,000 $0 $0 $245,000 Khalifa Bin Butti The scenarios illustrated above do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends.
Remuneration policy on recruitment When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed Executive Director, the Committee would seek to apply the following principles: The package should be market competitive to facilitate the recruitment of individuals of sufficient calibre to lead the business.
At the same time, the Committee would intend to pay no more than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent.
The structure of the on-going remuneration package would normally include the components set out in the policy table for Executive Directors.
In addition, the Committee has discretion to include any other remuneration component or award which it feels is appropriate taking into account the specific commercial circumstances, and subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out below.
The key terms and rationale for any such component would be appropriately disclosed.
Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay opportunities or contractual rights at a previous employer as a result of appointment, the Committee may offer compensatory payments or awards, in such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors including the form of awards, expected value and vesting timeframe of forfeited opportunities.
When determining such buy-out the guiding principle would be that awards would generally be on a like for like basis to those forfeited, unless this was not considered appropriate in the particular circumstances, and that the buy-out package would be an appropriate reflection of the value forfeited.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded excluding any compensatory payments or awards referred to above is 200% of salary.
Where an Executive Director is required to re-locate to take-up their role the Committee may provide reasonable assistance with re-location either via one-off or on-going payments or benefits.
In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to the Board legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
85 To facilitate awards outlined above, the Committee may make awards under company incentive plans or other available structures as appropriate, including using listing rule 9.4.
2 for the purpose of making buy-out awards.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed non-executive director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the policy table for Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration for new hires may be paid in the form of cash or shares.
Executive Director service contracts Date of service agreement Dr B R Shetty 19 March 2012 Mr Khalifa Bin Butti 19 March 2012 Dr B R Shetty is employed by NMC Healthcare LLC pursuant to a service agreement dated 19 March 2012.
The service agreement provides for an indefinite term of employment unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of the service agreement.
The service agreement may be terminated on twelve months prior written notice given by either Dr B R Shetty or NMC Healthcare LLC.
Mr Khalifa Bin Butti is employed by NMC Healthcare LLC pursuant to a service agreement dated 19 March 2012.
The service agreement may be terminated on twelve months prior written notice given by either Mr Khalifa Bin Butti or NMC Healthcare LLC.
Copies of the above Service Agreements are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys Registered Office, and are available for inspection at the Companys annual general meeting.
For future executives the Committee policy is that notice periods will not exceed 12 months.
There are no matters for which the Company requires approval of shareholders for the purposes of Chapter 4A of Part 10 of the Companies Act 2006.
Loss of office payments Element of Policy - Ill-health, injury, disability, death, Policy - Other leavers remuneration sale of employing company or business from the Group, any other reason at the Committee's discretion Base salary and On termination without notice, Executive Directors may be entitled to compensation based benefits on what would be earned by way of salary and other contractual benefits including retirement retirement benefits over the notice period.
benefits STIP There is no automatic entitlement to an annual In certain circumstances, the Committee bonus.
may determine that a bonus payment may be due to reflect performance and Executive Directors may receive a bonus in contribution to the point of cessation.
respect of the financial year of cessation.
This payment will normally be pro-rated for time and subject to performance, however the Committee retains the discretion to review overall business and individual performance and determine that a different level of bonus payment is appropriate.
Deferred bonus Awards would normally continue to vest at the Awards would normally lapse.
plan end of the normal deferral period.
The Committee may determine, in appropriate [Plan terms to be circumstances, that awards should vest at determined] cessation of employment.
86 Long-term Awards may vest at a level determined by the Awards will lapse.
incentive plan Committee taking into account the extent to LTIP which the performance conditions have been met and the time elapsed since grant, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Awards will normally carry on to the normal vesting date except in the case of death where awards may vest immediately.
The Committee may determine that awards should vest at cessation of employment.
Awards in the form of nil cost options may be exercised for a period of 6 months from vesting 12 months in the cases of death.
Participants have 6 months from cessation to exercise vested awards 12 months in the case of death.
The Committee may allow alternative exercise windows if it considers it appropriate.
Share option Options may vest at a level determined by the Unvested awards will lapse.
plan SOP Committee taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been Vested options may be exercised for 6 met and the time elapsed since grant, unless the months from the date of cessation.
Options vesting will normally carry on to the normal vesting date except in the case of death where awards may vest immediately.
Options may be exercised for a period of 6 months from vesting 12 months in the case of death.
Change of control On a change of control, awards under the LTIP and SOP would normally vest to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied at the date of the event.
Any early vesting would generally be on a time pro-rata basis.
The Committee may vary the level of vesting, if it believes that exceptional circumstances warrant this, taking into account any other factors it believes to be relevant in deciding to what extent an award will vest.
The Executive Directors may exchange their awards over Company shares for awards in shares of the acquiring company if the terms of the offer allow this.
Deferred bonus shares will normally vest in full upon a change of control.
In the event of a winding-up of the Company, demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which in the opinion of the Committee may affect the current or future share price, the Committee may allow LTIP, SOP and deferred bonus awards to vest on the same basis as set out above.
87 Non-Executive Director Remuneration policy table Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity to remuneration strategy To provide an The remuneration of Non-Executive The maximum level of Nonappropriate reward Directors is approved by the Executive Director remuneration is to attract and Executive Directors following set out in the Companys articles of retain high-calibre recommendations and discussions association.
This may be amended individuals.
with the Chairman of the Company from time to time subject to and the Chairman of the shareholder approval.
Fees are set at a level which reflect Fees are structured as follows: the commitment and contribution that is expected from the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and The Chairman is paid a single, Chairman that are appropriately positioned consolidated fee.
and Nonagainst comparable roles in The Non-Executive Directors Executive companies of a similar size and are paid a basic fee, plus complexity.
Director additional fees for the Senior fees Independent Director.
Fee levels are disclosed in the Directors' remuneration report for Fees are paid in cash with local the relevant financial year.
Additional fees may be payable to Non-Executive Directors are also Non-Executive Directors from time reimbursed for travel and to time for additional board reasonable personal expenses.
responsibilities e. g. Committee Chairmanship.
Additional fees Non-Executive Directors do not may also be paid where the time currently receive any benefits.
commitment in a particular year However, benefits may be provided was significantly more than in the future if this was considered anticipated.
Terms and conditions for Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company, but instead all have letters of appointment.
The appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors is stated for an initial term until the next annual general meeting of the Company at which, and at subsequent annual general meetings, they need to submit themselves for re-election if they so wish.
Each of the NonExecutive Directors have a minimum time commitment that they need to give to the Company in any year.
The letters of appointment for each Non-Executive Director are summarised below: Director Position Date of Company and appointment Director notice period Mr H. J.
Mark Non-Executive Chairman 7 March 2012 3 months Tompkins H. E. Saeed Bin Butti Non-Executive Director 20 July 2011 3 months Lord Clanwilliam Non-Executive Director 7 March 2012 3 months Mrs Heather Non-Executive Director 19 March 2012 3 months Lawrence Mr Jonathan Senior Independent Director 27 June 2013 3 months Bomford There is no compensation payable upon the early termination of a Non-Executive Directors appointment.
88 Copies of the above Executive Directors Service Agreements and Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys Registered Office, and available for inspection at the Companys annual general meeting.
Shareholder views and consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Communication with our Shareholders - The Committee maintains an open dialogue with our shareholders and seeks their views when any significant changes are made to remuneration arrangements.
The Committee met or spoke with several of our external shareholders to discuss the Committees new arrangements this year.
Consideration of pay and conditions of employees - The Committee considers pay information in relation to doctor and support staff when determining executive pay, to ensure that pay structures are appropriately aligned.
The Committee did not consult with employees when setting executive director pay.
89 Annual Remuneration Report Some of the information contained in the Annual Remuneration Report is subject to audit.
Where the information is subject to audit this is identified in the relevant heading.
How executive remuneration policy will be applied in 2014 Base salaries for 2014 Executive Directors base salaries are as follows: CEO Dr BR Shetty $408,400 Executive Chairman Mr Khalifa Bin Butti $245,000 No salary increases have been awarded from 2013 salaries although a review is scheduled for June 2014.
Operation of the annual bonus plan for 2014 The operation of the annual bonus for 2014 will be consistent with the policy detailed in the remuneration policy section.
The maximum award level will be 100% of base salary.
The performance targets that will apply for the annual bonus for 2014 have yet to be considered and determined by the Committee.
However the committees current view is that the performance measures will include a gateway hurdle in relation to the level of EBITDA achieved.
Operation of the LTIP for 2014 The operation of the LTIP for 2014 will be consistent with the policy detailed in the remuneration policy section.
The performance targets that will apply to the awards have yet to be finalised and determined by the Committee.
However, the Committees current view is that the performance measures will likely be based principally on Earnings Per Share and Total Shareholder Return metrics over a three year period.
90 Remuneration paid in 2013 single pay figure subject to audit The table below sets out the remuneration paid to or received by the Executive Directors of the Company during the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
Salary Benefits STIP LTIP awards Pension Total Executive $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Director 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Dr B R 408.4 408.4 149.3 142.2 229.7 0 0 0 0 0 787.4 550.6 Shetty Mr Khalifa 245.0 245.0 0 0 137.8 0 0 0 0 0 382.8 245.0 Bin Butti Benefits subject to audit Taxable benefits include the following items: Provision of family Annual family return flights to home Private medical insurance Life insurance cover accommodation country Executive $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Director 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Dr B R Shetty 145.9 138.9 0.9 0.9 0.0 0.0 2.5 2.5 Bonus subject to audit A bonus of 56.3% of base salary, out of a potential maximum entitlement of 75% of base salary set for the 2013 financial year, was paid in respect of that year to the CEO and Executive Vice Chairman.
The bonus was based on the following performance measures: Measure Percentage Performance Outcome Weighting EBITDA 50% EBITDA performance for the year was US$92.9m 50% representing a growth of 16.7% on 2012.
This strong performance exceeded the relevant EBITDA targets set by the Committee and therefore this portion of the bonus paid out in full.
91 Progress on capital development 12.5% The Committee considered that sufficient progress on 0% projects capital development projects was not achieved, with a number of the projects being significantly delayed.
Performance against clinical care 25.0% Maximum performance was achieved in relation to the 25% KPIs 4-5 KPIs monitored by each of the Groups Specialty Hospitals under the terms of their JCI accreditation.
JCI accreditation sets standards that all monitored KPIs must be achieved to the extent of 90% over the course of the review period.
Group performance was well in excess of this target.
Doctor recruitment targets 12.5% The targets set for the recruitment of new Doctors to 0% the Group was not met in 2013 as a result of a number of expected new facility openings not being achieved.
Half of the bonus paid to the Executive Directors is deferred into shares, for which additional performance conditions or other conditions, with exception of continued employment, do not apply.
There was no bonus plan in operation for 2012.
Long-term incentive plans subject to audit There were no long-term incentive plan awards which were due to vest in respect of performance in 2012 and 2013.
Pension subject to audit There were no pension contributions in 2012 or 2013.
92 Directors' shareholdings and share interests subject to audit The table below shows details of the Directors' holdings of Ordinary Shares in the Company as at 1 January 2013 and at 31 December 2013.
Ordinary shares of 10p each Director 1 January 2013 31 December or at date of 2013 appointment if later Mr H. J.
Mark Tompkins 17,083 17,083 H. E. Saeed Bin Butti 53,466,559 53,466,559 Mr Khalifa Bin Butti 19,059,842 19,059,842 Dr B. R. Shetty 37,742,409 37,742,409 Lord Clanwilliam 8,597 0 Mrs Heather Lawrence 0 4,557 Mr Jonathan Bomford 0 10,000 Note: In addition to the above holdings, H. E. Saeed Bin Butti and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti also have an interest over 14,072,024 Ordinary shares of the Company 14,072,024 Ordinary shares as at 1 January 2013 held by Infinite Investment LLC, a company which is owned jointly by H. E. Saeed Bin Butti and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti.
H. E. Saeed Bin Butti resigned as a Director of the company on 24 February 2014.
None of the Directors of the Company held any form of option over the shares of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2013.
None of the Directors received any loans, advances or other form of credit granted by the Company, nor were any guarantees of any kind provided by the Company on behalf of any Directors during the year ended 31 December 2013.
There have been no changes in the above shareholdings between 31 December 2013 and the date of this Directors Remuneration Report.
Executive directors are required to build a shareholding of 200% of base salary.
Both the CEO and the Executive Vice Chairman are significant shareholders in the Company and therefore meet this requirement.
Performance graph and historic CEO remuneration outcomes The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return performance of NMC Health plc shares against the FTSE 250.
93 Note: The performance graph shows the Total Shareholder Return performance of the Company from the date of the Companys IPO in April 2012.
The Committee believes that the FTSE 250 Index is an appropriate comparator index used to compare performance given that the Company is a constituent of this Index and the lack of direct competitor comparators available in the London market.
The table below summarises the CEO's single figure for total remuneration since listing.
This table is also required to show the annual bonus and long-term incentive vesting as a percentage of the maximum for each year, however, there was no bonus or LTIP vesting in any of the years under consideration.
CEO - Dr B R Shetty 2012 US$000 2013 US$000 Single remuneration figure 550.6 787.4 STIP payout % of maximum n a 75% LTI vesting % of maximum n a n a The Company did not operate the STIP in respect of 2012.
No awards have been granted to date under the LTIP.
Change in remuneration of CEO compared to Group employees The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the CEO and that of all employees: % Salary Benefits Annual bonus CEO 0% 5.0% Comparison not applicable as the Company did not operate the STIP in 2012 All-employees 11% 10% Relative importance of spend on pay The graph below shows the total group-wide remuneration expenditure and dividends for the last two years.
94 Voting The following summarises voting at the 2013 AGM in respect of the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report.
This was an advisory shareholder vote.
For Against Number of votes withheld 99.99% 0.01% 2,275,476 1.23% of share capital Non-Executive Directors Remuneration How remuneration policy will be applied for 2014 For 2014, the fees payable to the non-executive directors effective as at 1 January 2014 are as follows: 000 Chairman 170 Senior Independent Director 60 Non-executive director 50 Additional fees may be also payable to non-executive directors from time to time for additional board responsibilities this may include fees for additional time commitments.
No additional fees are payable in relation to the Chairmanship or membership of any Board Committees.
Details of the remuneration paid to each of the non-executive directors who served during the year are included in the table on page 95.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any bonus or incentive plan or other form or performancerelated remuneration.
The Company does not provide any contribution to their pension arrangements.
What remuneration was paid in 2013 single pay figure subject to audit The fee paid in cash to each Non-Executive Director during the year ended 31 December 2013 is set out in the following table: Director Position FY2013 FY2012 000 000 Mr H. J.
Mark Tompkins Independent Non- 224.5 138.9 see note 1 below Executive Chairman H. E. Saeed Bin Butti Non-Executive 50.0 37.5 Director Lord Clanwilliam Independent Non- 104.5 40.9 see note 1 below Executive Director Mrs Heather Lawrence Independent Non- 104.5 39.2 see note 1 below Executive Director Mr Jonathan Bomford Senior Independent 25.4 0.0 Non-Executive Director Mr Justin Jewitt Previously Senior 30.0 49.0 see note 2 below Independent NonExecutive Director Notes: 1.
Each of the independent non-executive directors is contracted for 16 days per annum with the exception of the Chairman who is contracted for 24 days per annum.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has spent more time than originally anticipated within the Letters of Appointment by which they were appointed.
This is because of time spent supporting the business in enhancing the Governance processes and improving the Groups internal control environment which the Board, including the Non-Executive Directors, retain oversight over.
As recognition for this, the Executive Directors agreed additional payments for each of the 2012 and 2013 financial years, both of which have been made in the 2013 financial year.
An additional payment of 30,000 was made to Mr Tompkins, Lord Clanwilliam and Mrs Lawrence in relation to the 2012 financial year and 24,465 in relation to the 2013 financial year.
Whilst these amounts are in relation to additional time spent over two financial years, they were both paid in the 2013 financial year and are therefore consolidated with the normal fees payable for 2013 in the table above.
In addition to the fees paid to Mr Justin Jewitt shown in the table above, an amount of 66,500 was paid to Mr Justin Jewitt after he ceased to be a director of the Company on 27 June 2013.
The letter of appointment for each of the non-executive directors includes a provision for 3 months notice being required on the termination of the appointment.
The additional payment made to Mr Jewitt was in recognition of time additional to his contractual requirement, defined in his letter of appointment as 16 days per annum, being provided by Mr Jewitt in the busy first year for the non-executive directors after the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Remuneration Committee Membership The Remuneration Committee consists of four Independent Non-Executive Directors, with an Independent Non-Executive Director holding the chairmanship of the Committee.
During the 2013 financial year, the following have served as members of the Committee: Chairman: Lord Clanwilliam Committee members: Jonathan Bomford from 27 June 2013 Justin Jewitt until 27 June 2013 Heather Lawrence H J Mark Tompkins Whilst they do not attend Remuneration Committee meetings, the Chairman of the Committee discussed proposed remuneration policies with the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice Chairman during their formulation.
It is worth noting that the shareholdings of the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice Chairman are large enough to form a majority veto on any remuneration proposals so their input and encouragement has been vital in the remuneration process.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee and provides advice to the Committee on Corporate Governance aspects relating to remuneration matters.
He also provides assistance to the Chairman of the Committee as required in discussions with the Remuneration Committee advisers and on implementation of Committee decisions.
The Group Company Secretary is not present when his own remuneration is discussed.
Role and responsibility The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in making recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework of executive remuneration, including the use of incentive arrangements within that framework: and determining on the Board's behalf the entire individual remuneration packages for each Executive Director, the Chairman and the senior management team.
All other recommendations must be referred to the Board for approval.
In setting remuneration for senior management, the Committee has considered market practice in the UAE and are aware of remuneration structures existing for employees who are below senior management level.
The Committee understands the need to incentivise executives appropriately, whilst ensuring that higher rewards are only achieved for exceptional performance.
No committee member is permitted to participate in any discussion or decision regarding his her own remuneration.
Neither of the Executive Directors attend meetings of the Committee.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter for consideration by the Chairman of the Company, assisted by the Remuneration Committee Chairman, and the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee terms of reference clearly set out its authority and duties and were approved by the Board prior to IPO.
The terms of reference are available on the Investor Relations section of the Groups website at www.
ae, or by contacting the Group Company Secretary.
Support and External Advice The Remuneration Committee seeks and considers advice from Deloitte LLP, independent remuneration advisers.
Deloitte provides no other advisory role to the Group.
Deloitte acted as advisors to the Company 96 in advance of the Companys IPO in April 2012, but were formally appointed by the Committee as advisors to the Committee later in 2012 specifically to provide the Committee with objective and independent advice on executive remuneration matters.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received from Deloitte during the year has been objective and independent.
The Chairman has direct access to Deloitte as and when required.
The Group Company Secretary liaises with Deloitte as required to ensure that all Committee requests and decisions are dealt with and implemented, but does so under the guidance of the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Deloitte attend meetings of the Committee as required.
During the year, Deloitte provided the following services and advice to the Committee: Market practice in relation to remuneration practices prevalent within similar sized listed and private groups: a review of the previous remuneration policies existing in relation to the Executive Directors and senior management: a base salary benchmarking exercise against companies of a similar size and complexity, taking account of the tax regime prevalent in the UK and UAE: and provided advice as to the structure of the new short term bonus plan and long term incentive plan, and the targets relating thereto.
Deloitte received fees of 38k charged on a time plus expenses basis for advice received during the year.
Meetings The Remuneration Committee met formally three times during the period under review, in addition to a number of discussions held informally during the year whilst the structure and implementation of the new incentive arrangements were being discussed.
The primary matter for discussion was the implementation of a new STIP which would be put in place for Executive Directors and senior management.
Discussion at the initial meetings during the year focused on the structure of the new incentive plans, with advice from Deloitte as to market practice and expectations.
The Remuneration Committee also discussed basic salary levels for senior management following the benchmarking exercise undertaken by Deloitte.
The Remuneration Committee decided not to increase the basic salary of either of the Executive Directors, but the salaries for the four members of the senior management team in place at that time were increased by an average of 14% to bring them into line with median salaries payable for similar roles within a comparator group of companies.
Assessment of risk and key priorities The Committee is aware of the need to be mindful of potential risks associated with elements of executive remuneration.
The Committee is keen to ensure that variable remuneration is not structured in such a way as to encourage the taking of undue business risks for the purposes of achieving higher remuneration.
All the members of the Remuneration Committee are also members of, or normally attend meetings of, the Audit Committee and, as a result, are aware of the key risks and challenges faced by the Group.
The new remuneration structure has been implemented to ensure an appropriate reward system is in place, but considers that the new incentive structure mitigates key business risks as follows: the deferral of 50% of STIP awards into shares for a three year period.
The introduction of an LTIP in 2014 will also encourage focus on long term share value enhancement: the STIP includes two financial measures and three operational measures which the Committee believe are key to the success of the Company in a particular financial year: market practice malus and clawback provisions allow the Company to forfeit the delivery of share related benefits to plan participants.
External commitments The Chairman holds a Non-Executive role on the Board.
Whilst he has other business interests, these are not considered material enough to interfere or conflict with his duties to the NMC Group.
97 The Board acknowledges that each of the Executive Directors also have interests as directors and or shareholders of other businesses outside of the NMC Group.
The Board believes that such interests do not interfere, or conflict, with the role which either Executive Director has with the NMC Group.
The other Directors are required to spend a specific amount of time performing their duties as NonExecutive Directors and none have significant other external commitments which interfere, or conflict, with their duties to the NMC Group.
It is my pleasure to submit this report to shareholders.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: Lord Clanwilliam Chairman 98
