Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 71 Governance Nomination Committee Report External advice During the period, the Nomination Committee retained external consultants, The Zygos Partnership.
The Zygos Partnership has no connection to the Company other than the provision of its services to the Company outlined below or similar services for previous retainers with the Company.
The Zygos Partnership had confirmed that it had adopted the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms in line with the Companys diversity policy.
The Nomination Committee is satisfied that there is no connection between the Company and The Zygos Partnership.
Principal activities of the Nomination Committee during 2013 The Nomination Committee undertook a number of principal activities during the period as described below.
Chairman appointment: The Nomination Committee, led by the Senior Independent Director, carried out a recruitment process to identify suitable candidates to succeed Lord Grade as Chairman.
The Zygos Partnership were appointed to carry out recruitment searches based on criteria agreed by the Nomination Committee.
All of the Directors met with the final candidate.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee consulted with the Companys largest shareholders on the succession plan and the proposed candidate.
Following its deliberations, the Nomination Committee recommended to the Board to appoint Sir Stuart Rose as an Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate.
Sir Stuart succeeded as Chairman on 10 May 2013.
For information concerning Sir Stuarts remuneration arrangements, refer to the Directors remuneration report on page 93.
Succession plans: The Nomination Committee is responsible for overseeing the process of succession and management development for the Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the succession plans for the Executive Directors and the next layer of management, the Management Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer and Director of Human Resources reported to the Nomination Committee the progress made on the succession plans, including the responses developed in light of changes to the executive team and the Management Committee over the course of the year.
The Nomination Committee also discussed possible changes to management in view of Jason Gissings retirement from the Board at the AGM.
The Nomination Committee will consider these arrangements further, in due course.
The Nomination Committee were assured that appropriate succession plans are in place.
Reviewing Board composition: The Nomination Committee had met during the period to discuss Board composition in relation to the various Board appointments noted above.
The Nomination Committee also met to consider the Boards size and composition in the context of Jason Gissings retirement from the Board.
The Nomination Committee expects to give this further consideration in 2014.
Further information concerning Board independence is set out on page 62.
Reviewing committee composition: The Nomination Committee made a number of decisions about changing the composition of the Board committees.
During the period, it recommended to the Board that the size of the Remuneration Committee be reduced to three Directors and that the composition of both the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee be refreshed.
As a result David Grigson was appointed to the Remuneration Committee, Robert Gorrie stood down from both the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee, and Jrn Rausing stood down from the Remuneration Committee.
Diversity: The Nomination Committee is also responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board, to ensure that its membership represents a mix of backgrounds and experience that will enhance the quality of its deliberations and decisions.
In considering the size and composition of the Board the Nomination Committee takes account of various factors including skills, experience and diversity of the existing Board members.
For further information on Board diversity and long-serving Directors refer to the Statement of corporate governance on page 61 and on employee diversity refer to page 51.
Annual review: In addition to its annual performance evaluation, discussed on page 63, the Nomination Committee carried out a review of its terms of reference during the period.
The review resulted in some small changes to the terms of reference to ensure that they reflected the changes to the 2012 Code, by making specific reference to diversity, and the relevant revised guidance.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report Contents of the Directors remuneration report This Directors remuneration report is split into five parts as follows: Pages Annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 72 Description of the Remuneration Committee 73 Remuneration Policy Report 75 Annual Report on Remuneration 2013 88 Annual Report on Remuneration policy for 2014 101 Annual Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The improvements in remuneration for Executive Directors were considered by the Remuneration Committee crucial to the retention of the senior management as Ocado enters a critical stage of its development.
Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Directors remuneration report for 2013.
Rewarding significant growth In a year of significant progress and development for our Group, the Remuneration Committee made important changes to the Executive Directors remuneration to reflect this expansion.
The improvements in remuneration for Executive Directors were considered by the Remuneration Committee crucial to the retention of the senior management as the Company enters a critical stage of its development and as the potency of the online grocery model is, for the first time, almost universally acknowledged.
To encourage the Companys strategy of delivering growth through expansion and monetisation of its intellectual property, the Remuneration Committee has proposed the adoption of a new long-term incentive plan, known as the Growth Incentive Plan GIP.
The plan is intended to reward outstanding growth in value of the Group over the next five years.
The proposed GIP will be put to shareholders for approval at the Companys AGM and is described on page 80. Review of Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee undertook, during the period, an extensive review of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, and in making a number of meaningful changes has sought to find a position of appropriate balance between remuneration elements that attract, retain and motivate the right calibre of senior executive talent and that take into account the entrepreneurial culture of the business.
The Remuneration Committee made changes to the policy in the context of a year that saw strong performance.
The Group completed and implemented the Morrisons transaction, while the Groups 1 revenue grew 18.81% to 792.1 million and EBITDA grew 35.1% to 45.8 million for the financial year ended 1 December 2013.
Although the Company made a loss before tax to the period of 12.5 million 2012: 53 week basis: loss of 0.6 million, our shareholders have recognised the Companys overall improved performance and position, given that total shareholder returns increased by more than 450% over the past 12 months.
The Remuneration policy report on pages 75 to 87 contains details of the Director remuneration policy that we propose to apply from the date of the AGM.
Key changes to the Executive Director remuneration During the financial year, the Remuneration Committee undertook a review of the Annual Incentive Plan structure in place for our Executive Directors and concluded that the core financial measures remained sound and should be retained in order to encourage strong growth.
The plan was adjusted to further align it with shareholder interests by the introduction of provisions for deferral of bonus payments into shares and clawback and malus.
Base salaries of the Executive Directors were reviewed and increased to reflect the significant change in size and complexity of the roles of the management team given the new responsibility for managing the Morrisons relationship.
The first awards were made under the new Long Term Incentive Plan, which was approved by shareholders at the 2013 annual general meeting.
Following consultation with our shareholders, the performance measures for the 2014 awards under the LTIP have been changed.
Sir Stuart Rose joined the Board and succeeded Lord Grade as Chairman in May 2013.
Shareholders approved his remuneration package which comprised a 200,000 annual fee and a one-off award of 400,000 of ordinary shares in the Company to match Sir Stuarts acquisition of 750,000 shares in the Company.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 73 Governance Directors Remuneration Report The Executive Directors participate in the HMRC approved employee share schemes and intend to do so when the Company launches the Share Incentive Plan for all employees, expected in mid-2014.
Finally, effective from April 2014, the Non-Executive Directors annual fees will increase to ensure that their remuneration reflects the increased responsibility of the role.
This change followed a comparative market review by the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 88 to 101 sets out details of how the remuneration policy was implemented in 2013 and is proposed to be applied in 2014.
Remuneration disclosure We are focused on providing clear reporting on past remuneration and future policy.
We welcome shareholder feedback on this new format for the Directors remuneration report.
Douglas McCallum Remuneration Committee Chairman 1.
Financial performance compared to 52 weeks in 2012.
Total shareholder return is the increase in the Companys share price in the 12 months up to 4 March 2014 being the last practical date prior to publication of this Annual Report.
The Company did not pay any dividends in that period.
Description of the Remuneration Committee This section of the Directors remuneration report describes the membership of the Remuneration Committee, its advisers and principal activities during the period.
It forms part of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Membership The current membership of the Remuneration Committee, together with appointment dates, is set out below: Remuneration Committee Member member since Douglas McCallum Chairman 3 October 2011 Ruth Anderson 9 March 2010 David Grigson 5 February 2013 During the period, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee changed with the appointment of Douglas McCallum to the position in January 2013 in place of Wendy Becker who resigned in January 2013.
The composition of the Remuneration Committee changed with the appointment of David Grigson and the resignation of Robert Gorrie in February 2013.
The appointment of Ruth Anderson was renewed for a further three year period.
The biography of each member of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 54 to 55.
Other attendees at the Remuneration Committee meetings include: Regular Attend as Attendees attendee required Chairman of Board x Chief Executive Officer x Chief Financial Officer x Director of Human Resources x Deputy Company Secretary x External advisers Deloitte LLP x The Chairman, the Company Secretary and the Executive Directors and other attendees are not involved in any decisions of the Remuneration Committee and are not present at any discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Attendance at the meetings is shown on page 64.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued External advice During the period, the Remuneration Committee and the Company retained independent external advisers to assist them on various aspects of the Companys remuneration and share schemes as set out below: Services provided to the Adviser Retained by Remuneration Committee Other services provided Deloitte LLP Remuneration Executive remuneration advice Separate teams engaged by the Company to advise on a range of Committee including in respect of LTIP design, Company tax, share schemes and accounting matters, including changes to the remuneration policy transaction advice.
Slaughter and May Company None Employment law, share schemes and tax as well as general UK legal advice in respect of a number of the Companys remuneration matters.
Ernst & Young LLP Company None Advice on Company share schemes.
Deloitte LLP were appointed by the Remuneration Committee in 2012 following a tender process led by the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Deloitte LLP confirmed to the Company that it is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Remuneration Committee is, following its annual review, satisfied that Deloitte LLP has maintained independence and objectivity.
For the period, Deloitte LLP were paid 77,900 in advisory fees for services provided to the Remuneration Committee.
In addition to the external advice received, the Remuneration Committee consulted and received reports from the Companys Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chairman, the Director of Human Resources and the Deputy Company Secretary.
Principal activities of the Remuneration Committee during 2013 The Remuneration Committee has been delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for all the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
In line with its terms of reference, the following key matters were considered by the Remuneration Committee during the period: approving the draft Directors remuneration report and shareholder circular for the proposed Chairmans Share Matching Award and new LTIP: reviewing the performance of Deloitte LLP and retaining them as external remuneration consultants: adopting a new senior executive remuneration policy: approving the 2013 Annual Incentive Plan setting of performance targets: consideration of changes to the structure of the Annual Incentive Plan for 2014 including review of performance measures and the introduction of malus, clawback and share deferral provisions: approving the LTIP scheme and the 2013 LTIP awards: consideration of changes to the performance measures for the LTIP for 2014 awards: reviewing the Groups share scheme strategy: reviewing and approving the proposed new GIP scheme: approving the implementation of the SIP: reviewing performance under the 2012 Annual Incentive Plan and consideration of any bonuses payable: receiving a report on Executive Director remuneration benchmarking: approving increases in Executive Director base salaries: approving the proposed remuneration package for the new Chairman: consulting the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman on performance and remuneration of the Executive Directors: approving the share discount and third invitation made under the Sharesave Scheme: receiving a report on Group-wide and management remuneration for 2013: and reviewing the Remuneration Committees performance.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 75 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued The Remuneration Committees work included monitoring and considering the level and structure of remuneration for the Management Committee.
Ultimate decision-making responsibility for the remuneration of the Management Committee lies with the Chief Executive Officer.
In addition to the activities of the Remuneration Committee, the Executive Directors and the Chairman reviewed the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors, following the period end.
Annual review In addition to its annual performance evaluation, discussed on page 63, the Remuneration Committee carried out a review of its terms of reference during the period.
The review resulted in some changes needed to reflect the new regulatory regime, including the increased reporting responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration Policy Report Introduction This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out a remuneration policy containing details of the components of the remuneration packages of the Companys Directors.
The remuneration policy will be subject to a shareholder vote at the AGM.
If approved by shareholders, the policy will apply immediately following the meeting.
It is expected that the Company will next propose a resolution to approve the remuneration policy at the annual general meeting to be held in 2017, or sooner in the event of revisions to the policy.
Remuneration principles for senior executives The Companys executive remuneration policy and reward strategy is underpinned by the remuneration principles.
These principles relate to the core values of the Company.
The main principles of senior executive remuneration are set out below: Support long-term success and sustainable long-term shareholder value.
Be aligned to the business strategy and achievement of planned business goals.
Be compatible with the Groups risk policies and systems.
Link maximum payout to outstanding results.
Ensure that performance related pay constitutes a significant proportion of the overall package.
Provide a balance between attracting, retaining and motivating the right calibre of candidates, and taking into account the entrepreneurial culture of the business.
Link with strategy The Companys reward strategy continues to evolve in parallel with the Companys development.
The key objective to be achieved through the remuneration policy is to support the Groups main strategic objectives of expansion and high growth.
The Annual Incentive Plan, the LTIP and proposed GIP contain specific performance measures designed to support the objectives of accelerating core business performance in the short and medium-term for example, EBITDA and sales growth targets and the objectives of creating long-term success and sustainable long-term shareholder value for example, EPS target and share price growth targets.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued The remuneration policy, outlined on the following pages, provides the detailed structure of each element of remuneration and how each element is determined.
The remuneration package of the Executive Directors is made up of elements of fixed and variable remuneration typically as set out below.
Reects the value of the individual, their role, skills, experience BASE SALARY and contribution to the business Aligned with all other employee arrangements BENEFITS Ensures remuneration is comprehensive PENSION Incentivises achievement of annual objectives ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN Aligns Director and shareholder interests by delivering bonus DEFERRED BONUS payments in deferred shares UNDER AIP Incentivises generation of long-term shareholder value LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Motivates key individuals to achieve specic long-term targets and ONE-OFF PLANS exceptional levels of performance The Remuneration Committee is mindful of the weighting of fixed and variable pay and balance of short and long-term awards, and sought to position a larger proportion of the remuneration package as equity based and performance related, in order to support the Companys strategic objectives of high growth and expansion and to create shareholder alignment.
The balance of the remuneration of the Executive Directors is set out at Illustration of remuneration policy on page 86.
The Remuneration Committee introduced share deferral in the Annual Incentive Plan, minimum shareholding requirements and the Growth Incentive Plan to help ensure a longer-term focus for the business from the Executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee discretion and judgement In formulating the Directors remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee has sought to allow it sufficient operational flexibility over Director remuneration for the next three years.
While the policy provides the boundaries for remuneration arrangements, the policy is intended to provide some isolated discretion for the Remuneration Committee to use in various circumstances relating to particular components of remuneration.
The remuneration policy does not provide for the exercise of discretion over any aspect of the policy.
The Remuneration Committee may not use any discretion outside the policy without separate shareholder approval.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 77 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued The Remuneration Committee operates or will operate, in the case of the GIP, the share schemes according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules and other rules and regulations, where relevant.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion, in a number of regards to the operation and administration of these plans.
The discretions include, but are not limited to, those set out in the table below.
Area of discretion AIP LTIP JSOS GIP The participants Y Y Y Y The timing of grant of an award or payment Y Y Y Y The size of an award up to a pre-determined maximum Y Y Y Y The determination of vesting or payment Y Y N Y Discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group Y Y Y Y Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen Y Y Y Y Adjustments required in certain circumstances for example, rights issues, corporate restructuring events and Y Y Y Y dividends Adjust or change the performance conditions if anything happens which causes the Remuneration Committee Y Y N Y reasonably to consider it appropriate for example, Board approved strategic initiative or transaction provided that any changed performance condition will be equally difficult to satisfy as the original condition would have been had such circumstances not arisen The annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets from year to year Y Y Y N Adjustment to level of payments, even when targets met for example, to reflect individual or Company performance Y N N N Application of malus and clawback Y Y N Y In addition, the terms of the Chairmans Share Matching Award provide that the Board has discretion with respect to dealing with change of control and treatment of leavers.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys ESOS, Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan will be as permitted under HMRC rules and the other relevant rules and regulations.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Directors remuneration report and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee may also apply judgement or a qualitative assessment, for example in assessing achievement against role specific objectives under the Annual Incentive Plan.
Development of remuneration policy Shareholder context The Remuneration Committee has sought alignment between the remuneration policy and shareholder interests.
When proposing changes to the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements, the Remuneration Committee has sought the views of its largest shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee sought shareholder input on the remuneration policy and new incentive arrangements for 2013 and 2014.
Changes have been made to incentive arrangements in response to the feedback received for example, changes to the design and performance measures for the LTIP and changes to the GIP.
The Company is committed to ongoing dialogue with shareholders on the Directors remuneration and will continue to seek their views on any significant changes to the remuneration arrangements or exercises of discretion.
Employee context The remuneration policy for Directors is designed in line with the remuneration principles outlined on page 75, which reflect the remuneration principles for the Group.
A key remuneration principle for the Group is that share schemes be used to recognise and reward good performance and attract and retain employees, wherever possible and appropriate.
This is reflected by the operation of the ESOS which allows all employees to be granted share options.
This philosophy allows all of the Groups employees opportunities to share in the Groups success via share ownership.
This philosophy will be maintained via awards to all employees under the Share Incentive Plan, rather than the ESOS.
The remuneration arrangements for employees below Board level reflect the seniority of the role.
The components and levels of remuneration for different employees differ from the remuneration framework for the Executive Directors.
The Group operates some tailored bonus and long-term incentive arrangements for certain groups of employees, but has not adopted a universal approach to these elements of remuneration for all employees.
The Remuneration Committee receives an annual report from management on Group-wide remuneration.
This review covers changes to pay, benefits, pension and share schemes for all employees in the Group, including the percentage increases in base pay for monthly and hourly paid employees.
The Remuneration Committees work includes monitoring and commenting on the level and structure of remuneration for the Management Committee in relation to various changes to base pay and incentive plans.
This provides some of the context for the Remuneration Committees decisions concerning changes to base pay and other elements of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the Directors remuneration policy, nor take into account any remuneration comparison measurements.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration policy table: elements of Director remuneration The Executive Directors remuneration policy consists of the elements set out in the table below: Purpose and link to strategy How it operates Performance conditions Maximum opportunity Recovery or withholding Fixed pay Paid monthly in cash.
To avoid setting the expectations of Executive Directors and other No contractual provisions Base pay employees, no maximum salary is set under the policy.
However, for clawback or malus.
Reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee, with any changes normally becoming effective in April each year.
Attract and retain the right calibre of normally, maximum salary increases for Executive Directors will be The review takes into account a number of factors including: the Groups annual review process, business performance, total remuneration, appropriate senior executive required to support the within the normal percentage range and guidelines that are applied market data for comparable roles for companies of equivalent size and complexity in similar sectors and geographical locations to the Company, and an long-term interests of the business.
to the monthly paid employees of the Company in that year.
individuals contribution to the Group.
Where appropriate and necessary, larger increases may be awarded in exceptional circumstances: for example, if a role has increased significantly in scope or complexity.
Larger awards may also be considered appropriate and necessary to bring a recently appointed executive in line with the market and the other executives in the Company where their initial salary has been positioned below the market.
The Company provides a range of benefits which are aligned with those provided to monthly paid employees.
These may include: private medical Not performance linked.
Benefits for Executive Directors are set at a level which the No contractual provisions Benefits insurance, life assurance, travel insurance, critical illness cover, travel allowance, free parking, access to financial and legal advice and CompanyRemuneration Committee considers to be appropriate against for clawback or malus.
Attract and retain the right calibre of wide employee benefits including an employee assistance programme, staff product discount and subsidised staff canteens and discounts.
Any travel appropriate market data for comparable roles for companies of senior executive required to support the arrangements or travel costs required for business purposes will be provided by the Company.
Additional benefits or payments in lieu of benefits may also equivalent size and complexity in similar sectors and geographical long-term interests of the business.
be provided in certain circumstances, if required for business needs.
Any benefits allowances will be paid in cash monthly and will not form part of pensionable salary.
Contributions, allowances and pension choices for the Executive Directors are on the same terms as for other employees.
Contributions to the defined contribution scheme for Executive No contractual provisions Pension Directors will normally be in line with the other scheme participants, for clawback or malus.
Executive Directors can choose to participate in the defined contribution Group personal pension scheme or an occupational money purchase scheme.
Attract and retain the right calibre of however, the Remuneration Committee may exceed this standard Where lifetime or annual pension allowances have been met, employer contributions may be paid into a personal pension arrangement.
These will not be senior executive required to support the maximum in order to be market competitive and attract and retain treated as salary for the purposes of incentive awards.
long-term interests of the business.
the right calibre of senior executive talent needed to support the The Groups contributions under the defined contribution scheme are set as a percentage of salary based on length of scheme membership.
Contributions long-term interests of the business.
under the occupational money purchase scheme are aligned with the legislative minimum.
Pension contributions for UK Executive Directors will not exceed 30% of base salary.
For Executive Directors outside the UK, provision for an executive pension will be set taking into account local market rates.
Variable Pay: Short-term Incentives Measures and targets are set annually and bonus payments are determined by the Remuneration Committee following the year-end based on performance The Remuneration Committee sets annual targets that are closely aligned to the delivery of The maximum bonus is 200% of base salary.
The AIP rules provide for Annual Incentive Plan AIP against the targets.
the Groups strategic objectives for that year.
clawback and malus for For the 2014 performance year, the maximum bonus is 100% of Provide a direct link between three years from date of Bonus payments, if made, are payable in cash after the results of the Group have been audited.
These will be a mix of strategic and financial targets with the majority being financial.
base salary for the Executive Directors and 125% for the Chief measurable and predictable annual payment of a bonus or Executive Officer.
To the extent that an Executive Director does not meet the minimum shareholding requirement, up to 50% of any bonus payment will be deferred into For threshold performance, 25% of the maximum opportunity will be earned.
For stretch Company and or role specific grant of a deferred award shares, vesting after a period of three years.
performance, the maximum opportunity will be earned.
A straight-line sliding scale applies performance and reward.
in certain exceptional between the threshold and the maximum.
The performance conditions for the relevant financial year are described in the Annual of outstanding results aligned to the Report on Remuneration.
Variable Pay: Longer-term Incentives An award over a fixed number of shares is granted annually.
Awards made in the form of nil-cost options or conditional share awards will ordinarily vest The Remuneration Committee sets targets that are closely aligned to the delivery of the The Remuneration Committee may grant awards, with a maximum Clawback and malus Long Term Incentive three years from award, subject to continued service and the achievement of performance conditions and other conditions.
Groups strategic objectives for the performance period.
These may be a mix of strategic total market value of 150% of annual base salary of a participant.
In provisions may be applied Plan LTIP and financial targets with the majority being financial.
the case of the Chief Executive Officer, the maximum total market to LTIP awards in certain Dividend equivalents may be paid in cash or additional shares on LTIP awards that vest.
Attract, retain and incentivise senior value of a LTIP Award is 200% of annual base salary.
For threshold performance, 25% of the maximum opportunity will vest.
For stretch The award may be satisfied either by a new issue of shares, the transfer of treasury shares or shares held in the Companys EBT or by market purchase of executives.
performance, the maximum opportunity will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight-line basis In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may shares.
Align the interests of the senior between the threshold and the maximum.
grant awards with a maximum total market value of 300% of annual executives and the shareholders.
base salary of a participant or, in the case of the Chief Executive The measurement period for performance conditions will ordinarily comprise at least three Officer, 400% of annual base salary.
financial years of the Company.
The performance conditions for the final year of the three year vesting period are described in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 79 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration policy table: elements of Director remuneration The Executive Directors remuneration policy consists of the elements set out in the table below: Purpose and link to strategy How it operates Performance conditions Maximum opportunity Recovery or withholding Fixed pay Paid monthly in cash.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued Purpose and link to strategy How it operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Recovery or Withholding Awards will be granted on a one-off basis.
An Executive Director will be granted options over shares in the Company with a nil exercise price.
Options will be subject to a single performance condition to be satisfied over the five years Four million shares will be awarded to the Chief Executive Officer.
Clawback and malus Growth Incentive Plan GIP from the date of grant.
provisions may be applied While all Executive Directors are eligible to participate in this plan, only the Chief Executive Officer and two existing Executive Directors will receive an initial One million shares will be awarded to each of the other participating Attract, retain and incentivise senior to GIP awards in certain grant.
New Executive Directors may be invited to participate at a level dependent on the point during the performance period at which they joined.
The share price of the Company is the sole performance measure and will be assessed Executive Directors.
relative to the growth of the FTSE 100 Share Index over that period.
To participate, the Executive Directors are required to hold a level of shares throughout the performance period.
For the Chief Executive Officer, this Awards to new participating Executive Directors will not exceed the Align the interests of senior executives shareholding must be at least one times salary and for other Executive Directors, this shareholding must be at least half times salary.
Performance will be assessed based on the three month average share price of the proposed award levels to existing participants.
and shareholders, by incentivising Company and of the FTSE 100 Share Index at the beginning and end of the performance senior executives to deliver exceptional period.
levels of growth and return to the The performance target schedule is as follows: shareholder over the long-term.
Growth of less than the FTSE 100 Share Index plus 5% p. a. : 0% of the award vests.
Growth in FTSE 100 Share Index plus 5% p. a. : 25% of the award vests.
Growth in FTSE 100 Share Index plus 10% p. a. : 50% of the award vests.
Growth in FTSE 100 Share Index plus 15% p. a. : 75% of the award vests.
Growth in FTSE 100 Share Index plus 20% p. a. or more : 100% of the award vests The JSOS was established prior to the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2010.
Interests in shares vest annually over a four year period subject to leaver provisions.
The The JSOS rules contain a 7.5% issued share capital limit for the Certain leaver provisions Joint Share Ownership Scheme participant benefits from the increase in value of the shares above a predetermined market cumulative total of awards under the plan and the ABIs 5% and described on page 85 allow JSOS The participants and Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, the EBT Trustee, acquire separate beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company.
The price for each tranche the hurdle price.
10% in ten year dilution limit for total awards, which constrain the the Company to recover participant may lose his interest in the shares.
Attract, retain and incentivise senior number of interests that may be issued under the JSOS.
share interests in certain Awards under the JSOS will have no value unless the hurdle price is achieved.
No future annual awards will be made under the JSOS to Executive Directors.
Interests in the Companys shares are granted in tranches, with a different hurdle rate for Align the interests of the senior each tranche.
executives and the shareholders, by driving share price growth over four years.
All Employee Share Plans All employees are eligible to participate in this HMRC approved employee share scheme.
The Company grants options over shares in the Company to Not performance linked.
Options may be granted at a maximum discount to the market price The scheme rules do Sharesave employees, including the Executive Directors.
up to a maximum amount in line with HMRC limits.
not provide for malus or Provide all employees, including clawback provisions.
To obtain an option an eligible individual must agree to save a fixed monthly amount for three years up to the maximum monthly amount in line with HMRC Employees are limited to saving a maximum in line with these HMRC Executive Directors, the opportunity to limits.
The amount saved will determine the number of shares over which the option is granted.
Options are granted at a discount to the market price at the limits.
voluntarily invest in Company shares time of grant.
and be aligned with the interests of Options may be exercised in a six month period three or five years from the date of grant, subject to continued service.
All employees are eligible to participate in this HMRC approved employee share scheme.
The SIP allows for: Not performance linked.
Maximum opportunity for awards will be in line with HMRC limits.
The scheme rules do Share Incentive Plan SIP not provide for malus or the Company to grant free shares to all employees allocated on an equal basis: Provide all employees, including clawback provisions.
all employees to buy partnership shares monthly from their gross salary: and Executive Directors, the opportunity to receive and invest in Company shares the Company may offer matching shares to employees who purchase partnership shares.
and be aligned with the interests of Dividend shares are also covered by the SIP arrangements.
All employees are eligible to participate in this HMRC approved employee share scheme and the unapproved part of the scheme.
The Company grants If awards are made the Remuneration Committee will set targets.
Targets will be closely Maximum opportunity for awards will be in line with HMRC limits for The scheme rules do Executive Share Option Scheme options over shares in the Company to employees.
There are currently no plans to make awards to the Executive Directors under this plan.
aligned to the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
These may be a mix of strategic the HMRC approved part of the scheme.
not provide for malus or ESOS and financial targets with the majority being financial.
Options over shares vest on the third anniversary of grant, subject to continued service and satisfaction of any performance conditions.
If vested, the options Maximum opportunity for awards under the unapproved part of the Provide all employees, including may be exercised at any time between the third and tenth anniversaries of grant at the executives discretion.
For threshold performance, up to 25% of the maximum opportunity would be received.
scheme are limited by the scheme rules which limit an award to Executive Directors, the opportunity 300% of annual base salary, except in exceptional circumstances.
to receive Company share options and be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
The 2014 ESOS will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
The 2014 ESOS is based on the ESOS, described above.
Same as for ESOS described above.
Same as for ESOS described 2014 Executive Share Option above.
Scheme 2014 ESOS There are currently no plans to make awards to the current Executive Directors under this plan.
Provide all employees, including Executive Directors, the opportunity to receive Company share options and be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 81 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Purpose and link to strategy How it operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Recovery or Withholding Awards will be granted on a one-off basis.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued The Non-Executive Directors remuneration policy consists of the elements set out in the table below: Purpose and link to strategy How it operates Paid monthly in cash.
Non-Executive Director Fee Fee structure includes an annual base fee for a Non-Executive Director and a Senior Independent Director, and additional fees for being a Board Committee Core element of remuneration, paid for chair.
fulfilling the role in question.
Reviewed annually by the Executive Directors and Chairman, with any changes normally becoming effective in April each year.
The review takes into account a number of factors including: the Groups annual review process, business performance and appropriate market data for comparable roles for companies of equivalent size and complexity to the Company.
Non-Executive Directors are not usually eligible for annual bonus, all employee share incentive schemes, pensions or other benefits with the exception of the staff product discount offered to all employees.
Chairman Fee Reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee, with any changes normally becoming effective in April each year.
Core element of remuneration, paid for The review takes into account a number of factors including: the Groups annual review process, business performance and appropriate market data for fulfilling the role in question.
comparable roles for companies of equivalent size and complexity to the Company.
The Chairman is not usually eligible for annual bonus, any incentive schemes, pensions or other benefits.
Chairmans Share Matching Award The current Chairman received a one-off initial share award upon his appointment as Chairman.
Shares will not vest until the Chairman has served for three years.
The Chairman will not be entitled to sell any shares awarded to him until the first anniversary of when he ceases to be a member of the Board.
To attract and retain the right calibre The award is not subject to performance conditions.
Certain leaver provisions described on page 85 allow the Company to recover the award in certain of Chairman necessary to support the circumstances.
Notes to the Policy table: 1.
No other items in the nature of remuneration are provided by the Company to its Non-Executive Directors, save for the amounts paid to Robert Gorrie as described on page 62.
The Non-Executive Directors are entitled to be reimbursed for out of pocket expenses incurred in carrying out their responsibilities to the Company.
Other than as described in the policy table, there are no components of the Executive Directors remuneration that are not subject to performance measures.
In the case of the Sharesave and SIP, these HMRC approved all employee schemes are subject to rules constrained by legislation and so awards are made on the same terms not comprising performance conditions to all employees including Executive Directors.
Prior to the Companys listing in 2010, some option awards were made to the Executive Directors under the ESOS without performance conditions.
Although awards will not usually be made to existing Executive Directors, the rules of the ESOS and 2014 ESOS require the Remuneration Committee to impose performance conditions on any awards made to a Director under each plan.
The Chairmans Share Matching Award was a one-off award of shares made to the Chairman on appointment.
No performance conditions attached to the receipt of the award only continued service as Chairman until the end of the three-year vesting period.
In structuring the Chairmans Share Matching Award without any performance related elements, the Remuneration Committee complied with the 2012 Code and sought to ensure the Chairmans independence on appointment.
The Chairman is not entitled to sell any awarded shares until a year after he leaves the Board.
The award was approved by shareholders at the 2013 annual general meeting.
Performance targets apply to the AIP, LTIP and GIP.
a AIP The Remuneration Committee adjusts the design including measures and weightings of the Annual Incentive Plan each year to incentivise the delivery of key business objectives and individual performance for that financial year.
Management proposes suitable metrics and levels of performance to form the threshold and stretch levels of performance.
Any individual objectives applicable for the Annual Incentive Plan are linked to the Executive Directors role and or his business area s and are in line with the Groups strategy.
The measurable objectives are agreed between the Executive Director and the Chief Executive Officer or in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, between him and the Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the proposed targets to assess whether they are appropriately aligned with the strategy and shareholders interests and whether the reward that would accrue to the Executive Director is appropriate in the circumstances.
Usually, full vesting will only occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
Details of the performance measures applying to the 2013 AIP and 2014 AIP are outlined in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
b LTIP The Remuneration Committee reviews the design of the LTIP each year to ensure that the performance conditions remain relevant to the Companys key strategic objectives.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance measures in light of the long-term strategic plan and agrees the threshold and stretch conditions that must be achieved.
Full vesting will only occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
In light of shareholder feedback from the shareholder consultation conducted in March 2013, the Remuneration Committee revised the targets from 2013 and decided to put in place two performance objectives for the 2014 awards.
The underlying measurement period for Performance Conditions will ordinarily comprise at least three financial years of the Company.
In the case of the 2013 and 2014 awards the measurement period is the last financial year.
c GIP the GIP performance measure was designed to incentivise outstanding growth in value of the Group over the five year performance period.
The performance measure requires the growth in the Company share price to be significantly more than the growth of the FTSE 100 Share Index over that period.
This helps to ensure alignment with shareholders, as full vesting will only occur where outstanding shareholder value is created.
GIP will be put to shareholders for approval at the Companys AGM.
The Directors remuneration policy contains formal components for short and long-term incentives with performance conditions attached.
While the Group has a policy of remunerating its employees through share scheme participation, it does not have formal arrangements for all employees akin to the components of Directors remuneration.
Senior management participate in an annual bonus plan and the long-term incentive schemes including the LTIP and JSOS, with award levels set at lower percentages of salary than those of the Directors.
The performance conditions and other terms of these schemes are the same as for the Executive Directors.
The bonus plan does not include provision for share deferral of a payment.
The Group operates some tailored bonus and long-term incentive arrangements such as the JSOS for other small groups of employees but aside from the JSOS and the all employee share schemes the SIP, the ESOS and the Sharesave, the variable remuneration of employees is not closely aligned with that of Directors.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 83 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Director shareholding obligation It is the policy of the Company that the Directors are expected to build up over a period of time, and hold, a minimum level of shareholding in the Company.
This is considered an effective way to align the interests of the Executive Directors and shareholders in the long-term.
These shareholding requirements are outlined in the table below.
Director Shareholding requirement Executive Directors are required to hold 100% base salary 150% for the Chief Executive Officer in shares.
This can be built up over three years from appointment.
Executive Directors Share awards may count if vesting is not subject to any further performance conditions or other conditions such as continued employment.
Share interests and share awards which are vested, but remain subject to a holding period and or clawback, may count towards the holding requirement.
Until the minimum shareholding is met, an Executive Director must defer up to 50% of any cash bonus payable under the AIP as an award of shares.
Non-Executive Directors are required to hold the equivalent of one years annual fee in shares.
This can be built up over three years.
Non-Executive Directors The Chairman is required to hold the equivalent of one years annual fee in shares.
Chairman Should the requirement be achieved but the market value of the Companys shares subsequently fall below the required level, compliance with this requirement will be based on the higher of the original share purchase price or current market price.
Approach to remuneration of Directors on recruitment Recruitment of Executive Directors When determining the remuneration of a newly appointed Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will apply a number of principles.
The Remuneration Committee will seek to align the remuneration package of a newly appointed Executive Director with the remuneration policy outlined above.
However, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to include any other remuneration component or award in the remuneration package which it considers to be appropriate.
In determining the remuneration arrangements for a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will take into account all relevant factors including but not limited to the specific circumstances, the calibre of the individual, the market practice for the candidates location, the nature of the role they are being recruited to fulfil and any relevant market factors, including any competing offers the candidate may be considering.
The Remuneration Committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary.
The Remuneration Committees considerations would be subject to the overall limit on variable remuneration outlined below.
Where promotion to an Executive Director role is from within the Company, any performance related pay element arising from their previous role, will continue on its original terms, provided such element was not made in contemplation of such person becoming an Executive Director.
To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may, to the extent permitted by relevant plan rules or Listing Rules, make a one-off award to buy out incentives or any other compensation arrangements forfeited by the appointee on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Remuneration Committee will ensure that any such awards offered should be on a comparable basis, taking into account all relevant factors including any performance conditions, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the proportion of the vesting or performance period remaining and the form of the award.
In determining whether it is appropriate to use such judgement, the Remuneration Committee will ensure that any awards made are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
In addition, one-off payments in respect of relocation or ongoing relocation allowances may be made to a newly appointed Executive Director.
However, these payments must reflect actual financial loss or cost of moving the Executive Director, their family or assets, and the market practice in the geographical location to which the Executive Director is moving to or from.
The Company may provide relocation costs by funding services or cash payment or a combination of both.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded upon recruitment excluding any buy out awards or costs and allowances on relocation and awards made to appointees under the GIP is 600% of base salary.
GIP awards will be subject to the award limits set out in the remuneration policy table.
Recruitment of Non-Executive Directors The remuneration package for newly appointed Non-Executive Directors will be in line with the structure set out in the remuneration policy table for NonExecutive Directors.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued Loss of Service or Termination Policy Service contracts for Executive Directors Each of the Executive Directors is employed pursuant to a service contract with Ocado Limited.
The Companys remuneration policy provides that an Executive Directors employment may be terminated by the Company giving to the Executive Director not less than 12 months notice or by the Executive Director giving to the Company not less than six months notice.
The Companys remuneration policy provides that if an Executive Directors service contract is terminated without cause, Ocado Limited can request that the Executive Director work their notice period, take a period of garden leave or pay an amount in lieu of notice equal to one times their basic salary, benefits and pension for the remainder of their notice period.
While the service contracts do not specify this, the Companys remuneration principles provide that any payments should be reduced in certain circumstances where the Executive Directors loss has been mitigated, for example, where he moves to other employment.
The service contracts do not contain any specific provisions relating to a change of control of the business.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the Remuneration Committee retains a discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably payable to the Executive Director including legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment and obtaining independent legal advice on a settlement or compromise agreement, and the relocation costs for returning the departing Executive Director and his family to their original country of origin.
The Company may provide relocation costs by funding services, or cash payment or a combination of both.
Other than described above, there are no relevant contractual provisions that are, or are proposed to be, contained in any Executive Director service contract that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office, but which are not disclosed elsewhere in the remuneration policy.
Letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors Each of the Non-Executive Directors has a letter of appointment with the Company.
The Companys remuneration policy provides that a Non-Executive Directors appointment may be terminated by either party giving to the other not less than one month notice, or in the case of the Chairman, not less than six months notice.
Other than described above, there are no relevant contractual provisions that are, or are proposed to be, contained in any Non Executive Director letter of appointment that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office, but which are not disclosed elsewhere in the remuneration policy.
Payments on cessation of employment for Executive Directors The Executive Director service contracts do not oblige the Company to pay a bonus if the Executive Director is under notice of termination.
But under the rules of the Annual Incentive Plan, the Executive Director may receive a proportion of the bonus or deferred award that the Remuneration Committee determines would otherwise have been payable or granted to him under the rules for the financial year.
The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant scheme rules, all of which have been approved by shareholders.
The table on page 85 provides a summary of these leaver provisions.
The Remuneration Committee generally has discretion to determine the treatment of a leaver, but will be conscious of the remuneration principle that it should not reward poor performance or behaviour.
Payments on cessation of service for Non-Executive Directors The table on page 85 provides a summary of the leaver provisions applicable to the Chairmans Share Matching Award.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion in defining the type of leaver category applicable to the departing Chairman.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 85 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Share scheme leaver provisions Remuneration Element Bad Leavers Good Leavers If a participant is a bad leaver i. e. he is neither The participants interest shall continue to vest on the same dates as if that participant had remained in employment so long as JSOS a good leaver nor a very bad leaver, he would the participant remains a good leaver.
retain his vested interests but unvested interests Should the participant die before a tranche vests, the participants interest will vest entirely on the date of death.
may be acquired by the EBT Trustee for the lower of the market value and the initial subscription price.
In the case of a very bad leaver i. e. has or could have been dismissed for cause or is in material breach of an obligation binding after termination, both vested and unvested interests may be acquired by the EBT Trustee for the lower of the market value and the initial subscription price.
Generally, unvested LTIP awards and vested LTIP If a participant ceases to be an employee of the Group for a good leaver reason e. g. ill-health, injury or permanent disability, LTIP options will lapse on the date the participant then his awards which have not vested will vest on the vesting date or earlier as the Remuneration Committee shall determine ceases to be an employee.
but only to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied subject to operation of malus and clawback provisions.
Unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise, the award will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed to the date of cessation of employment.
If a participant dies, his LTIP awards will vest on the date of his death and the performance conditions will not apply but unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise the LTIP award will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the date of death.
To the extent that LTIP options vest in accordance with the above provisions, they may usually be exercised for a period of 12 months following vesting and will otherwise lapse at the end of that period.
To the extent that a participant who leaves in circumstances other than dismissal for cause or who dies holding vested LTIP options, they may be exercised at any time during the usual exercise period and will otherwise lapse at the end of that period.
See LTIP above, as the same leaver rules apply.
GIP Deferred share awards will lapse on the date the An Executive Director will retain his deferred share award on ceasing employment with the Group and will receive the award at Deferred Executive Director ceases to be an employee.
the usual vesting date in accordance with the plan rules, subject to the operation of clawback and malus provisions.
shares under the Annual Incentive Plan Leavers will be treated within the HMRC approved Leavers will be treated within the HMRC approved scheme rules.
Share Plans If the Chairman ceases to be a Director of the If the Chairman ceases to be a Director of the Company prior to vesting for a good leaver reason death, illness, injury Chairmans Company prior to vesting for any reason other or disability or any other reason determined by the Board then a pro rata proportion of the share award will vest and the Share than a good leaver reason, the share award will remainder shall lapse.
Award Change of control The incentive schemes contain change of control provisions, as set out in the relevant scheme rules.
Under the LTIP, in the event of a takeover of the Company, LTIP awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that the performance and other conditions have been satisfied at that time, ii the operation of malus or clawback, and iii unless the Remuneration Committee decides that pro rating would be inappropriate in the particular circumstances pro rating to reflect the proportion of the normal performance period that has elapsed at the date of that event.
Under the GIP, if there is a change of control of the Company, options may be exercised early subject to the performance target being satisfied, and in proportion to the amount of the performance period that has elapsed.
Under the Annual Incentive Plan, deferred share awards vest early on a change of control, though the Remuneration Committee has discretion to not release the award early and instead roll the award into an equivalent award in the acquiring company.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued Under the terms of the Chairmans Share Matching Award, in the event of a change of control a pro rata proportion of the share award will vest, subject to the Boards discretion to determine that a greater number of shares should vest.
Under the terms of the JSOS rules, in the event of an offer a participant may request the EBT Trustee to accept the offer with respect to shares that have vested under the JSOS.
For further information on agreements impacted by a change of control see the Directors report on pages 111 and 112.
Other remuneration External appointments for Executive Directors It is the Companys policy and a requirement of the contract of employment that the Executive Director may not take up non-executive directorships or other appointments without the approval of the Board.
Any outside appointments are considered by the Nomination Committee or the Board to ensure they would not cause a conflict of interest and are then approved by the Board.
The Board would not usually agree to an Executive Director taking on more than one non-executive directorship of a listed or public company or the chairmanship of such a company.
It is the Companys policy that remuneration earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual Executive Director.
Remuneration arrangements prior to policy The Remuneration Committee has the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy, where the terms of the payment were agreed either before the policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company, did in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company for these purposes, payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time award is granted.
Illustration of remuneration policy The bar charts on page 87 provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for each of the Executive Directors based on the remuneration policy outlined on pages 78 to 81.
Annual Incentive Plan LTIP Base salary, benefits and pension Minimum Performance is below threshold on Performance is below threshold on each Fixed.
Target or at expectation Threshold performance is reached Threshold performance is reached on each Fixed.
Maximum Maximum performance is achieved Maximum performance is achieved on Fixed.
The figures use current base salary and pension see Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 88 to 89 and value of benefits received for 2013 see page 89.
The performance related pay figures are based on the potential awards for 2014 see pages 102 to 103, but it should be noted that LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
For the purposes of illustrating the remuneration policy, it is assumed that the LTIP awards granted in 2014 will also be vesting in 2014.
The impact of the GIP has not been included.
The estimated remuneration for each Executive Director is based on three different levels of performance, set out below.
In all scenarios, the impact of share price movements on the value of LTIP awards has been excluded.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 87 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued TIM STEINER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER million MARK RICHARDSON, OPERATIONS DIRECTOR million 93% 7% 93% 7% Minimum Minimum Salary and Benets Salary and Benets Pension Pension Target 34% 3% 25% 46% 46% Target 39% 3% 24% 34% AIP AIP LTIP LTIP Maximum 23% 2% 29% 46% Maximum 28% 2% 28% 42% 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 0 0.5 1 1.5 JASON GISSING, COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR million DUNCAN TATTON-BROWN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER million Minimum 93% 7% Minimum 97% 3% Salary and Benets Salary and Benets Pension Pension Target Target 39% 3% 24% 34% 40% 1%25% 35% AIP AIP Maximum LTIP Maximum LTIP 28% 2% 28% 42% 28% 2% 28% 42% 0 0.5 1 1.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 NEILL ABRAMS, LEGAL AND BUSINESS AFFAIRS DIRECTOR million Minimum 93% 7% Salary and Benets Pension Target 39% 3%24% 34% AIP LTIP Maximum 28% 2% 28% 42% 0 0.5 1 1.5 22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 88 www.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration 2013 Introduction This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out the Directors remuneration paid in 2013.
It sets out actual payments to Directors and details on the link between Company performance and remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer.
This part, together with the Description of the Remuneration Committee section on pages 73 to 75 are the Annual Report on Remuneration, which will be subject to a shareholder vote at the Companys AGM.
Director remuneration The total remuneration paid to all of the Directors during the period was 3,831,000.
The detailed remuneration breakdown for the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors is set out separately below.
Executive Directors Total Remuneration audited The total remuneration for the period for each of the current Executive Directors is set out in the table below: Tim Steiner Jason Gissing Neill Abrams Duncan Tatton-Brown Mark Richardson 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Salary 417 350 278 250 226 200 310 75 258 184 Taxable Benefits 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Pensions 33 28 22 20 18 16 9 21 15 Total Fixed Pay 451 379 301 271 245 217 320 75 280 199 2 Annual Incentive Plan 528 104 307 59 257 48 307 38 307 77 Share Plans: ESOS 1 JSOS LTIP Sharesave 32 32 SIP Total Variable Pay 560 104 307 59 289 48 307 38 307 77 Recovery of sums paid Total Remuneration 1,011 483 608 330 534 265 627 113 587 276 1 JSOS shares vesting in the current year have been calculated using the Companys share price on the date of vesting, 1 January 2013.
This price was below the hurdle for the JSOS share interests.
Consequently no amount is shown.
Notwithstanding, under the JSOS rules a participant may still benefit from an increase if any in the price of the Companys shares above the hurdle at a date subsequent to the vesting date.
2 Duncan Tatton-Brown was appointed effective 1 September 2012.
Mark Richardson was appointed effective 23 January 2012.
Both Directors received discretionary bonus payments pursuant to their contractual arrangements and not the AIP in respect of 2012.
An explanation of each element of remuneration paid outlined in the table is set out in the following section.
The Company has obtained a written confirmation from each Executive Director that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration from the Group, other than those already disclosed in the total remuneration table.
i Base Salary audited As reported in the 2012 annual report and accounts, the Chief Executive Officers salary was reviewed in January 2013 and increased effective in April 2013.
During the period, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the salaries of the other Executive Directors.
After taking into account a number of relevant factors which are discussed in more detail below the Remuneration Committee recommended that all basic salaries be increased.
The following table shows the change in each Executive Directors salary.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 89 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Name Salary 2013 Salary 2012 Effective from Neill Abrams 275,000 200,000 25 07 2013 Jason Gissing 330,000 250,000 25 07 2013 Mark Richardson 330,000 220,000 25 07 2013 Tim Steiner 450,000 350,000 01 04 2013 Duncan Tatton-Brown 330,000 300,000 25 07 2013 In reaching its decisions, the Remuneration Committee took into account the following: The fact that the Executive Directors salaries had not been increased since 2009.
The increased size of the business following the completion of the Morrisons transaction and the growth in the size and the complexity of the roles of the Executive Directors and the resulting increased work commitments for them.
The general improved performance of the business, which included: the improved financial position of the Company following the successful refinancing in November 2012, the Groups continued strong sales growth and the successful launch of CFC2: and the transformational impact of the Morrisons transaction on the Groups financial position, performance and future prospects.
The appropriate benchmark data presented by the Director of Human Resources which factored in the increase in the Companys size.
The Companys remuneration principle that senior executive base salaries should be at a broad market rate compared with similar senior executive roles and levels of responsibility in companies of a similar size and complexity to the Company.
The increases, which positioned the salaries broadly around the market median for a company of the Companys size and complexity, also aim to help retain our Executive Directors as the Company enters a critical stage of its development.
ii Taxable benefits audited The Executive Directors received taxable benefits during the period, notably private medical insurance.
The Executive Directors also received other benefits, which are not taxable, including life assurance, travel insurance and Group-wide employee benefits, such as an employee product discount.
iii Pensions audited The Company made pension contributions on behalf of Directors to the defined contribution Group personal pension scheme which is administered by Standard Life.
The employer contribution to the pension scheme in respect of each Director was 8% of base salary, except in the case of Duncan Tatton-Brown, who joined the Group in September 2012, which was 6% of base salary.
iv Annual Incentive Plan audited The Remuneration Committee adjusts the design of the Annual Incentive Plan each year to incentivise the delivery of key business objectives and individual performance for that financial year.
The 2013 Annual Incentive Plan was based on the performance targets set out below being percentages of base salary.
Tim Steiner Duncan Tatton-Brown Jason Gissing Mark Richardson Neill Abrams Financial objectives 40 40 40 40 40 EBITDA % 40 40 40 40 40 Gross sales % Individual objectives 20 20 20 20 20 % Completion and delivery of transaction to monetise Groups IP.
Set longer-term financing Improve Webshop Increase CFC2 order volumes Review of Group structure strategy in light of new functionality to agreed level Examples of business area strategic objectives objectives Review of internal and Increase product range to Improve CFC1 productivity to Review and re-tender external reporting and agreed levels agreed level insurance arrangements communication Financial performance measures, namely gross sales and EBITDA, were the primary targets, with 80% of the annual bonus being determined by performance against targets set by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the financial year, by reference to the Companys budget for the period.
Of the balance, 20% related to individual objectives for each of the Directors, largely independent of the financial objectives.
Each target was discrete and could be earned separately.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued Financial targets The Groups gross sales for the period was 852.4 million which was above the maximum set under the 2013 Annual Incentive Plan.
Accordingly, achievement against this objective was 40% of salary.
The Groups EBITDA for the period was 45.8 million which was close to the maximum set under the 2013 Annual Incentive Plan.
Accordingly, achievement against this objective was 34.8% of a possible 40% of salary.
Individual targets Each Executive Director had between five and seven individual objectives, with different weightings, under the plan.
They related to specific programmes relevant to each Executive Directors business area for which they have primary responsibility.
Common to all of the Executive Directors was an individual objective relating to agreeing, completing and delivering the Morrisons transaction.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance of each Executive Director against the measurable performance metrics.
Based a report by the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman and on the Remuneration Committees judgement of the performance against these individual objectives, achievement was in the range of 90% to 100% of maximum bonus opportunity for this element of the bonus, equating to 18% to 20% of salary.
Pre-condition In addition to the above performance targets, the Remuneration Committee set a pre-condition which had to be satisfied before a payment under the Annual Incentive Plan could be made regardless of the performance against the targets.
The pre-condition was that the Group does not breach any of its financial covenants under the Groups 100 million credit facility during the period and in the period from the end of the period to the date of bonus payment.
The pre-condition was complied with during the relevant part of the period.
In July 2013, the Groups 100 million credit facility was repaid in full and accordingly the pre-condition did not subsequently apply.
Disclosure of targets The achievement against the AIP targets has been disclosed.
However, the Remuneration Committee considers that the targets are commercially sensitive to the Company and if disclosed could damage the Companys commercial interests.
The actual AIP targets, therefore, have not been disclosed in reliance on the exemption under the regulations.
The Remuneration Committee does not expect to disclose this information at a later date.
Summary of bonus earned The Remuneration Committee has recommended an aggregate bonus payment of 1,705,505 under the 2013 Annual Incentive Plan for the period.
This recommendation is based on the achievement of targets set out below.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the level of bonus payment appropriately reflects the significant progress made during the period, which saw some transformational changes for the Group.
The table below summarises the bonus payments for each Executive Director for the 2013 Annual Incentive Plan.
The cash payment will be made in about April 2014.
Gross sales EBITDA Individual objectives Total Bonus Earned % of salary % of salary 000 Maximum bonus potential 40 40 20 100 125 Actual bonus earned Tim Steiner 40 34.8 19.0 117.25 527.6 Duncan Tatton-Brown 40 34.8 18.3 93.1 307.2 Jason Gissing 40 34.8 18.2 93.0 306.9 Mark Richardson 40 34.8 18.2 93.0 306.9 Neill Abrams 40 34.8 18.6 93.4 256.8 1 The applicable salary used for calculating the bonus payment under the rules of the 2013 Annual Incentive Plan is the current base salary, described on page 89. v Share plans audited Awards granted under long-term incentive plans only count towards the total remuneration figure for the period in which they vest.
Awards under the Companys share plans are normally subject to three year vesting periods and therefore awards made during the period will not be reflected in the total remuneration figure for this period.
ESOS Awards vesting: No award under the ESOS vested during the period.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 91 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Awards exercised: During the period the following options held by Executive Directors under the ESOS were exercised: Name Number of options exercised Exercise price pence Neill Abrams 100,000 90.00 Mark Richardson 96,850 115.00 No other Directors exercised options during the period.
The aggregate amount of gains made by Executive Directors on the exercise of share options was 333,829.64.
Neill Abrams retained 36,850 ordinary shares subsequent to the exercise of his ESOS options.
Awards granted: Duncan Tatton-Brown was granted options over 9,923 ordinary shares of 2 pence each under the ESOS on 8 July 2013.
The exercise price was fixed at 3.02 per share.
The options will vest in July 2016.
This was a one-off award of options made to Duncan after joining the Group.
The Group had, until mid- 2013, a policy of issuing options to all new employees shortly after joining the Group.
Any such options are not subject to performance conditions other than the usual three year vesting period.
The Remuneration Committee does not, as at the date of this Annual Report, have any intention of making a further award of options under the ESOS scheme to the Executive Directors.
Existing options held by the Executive Directors under the ESOS were granted prior to the Companys listing in 2010 except those granted to Duncan Tatton-Brown, noted above.
Further details on all the existing options held by the Executive Directors under the ESOS can be found in the statement of Directors shareholdings on page 97.
SIP No awards have been granted under the SIP.
The SIP will be implemented by the Company in mid-2014.
JSOS All of the Executive Directors have invested in share interests under the JSOS scheme and so have placed actual personal wealth at risk through this scheme.
These arrangements help to ensure that all of the Directors interests are aligned with those of shareholders of the Company.
Awards vesting: The third tranche of the JSOS vested during the period.
Those JSOS interests were calculated using the share price on the date of vesting, 1 January 2013.
This price of 84.75 pence per share, was below the hurdle price of 208 pence per share for the third tranche of JSOS share interests.
Consequently, no amount is shown in the total remuneration table.
Awards sold: No JSOS share interests have been sold by an Executive Director during the period or since inception of the scheme.
Awards granted: No awards of JSOS share interests were made during the period.
The Remuneration Committee does not, as at the date of this Annual Report, have any intention of making a further award of share interests under the JSOS scheme to the Executive Directors.
Most share interests held by the Executive Directors under the JSOS were granted prior to the Companys listing in 2010.
Further details on all the existing JSOS share interests held by the Executive Directors under the JSOS can be found in the statement of Directors shareholdings on page 97.
LTIP Awards vesting: This was the first year of operation for the LTIP, as such no awards vested during the period.
Awards granted: The LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2013 annual general meeting.
The LTIP was introduced to help maintain the alignment of the Executive Directors and shareholders interests, and to help attract and retain executive candidates of the right calibre.
As explained in 2013, in its first year of operation, LTIP awards were made in respect of both 2012 and 2013.
As a result in 2013 only, an LTIP award of up to 300% of annual base salary was made, representing twice the size of a typical annual LTIP award.
In the case of the Chief Executive Officer, an LTIP award with a total market value of 400% of annual base salary was made.
The number of shares subject of an LTIP award was determined based on a price of 131.2 pence per share, being the volume weighted average price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 11 March 2013 the date that the Remuneration Committee determined the number of shares the subject of the LTIP awards.
The LTIP awards are conditional awards under the rules of the LTIP, which is a right to receive free shares in the Company, subject to the achievement of performance conditions over a three year performance period.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued Director % Salary Double Award 000 Number of Shares Tim Steiner 400 1,800 1,371,951 Jason Gissing 280 700 533,536 Mark Richardson 280 616 469,512 Neill Abrams 200 400 304,878 Duncan Tatton-Brown 300 900 685,975 The LTIP awards for 2013 have one performance condition which is the Companys earnings before interest and tax EBIT pre-exceptional items for the financial year ending November 2015.
The Remuneration Committee has agreed threshold and maximum conditions that must be achieved.
No LTIP award will vest unless a threshold level of performance condition has been achieved.
At threshold performance, 25% of an LTIP award will vest and at maximum performance, 100% of an LTIP award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum.
Threshold vesting has been set above the Companys budgeted performance for the financial period.
The actual performance condition is not disclosed due to its commercial sensitivity, but the Company will disclose the extent to which it was met after the end of the performance period.
The performance condition for the LTIP awards will be tested in relation to the financial year ending in 2015 to determine what percentage of the LTIP awards has been achieved, and will vest during 2016 to the extent that the performance condition has been achieved.
The LTIP targets have not been disclosed because the Remuneration Committee considers that the targets are commercially sensitive to the Company and if disclosed could damage the Companys commercial interests.
The LTIP targets therefore have not been disclosed in reliance on the exemption under the regulations.
The Remuneration Committee will consider at a later date whether it remains appropriate not to disclose such targets in future.
Further details on the shares granted to the Executive Directors under the LTIP can be found in the statement of Directors shareholdings on page 98.
Sharesave Awards vesting: The first savings contract under the Sharesave Scheme matured on 1 December 2013.
Tim Steiner and Neill Abrams held the vested interests in the Sharesave Scheme set out in the table below: Share price on 1 December 2013 Number of options Exercise price pence Value at 1 December 2013 Tim Steiner 7,745 1.16 4.09 31,677 Neill Abrams 7,745 1.16 4.09 31,677 Awards exercised: None of the Executive Directors that were participants in the Sharesave Scheme had exercised their options during the period or up to the date of this Annual Report.
Awards granted: A third invitation to all employees was made under the Sharesave Scheme in September 2013.
Tim Steiner, Neill Abrams and Duncan Tatton-Brown entered a savings contract and were each granted 2,987 options over ordinary shares on 1 October 2013 at an exercise price of 301.2 pence per share.
Participants were issued options at an option price which was discounted by 10% from the applicable market value of the Companys shares at the date of grant.
Like all HMRC approved Save As You Earn schemes, options are not issued subject to performance conditions as they are not provided for under the scheme rules.
Further details on all the existing options held by the Executive Directors under the Sharesave Scheme can be found in the statement of Directors shareholdings on page 98.
Non-Executive Directors Total fees audited The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman during the period are set out in the remuneration table below.
With the exception of the Chairman, the Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration other than their annual fee.
The remuneration arrangements for the Non-Executive Directors except the Chairman did not change during the period and have not changed since early 2010.
The Board reviewed these arrangements following period end and recommended some changes for 2014, which are outlined on page 104.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors and the Chairman consider that the remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors reflected the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 93 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Long-term Pension Fees Taxable Benefits Annual Bonus Incentives Entitlements Total Remuneration 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Current Directors Sir Stuart Rose 118 118 David Grigson 62 62 62 62 Ruth Anderson 50 50 50 50 Robert Gorrie 40 40 40 40 Jrn Rausing 40 40 40 40 Douglas McCallum 47 40 47 40 Alex Mahon 40 20 40 20 Past Directors Lord Grade 45 100 13 58 100 Wendy Becker 9 32 9 32 The taxable benefit represents the retirement gift presented to Lord Grade prior to his retirement from the Board.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the Senior Independent Director and Board committee chairs during the period are set out in the table below.
Base element Committee chair element Senior Independent Director element Non-Executive Director 000 000 000 David Grigson 40 7 15 40 10 Ruth Anderson 1 Douglas McCallum 40 7 1 Douglas McCallum was appointed as Remuneration Committee Chairman effective on 22 January 2013.
The contractual annual committee chair element for Douglas McCallum is 8,000.
Other Remuneration In addition to the fees, the Non-Executive Directors are entitled to the staff product discount in line with the employees.
The Company has obtained a written confirmation from each Non-Executive Director that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration from the Group, other than those already disclosed in the total remuneration table or noted below.
In addition to his role as a Non-Executive Director, Robert Gorrie provides consultancy services to the Group and chairs the meetings of the Ocado Council.
He provides these services through Robert Gorrie Limited of which he is the sole shareholder and is paid a per diem fee for these services.
These fees are included in related party transactions with key management personnel in Note 5.4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Chairman Remuneration audited The remuneration arrangements for the Chairman were changed on the appointment of Sir Stuart Rose in March 2013, who became Chairman from the Companys annual general meeting on 10 May 2013.
The following sets out the remuneration arrangements for Sir Stuart Rose.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the remuneration for the Chairman reflects the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
Base fee The Remuneration Committee approved the following base fee structure: 40,000 per annum for the period from appointment as an independent NonExecutive Director on 11 March 2013 to the date of becoming Chairman: and 200,000 per annum thereafter.
Such fee will not be reviewed by the Board for a minimum of three years from the annual general meeting in May 2013.
Chairmans Share Matching Award In addition Sir Stuart Rose received a one-off award of 400,000 of ordinary shares in the Company based on market value prior to the date of announcement of the appointment to match Sir Stuarts acquisition of shares in the Company.
The share award was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting in May 2013.
The Company issued 452,284 ordinary shares in the Company to Sir Stuart Matching Shares in return for payment for their nominal value of 9,046.
Sir Stuart had, prior to joining the Board, already acquired 750,000 of the Companys ordinary shares on his own account.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued The Matching Shares will not vest until three years after the date of commencement as Chairman that is 10 May 2016, and will only vest subject to Sir Stuarts continued membership of the Board.
Sir Stuart will be restricted from selling any shares while on the Board and he shall not sell any of the Matching Shares until the first anniversary of his ceasing to be a member of the Board.
There are no performance criteria to which vesting is subject.
If Sir Stuart leaves the Board prior to 10 May 2016 as a result of his death, illness, injury or disability, or in other circumstances which the Board decides appropriate, a number of Matching Shares will be transferred to Sir Stuart or his estate pro rata to the time he has spent as Chairman.
Similarly, a pro rata number of Matching Shares or such greater number as the Board may determine will vest should the Company be taken over during the three year period.
In all other circumstances, should Sir Stuart cease to be a Director of the Company prior to 16 May 2016 he will forfeit his right to the Matching Shares.
Directors terms of appointment Executive Directors service contracts Ocado Limited has entered into service contracts with each of the Executive Directors for the provision of services to the Group.
The terms of these contracts are consistent with the policy outlined see pages 78 to 81, though payment in lieu of notice is one times basic salary only.
The terms of these contracts are set out in the table below.
Date of Date of appointment by appointment by Unexpired term Notice period by Notice period by Director Ocado Limited Ocado Group plc months Company months Director months Current age Jason Gissing 02 02 2000 09 03 2010 Continuous employment until 12 6 43 terminated by either party Tim Steiner 13 04 2000 09 03 2010 Continuous employment until 12 6 44 terminated by either party Neill Abrams 08 09 2000 10 12 2009 Continuous employment until 12 6 49 terminated by either party Mark Richardson 03 02 2012 23 01 2012 Continuous employment until 12 6 49 terminated by either party Duncan Tatton-Brown 01 09 2012 01 09 2012 Continuous employment until 12 6 48 terminated by either party Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts and were appointed to the Company by letter of appointment.
The details of each Non-Executive Director appointment are set out in the table below.
There are no provisions in the letters of appointment for payment for early termination.
Date of appointment by Date of appointment by Director Ocado Limited Ocado Group plc Current term Notice period months Current age Robert Gorrie 01 04 2000 09 03 2010 3 years 1 54 Jrn Rausing 13 03 2003 09 03 2010 3 years 1 54 David Grigson 03 02 2010 09 03 2010 3 years 1 59 Ruth Anderson 09 03 2010 3 years 1 60 Douglas McCallum 03 10 2011 3 years 1 47 Alex Mahon 01 06 2012 3 years 1 40 Sir Stuart Rose 11 03 2013 3 years 6 64 Former Director Lord Grade 15 09 2006 09 03 2010 3 years 6 71 Wendy Becker 30 03 2012 3 years 1 48 Other remuneration disclosures Payments to past Directors audited The Company does not have any arrangements for payments to any former Directors of the Company, including Lord Grade and Wendy Becker, who both resigned during the period.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 95 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Payments for loss of office audited Wendy Becker resigned from the Board effective on 21 January 2013.
Lord Grade retired from the Board on 10 May 2013.
Both were Non-Executive Directors and under the remuneration policy, their remuneration package comprised only an annual fee and did not include benefits, pension or incentive arrangements.
Both Directors were paid their director fees in accordance with the terms of their letters of appointment.
Consequently no amounts were paid to or receivable by them in the period as a consequence of their loss of office.
Lord Grade was given a gift to the value of 12,577, prior to his retirement from the Board as a gesture of the Companys gratitude for his long-standing service to the Company.
The payment was not a termination payment and was not made in consideration of Lord Grades departure from the Board and was not contained in his letter of appointment or otherwise an obligation imposed on the Company.
External remuneration for Executive Directors As at the date of this Annual Report: In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Neill Abrams is an alternate non-executive director of Mr Price Group Limited, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange registration number 1933 004418 06, incorporated in the Republic of South Africa.
The role does not involve any remuneration paid or payable to Neill.
In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Duncan Tatton-Brown is an independent non-executive director of Rentokil Initial plc, listed on the London Stock Exchange registration number 5393279, incorporated in England and Wales.
For his services to Rentokil Initial plc Duncan is paid a fee of 70,000 per annum.
Director shareholdings audited The beneficial interests in the Companys shares of Directors, serving at the end of the period, were: Ordinary shares of 2 pence each Ordinary shares of 2 pence each Director 1 December 2013 2 December 2012 Tim Steiner 14,396,400 14,396,400 Jason Gissing 9,657,600 9,657,600 Sir Stuart Rose 750,000 750,000 Robert Gorrie 690,660 690,660 Neill Abrams 557,054 520,204 Douglas McCallum 68,000 68,000 Duncan Tatton-Brown 60,000 60,000 Ruth Anderson 55,000 55,000 David Grigson 15,000 15,000 Alex Mahon 2,000 Jrn Rausing 1 There have been no changes in the Directors interests in the shares issued or options granted by the Company and its subsidiaries between the end of the period and the date of this Annual Report, except: A decrease in Robert Gorries shareholding due to the sale of 275,000 shares on 5 February 2014.
This has resulted in Robert Gorrie holding 415,660 shares.
A decrease in Douglas McCallums shareholding due to the sale of 58,000 shares on 25 February 2014.
This has resulted in Douglas McCallum holding 10,000 shares.
An increase in Alex Mahons shareholding due to the purchase of 5,087 shares on 6 March 2014.
This has resulted in Alex Mahon holding 7,087 shares.
2 No Director had an interest in any of the Companys subsidiaries at the beginning or end of the period.
3 Neill Abrams holding increased by 36,850 shares due to the retention of shares after the exercise of ESOS options on 3 July 2013.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued In addition to the above holdings, certain of the Directors are discretionary beneficiaries under trusts holding ordinary shares of the Company.
The interests of these discretionary beneficiaries under their respective trusts are as follows: Ordinary shares of 2 pence each Ordinary shares of 2 pence each Director 1 December 2013 2 December 2012 Neill Abrams 1,100,800 1,100,800 Jrn Rausing 69,015,602 69,015,602 1, 2 Jason Gissing 8,326,200 9,391,442 Tim Steiner 14,291,200 14,291,200 There have been no changes in the Directors beneficial interests in trusts holding ordinary shares of the Company except: 1 During the period, Trident Trust Co BVI Limited as trustee of the Jason Gissing Life Settlement II, of which Jason Gissing is a discretionary beneficiary sold 1,065,242 ordinary shares at an average price of 310.6p per share.
This was the first time the trust had sold shares in the Company since the IPO in July 2010.
2 On 4 February 2014, Trident Trust Co BVI Limited as trustee of the Jason Gissing Life Settlement II of which Jason Gissing is a discretionary beneficiary sold 3,050,000 shares at 498.75 pence per share.
In addition to the above holdings, there are the following shareholdings in connection with Directors: Ordinary shares of 2 pence each Ordinary shares of 2 pence each Shareholder Connection to Director 1 December 2013 2 December 2012 Caryn Abrams Spouse of Neill Abrams 75,000 75,000 Spouse of Neill Abrams 133,100 Caryn Abrams as discretionary beneficiary of a trust 133,100 Spouse of Duncan Tatton-Brown 50,000 Kate Tatton-Brown 50,000 Director shareholding requirement audited The table below shows current compliance with the Director shareholding requirements in the remuneration policy.
As at the date of this Annual Report, all of the Directors comply with the requirement.
Minimum shareholding requirement Complied with shareholding Director % of salary or fee requirement?
Basis for compliance Tim Steiner 150 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Jason Gissing 100 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Duncan Tatton-Brown 100 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Neill Abrams 100 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Mark Richardson 100 Yes JSOS interests Sir Stuart Rose 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Robert Gorrie 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Douglas McCallum 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Ruth Anderson 100 Yes Direct shareholdings David Grigson 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Alex Mahon 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Jrn Rausing 100 Yes Indirect shareholdings The assessment for compliance is based on the annualised salary or fee as set out in the total remuneration tables which applied at the end of 2013 and the share price of 576.5 pence per share on 4 March 2014, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report.
Mark Richardson satisfies the requirement through his holding of vested JSOS share interests sitting in the EBT, based on the share price on that date.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 97 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Director interests in share schemes audited ESOS audited The Directors have, as at period end, the following options over ordinary shares in the Company which they were awarded without payment under the Groups ESOS: Director Date of issue 1 December 2013 Exercise price 2 December 2012 Exercise price Exercise period Tim Steiner May-05 200,000 1.15 200,000 1.15 16 05 08 15 05 15 Neill Abrams Nov-03 0.90 100,000 0.90 30 11 06 29 11 13 May-05 100,000 1.15 100,000 1.15 16 05 08 15 05 15 Jason Gissing May-05 200,000 1.15 200,000 1.15 16 05 08 15 05 15 Mark Richardson May-05 1.15 96,850 1.15 31 05 08 30 05 15 May-09 70,000 1.20 70,000 1.20 31 05 12 30 05 19 Aug-13 08 07 16 07 07 23 Duncan Tatton-Brown 9,923 3.02 Details of the movement in the number of share options outstanding during each period are as follows: 1 1 December 2013 2 December 2012 Weighted average exercise Weighted average exercise Number of share options price Number of share options price Outstanding at the beginning of the period 766,850 1.12 1,338,146 1.21 Granted during the period 9,923 3.02 Forfeited during the period 396,296 1.48 Exercised during the period 196,850 1.02 175,000 1.00 Outstanding at the end of the period 579,923 1.19 766,850 1.12 Exercisable at the end of the period 570,000 1.16 766,850 1.12 Further details on all the changes in existing options held by the Executive Directors under the ESOS can be found on pages 90 to 91.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued Details of the movement in the number of interests in ordinary shares in the Company pursuant to the Groups JSOS were as follows: 1 December 2013 2 December 2012 Number of interests in ordinary shares Weighted average price Number of interests in ordinary shares Weighted average price Outstanding at the beginning of the period 28,020,075 1.97 28,417,100 2.00 Granted during the period 2,953,675 1.76 Forfeited during the period 3,350,700 2.18 Exercised during the period Outstanding at the end of the period 28,020,075 1.97 28,020,075 1.97 Exercisable at the end of the period 17,363,975 1.89 10,858,000 1.82 The prior period was restated to remove 3,350,800 interests held by Andrew Bracey, a former Director.
He retains these interests, which had vested in 2011 and 2012 while he was still a Director.
These had not been exercised as at the time of publication of these accounts.
He does not hold any other interests in the JSOS.
LTIP audited At the end of the period the Executive Directors LTIP awards were as follows: Date of Basis on which award is End of performance 1 2 Director Type of interest grant made % of salary Number of shares Face value period Tim Steiner Conditional shares 23 07 13 400 1,371,951 1,800,000 29 11 15 Jason Gissing Conditional shares 23 07 13 280 533,536 700,000 29 11 15 Mark Richardson Conditional shares 23 07 13 280 469,512 616,000 29 11 15 Neill Abrams Conditional shares 23 07 13 200 304,878 400,000 29 11 15 Duncan Tatton-Brown Conditional shares 23 07 13 300 685,975 900,000 29 11 15 1 For the 2013 LTIP awards the face value of the award has been calculated using a price of 131.2 pence per share, being the volume weighted average price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 11 March 2013 the date that the Remuneration Committee determined the number of shares subject to the LTIP awards.
As explained on page 91, the 2013 LTIP awards were made in respect of both 2012 and 2013.
2 The performance target for the 2013 LTIP awards is described on page 92.
Chairmans Share Matching Award audited At the end of the period, the Chairmans Share Matching Award was as follows: 1 Director Type of interest Date of grant Number of shares Face value End of vesting period Stuart Rose Restricted shares 17 May 2013 452,284 400,000 10 05 2016 1 The face value of the award has been calculated using a price of 88.44 pence per share, being the volume weighted average share price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 22 January 2013 the date of the announcement of the Chairmans appointment.
The basis for the award was to match up to 400,000 of Company shares where such shares were acquired by the Chairman.
2 The award is not subject to any performance conditions other than continued service.
The award is described on page 93.
Sharesave Scheme audited At the end of the period the Executive Directors interests in the Sharesave Scheme were as follows: Director Date of issue 1 December 2013 Exercise price 2 December 2012 Exercise price Exercise period Tim Steiner Oct-10 7,745 1.16 7,745 1.16 01 12 13 01 06 14 Tim Steiner Oct-13 2,987 3.01 01 12 16 31 05 17 Neill Abrams Oct-10 7,745 1.16 7,745 1.16 01 12 13 01 06 14 Neill Abrams Oct-13 2,987 3.01 01 12 16 31 05 17 Jason Gissing Mar-12 9,846 0.91 9,846 0.91 01 05 15 01 11 15 Duncan Tatton-Brown Oct-13 2,987 3.01 01 12 16 31 05 17 22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 99 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Details of the movement in the number of interests in ordinary shares in the Company pursuant to the Groups Sharesave Scheme were as follows: 1 December 2013 2 December 2012 Weighted average Number of share Weighted average Number of share options exercise price options exercise price Outstanding at the beginning of the period 25,336 1.06 30,980 1.16 Granted during the period 8,961 3.01 9,846 0.91 Forfeited during the period 15,490 1.16 Exercised during the period Outstanding at the end of the period 34,297 1.57 25,336 1.06 Exercisable at the end of the period Share price and other option information The closing market price of the Companys shares as at 29 November 2013, being the last trading day in the period ending on 1 December 2013, was 409.00 pence per ordinary share 2012: 73.90 pence and the share price range applicable during the period was 70.25 pence to 454.80 pence per ordinary share.
No other Directors have options over shares of the Company outside one of the Companys recognised share schemes.
Dilution Dilution limits Awards granted under the Companys Sharesave Scheme and ESOS are met by the issue of new shares when the options are exercised.
The allocation of awards under the JSOS were met by the subscription for new shares by the participant and the EBT.
Awards granted under the LTIP and GIP may be met by the issue of new shares, the transfer of shares from treasury, or the purchase of existing shares by the EBT.
The share deferral provisions in the Annual Incentive Plan have not been approved by shareholders and accordingly awards will be satisfied only by the purchase of existing shares by the EBT until such shareholder approval is obtained.
There are limits on the number of shares that may be allocated under the Companys share plans.
These dilution limits were recommended by the Remuneration Committee and incorporated into the rules of the various share schemes, which have been approved by the Companys shareholders.
The dilution limits restrict the commitment to issue new ordinary shares under all share schemes of the Group to 10% of the nominal amount of the Companys issued share capital and under the JSOS, the LTIP and the GIP and any other selective share scheme to 5% of the nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company.
These limits are consistent with the guidelines of institutional shareholders.
The JSOS rules have additional overriding limits on the number of shares that may be allocated under the JSOS.
Up to 7.5% of the Companys ordinary issued share capital may be held under the JSOS.
Impact on dilution The Company monitors the number of shares issued under these schemes and their impact on dilution.
The charts below show the Companys commitment, as at the last practical date prior to the publication date of this Annual Report, to issue new shares in respect of its share schemes assuming all performance conditions are met, all award holders remain in employment to the vesting date and all awards are settled in newly issued shares.
All share plans Executive share plans 2.6% 0.71% Actual Actual Limit 10% Limit 5% For these purposes, no account is taken of ordinary shares allocated prior to the Companys Admission.
This summary does not include any possible commitments under any proposed new scheme, notably the SIP and GIP.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued Review of changes in remuneration and Company performance This part of the report provides some context for Directors remuneration including Company performance, shareholder returns and spend on employee pay.
CEO historical remuneration The table below summarises in respect of the Chief Executive Officer, the single figure of total remuneration, the Annual Incentive Plan or bonus plan payment as a percentage of maximum opportunity, and long-term incentives as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the current period and the previous four financial years.
CEO Annual Incentive Plan or bonus as a Annual Incentive Plan or bonus Long-term Incentives as a Total Remuneration percentage of Maximum Opportunity payment percentage of Maximum Opportunity Year 000 % 000 % 2013 1,011 93.8 528 0 2012 483 29.7 104 0 2011 379 0 0 0 2010 599 n a 220 0 2009 564 n a 262 0 1 In respect of the 2009 financial year, the Company did not produce an annual report containing disclosure comparable with the disclosure requirements for quoted companies as it was a private company at the time.
2 The CEO total remuneration figures prior to the current period represent the previously presented audited information with necessary adjustments for amounts required to be included in the single total figure of remuneration such as pension amounts.
3 Prior to the 2010 financial year, the Company did not have a long-term incentive plan.
From 2010, the Company had the JSOS as the main form of long-term incentive plan.
For the 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 financial years, the JSOS interests did not have any value at the vesting date.
The LTIP was implemented in 2013 but the first award has a performance period ending in 2015 and a vesting date in 2016.
CEO percentage change versus representative employee group To put the Directors remuneration into context, the table below sets out the change in salary, benefits, and bonus of the Chief Executive Officer and of all of our UK employees from the preceeding period to the current period.
Tim Steiner All UK employees Percentage change in Salary from 2012 to 2013 28.6% 2.4% Percentage change in Taxable Benefits from 2012 to 2013 0% 0% Percentage change in Annual Incentive Plan earned from 2012 to 2013 407.7% 0% 1 Most of the Groups employees are not entitled to earn an annual bonus payment as part of their remuneration.
2 The change in salary data for all UK employees is on a per capita basis.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following table shows the Companys loss, and total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees for the period and last financial year.
The Company did not record a profit or pay any dividends in the last two years.
The information shown in this chart is based on the following: Loss loss before tax taken from the table on page 119.
Total employee pay total gross employment costs for the Group including pension, variable pay, share-based payments and social security as stated on page 128.
1 December 2013 2 December 2012 m m Loss before tax 12.5 0.6 Total gross employmee pay 156.7 138.0 22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 101 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Total Shareholder Return The following graph shows the total shareholder return TSR performance of an investment of 100 in the Companys shares from its Admission to the end of the period compared with an equivalent investment in the FTSE 250 Index which was chosen because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent.
The TSR was calculated by reference to the movements in share price.
The Company has not paid a dividend since its Admission so the Companys TSR does not include a dividend amount.
300.0 FTSE 250 250.0 Ocado Group plc 200.0 150.0 100.0 50.0 0.0 Annual Report on Remuneration policy for 2014 Introduction This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out implementation of the remuneration policy for 2014.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to a shareholder vote at the AGM.
Summary of changes for Executive Directors This table briefly summarises the proposed significant changes to the Directors remuneration arrangements for 2014 when compared to the arrangements for the period.
Base pay and benefits Pension Annual Incentive Plan Long-term incentives All employee schemes Base pay will be No change No change to the maximum Introduction of GIP.
LTIP lower awards than Proposed new legislative limits review.
Introduction of share deferral, 2013, introduction of second adopted.
performance measure, and Introduction of 2014 ESOS.
change of measures to EBIT and gross sales.
The GIP and 2014 ESOS have been proposed to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
Base salary and benefits The Remuneration Committee expects to conclude its annual review of the Executive Directors base salaries in due course.
The benefits in kind offered to the Executive Directors are expected to remain unchanged.
Pensions Pension contributions, as described in the remuneration policy, remain unchanged from the previous period.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued 2014 Annual Incentive Plan The Remuneration Committee approved the implementation of an Annual Incentive Plan for the Executive Directors applicable to the 2013 2014 financial year.
This plan broadly reflects the framework of the 2013 Annual Incentive Plan, but with the introduction of key additional provisions.
The bonus potential for the Executive Directors is 100% and for the Chief Executive Officer is 125% of base salary for maximum performance, which is the same as the 2013 plan.
Following a review of the structure of the Annual Incentive Plan the Remuneration Committee recommended a number of changes to the plan.
The Annual Incentive Plan for 2014 makes provision for a proportion of a bonus payment to be deferred into shares.
Up to 50% of a bonus payment will be compulsorily deferred into shares to the extent that the relevant participant has not met the applicable minimum shareholding requirement set out in the remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee introduced this change to ensure that the Annual Incentive Plan is aligned with the Companys longerterm objectives.
Given the Executive Directors, and their respective trusts, collectively hold a very large shareholding in the Companys issued share capital it was considered appropriate that deferral not be mandatory per se, as the existing shareholdings already reinforce the alignment between the Executive Directors interests and shareholders interests that is sought to be achieved with share deferral.
If deferred, shares vest after three years, subject to bad leaver, malus and clawback provisions.
Until the Annual Incentive Plan is approved by shareholders, the share deferral will be made by an award which will be satisfied, to the extent required, by purchase of existing shares by the EBT rather than newly issued shares.
In line with best practice and the Companys existing LTIP, clawback and malus provisions have been introduced into the 2014 Annual Incentive Plan.
These provisions allow the Remuneration Committee to reduce or cancel a payment under the 2014 Annual Incentive Plan in certain circumstances, for a three year period.
Such exceptional circumstances may include a material misstatement in the published results of the Companys group, misconduct on the part of the participant or where the Remuneration Committee determines that the participant has caused wholly or in part a material loss for the Company as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviour.
Annual Incentive Plan 2014 Performance Targets The Annual Incentive Plan performance measures are unchanged for the 2013 2014 financial year namely 40% for Group gross sales, 40% for Group EBITDA and 20% for performance measured against role specific objectives.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the balance of targets provides an appropriate focus on annual financial performance objectives of driving sales growth and improved EBITDA while ensuring that the senior executives deliver other business objectives in connection with growing the business.
The role-specific objectives are intended to ensure that the 2014 Annual Incentive Plan reflects the remuneration principles for Executive Directors which is that the plan provides a direct link between Company and role-specific performance and reward.
The financial performance targets have again been set on the basis of the Companys budget for the 2013 2014 financial year.
For the maximum payment level to be achieved the Company must significantly outperform its budgeted sales growth and EBITDA for the 2013 2014 financial year.
A threshold payment level has been set at an acceptable point of Company financial performance.
Below such point no bonus will be earned.
The rationale for, and basis of measurement of, the performance metrics was as follows: Performance target Commercial rationale Basis of measurement Rewards top line sales growth in line with the Gross sales for the Group including VAT and Gross sales Groups strategy: is the primary management before voucher discounts for the 2013 2014 measure.
Rewards earnings growth in line with the Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, Groups strategy: currently is the most relevant amortisation, impairment and exceptional items EBITDA profit measure for the Group.
for the Group for the financial year non-GAAP measure.
Allows flexibility to target rewards against Discussed below.
achievement of specific objectives which will Individual objectives contribute to the Company achieving its strategy in the short and medium-term.
The individual objectives applicable for the Annual Incentive Plan are linked to the Executive Directors role and or his business area s and are in line with the Groups strategy.
Achievement of the objectives will be determined by the Chief Executive Officer or in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, by the Chairman.
The Chief Executive Officers and the Chairmans recommendations will be reported to the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee, taking into account the recommendations received, has discretion to determine the percentage payable, up to 20%, in respect of the individual objectives.
The actual performance conditions are not disclosed due to their commercial sensitivity on the basis that if disclosed it would likely damage the Companys commercial interests.
The Company will disclose the extent to which they were met after the end of the performance period.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 103 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued LTIP 2014 awards The Remuneration Committee approved the making of awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan for the Executive Directors for the 2013 2014 financial year.
These awards are outlined in the table below.
Basis on which award is End of performance 1 2 Director Type of interest Date of grant made % of salary Number of shares Face value period Tim Steiner Conditional shares 05 02 14 200 174,588 900,000 03 12 16 Jason Gissing Mark Richardson Conditional shares 05 02 14 150 96,023 495,000 03 12 16 Neill Abrams Conditional shares 05 02 14 120 64,016 330,000 03 12 16 Duncan Tatton-Brown Conditional shares 05 02 14 150 96,023 495,000 03 12 16 For the 2014 LTIP, the face value of the award has been calculated using a price of 515.5 pence per share, being the volume weighted average price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 5 February 2014 being the LTIP grant date.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the LTIP and approved a number of changes to its terms.
In light of shareholder feedback from the shareholder consultation conducted in March 2013, the Remuneration Committee has revised the targets from 2013 and decided to put in place two performance objectives for the 2014 awards.
Grants will be subject to reaching threshold levels of earnings per share and gross sales rather than the performance condition applicable to the 2013 awards which is the Companys earnings before interest and tax.
The Remuneration Committee believe that these two measures provide a more balanced basis for judging performance and earnings per share in particular, and better reflects shareholder interests.
The rationale for, and basis of measurement of, the performance metrics was as follows: Performance target Commercial rationale Basis of measurement Gross sales 50% Rewards top line sales growth in line with the Groups Gross sales for the Group including VAT and before strategy: is the primary management measure.
voucher discounts for the 2015 2016 financial year.
Earnings per share 50% Rewards the creation of financial returns to Diluted and adjusted earnings per share for 2015 2016 shareholders.
The performance conditions will be appropriately stretching and will be set taking into account the Companys budget for the 2015 2016 financial year.
Full vesting will occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
The maximum awards for 2014 have been reduced from the inaugural awards made under the LTIP in 2013.
The maximum total market value is 150% of annual base salary of a participant.
In the case of the Chief Executive Officer, the maximum total market value of a LTIP Award is 200% of annual base salary.
The Remuneration Committee may decide, within two years from the acquisition of shares under the LTIP award, that the award will be subject to clawback where, in its opinion, there are exceptional circumstances.
Such exceptional circumstances may include a material misstatement in the published results of the Companys group, an error in assessing any applicable performance condition, misconduct on the part of the participant or where, as a result of an appropriate review of accountability, the Remuneration Committee determines that the participant has caused wholly or in part of a material loss for the Companys Group as a result of i reckless, negligent or wilful actions or ii inappropriate values or behaviour.
The Remuneration Committee may also decide, at any time prior to the acquisition of the shares under the LTIP award, that the number of shares subject to that LTIP award shall be reduced including to nil such basis that the Remuneration Committee in its discretion considers to be fair, reasonable and proportionate where, in its opinion, there are exceptional circumstances as described previously.
Growth Incentive Plan The Board is seeking shareholders approval for the Growth Incentive Plan at the AGM.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed its approach to remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer and other Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee has concluded that it would be appropriate to introduce the GIP as a one-off award, with the aim of incentivising and rewarding truly exceptional levels of performance and growth.
The GIP will provide the potential for greater rewards for Executive Directors if shareholders benefit from significant outperformance of the FTSE 100 Share Index.
It will also require the Executive Directors to hold and retain a shareholding.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report continued In developing the GIP, the Remuneration Committee has sought to take into account views expressed by the Companys shareholders in the shareholder consultation.
If approved, the Remuneration Committee intends to make GIP awards in May 2014.
A summary of the principal terms of the proposed GIP are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
A summary of the performance conditions is described in the remuneration policy on page 81.
2014 Executive Share Option Scheme The Board is seeking shareholders approval for the Ocado 2014 Executive Share Option Scheme.
The 2014 ESOS is based on the Companys existing 2001 Executive Share Option Scheme.
For technical reasons, the existing scheme cannot be used for employees of some members of the Ocado Group.
Introduction of this additional scheme will allow employees of all Group companies to participate in a scheme of this kind.
The same limits on individual and overall participation will apply to the 2014 ESOS as apply to the existing scheme.
If approved, the Remuneration Committee intends to make the first awards under the 2014 ESOS in line with its usual policies for awarding all employees.
It does not intend to make any awards to the existing Executive Directors under the 2014 ESOS.
A summary of the principal terms of the proposed 2014 ESOS are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
SIP The Share Incentive Plan was previously approved by shareholders at the 2011 annual general meeting.
The Executive Directors are expected to participate when the scheme is expected to launch in 2014 for all employees.
This HMRC scheme will comprise a number of elements, including partnership shares, matching shares and free shares.
In 2014 the Company will: Free Shares grant up to 3,600 in free shares to the Executive Directors.
Partnership Shares invite the Executive Directors to buy 1,800 worth of partnership shares from their gross salary.
Matching Shares offer the Executive Directors matching shares at a ratio of 2 matching shares for every partnership share bought.
The above amounts align with the proposed new HMRC limits that are proposed to apply to share incentive plans, which are to be amended by the new legislation expected to be effective in 2014.
Changes for Non-Executive Directors and Chairman Since the end of the period, the Company has conducted its first review since early 2010, of the Non-Executive Directors fees and has decided to recommend an increase for 2014.
The following table shows the change in each Non-Executive Directors salary effective from April 2014.
2013 2014 Base Committee chair SID Total Base Committee chair SID Total Non-Executive Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 % Change David Grigson 40 7 15 62 48 7 15 70 12.90 40 10 50 48 12 60 20.00 Ruth Anderson 40 40 48 48 20.00 Robert Gorrie 40 40 48 48 20.00 Jrn Rausing Douglas McCallum 40 8 48 48 12 60 25.00 40 40 48 48 20.00 Alex Mahon The review was carried out in accordance with the remuneration policy and took into account the fact that the Non-Executive Directors salaries had not been reviewed since early 2010: the increased responsibility of the roles of the Non-Executive Directors and Board Committee Chairmen: the improved performance of the business: and the appropriate benchmark data.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors will otherwise remain unchanged.
There has been no change to the remuneration arrangements for the Chairman.
Payments for loss of office Jason Gissing, co-founder and Commercial Director, will retire from the Board with effect from the AGM.
The remuneration arrangements for Jason Gissing in connection with his departure will be finalised in due course and will be reported on the Companys website, as required by the Companies Act, as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, and will also be reported in the Companys 2014 annual report published in about March 2015.
The Company does not expect to make any payments to Jason Gissing for loss of office.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 105 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Shareholder approval and votes at AGM The Company will lay before shareholders at the Companys AGM, the Directors remuneration report for 2013.
The remuneration policy for Directors contained in this annual report is subject to approval by the shareholders.
The Company intends to move a resolution to approve the remuneration policy at the AGM.
If approved, the remuneration policy will apply from the AGM and will be unchanged for three years, unless the Company subsequently decides to change the remuneration policy.
In addition, the Annual report on remuneration will be subject to a shareholder vote at the Companys AGM.
Entitlement of a Director to remuneration is not made conditional on this resolution being passed.
Finally, resolutions will be put to shareholders to approve the GIP and the 2014 ESOS, outlined above.
The Company is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue on Directors remuneration and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to Directors remuneration, the Company would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would detail any actions in response in the annual report.
The Remuneration Committee considers that a vote against that exceeds 20% should be considered significant and requires explanation.
In this regard, the 2012 Directors remuneration report received a significant 23.46% shareholder vote against it at the annual general meeting in May 2013.
In response to this, the Remuneration Committee carried out a more comprehensive shareholder consultation with shareholders constituting over 50% of the vesting rights attached to the Companys issued share capital accepting the invitation to meet with the Company, in early 2014 covering proposed changes to Director remuneration, as laid out in this Directors remuneration report.
This was intended to provide the Company an opportunity to better explain the rationale and context for the proposals and to take into account shareholder feedback on the proposed remuneration changes as noted on page 77.
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of resolutions regarding remuneration at the previous annual general meetings.
Resolution text Votes for % For Votes Against % Against Total votes Votes withheld 2013 AGM Approve the 2012 Directors 349,776,432 76.54 107,184,194 23.46 461,418,179 4,457,553 Remuneration Report Approve the Ocado Long-Term 360,235,983 86.40 56,698,838 13.60 461,418,179 44,483,358 Incentive Plan Approve the Chairmans Share 384,380,959 83.30 77,037,220 16.70 461,418,179 0 Matching Award 2012 AGM Approve the 2011 Directors 338,085,907 97.60 8,316,258 2.40 346,402,165 8,767,398 Remuneration Report 2011 AGM Approve the 2010 Directors 317,979,609 98.80 3,862,454 1.20 321,842,063 7,481,892 Remuneration Report Approve the expansion of the Ocado 326,445,526 99.13 2,878,429 0.87 329,323,955 0 Joint Share Ownership Scheme Approve the establishment of the 329,323,955 100.00 0 0 329,323,955 0 Ocado Share Incentive Plan Basis of preparation and audit review This report is a Directors remuneration report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013, prepared for the purposes of satisfying section 420 1 and sections 421 2A of the Companies Act 2006.
It has been drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act and the 2012 Code, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In accordance with section 497 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations, certain parts of this Directors remuneration report where indicated have been audited by the Companys auditors,  LLP.
A copy of this Directors remuneration report will be available on the Companys website www.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Douglas McCallum Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Ocado Group plc 12 March 2014 22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 106 www.
com Stock Code: OCDO Heading One DIRECTORS REPORT 22965.04 10 March 2014 10:21 AM Proof 3
