Corporate Governance Corporate Governance: Directors Remuneration Report Chairmans Annual Statement on Remuneration ii The Remuneration Policy Report the Policy Report, which will be subject to a binding shareholder resolution at the forthcoming AGM: and iii The Annual Report on Remuneration which will be put to an Vivien Gibney advisory shareholder resolution at the forthcoming AGM.
Remuneration Committee Chairman Remuneration Policy for 2014 Ophir is an oil and gas exploration company: as such it creates Chairmans Annual Statement value for its shareholders in different ways.
Historically, it has seen considerable success through the discovery and delineation of Dear Shareholder oil and gas assets.
It also actively manages these assets through I welcome the opportunity to make this first report to farm-outs and acquisitions.
Our strategy is to create shareholder shareholders, following my appointment to chair the value through the exploration and appraisal phase of the E&P Remuneration Committee the Committee in November 2013. cycle and we seek to monetarise value at the appropriate time inthe investment cycle to maximise shareholder returns.
My predecessor John Lander has been most helpful and supportive and my sincere thanks go to him for ensuring a smooth and Because the exploration business is a long-term one our activities effective transition between us.
The Company is indebted to John impact over more than a single year.
It is therefore the policy for steering the remuneration elements of a private company to ofthe Committee for the remuneration of the executive directors those of the FTSE 250 company it now is.
Inevitably, the Company to be weighted towards long-term variable pay, with fixed pay has some heritage issues from those former days which are set set at or below comparable market benchmarks.
However, the out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 79 to 93, Committee was concerned that the remuneration of the Chief but the Board is supportive of the recent reforms in remuneration Executive Officer was no longer competitive in comparison with policy and practice and is committed to carrying them out.
Not his peers and that there was a relatively small difference between surprisingly, different shareholders and industry bodies sometimes his base salary and that of the other executive directors.
The have differing views in these areas.
Committee believed that a significant increase in base salary was required to retain and properly reward the Chief Executive We have consulted with our principal shareholders and these Officer.
Shareholder views in consultation on this issue varied industry bodies in finalising our remuneration policy for 2014 considerably.
The Committee recognises the force of opinions and their views have informed and shaped our discussions expressed but nevertheless believes that his performance is and decisions.
Our overwhelming concern is to ensure that superior and that it is in the best interests of the Company, its our remuneration policy continues to support the strategy of shareholders and stakeholders to retain him.
Therefore for 2014 the Company and ensures a fair reward for success.
I am very the Committee approved an increase in basic salary for the grateful to those shareholders who took the time to meet with Chief Executive Officer of 74,470 18.3% and intends to make me or to speak on the telephone.
Your courtesy was very much a further increase of 68,000 from 1 January 2015 a further appreciated as was your willingness to engage in open debate.
increase of 14.1%, subject to continuing good performance: Itwas a privilege and I thank you.
it proposes increases in basic salaries for the other executive The new regulations governing the disclosure and approval directors of 2.5% consistent with the typical salary budget of the ofdirectors remuneration require the remuneration report to be Group as a whole.
All with effect from 1 January 2014. split into three parts: There are no changes to our annual bonus or our long-term i This Annual Statement providing an overview of the incentive policies for 2014, either in terms of quantum or of Companys remuneration policy and the way in which it has structure.
Full details of these are set out on pages 71 to 72. been implemented during the year under review: Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Chairmans Annual Statement on Remuneration continued Performance and reward Determining Annual Bonus payments in respect of the 2012 As described in the Chairman and Chief Executive Officers financial year and setting incentive plan targets for 2013 joint review, 2013 was another year of significant operational incentive plans and strategic progress.
Changes to the executive Board The Committee considers the remuneration paid to our During the year, the executive team was strengthened by management team to fairly reflect their performance during appointing Dennis McShane as Executive Director of Corporate the year.
Ophir includes a broad range of the Companys Strategy and promoting Lisa Mitchell to the Board in her role KPIs in its annual bonus plan encapsulating, for example, as Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee set their respective health and safety, funding costs, increase in resources and remuneration packages in line with the Companys policy finding costs and the Company delivered substantial progress onnew recruits, which takes into account the experience and against each metric during the year in delivering the strong calibre of the individual, market rates and, where appropriate, performance noted above.
As a result, annual bonuses were the need to buy-out value on joining from other employment.
paid in the range of 86% and 92% of the maximum to the Companys current Executive directors.
At the 2013 AGM, Jonathan Taylor, a co-founder and executive director at Ophir retired from the Board and his service As the Company only listed on the main market of the London agreement with the Company terminated.
The Committee Stock Exchange in July 2011, no long-term incentive awards determined the payments to be made on termination of his vested during the year save for the Chief Executive Officers employment in line with his contractual entitlements and, 2011 awards made to facilitate his recruitment.
This reflects asaretiree, he was treated as a good leaver for the purposes the relatively short period since listing.
ofcertain outstanding long-term incentive awards.
Other Remuneration Committee activities during the Placing and Rights Issue year under review In March 2013, the Company raised capital through a Placing The Committee spent time on a number of other matters and Rights Issue.
The Committee, in line with normal practice concerning executive pay during the year.
These included: inthese situations and as permitted in the plan rules, adjusted Undertaking a review of executive remuneration the number of outstanding long-term incentive awards and The conclusion of this review was that the current policy, share options including their exercise price held by participants weighting pay towards variable remuneration, remains to ensure that award holders would not be disadvantaged appropriate for a Company making investment decisions vis--vis shareholders as a result of the rights issue.
However, reflecting the feedback adjustments, which followed the generally accepted HMRC received during consultation, particularly in relation to our formula that is used for all employee share plans, ensured that approach to measuring long-term performance, during the impact ofthe rights issue was neutral for award holders.
the current year we will review certain aspects of our policy Furthermore, the absolute share price targets attached to to ensure its continued effectiveness in underpinning the the Chief Executive Officers Exceptional Long-Term Incentive strategy of the Company and fairly rewarding success.
Award were also adjusted on a consistent basis to ensure that the adjusted targets were no more or less challenging than the original ones set in light of the rights issue.
68 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Risk As an upstream oil and gas business, Ophir is potentially exposed to many different risks and, therefore, effective risk management is an integral part of the Companys activities.
From a remuneration perspective, the Committee undertakes a careful review of its remuneration policy annually to ensure that it is consistent with the business strategy and does not, as an unintended consequence, encourage or reward inappropriate risk-taking by the executives.
The Committee is comfortable that the current structure, weighted towards long-term variable pay, and operating with share ownership guidelines and clawback provisions, does not inadvertently encourage undue risk taking.
Shareholder feedback The Board and the Committee are committed to maintaining an open and constructive dialogue with our shareholders on remuneration matters.
We will engage in appropriate dialogue with our major investors on any significant changes to the remuneration policy and welcome any feedback you may have.
Vivien Gibney Remuneration Committee Chairman 19 March 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Directors Remuneration Policy This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the views of our major shareholders and describes the policy to be Remuneration policy for the Company and has been prepared in applied in relation to the current financial year and future financial accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and years.
The Policy Report will be put to a binding shareholder vote Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 at the 2014 AGM and, subject to it receiving majority shareholder the Act.
The policy has been developed taking into account the support, the Effective Date of the policy will be the date of the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the AGM, 21 May 2014.
The Committees policy is to adequately reward the Directors if they Remuneration Policy meet or exceed the targets set under the variable components of their A key element of the Companys Remuneration policy is to achieve a level remuneration packages.
of remuneration which will attract, motivate and retain executives of high calibre.
The Company operates in a sector where investment decisions have The remuneration structure for executive directors is made up of multi-year impacts.
For this reason the Committee has elected to adopt two elements: fixed remuneration consisting of base salary, benefits an executive Remuneration policy which is structured so that a significant including non-contributory health insurance and life assurance and proportion is made up of long-term share-based incentives.
pension contributions and variable remuneration annual bonus scheme and long-term share incentives.
Policy Table The table below sets out the key elements of executive director pay as at 1 January 2014: Framework Purpose and used to assess Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity performance To provide the core Reviewed annually and Following a review of remuneration in 2013, and after consultation The Committee Base Salary reward for the role.
with the Companys major shareholders, it was decided to increase the considers Chief Executive Officers base salary from 407,530 to 482,000 with individual salaries Sufficient level to Decision influenced by: effect from 1 January 2014 and to 550,000 with effect from 1 January at the appropriate help recruit and Role, experience and personal performance 2015 subject to continued appropriate levels of performance.
meeting each Average change in total workforce salary The salaries of the wider executive directors have been increased by Reflects role year after having in the location where they are based 2.5% with effect from 1 January 2014 with this increase in line with and experience due regard to the the salary increase budget applicable to UK employees as a whole: Total organisational salary budgets of individual.
factors noted in Dennis McShane: 389,872: and operating the Company performance and salary policy.
other economic conditions Lisa Mitchell: 358,750.
Salaries are benchmarked periodically The above salary levels will be eligible for increases during the three-year and are set by reference to companies period that the Remuneration Policy operates from the Effective Date.
of a similar size and complexity.
During this time for the Chief Executive Officer once the increases detailed above have been implemented, salaries may be increased each year in percentage of salary terms in line with increases granted to the wider workforce where they are based.
Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, experience or a significant increase inthe scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group.
Where new joiners or recent promotions have been placed on a below market rate of pay initially, a series of above increases above those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of salary terms may begiven over the following few years subject to individual performance anddevelopment in the role.
To recruit and Directors are entitled to health insurance, In 2013 the maximum cost of providing benefits based on n a Benefits retain employees.
life assurance, medical evacuation taxable value of the benefits was under 5% of salary.
insurance, travel insurance, holiday The value of benefits may vary from year to year depending pay, sick leave and other Group-wide on the cost to the Company from third-party providers.
benefits offered by the Company.
Other ancillary benefits including relocation expenses may be offered, as required.
70 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Purpose and Maximum Element link to strategy Operation opportunity Framework used to assess performance To provide The Company operates a defined contribution pension The executive directors n a Pension long-term savings scheme or may contribute directly into an executive receive a Company via pension directors personal pension or pay a salary supplement contribution into the provision.
Pension benefits are provided Group or their personal according to length of service up to retirement.
pension plan or a salary supplement in lieu of pension to the greater ofthe statutory minimum and 11% of salary.
To incentivise Targets are renewed annually and relate to the business The maximum award Details of the performance measures used for Annual Bonus the execution of asawhole.
under the annual bonus the current year and targets set for the year business strategy.
under review and performance against them Bonus level, payable in cash, is determined by the isprovided in the Annual Report on Rewards the Committeefollowing the end of the financial year and Remuneration on page 84. achievement of isbased onperformance against targets set at the start annual financial ofthe year.
The Companys bonus is based on the and strategic achievement against a range ofbusiness Clawback provisions apply that enable the Committee business targets objectives and key performance indicators.
to clawback value overpaid in the event of a material and delivery misstatement of the Companys results within Given the constantly evolving nature of our of personal atwo-yearperiod.
business, measures and their weightings may objectives.
change each year reflecting the changing business priorities.
The key performance measures may include andare not limited tothe following: HSE performance CSR Personal objectives Reserves and resources Financial objectives Portfolio Management new business The Committee retains discretion to reduce the bonus payment in the event of a serious HSE incident or series of incidents.
For the bonus measures which operate using a sliding scale of targets, the proportion of maximum bonus earned for achieving threshold performance is typically 25% of that part of the bonus with 100% of the maximum opportunity payable for superior performance.
Bonuses for performance between threshold and maximum are determined on a pro rata basis.
Some elements of the current bonus structure include a subjective assessment of performance as opposed to operating on a sliding scale e. g. bonus earned in relation to HSE performance CSR and some personalobjectives.
To incentivise the The Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The maximum annual Awards vest based on the Companys Total Long-Term achievement of wasapproved by shareholders in 2011 and amended in2012.
award is 200% of salary Shareholder Return TSR performance over Incentive Plan business strategy although the Committee athree-year performance period compared Annual awards of free shares in the form of conditional over the longer is able to grant an award toacomparator group set on grant.
awards or nil nominal cost options are granted which vest term.
of up to 300% in excepafter three years subject to challenging performance targets 25% of the award vests at median, rising on tional circumstances.
astraight line basis to 100% for upper quartile performance.
No vesting occurs for below Awards will be determined using the weighted average share median performance.
price for the period for the three-month period up to the time that the Committee normally approves the An underpin applies that enables the TSR individual LTIP allocations i. e. normally around February.
vesting result to be scaled back if the vesting This is considered to result in the number ofshares comprising result is not consistent with underlying financial individual awards to better reflect the information presented performance and or key operational financial to the Committee at the time of approving the awards metrics have not beenachieved.
As the Company continues to develop and grow Awards are granted as soon as the preliminary results are over time, the Committee may introduce other announced or later if a close period continues toapply as measures in conjunction with TSRwhich support ofthat date.
These may, forexample, include strategic imperatives such The normal LTIP performance period is three calendar years as exploration and production targets or major beginning on 1 January of the year of grant and ending on project delivery.
As a minimum, the Committee 31 December of the third year.
would seek to consult with major shareholders To the extent that dividends were to be paid, a provision before applying any changes to measures with would operate which would enable dividends to accrue any substantive change ofpolicy potentially onshares at the time of vesting.
giving rise to the Company seeking approval forarevised Policy Report.
A clawback provision exists that enables the Committee toclawback value overpaid in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys results within a two-year period in relation to the award.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and Maximum Element link to strategy Operation opportunity Framework used to assess performance Award structured An exceptional one-off award of 1,017,568 shares was The award has Tranche 1 is subject to an absolute TSR Chief Executive to align the made to the Chief Executive Officer on 19 June 2012. three separate performance condition which will require Officers individual with tranches Tranche compound TSR growth of at least 20% p. a.
The performance period for each tranche is three years.
Exceptional the founders 1: 277,518 shares, from a share price of 4.28 for 25% to vest Long-Term Clawback provisions apply that will enable the Committee to of Ophir and Tranche 2: through to 35% p. a. TSR growth for full vesting.
clawback value overpaid in the event of a material misstatement Incentive reflect additional 370,025 shares Performance is measured from 19 June 2012 to of the Companys results within a two-year period.
Award as applying to the 370,025 shares.
To the extent that dividends were to be paid, a provision would approved by Tranche 2 is subject to an equal split of relative Chief Executive operate which would enable dividends to accrue on shares during The three TSR based on the same structure to the shareholders Officer following the vesting period which would be payable at the time of vesting.
tranches LTIP targets noted above and absolute TSR in 2012 the 2012 Board comprising performance with the same growth rates that restructuring the award vest apply for Tranche 1 using a base share price of independently 4.09.
Performance is measured from 19 June 2013 in 2015, 2016 to 18 June 2016 for both the relative and absolute and 2017.
25% of the relative and absolute TSR performance conditions vest at the threshold performance levels.
Tranche 3 will also operate based on an equal split of relative TSR based on the same structure tothe LTIP targets noted above and absolute TSRperformance based on the same growth rates that apply for Tranche 1.
Performance will be measured from 19 June 2014 to 18 June 2017 forboth relative and absolute TSR performance targets.
An underpin applies to all 3 tranches that enables the TSR vesting result to be scaled back if the vesting result is not consistent with underlying financial performance and or key operational financial metrics have not been achieved.
To compensate To facilitate his recruitment as an executive director, Dennis The maximum The award vests in full based on achieving a Dennis for value forfeit McShane received a buy-out award which was calculated number of shares minimum of median TSR performance against McShanes on joining to compensate him for his lost profit and revenue growth eligible to vest a group of sector peers see page 82.
Recruitment Ophir in a full expectations relating to his consultancy business which under his award While this feature was not part of the potential Award 2006 time executive he was required to exit on joining the Company.
is 360,127 which value forfeit on becoming an executive Share Option capacity.
had a face value The Remuneration Committee was provided with an overview director, the Committee wished to ensure the of 1.7m at Plan ofprospective revenue generation of his business and its forecast recruitment package took due account of grant.
This was revenues and these were discounted by 95% to determine a Official List expectations in that the recruitment considered to present value of the business.
This value was then converted award should be subject to satisfying a have a broadly into an equivalent value in Ophir shares.
However, rather than Company specific performance target.
similar expected offering free shares through a conditional award or a nil cost The exercise price of the option is 4.71. value to the option the compensation was structured as a market value consultancy option i. e. the free share amount was converted to a market value business he exited option grant with the same expected value so that the individual on joining Ophir.
would only benefit from the growth in value of Ophir shares.
Since the value to the individual of his business relied on delivering future revenues, this structure of performance related compensation was considered to be the form most analogous to the value he had forfeit i. e. the Committee bought out on a like for like basis as far as practicable.
Furthermore, recognising Official List expectations, the market value options are also subject to a relative TSR condition.
72 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Framework Purpose and used to assess Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity performance To align the The Chief Executive Officer has a 300% of salary n a n a Share interests of holding requirement and other executive directors are ownership directors with required to build up a holding of 100% of salary.
those of the The Chief Executive Officer is required to retain 100% Companys of the vested or exercised shares net of tax until the shareholders.
Any other executive director is required to retain 50% of the vested or exercised shares net of tax until the shareholding guideline is met.
Any executive directors appointed after 31 December 2012 will be expected to build a shareholding of equal value to 100% of their annual salary through the retention of 50% of the after tax number of shares vesting under the Companys LTIPs.
To provide a The fees for the Companys Chairman and independent Fees for 2014 are: Non-executive competitive fee non-executive directors are determined by the Board as a directors Chairman: 140,000 per annum which will attract whole with the relevant individuals absenting themselves Non-executive director basic fee: 70,000 per annum high calibre from discussions relating directly to their own remuneration.
individuals with The Boards policy in relation to the fee payable to the Committee Chairmanship fee: 5,000 per annum the relevant skills Chairman of the Board is that it should be comparable The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with and experience to the median fee payable for non-executive chairmen reference to the time commitment of the role and market to enhance of companies of a comparable size and complexity.
levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Remuneration levels are agreed based on The above fee levels will be eligible for increases external advice and give consideration to the time during the three-year period that the Remuneration commitment and responsibilities of the role.
Policy operates from the Effective Date to The Chairman and non-executive directors are not ensure they appropriately recognise the time entitled to participate in the Companys executive commitment of the role, increases to fee levels for Remuneration programmes or pension arrangements.
non-executive directors in general and fee levels During the year, the Company did not issue options in companies of a similar size and complexity.
to any of the non-executive directors nor to any Flexibility is retained to go above the above fee levels entity in which they are deemed to be interested.
if it is necessary to do so to appoint a new Chairman or non-executive of an appropriate calibre.
No benefits or other remuneration are provided to non-executive directors.
The number of shares comprising the award originally 880,000 awards in total was adjusted to reflect the Rights Issue that became effective in March 2013.
The adjustment, following the standard approach applied to HMRC approved options where a discounted Rights Issue takes place, resulted in the number of shares comprising the award being increased by a factor of 1.156329 which reflected the terms of the Rights Issue and uplifted the value of the original award based on the theoretical fall in the Companys share price arising as a result of the discounted Rights Issue.
Increasing the number of shares comprising an award in this manner is intended to ensure that the award holder is not treated more or less favourably when compared against a shareholder who will have the ability to buy shares at a discount or sell the discounted rights as part of the fundraising proportionate to their shareholding with the award holder not eligible to participate in the rights issue.
There was no adjustment applied in respect of the March 2013 Placing.
T he share price targets were adjusted on the same basis as described above with a view to ensuring that the targets remained no more or less challenging in light of the Rights Issue that became effective in March 2013.
The adjustment resulted in the share price targets being reduced by a factor of 1.156329.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Annual Bonus plan & Long-Term Incentive Plan policy Choice of performance measures and approach totargetsetting The Committee will operate the Annual Bonus plan and the LTIP The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and according to their respective rules and in accordance with the long-term incentive plans are a subset of the Companys key Listing Rules, and HMRC rules where relevant.
consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number In terms of annual performance targets, a balanced scorecard of areas relating to the operation and administration of these offinancial, operational, strategic, personal and health and safety plans.
These include the following albeit with quantum and metrics is used.
As an upstream oil and gas exploration company, performance targets restricted to the descriptions detailed in the reserves and resources targets are measures of our success: policy tableabove : commercialisation through portfolio management is important Who participates in the plans: in crystallising value at the right time: executives strategic choices and delivery are appraised, and a good health and safety record The timing of grant of award and or payment: underpins the activities we undertake.
The size of an award and or a payment: These metrics, which form part of the Companys key performance The determination of vesting which may include making indicators, are aligned with the Companys underlying objective appropriative adjustments within the terms of performance ofcreating value by exploring and appraising oil and gas assets.
conditions e. g. determining the treatment of a delisted Theprecise metrics chosen and weighting ascribed to each may vary, comparator in a TSR peer group : asdetailed in the policy above, in line with the Companys strategy.
Discretion required when dealing with a change of control With regard to long-term performance targets, awards vest, asa e. g. the timing of testing performance targets or restructuring minimum, subject to a relative TSR condition which measures our of the group: performance against a group of other oil and gas companies.
The Committee believes this measure creates alignment between Determination of a good leaver for incentive plan purposes shareholders and executives and that executives are only rewarded based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate for outperforming their peers.
treatmentchosen: Targets are set based on sliding scales that take account of internal Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, planning and external market expectations for the Company.
corporate restructuring, events and special dividends : and Only modest rewards are available for delivering threshold The annual review of performance measures weighting, and performance levels with maximum rewards requiring substantial targets for the Annual Bonus plan and LTIP from year to year.
out-performance of our challenging plans approved at the start ofeach year.
The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus The targets for awards to be granted under the LTIP are consistent plan and to adjust targets for the LTIP if events occur e. g. material with the policy set out above and are set out in the Annual Report divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that on Remuneration.
the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is Appropriately challenging performance targets would be set required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and inrelation to incentives each year as described above.
are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
All historic awards that were granted under any current or previous share schemes operated by the Company but remain outstanding, remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
74 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere Minimum 100% 542 intheGroup Nick Target The Company, in line with current market practice, does not actively 47% 32% 21% 1,145 Cooper consult with employees on Executive Remuneration.
The Group has Maximum 24% 32% 43% 2,229 a diverse workforce operating in several different countries, with various local pay practices, which would make any cost-effective consultation impractical.
However, when setting the Remuneration Minimum 100% 407 policy for executive directors, the Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions for other employees within Lisa Target 48% 31%21% 855 Mitchell the Group.
This process ensures that any increase to the basic pay Maximum 1,662 ofexecutive directors is not out of proportion with that proposed 24% 32% 43% for other employees.
Differences in Remuneration policy for executive directors Minimum 100% 444 compared to other employees Dennis Target As noted above, the Committee is made aware of pay structures 48% 31% 21% 931 McShane across the wider Group when setting the Remuneration policy Maximum 25% 32% 43% 1,808 forexecutive directors.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the broader Group with specific reference to 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 the location where an individual executive director is located when 000s determining the annual salary review for the executive directors.
Total Fixed Pay Overall, the remuneration policy for the executive directors is more Annual Bonus heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees.
Long-Term Share Awards This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration received by the executive Assumptions directors given it is the executive directors who are considered Minimum fixed pay only 2014 base salary levels, pension tohave the greatest potential to influence Group value creation.
at 11% of salary and the 2013 benefits value included in the The level of variable pay varies within the Group by level of SingleTotal Remuneration Figure for the relevant years.
employee and is informed by the specific responsibilities of each Target Fixed pay plus 50% of maximum bonus payout and role and local market practice as appropriate.
25% vesting i. e. threshold performance under the LTIP Illustrations of application of remuneration policy Maximum Fixed pay plus 100% of bonus payout and The Companys policy results in a significant portion of 100% LTIP vesting remuneration received by executive directors being dependent on Company performance.
The graph below illustrates how the Nick Cooper and Dennis McShane have been included based total pay opportunities for the executive directors vary under on the Companys ongoing Remuneration policy i. e. 200% of three different performance scenarios: below target, on-target salary annual LTIP awards.
While Nick Cooper will not receive and maximum.
an LTIP award in 2014 as a result of his 2012 Exceptional LTIP Award as described above, the Committee feels a 200% of salary annual LTIP policy is a better reflection of the ongoing long-term incentivepolicy.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Recruitment and Promotion policy For Executive Director recruitment and or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the guidelines outlined below: Element Policy Element Policy Base Salary Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the Long-Term Awards under the LTIP will be granted in line with the policy Companys Remuneration policy, taking into account the Incentives outlined for the current executive directors in table set experience and calibre of the individual e. g. typically around outabove.
market rates prevalent in companies of comparable size An award may be made shortly after an appointment and complexity or salary levels may be set below this level subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period.
e. g. if the individual was a promotion to the PLC Board.
For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their Where it is appropriate to offer a below market rate of pay original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning at the date of grant.
In addition, if the grant of awards for may be given over the next few years subject to individual that individual precedes his or her appointment as a Board performance and development in the role.
Director for that financial year, the Committees policy Benefits Directors are entitled to health insurance, life assurance, would include flexibility to top up awards for that year in medical evacuation insurance, travel insurance, holiday line with the policy detailed in the table above based on the pay, sick leave and other Group-wide benefits offered by executives new salary.
Any increases in annual LTIP awards above the ongoing Where necessary, the Committee may approve the payment normal 200% of salary limit and 300% of salary in of relocation expenses to facilitate recruitment.
exceptional circumstances would be contingent on the Pension A defined contribution or cash supplement at the level Company receiving shareholder approval for an amendment provided to current executive directors as set out on to its approved policy at its next General Meeting.
Buy-out In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy-out Annual Bonus The Annual Bonus would operate as outlined for current Awards incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be executive directors i. e. to a maximum of 150% of base forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be salary, albeit pro-rated for the period of employment provided for taking into account the form cash or shares during the financial year.
Depending on the timing and and timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary any existing performance criteria of the remuneration toset different performance measures and targets initially.
Any increases in ongoing Annual Bonus opportunity Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using above the limit detailed in the policy table above would the Companys LTIP up to the exceptional limit of 300% be contingent on the Company receiving shareholder ofsalary.
Replacement awards may also be granted outside approval for an amendment to its approved policy at of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the its next AGM.
76 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Service Agreements and Loss of Office Payments The provisions in Jonathan Taylors Service Agreement, which The executive directors have rolling term service agreements with terminated during the year under review, were consistent with those the Company.
The notice period for current executive directors is of Nick Cooper, save for the fact that the notice period from Jonathan 12months if notice is given by either the executive or the Company.
Taylor was six months to the Company as opposed to 12 months.
For new hires, the Companys policy to set notice periods of The inclusion of the change of control provisions in Nick Cooper and upto12months.
Jonathan Taylors Service Agreements is now considered a legacy The executive directors Service Agreements each include the ability issue by the Committee with Executives in post prior to the IPO for the Company, at its discretion, to pay basic salary only in lieu having consistent provisions in this regard.
Such provisions do not ofany unexpired period of notice.
form part of Dennis McShane or Lisa Mitchells Service Agreement following their appointments as executive directors and will not Payments may be made as either a lump sum or in equal monthly form part of future Service Agreements for executive directors.
instalments until the end of the notice period at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
In the case of the executive A summary of the terms of the Service Agreements is set out below: directors, the executive will be required to seek alternative income Continuous Service Notice by Notice by during the period which monthly instalments are paid and notify Name employment Agreement date Company executive the Company after securing alternative income.
Should alternative Nicholas Cooper 1 June 2011 26 May 2011 12 months 12 months employment be found, the instalment payments shall then be Dennis McShane 18 February 18 February 2013 12 months 12 months reduced by the amount of alternative income or ceased if the 2013 alternative income exceeds the monthly instalment payment.
Lisa Mitchell 5 September 26 April 2013 12 months 12 months 2011 The Service Agreements contain a provision enabling the relevant Jonathan Taylor 1 June 2004 16 October 2007 12 months 6 months employer to put the executive director on garden leave for up Jonathan Taylor retired from the Board and as an executive director at the 2013 to six months at any time after notice to terminate the Service AGM on 6 June 2013.
Agreement has been given by the executive director or the relevant Copies of the service agreements for executive directors, together employer or the executive director has resigned without giving due with the Letters of Appointment for the non-executive directors notice and the relevant employer has not accepted the resignation.
detailed below, are available for inspection during normal business During the garden leave period, the executive will be entitled hours at the Companys registered office toreceive salary and contractual benefits excluding bonuses.
Atthe end of the garden leave period, the Company may, at its sole Treatment of incentives discretion, pay the executive director basic salary alone in respect If an individual is i under notice at the bonus payment date or of the balance of any period of notice given by the Company or ii not in employment, the default position is that no bonus will executive director.
These payments will be reduced to the extent be payable.
However, in certain good leaver circumstances death: alternative income is received.
retirement: ill-health, injury or disability: redundancy, employment For new hires, the same broad policy would apply.
ceasing as a result of a sale of a Group company or for any other reason at the Committees discretion after taking into account The Service Agreement of Nick Cooper only, provides that if there the circumstances prevailing at the time, a pro-rata bonus will isa change of control, and within three months following the become payable for the period of employment.
The Committee, change of control, the relevant employer or the executive director acting fairly and reasonably, may decide not to reduce the bonus serve notice to terminate employment, Nick Coopers employment pro-rata if, in the circumstances, it considers it appropriate to do so will be terminated with immediate effect and the Company shall forexample in the case of, but not limited to, death.
Nick Cooper will not be entitled to any The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to other payment or notice orpayment in lieu of notice in addition anexecutive director will be determined based on the relevant plan tothispayment.
The default treatment will be for outstanding awards to lapse on cessation of employment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 Directors Remuneration Policy continued In relation to awards granted under the LTIP, awards will lapse on External appointments the date of cessation of employment unless an executive leaves With the prior permission of the Board, Executive Directors are under certain good leaver circumstances, such as ill-health, injury, permitted to accept external directorships and to retain any fees disability, redundancy, transfer or sale of the employing company, payable in respect of those roles.
or any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee Non-executive directors Letters of appointment and fees reflecting the circumstances that prevail at the time.
If treated Each independent non-executive director during the year, as a good leaver, the default is for the award to vest at the normal being Nicholas Smith, Ronald Blakely, Alan Booth from 26 April vesting date.
However, the Committee may decide that awards 2013, Vivien Gibney from 14 August 2013, John Lander, will vest instead on the date of cessation.
In making a vesting DennisMcShane until 19 February 2013, Lyndon Powell and determination, the Committee will assess the extent to which BillSchrader from 19 February 2013 has a letter of appointment performance conditions have been achieved and the number from the Company.
The Letters of Appointment do not specifically of awards that would vest will be reduced pro-rata to reflect the provide for terms of appointment, termination notification proportion of the performance period actually served unless the periods or entitlement to payment on termination, however Committee determined otherwise.
If treated as a good leaver there is an expectation that all independent Directors will serve as a result of a death, then the award will vest in full on the date for an initial three-year term.
The Company may terminate the ofdeath.
appointment under each Letter of Appointment if the independent With regards to awards granted under the 2006 Share Option non-executive director has committed a serious or repeated breach Plan the plan under which Dennis McShanes recruitment award or non-observance of their obligations to the Company.
was granted, if the award holder is dismissed for cause or resigns Consideration of shareholder views in circumstances in which he could have been dismissed for cause We remain committed to shareholder dialogue and take an active had those circumstances been known at the time, the award shall interest in voting outcomes.
We consult extensively with our major lapse.
For other leaver reasons other than death, awards shall shareholders when setting our remuneration policy.
If there are any lapse on the date of cessation to the extent it has not otherwise particular shareholders opposed to our policy, we would endeavour become exercisable.
If awards are exercisable, then they will remain to meet with them, as appropriate, to understand any issues they exercisable until the tenth anniversary of the grant date.
death, awards may be exercised to the extent they have vested within 12 months of the date of death.
78 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with the The Chief Executive Officer and advisors to the Committee may Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and also be invited to attend meetings as necessary.
During the Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the Listing Rules.
year, the Chief Executive Officer, General Counsel and Company The Annual Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration Secretary and representatives from New Bridge Street NBS, part combined will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the of Aon plc, Eversheds LLP and Prism Cosec attended meetings and 2014 AGM.
The information on pages 83 to 91 inclusive provided guidance and advice as necessary.
Executive directors and other attendees are not entitled to vote on any matter put before the Committee and do not participate in any Unaudited information discussion relating to their own remuneration or remit.
Consideration of Remuneration Matters Role and responsibilities of the Committee Membership and attendance The role of the Committee is to determine the Remuneration policy The members of the Committee during the year ended of the Company in order to facilitate the recruitment, retention and 31 December 2013, together with details of their individual motivation of the executive directors and key senior management.
attendance at committee meetings held during the year, are set The policy is reviewed at least annually in order to ensure that it is out below: consistent with business strategy.
The Committee also monitors Committee member Meeting attendance the overall remuneration structure across the Group to ensure that John Lander, Committee Chairman 8 8 a balanced approach is adopted in relation to all employees.
The Ronald Blakely 8 8 Committees full terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, 1 Alan Booth 1 1 are available on the Companys website.
2 Vivien Gibney 2 2 3 Remuneration Committee evaluation Dennis McShane 0 1 Before the year end, the Committee participated in an external Lyndon Powell 8 8 evaluation of itself and its responsibilities which was overseen Nicholas Smith 7 8 by external evaluator, Socia Limited.
With the recent regulatory 1 Alan Booth was appointed to the Committee with effect from 12 November 2013.
2 Vivien Gibney was appointed to the Committee with effect from 14 August changes in Directors Remuneration regulations, the evaluation 2013 and was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect highlighted the significant additional time given by Committee from 14 November 2013. members during the year in order to consider and implement the 3 Dennis McShane resigned from the Committee with effect from 18 February 2013 and could not attend a meeting held on 6 February 2013 due to prior Board remuneration framework.
The evaluation also considered travel commitments.
the Committees use of its external advisors and the process for disseminating advice on key remuneration matters.
The Dennis McShane stepped down from the Committee upon his appointment of a new Committee Chairman towards the end of appointment as Executive Director of Corporate Strategy on the financial year has provided an impetus to review Committee 18 February 2013.
Prior to his appointment, he did not participate meeting management and the expected input from its advisors.
in any Committee discussions on his proposed package as an As a result, the Committee has accepted the recommendation executive director.
to undertake a review of the advisors.
This review would also Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and all allow the Committee to consider the nature and extent of its ofits members are considered to be independent.
The Chairman future requirements, the process for receiving and disseminating ofthe Company, Nicholas Smith, who is a member of the advice obtained and the optimum attendance by advisors at Committee, was independent on appointment.
The Committee intends to implement this recommendation during 2014 and also to review its current Terms of Reference to make sure that they adequately reflect the ongoing requirements of the business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Implementation of Remuneration policy for2014 Advisor to the Committee Base Salaries NBS is appointed as independent consultants to the Committee The Committee reviewed executive director remuneration during in relation to advice on remuneration and share incentives.
NBS the final quarter of 2013 against the eleven most similarly sized provides services to the Company on a called on rather than oil and gas exploration companies and found that the Chief retained basis.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Executive Officers base salary was significantly below market Group and complies with its code of conduct.
While a modest approach to fixed pay is in line with the terms of engagement for NBS are available on request from the Committees policy, it was felt that the Chief Executive Officers Company Secretary.
Neither NBS, nor any other Aon plc company, salary was now too far below market and no longer reflected his provide other services to the Company.
The Committee regularly value to the Company.
Accordingly, following prior consultation reviews the external advisor relationship and is comfortable that with the Companys major shareholders and leading shareholder NBS advice remains objective and independent.
For the year under advisory bodies, it was decided to increase his base salary from review NBS total fees charged were 155,000 excluding VAT.
407,530 to 482,000 with effect from 1 January 2014 and to 550,000 with effect from 1 January 2015 subject to continued Other advice provided to the Committee was received from appropriate levels of performance.
The revised salary, based on Eversheds who provided technical advice in relation to the the Committees analysis, remains consistent with the Companys operation of the Companys share plans and employment law stated policy since the revised salary remains below the median advice in relation to Directors Service Agreements and Prism Cosec market position assessed against the Companys sector based who provided company secretariat services to the Company.
peers but is considered to more appropriately recognise the skills and experience of a Chief Executive Officer who will have been in post for three years in June 2014.
The increases will also establish more typical relativities between the Chief Executive Officer and the other executive directors.
After considering the salary budget for the Group as a whole and, in particular, the budget for UK employees, the Committee decided to increase the other executive directors salaries by 2.5% to be applied from 1 January 2014.
The pay increase awarded to the other executive directors is broadly in line with that awarded to UK employee population where the salary budget excluding promotions or changes in responsibilities was 2.5%.
Salary as at 1January 2013 or Salary as at on appointment Role 1January 2014 to the Board Increase Chief Executive 482,000 407,530 18.3% Chief Financial Officer 358,750 350,000 2.5% Director of Corporate 389,872 380,363 2.5% Strategy The Chief Financial Officer and Director of Corporate Strategy were appointed to the Board as executive directors on 26 April 2013 and 18 February 2013 respectively and salaries have been pro-rated from these dates.
80 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Pension and Benefits Long-Term Incentive Plan The executive directors received Company contributions towards As part of the terms of the Chief Executive Officers Exceptional personal pension plans or salary in lieu of pension at a rate of 11% LTIP award, Nick Cooper will not receive an award under the regular of base salary, on a pro-rated salary for those executives who were LTIP in 2014.
It is envisaged that he will next be eligible to receive not in post for the full year.
an award under the LTIP in 2015.
The performance condition for Tranche 3 of his Exceptional LTIP commences in 2014 and further In addition to pension benefits, the executive directors also receive details are provided below.
health insurance, life assurance, holiday pay and sick leave cover.
The maximum normal annual award limit under the LTIP is 200% Annual Bonus of salary and it is intended that awards will be granted in 2014 The Annual Bonus plan has been designed to provide reward for at this level to Dennis McShane and Lisa Mitchell.
The performance targets for the awards under the LTIP, the Committee generally takes into bonus plan, linked to agreed key performance indicators KPIs, consideration i the need to motivate and retain the executive arereviewed by the Committee annually.
directors and other participants and ii the number of shares For the year ending 31 December 2014, the maximum annual comprising individual awards when they are expressed as a multiple bonus opportunity for executive directors is 150% of basic salary.
of salary given the share price.
No bonus is payable for below-target performance with bonuses The Committee believes relative TSR performance against other oil earned on a sliding scale where appropriate based on the and gas companies remains the most appropriate metric for use by Committees assessment of achievement against the targets set.
the Company in relation to LTIP awards.
For 2014, the Committee has set the following KPI targets for all Awards will vest on a straight line basis relative to the Companys executive directors: TSR performance over a three-year period compared to a Maximum bonus comparator group set on grant.
No vesting occurs for belowopportunity as a median performance.
At median, 25% of the award vests, with Measure Percentage of Salary full vesting at the upper quartile.
In addition, the Committee may Health, safety and environmental performance 30% reduce the number of shares in respect of which an award would corporate social responsibility otherwise vest based upon TSR performance if it considers that Personal performance 30% the TSR achieved over the three-year period does not reflect the Increase in Reserves and Resources 30% underlying financial performance of the Company or that key Financial Planning e. g. finding costs and Control 30% operational metrics have not been met.
Portfolio Management new business 30% The Committee retains discretion to reduce the total bonus payment to executive directors in the event of a serious HSE incident or series of incidents.
The Committee considers that the targets themselves are commercially sensitive and therefore plans to disclose them only ona retrospective basis.
Details of the targets and actual out turn will be disclosed in next years Annual Report on Remuneration, save where they remain commercially sensitive.
Clawback provisions will enable the Committee to correct the bonus in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys results so that it reflects the value that should have been paid had it not been for the misstatement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81 Annual Report on Remuneration continued The constituents of the comparator group were reviewed during Half of the award will be subject to a relative TSR condition the year and for the 2014 award.
The constituents of the LTIP operating on a similar basis to the relative TSR part of Tranche 2 comparator group are therefore: and the other half subject to a range of absolute TSR targets.
The absolute TSR measure will require compound TSR growth of at least Afren plc Bowleven plc 20%p.
a. for full vesting of this Cairn Energy plc Chariot Oil & Gas Limited part.
Performance for the relative and absolute TSR conditions is Cobalt International Energy, Inc. Kosmos Energy Ltd measured over the period from 19 June 2014 to 18 June 2017.
EnQuest plc Essar Energy plc Faroe Petroleum plc Genel Energy plc For each of the above Tranches, the extent of vesting based on Gulf Keystone Petroleum Limited Heritage Oil plc the TSR conditions may be reduced if the vesting result is not JKX Oil & Gas plc Maurel & Prom considered a fair reflection of the underlying financial performance Petroceltic International plc Premier Oil plc of the Company which will also enable the Committee to take into Rockhopper Exploration plc Salamander Energy plc account the Companys HSE performance.
Soco International plc Tullow Oil plc The above award is also subject to clawback provisions that will Clawback provisions will apply that will enable the Committee to enable the Committee to clawback value overpaid in the event clawback value overpaid in the event of a material misstatement ofa material misstatement of the Companys results within of the Companys results within a two-year period in relation atwo-yearperiod.
Non-executive directors remuneration Chief Executive Officers Exceptional LTIP award Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in short or In June 2012, a one-off award of ordinary shares the exceptional long-term incentive plans or to receive any pension from the group.
award was granted to Nick Cooper under the LTIP.
The purpose of The fees payable to the Chairman and Non-executive directors are the exceptional award was to put Nick Cooper in a position which as follows: would partially replicate that of the Companys founders and 2014 2013 thereby ensure that he remained motivated to continue generating Chairman 140,000 140,000 substantial returns to shareholders.
Non-executive director basic fee 70,000 70,000 To ensure that the exceptional award, totalling 1,017,568 shares Committee Chairmanship fee 5,0000 5,000 following adjustment for the rights issue effective 26 March 2013, encouraged Nick Cooper to generate sustainable long-term returns to shareholders, the award was effectively split into three tranches which will vest based on independent three-year performance periods for which relative TSR and or absolute TSR targets are intended to apply, as follows: Award Tranche Size of award Performance Performance period conditions Tranche 1 277,518 shares 19.06.2012- Absolute TSR 18.06.2015 Tranche 2 370,025 shares 19.06.2013- 50:50 relative TSR: 18.06.2016 absolute TSR Tranche 3 370,025 shares 19.06.2014- 50:50 relative TSR: 18.06.2017 absolute TSR The performance conditions for Tranches 1 and 2 are set out in the Policy Report and have been previously disclosed.
For Tranche 3, which has a performance period commencing on 19 June 2014, the performance condition will continue to mirror that of Tranche 2.
82 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Audited information Single Total Figure of Remuneration The detailed emoluments for the executive and non-executive directors for the year ended 31 December 2013 are detailed below: Director Base Long-term Payment for 1 2 3 4 000 Salary Fees Benefits Pension Bonus incentives loss of office Total 2013 Executive directors Nick Cooper 408 12 45 562 1,027 5 Dennis McShane 389 6 36 456 887 6 Lisa Mitchell 240 9 26 309 584 7 Jonathan Taylor 256 3 18 190 190 657 Chairman and non-executive directors Nicholas Smith 140 140 Ronald Blakely 75 75 8 Alan Booth 50 50 9 Vivien Gibney 27 27 10 John Lander 75 75 Lyndon Powell 75 75 11 Bill Schrader 61 61 1,796 30 125 1,517 190 3,658 1 Benefits in kind include health insurance, life assurance, holiday pay and sick leave cover.
2 Pension comprises an 11% contribution to personal pension plans or cash provided in lieu of pension at a rate of 11%.
3 Annual bonus to be paid in March 2014.
Further details set out below on pages 84 and 85.
4 No long-term incentives with performance conditions vested during the year.
However, the award of a nominal cost option granted to Nick Cooper under the LTIP on1 June 2011 vested and became exercisable on 1 June 2013.
As previously disclosed, this award formed part of the compensation for value forfeit on joining Ophirfrom his previous employer.
The gain on exercise on 16 August 2013 of this nominal cost option comprising 617,749 shares was 2,018,866.
5 The salary and fees payable to Dennis McShane in the year under review break down as follows: 1.
Fees of 9,375 in relation to his non-executive director position from 1 January 2013 until 17 February 2013: and 2.
Additional fees of 49,471 in relation to enhanced time commitment provided to the Company on a temporary basis to deliver a successful Rights Issue in March 2013 between 1 January 2013 and 17 February 2013.
For the period from 1 January 2013 until 17 February 2013 Dennis McShane worked full time for the Company and was paid a fee calculated based on an executive full time salary of 367,500 pro-rated.
This agreement was anticipated to operate for a temporary period until a full time Director of Corporate Strategy was appointed.
The fees ceased on his appointment to the PLC Board in a full time executive capacity as Director ofCorporate Strategy on 18February 2013.
Salary of 330,343 being the pro-rata salary earned for the period from appointment as an executive director based on an annualised base salary of 380,363.
This pro-rata salary was the one used to determine his bonus for the year under review.
6 Lisa Mitchell was appointed to the Board on 26 April 2013.
Her remuneration relates to the period of the year under review when she was an Executive Director 7 Jonathan Taylor retired as an executive director on 6 June 2013.
Salary paid on a pro-rata basis from 1 January 2013 until his retirement on 6 June 2013 of 163,264.
A pro-rata bonus payable at 78% of the maximum with the payment totalling 190,182.
A p ayment in connection with the termination of his employment following his retirement of 190,182 being six months notice.
This figure has been included inthe above table to provide more relevant and reliable information to our shareholders when reviewing and approving the Directors Remuneration for 2013.
A payment of 93,034 in relation to accrued but untaken holiday pay.
Further details of the terms of his retirement are set out on pages 88 and 89.
8 Alan Booth joined the Board on 26 April 2013 and his fees are the pro-rata amount from his appointment to the Board through to the end of the year under review based on an annual fee of 70,000.
Mr Booth was also appointed as Chairman of the Technical Advisory Committee on 12 August.
In recognition of the additional time commitment involved in this role he received an additional pro-rata fee for the remainder of the year for this role based on an annual fee of 5,000.
9 Vivien Gibney was appointed to the Board on 14 August 2013 and her fees are the pro-rata amount from her appointment to the Board through to the end of the year under review based on an annual fee of 70,000.
Mrs Gibney was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 14 November 2013.
In recognition of the additional time commitment involved in this role she received an additional pro-rata fee for the remainder of the year for this role based onaanannual fee of 5,000.
10 John Lander was replaced by Vivien Gibney as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 14 November 2013.
His fees as Chair and independent non-executive director are included to this date.
With effect from 15 November 2013, John Landers fee was 70,000.
11 William Schrader was appointed to the Board on 18 February 2013 and his fees are the pro-rata amount from his appointment to the Board through to the end ofthe year under review based on an annual fee of 70,000.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 Annual Report on Remuneration continued The salaries, fees and benefits paid to the executive and non-executive directors for the year ended 31 December 2012 are detailed below: Director Base Long-Term 000 Salary Fees Benefits Pension Bonus Incentives Total 2012 Executive directors Nick Cooper 394 5 43 528 970 Jonathan Taylor 368 40 492 900 Chairman and non-executive directors Nicholas Smith 140 140 Ronald Blakely 75 75 1 John Lander 85 85 Dennis McShane 75 75 Lyndon Powell 75 75 Totals 1,212 5 83 1,020 2,320 1 Includes a one-off fee of 10,000 in relation to the exceptional time commitment provided in 2012 paid in 2013.
Additional information in respect ofthesingle figure table Annual Bonus Plan Outturn For 2013, the Committee set KPI targets for the executive directors in respect of HSE performance: Personal objectives: an increase inReserves and Resources: Finance: and Portfolio Management New Business.
Whilst the precise targets are considered to remain price sensitive, an overview of the extent of achievement for each Executive against their performance objectives is detailed below: Percentage of Metric Target Extent of achievement Target met HSE Assessment of safety record during the year No significant incidents 100% Delivery of successful CSR Community Projects Active CSR projects underway or planned in all operating countries Reserves and Resources Addition of net reserves and resources Addition of 254mmboe net to the Company in2013 100% Finance Targets principally related to i maintain operational The Groups funding targets were fully achieved.
100% headroom ii and finding costs Finding costs were $US0.90 boe Portfolio Management The targets set related to the successful Successes included i the successful sale of a 20% 80% and New Business monetisation of specific Group assets and interest in Tanzanian Blocks 1, 3 and 4 to Pavilion, acquisition of exploration acreage ii the rationalisation of the portfolio tail, iii the securing of new acreage in Ghana and Gabon 84 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance With regards to the Chief Executive Officer, his personal targets included, but were not limited to, delivering a successful restructuring of the executive leadership team, reviewing and implementing an appropriate organisational structure to reflect the current size and stature of the Company and ensuring best practice procedures exist in relation to M&A and capital raising.
The Director of Corporate Strategy had targets set that included, but were not limited to, supporting the Chief Executive Officer in restructuring the Group, completing a strategic review and improving the operational capability of the Group.
The Chief Financial Officer had targets that included, but were not limited to, supporting the ChiefExecutive Officer restructure the Group and restructure and improve the finance functions .
Overall, this resulted in bonuses becoming payable at between 129% of basic salary and 138% of basic salary across the executive directors being between 86% and 92% of the maximum bonuspayable.
Bonuses disclosed for Dennis McShane and Lisa Mitchell were based on the part year worked as executive directors in respect ofqualifying services.
As a result, Nick Cooper, Dennis McShane and Lisa Mitchell received bonus payments of 562,391, 455,873 and 309,246 respectively for 2013.
The Committee is satisfied with the overall payments in light of the level of performance achieved.
Details of the bonus earned by Jonathan Taylor are set out on pages83 and 88.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Long-Term Incentives No long-term incentive awards with performance conditions vested during the year.
This reflects the relatively short period since the Companys listing.
However, as previously disclosed, on joining the Company NickCooper was granted awards under the Share Option Plan 2006 and nil-cost options made under the LTIP to compensate for awards forfeited from his previous employment.
These awards had no performance conditions attached and vested on 1 June 2013.
While they do not form part of the single figure of total remuneration, the values on vesting have been provided forcompleteness.
Share awards at Number vested Date of grant Vesting date Lapse date 1January 2013 during the year Share Option Plan 2006 01 06 2011 01 06 2013 31 05 2021 578,164 578,164 LTIP 01 06 2011 01 06 2013 31 05 2014 617,749 617,749 The number of awards in the above table and the exercise price of the option grants was adjusted for the March 2013 rights issue.
1 Awards granted before March 2013 were increased by a factor of 1.156329 and the exercise price reduced by the same factor for the reasons previously described in relation to the March 2013 rights issue.
2 With regard to the award granted under the Share Option Plan 2006, the aggregate exercise price for the award, following the adjustment described in 1 above, was 1,250,000 and so the inherent gain in this award on vesting on 1 June 2013, using a closing share price of 3.95, was 1,033,748.
The value of the LTIP on vesting on 1 June 2013, using a closing share price of 3.95, was2,440,109.
When the LTIP, structured as a nominal cost option, was exercised on 16 August 2013 at a share price of 3.30, thegaintotalled 2,018,886.
3 Balance of awards which have yet to be exercised in the case of the Share Option Plan 2006 awards and awards that have yet to vest inrespect of the LTIP.
The total share awards as at 31 December 2013 is inclusive of the awards vesting during the year.
86 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Long-Term Incentive awards granted These awards were in line with the Companys policy as detailed inthe Policy Report.
intheyear As part of the terms of Nick Coopers Exceptional LTIP award Dennis McShane also received market value option awards granted on 19 June 2012, Nick Cooper did not receive an award under the 2006 Share Option Plan.
This award was granted to under the LTIP in 2013. compensate him for his exit from an advisory business with the value of the option grant calculated to offset the value expected The LTIP award levels granted to the other executive directors in the tobe forfeited in relation to his exit from an advisory business year under review calculated based on the three-month average afullexplanation of the basis on which the buyout was calculated share price for the period from 15 November 2012 to 14 February and the rationale behind its structure is set out in the Policy Report 2013 were: on page 72.
The option award is subject to a performance target Chief Financial Officer Lisa Mitchell : 200% of salary: see below.
Executive director of Corporate Strategy Dennis McShane : The awards to the executive directors during the year were 200% of salary: and as follows: Executive director Jonathan Taylor : 200% of salary which subsequently lapsed in its entirety on his retirement.
% of award that vests at the threshold perforamce level performance Share price Number Face value is measured to 1 at date Exercise ofshares ofaward 31December Type of Award Basis of award granted ofgrant price awarded 000 2015 Lisa Mitchell LTIP Nil No minimal cost option 125% of salary 4.72 77,834 345 25% LTIP Nil No minimal cost option 3.23 80,092 355 Dennis McShane LTIP Nil No minimal cost option 200% of salary 4.72 171,628 761 25% Share Option Plan Buyout award 1.7m 4.72 4.72 360,127 1,700 100% Marketvalue option Jonathan Taylor LTIP Nil No minimal cost option 200% of salary 4.72 171,628 761 25% 1.
In line with the Companys policy as set out on page 71, the share price used to determine the number of awards excluding Dennis McShanes buyout award was5.1253, being the average share price over the three months to 14 February 2013.
The share price and the number of awards were adjusted for the subsequent Rights Issue by a factor of 1.15633 resulting in an adjusted share price of 4.43 for the reasons previously described.
The face value of awards has been calculated using the adjusted share price.
Lisa Mitchell was granted LTIP awards in February 2013 based on the policy applicable to a non PLC Board executive being 125% of her salary at the time with the awards supplemented on her appointment to the PLC Board so that her aggregate award was in line with the LTIP policy detailed above i. e. based on 200% of salary.
The performance targets are as detailed below on page 88 with the performance period running from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015.
In addition to a 200% of salary normal LTIP award in line with the Companys policy performance targets as detailed below and the performance period as detailed above for Lisa Mitchell, Dennis McShane was granted an option over shares with a value of 1.7m the performance period runs from 26 March 2013 to 26 March 2016.
The award vests after three years with details included of the basis on which the award was determined on page 88.
Jonathan Taylors award with the performance targets as detailed below and the performance period as above for Lisa Mitchell was forfeited as part of his compromise agreement agreed upon his retirement see payments for loss of office detailed on page 88.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 Annual Report on Remuneration continued The performance targets applying to the 2013 LTIP awards are Payments for Loss of Office based on relative TSR against other oil and gas companies.
Jonathan Taylor Awards vest on a straight line basis relative to the Companys total Jonathan Taylor retired from the Board and his role as executive shareholder return TSR performance over a three-year period director with effect from the 2013 AGM.
As a result, Jonathans compared to a comparator group set on grant.
No vesting occurs service agreement with the Company terminated in connection for below median performance.
At median 25% of the award vests, with his retirement.
The payments made relating to his termination with full vesting at the upper quartile.
In addition, the Committee were as follows: may reduce the number of shares in respect of which an award A payment of six months salary 190,182 in connection with would otherwise vest based upon TSR performance if it considers the termination of his employment following his retirement.
This that the TSR achieved over the three-year period does not reflect related to the six-month notice period in his Service Agreement: the underlying financial performance of the Company or that key operational metrics have not been met.
the value of accrued but untaken holiday 93,034 : and The constituents of the 2013 LTIP comparator group are set out as a retiree and therefore a good leaver, a payment under onpage 82. the annual bonus plan of 190,182.
The bonus amount was calculated based on the Committees assessment of the extent Clawback provisions will apply in the event of a material to which the performance targets had been met which was misstatement of the Companys results within a two year period then pro-rated to the period of the year under review worked inrelation to the award.
atthe time of his retirement from the Board.
After assessing Dennis McShanes market value option award is subject to a relative each individual bonus criteria, the extent of achievement TSR performance condition which with awards vesting only if the against the bonus targets was determined to be 78% of the threshold i. e. median performance is achieved.
The comparator pro-rata bonus maximum which related to his contribution group is the same as that which applies to the 2013 LTIP grant forthe part-yearserved.
and performance is measured over a three-year period running Had the Committee tested performance over the full performance from the date of grant of the award.
The form of award and the period, the bonus earned against the financial targets would have application of the TSR target were assessed by the Committee resulted in a higher bonus being earned, pro-rata, for the period when determining the quantum of award to buy-out his interest Jonathan Taylor was employed in the financial year under review.
in an advisory business that he forfeited on joining the Company.
The use of a market value option reflected the fact the value forfeit Jonathan Taylor, as a retiree, has been treated as a good leaver in that it was geared to future success of the advisory business under the rules of the LTIP.
His awards granted on 26 May and, therefore, the structure of the buy-out, broadly, mirrored the 2011, 22 November 2011 and 13 April 2012 will vest on their potential return on his interest forfeit.
normal vesting dates subject to the satisfaction of the attached performance conditions.
The award granted to him on 26 March 2013 has been lapsed.
In using its discretion in relation to the treatment of his LTIP awards, the Committee considered applying time pro-rating to each outstanding award.
Had this approach been taken, theCommittee would not have applied time pro-rating to the 2011 awards given that the performance periods for these awards were in their final year of three when the individual retired, the Committee would have applied a one-third reduction to the 2012 award given this award was in the second year of the three year performance period when the individual retired and the Committee would have applied a two thirds reduction to the 2013 award 88 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance given it was in the first year of the three year performance period the fact that the individual was a founder of the Company and when the individual retired.
Instead of taking this approach, the considered it preferable to enable the individual to be more fully Committee considered it more appropriate to lapse the 2013 award rewarded for his endeavours at the Company which are most in its entirety and effectively credit the third of this award lapsing closely linked to taking Ophir to the Official List and immediate against the 2012 award to enable this award to vest in full in due period thereafter.
The original performance targets will be applied course.
In taking this decision, the Committee was also guided by to the 2011 and 2012 awards over the full performance periods.
Market value options were granted to Nick Cooper and DennisMcShane on recruitment and Lisa Mitchell when she was a non PLC Board Executive.
Executive directors participate in the LTIP, under which nil cost optionsweregranted Awards granted under all plans in the above table before 26 March 2013 were increased by a factor of 1.156329 in relation to the 26 March 2013 rights issue aspreviously explained and the exercise price reduced by the same factor for the reasons previously explained.
Nick Cooper was granted a market value option under the 2006 Share Option Plan as part of the terms of his recruitment.
Jonathan Taylor resigned with effect from 6 June 2013.
1 The award of 617,749 nominal-cost options after adjusting for the impact of the March 2013 rights issue as detailed above to Nick Cooper under the LTIP was not subject to any performance conditions as it was granted to compensate him for the fact that awards over shares in his previous employer lapsed when he joined theCompany.
2 Details of the performance condition for the 2013 LTIP award are set out on pages 87 and 88.
3 The performance condition for the LTIP awards granted on 26 May 2011, 1 June 2011 with the exception to that detailed in 1 above, 13 April 2012 and 22 November 2011 are broadly the same to that for the 2013 LTIP award other than in respect of the TSR comparator group which differed in respect of a small number of the comparator companies as disclosed in previous years Directors Remuneration Reports.
4 For Tranche 1, the absolute TSR performance condition will be based on a 90 day average share price in the final year of the relevant performance period.
25%ofthe award will vest at 20% compound annual growth rate CAGR above 4.28 as adjusted to reflect the rights issue that became effective on 26 March2013 aspreviously detailed resulting in a share price of 7.40 being required for threshold vesting with full vesting at 35% CAGR requiring a share price of 10.53.
Theseshare prices assume no dividends are paid for simplicity.
Straight line vesting takes place between performance points.
In setting these targets, the Committee considered Ophirs cost of capital and the expectations of investors.
This award was granted in addition to an award under the LTIP in 2012 detailed above so that his aggregate incentive incorporated both a relative TSR and absolute TSR performance target.
Both awards formed part of the 2012 consultation with shareholders prior to the AGM.
For Tranche 2, the same relative TSR performance target as described for the 2013 LTIP awards above applies to half of the shares comprising Tranche 2 withthe performance period running from 19 June 2013 to 18 June 2016 with the remaining half subject to absolute TSR targets that require the same compound annual growth rates as detailed above for Tranche 1 tested from a base share price of 4.09.
For Tranche 3, the same targets are expected to apply asperTranche 2 with further details included on page 72.
5 Details of Dennis McShanes 2013 Share Option 2013 award are set out above and on page 72.
90 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Share ownership Of Nick Coopers outstanding Long-Term Incentive awards, To align the interests of the executive directors with shareholders, 617,749have vested and were exercised on 16 August 2013.
Directors are required to build up significant shareholdings in Theseshares have no performance requirement as they formed theCompany.
part of his compensation on joining Ophir from his former employer.
Thebalance of his awards are subject to performance Nick Cooper has a guideline equivalent to 300% of salary, to be targets asdetailed on page 90. achieved through retaining 100% of his vested or exercised awards net of taxes under the long-term incentive share plans until the Nick Coopers outstanding Options have vested but remain guideline is met.
unexercised: these do not have performance targets as they formed part of his compensation on joining Ophir from Other executive directors are required to build up shareholdings Salamander.
No options were exercised during the period of at least 100% of salary and are required to retain 50% of their byanydirector.
vested or exercised awards net of taxes under share incentive schemes until the guideline is met.
Lower shareholding requirements apply for other members of the management team.
The Chairman and non-executive directors Both Nick Cooper and Dennis McShane have met their respective are encouraged to hold shares in the Company but are not subject share ownership requirements as at 31 December 2013.
Details of the Directors interests has yet to meet her respective requirements.
in shares are shown in the table below.
Beneficially Beneficially Share ownership Outstanding Outstanding owned as at owned as at guideline met as Long-term Options Outstanding 31 December 31 December at 31 December incentive vested but Options Target level 2013 2012 2013 awards unexercised unvested Nicholas Smith n a 128,000 108,000 n a n a n a n a Nick Cooper 300% 495,197 120,572 100% 1,911,105 578,164 0 Dennis McShane 100% 145,600 104,000 100% 171,628 0 360,127 Lisa Mitchell 100% 0 0 0% 245,595 86,724 86,724 Jonathan Taylor 100% 7,354,084 6,836,320 n a 603,642 n a n a Ronald Blakely n a 35,000 12,000 n a n a n a n a Alan Booth n a 125,000 n a n a n a n a Vivien Gibney n a 10,000 - n a n a n a n a John Lander n a 313,544 223,960 n a n a n a n a Lyndon Powell n a 33,600 24,000 n a n a n a n a Bill Schrader n a 10,200 n a n a n a n a 1 Nicholas Smith holds a beneficial interest in 128,000 Shares.
The legal interest is held by Chase Nominees Limited.
2 Nick Cooper holds a beneficial interest in 494,397 Shares.
The legal interest is held by Goldman Sachs International.
The remaining beneficial interest in 800 Shares isheld by Nick Coopers spouse, Alison Nightingale.
The legal interest of these shares are held in the name of James Capel Nominees Limited.
3 Dennis McShane holds a beneficial interest in 145,600 Shares.
The legal interest is held by Frank Nominees Limited.
4 John Lander and members of his family hold a beneficial interest in 313,544 Shares.
The legal interest is held by WB Nominees Ltd. 5 Ronald Blakely and members of his family hold a beneficial interest in 35,000 Shares.
The legal interest is held by Vidacos Nominees Limited.
6 Bill Schrader, Lyndon Powell and Vivien Gibney hold the legal and beneficial interest in the Shares registered in their respective names.
7 Alan Booth held a beneficial interest of 100,000 Shares as at his date of appointment to the Board on 26 April 2013.
He subsequently acquired an additional 25,000Shares and currently holds a total beneficial interest in 125,000 Shares.
The legal interest is held by TD Direct Investing Nominees Europe Ltd.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Performance graph not subject to audit Chief Executive Officers Remuneration Table The following graph shows the Companys TSR performance since not subject to audit trading of the Companys shares began on the London Stock The table below details the single total remuneration figure Exchange on 13 July 2011 against the group of companies used earned by the Chief Executive Officer since the Company moved asthe TSR comparator group for the 2013 LTIP awards.
Total remuneration has been calculated to be consistent with the figures disclosed on pages 83 and 84 and the The graph also shows the Companys TSR performance since table also details the proportion of annual bonus and LTIP awards trading of the Companys shares began on the London Stock payable and or vesting in the relevant year.
Exchange on 13 July 2011 against the FTSE 250.
Ophir is a Total Annual LTIP constituent of the index and therefore the Committee considers Remuneration Bonus Vesting this equity index to be appropriate as a comparator.
Year Ending Executive 000 % of max % of max 31 12 2013 Nick Cooper 1,027 92% Note 1 Total shareholder return 31 12 2012 Nick Cooper 970 89% n a Source: Thomson Reuters 31 12 2011 Nick Cooper 910 83% n a reflects the fact that Nick Cooper was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 250 1June 2011 Note 1.
As set out on page 89, the LTIP award and 2006 Share Option Plan 200 awards that vested during the year under review related to compensation agreed on joining the Company for awards forfeit at a previous employer.
Neither award was subject to performance targets and as a result is not included 150 in the Single Total Remuneration Figure.
100 Percentage change in the remuneration of the 50 Chief Executive Officer not subject to audit 0 The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration 13 Jul 11 31 Dec 11 31 Dec 12 31 Dec 13 salary, benefits and annual incentive from 2012 to 2013 for the Ophir CEO compared with the average UK Head Office employee.
FTSE 250 LTIP TSR Comparator Group Average Chief Executive Officer Average UK employee Salary 3.5% -5.4% This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2013, of 100 Benefits 140% N A invested in Ophir Energy plc on 13 July 2011 the date of listing Annual Bonus 4.6% -19.4% on the London Stock Exchange compared with the value of 100 The comparator group chosen comprises 38 employees who are the Companys invested in the FTSE 250 Index and the LTIP TSR comparator UK based employees excluding the executive directors.
The Committee believes that this group is the most appropriate comparator group as these employees groupcompanies.
are based in the same geographical location as the Chief Executive Officer.
2013 was the first year that the Company provided taxable benefits to UKemployees.
As a result, it is not possible to include a percentage growth incosts statistic as there were no benefit costs in 2012.
92 Ophir Energy plc Value Corporate Governance Relative importance of the spend on pay notsubject to audit 2013 2012 % Change Staff Costs m 22.2 19.3 15% Distributions to shareholders m 0 0 0% Statement of shareholder voting notsubjecttoaudit At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders: 2013 AGM % Votes cast in favour 331,510,396 69.4 Votes cast against 145,655,064 30.53 Total votes cast 477,165,460 100 Abstentions 12,126,227 2.54 By Order of the Board Vivien Gibney Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 19 March 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93 Responsibility statement of the Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors in respect of the Annual in relation to the Group financial Report and Accounts statements and Annual Report I confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, prepare Group financial statements for each financial year.
Under that give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position law, the Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements and profit and loss of the Company and the undertakings included in under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the consolidation taken as a whole: and Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Group The Directors Report and the Group Operating and Financial Review financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and include a fair review of the development and performance of the fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of business and the position of the Company and the undertakings the Group for that period.
In preparing the Group financial statements included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a the Directors are required to: description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group: Directors statement under the UK Corporate Governance Code select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides andthen apply them consistently: the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys present information, including accounting policies, in a manner performance, business model and strategy.
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Approved by the Board and signed on their behalf.
information: make judgements that are reasonable: Nick Cooper provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Chief Executive Officer requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is 19 March 2014 insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and state whether the Group financial statements have been prepared inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subjectto any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Approved by the Board on 19 March 2014 Nick Cooper Chief Executive Officer 94 Ophir Energy plc
