OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 81 Directors remuneration policy report The committee has avoided, where possible, including general discretions in the policy table.
However, This report outlines the companys policy on directors exceptional or genuinely unforeseen circumstances remuneration that applies to executive directors, the may arise in the future and in those circumstances it chairman and non-executive directors.
Reference is also may be in shareholders interests for Pearson to put in made to the remuneration policy for other members of place remuneration arrangements that are outside the the Pearson Executive currently 13 in number who are terms of the policy set out in this report.
If this not directors but who fall within the committees remit.
happens, the committee will be permitted to The policy is intended to last three years and will take implement remuneration arrangements that it effect, subject to shareholder approval, at the AGM on considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In these 25 April 2014. circumstances, Pearson would consult in advance with major shareholders before it does so and would The policy report is comprised of the following parts: explain the exercise of this discretion in the following future policy table years directors remuneration report.
selection of performance measures and target setting Given the long-term nature of some of Pearson's legacy arrangements under the annual bonus share remuneration structures including obligations under matching plan service contracts, incentive plans and pension arrangements a number of pre-existing obligations remuneration policy for other employees will remain at the time that the new policy becomes pay and performance scenario analysis effective, including obligations that are grandfathered other policies relating to directors such as recruitment, by virtue of being in force at 27 June 2012.
Pearson's service contracts and termination provisions, executive policy is to honour all pre-existing obligations, directors non-executive directorships commitments or other entitlements that were entered chairmans and non-executive directors remuneration into before the effective date of this policy.
considerations taken into account when determining remuneration policy for directors.
The committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the companys business environment and in remuneration practice.
Our starting point continues to be that total remuneration should reward both shortand longterm results, delivering competitive rewards for target performance but outstanding rewards for exceptional performance.
