92 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report on directors remuneration continued Future policy table for chairmans and non-executive directors remuneration The table below summarises policy with respect to the remuneration of the chairman and non-executive directors: PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPPORTUNITY To attract and retain high calibre individuals, with The chairmans fees were last reviewed in 2010 appropriate experience or industry relevant skills, andincreased with effect from 1 April 2011 with a byoffering market competitive fee levels.
commitment to review again in 2014.
Fees for the non-executive directors were last increased with OPERATION effect from 1 July 2010.
The chairman is paid a single fee for all of his The structure of non-executive directors fees with responsibilities.
effect from 1 May 2014 is as follows: The chairmans fee is set at a level that is competitive DIRECTOR FEE with those of chairmen in similar positions in comparable companies.
The chairman is not entitled Non-executive director 70,000 to any annual or long-term incentive, retirement or Chairmanship of audit committee 27,500 other employee benets.
Chairmanship of remuneration committee 22,000 The non-executive directors are paid a basic fee.
Chairmanship of reputation and Thechairmen and members of the main board responsibility committee 10,000 committees and the senior independent director Membership of audit committee 15,000 arepaid an additional fee to reect their extra responsibilities.
Membership of remuneration committee 10,000 The chairman and the non-executive directors are Membership of reputation and responsibility committee 5,000 covered by the companys normal arrangements for directors and officers liability insurance and an Senior independent director 22,000 indemnity in respect of certain third-party liabilities.
Thecompany reimburses the chairmans and nonThe maximum opportunity per director depends executive directors travel and other business onindividual duties or combination of duties in expenses and any tax incurred thereon, if applicable.
The total fees A minimum of 25% of the basic non-executive payable to the non-executive directors are subject directors fee is paid in Pearson shares that the nonto the limit set out in the Articles of Association of executive directors have committed to retain for the the company currently 750,000 and as increased period of their directorships.
Shares are acquired by ordinary resolution from time to time.
quarterly at the prevailing market price with the The fees for the chairman remains unchanged at individual after-tax feepayments.
Fees for non-executive directors are determined PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS bythe full board having regard to market practice andwithin the restrictions contained in the None.
Non-executive PERFORMANCE PERIOD directors receive no other pay or benets other thanreimbursement for expenses incurred in None.
connection with their directorship of the company and do not participate in the companys equity-based incentive plans.
Non-executive directors serve Pearson under letters of appointment which are renewed annually and do not have service contracts.
For nonexecutive directors, there is no notice period or entitlement tocompensation on the termination of their directorships.
