78 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report on directors remuneration Dear shareholders growing dividends.
We believe those are, in concert, good indicators that we are building the long-term I am pleased to present our report on directors value of Pearson.
So those measures or others that remuneration for 2013. contribute to them form the basis of our annual The report and related resolutions will be put forward budgets and strategic plans and the basis for annual for your consideration and approval at the annual and long-term incentives.
The remuneration committee is continually sensitive I should like to start by summarising the decisions on, to the current social and economic environment and the changes to, directors remuneration made surrounding executive compensation.
during the year and importantly the context in which We welcome the UK governments action to improve those changes occurred and decisions have been taken.
the clarity and transparency of remuneration Pearson has a unique set of advantages with which to disclosure.
We welcome the introduction of the new help meet the global demands for better education and executive remuneration reporting requirements skills.
And, by being better able to meet some of the including a new binding vote on policy.
biggest challenges in global education, we can build a We hope that these changes will continue to stronger, more profitable and faster growing company.
demonstrate the link between our remuneration To get there Pearson has fundamentally changed the way policy and practice and the companys strategy and the company is organised.
From January this year, performance, as well as our commitment to Pearson is being run as one globally-connected education shareholder engagement.
company, working to an operating model designed Performance in 2013 specifically to support a global education strategy, and a In 2013, trading was tough in many of our biggest new executive team has been appointed to lead it.
The and most established markets.
Overall, we saw: new model ensures that the company will be organised around a smaller number of global products and sales up 2% on 2012 at constant exchange rates platforms, built around a single, world-class infrastructure adjusted operating profit 6% lower before net and common systems and processes.
restructuring charges Over time, this will help Pearson to grow more quickly, our dividend raised 7% which was Pearsons 22nd as it will free up resources to invest in digital straight year of increasing our dividend above the transformation, and the new, more service oriented, rate of inflation.
products that are vital to future growth.
It should enable Over the past ten years we have increased our the company to increase the rate of innovation and dividend at a compound annual rate of 7%, returning invention, by focusing on the research and development more than 2.9bn to shareholders.
Restructuring is of the next generation of global products that will have on track to deliver benefits in 2014 and beyond.
the data to demonstrate their positive impact on Principles of remuneration policy learning outcomes.
The remuneration committee believes that the Pearsons executive remuneration arrangements have purpose of its remuneration policy is to support the been reviewed to align with and better support this companys strategy and to help deliver sustained strategy.
Executive remuneration decisions have been performance and consistent long-term value creation made after careful consideration of the needs of the in the interests of all stakeholders.
business, the transformation and reorganisation of the Our reward policy is aligned with the interests of all business and the impact on roles and responsibilities, stakeholders in providing: the pay markets in which Pearson operates and changes in pay elsewhere within the company.
competitive base salaries that reflect the market and individual roles and contribution This strategy also informs our remuneration philosophy and policy and complements our more traditional a high proportion of total remuneration being delivered financial measures.
In financial terms, Pearsons goal is to in variable forms that are directly linked to the annual achieve sustainable growth on three key financial goals and long-term performance of the company earnings, cash and return on invested capital and reliable annual incentives that reward achievement of cash returns to our investors through healthy and strategic goals
