Remuneration Committee Report Annual Remuneration Committee Chairman Statement Marc Brown Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Our remuneration policy is designed to support the Groups business vision and strategy while aligning rewards to individual and Group performance.
The Committee regularly reviews the policy to ensure that pay and performance are closely aligned, that the structure incentivises achievement of stretch performance targets, that the policy reinforces alignment with shareholder interests through share ownership and that remuneration is appropriately competitive to support the recruitment and retention of employees of outstanding calibre.
It is with these objectives in mind that the Committee reviewed the policy during the year.
As a result of this continual review, the Committee determined several revisions were appropriate beginning with calendar year 2014 to the annual bonus scheme and to the alignment of the remuneration policy for key senior employees with that for Executive Directors.
Specifically, the annual bonus has been refined as follows: An increase in bonus opportunity from 25% of salary to 100% of salary to ensure the remuneration policy is appropriately competitive and to encourage achievement of annual objectives: Introduction of a performance underpin such that, for any annual bonus to be paid, the Committee must judge that the Executive Directors personal performance has been satisfactory during the year under review: Widening of the performance range to ensure that annual performance targets are stretching and achievable, so that vesting begins at threshold, increases to target, with full vesting for stretch performance: and, Introduction of bonus deferral, so that one-third of any annual bonus paid is deferred in Perform shares for three years.
During the year the Committee also introduced share ownership guidelines for both Executive Directors and Executive Committee members.
In addition, the Committee intends to extend participation of the PSP further into the organisation to support a performanceoriented culture and strengthen the alignment between rewards for senior executives and the Groups long-term strategy.
The Committee is mindful of the need to reinforce the link between remuneration and Group performance and is satisfied that the incentive outcomes in 2013 prove this to be the case.
The PSP awards granted in 2011 were subject to three-year revenue growth targets and Adjusted EPS growth targets: over this period the Groups performance exceeded this stretch revenue growth target of 40% p. a. and achieved Adjusted EPS growth of 35% p. a. and the Committee therefore determined that the 2011 PSP awards would vest as to 50% of maximum.
Based on annual performance no bonus was payable to Executive Directors.
We have written our Remuneration Report in order to comply with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2013.
Unlike last years Directors Remuneration Report, this years report is divided into three sections: This Annual Statement.
The Policy Report, which sets out our forward-looking remuneration policy.
We propose that this will apply from the date of our 2014 AGM, subject to obtaining shareholder approval.
The Annual Report on Remuneration, which sets out how our Directors were paid in the year ending 31 December 2013 and how the Policy will apply for the year ending 31 December 2014.
The Directors Remuneration Report will be subject to two votes at our 2014 AGM.
As set out in the Notice to the AGM, the Policy Report will be put to a binding vote, and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory vote.
The Committee believes that the Groups remuneration policy and the revisions made during the year reinforce our objectives and provide effective incentives for exceptional Group and individual performance.
We fully support the aim of the reporting arrangements to increase transparency related to this topic and we welcome any feedback you may have on our remuneration policy and Directors Remuneration Report.
Marc Brown Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3 March 2014 66 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the report sets out the remuneration policy for Directors which shareholders are asked to approve at the 2014 AGM.
TheCommittee intends that this policy will formally come into effect from approval at the 2014 AGM.
The information provided in this part of the Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Our remuneration policy is designed to support our business vision and the implementation of our strategy.
It aims to deliver a remuneration package that: can attract, retain and motivate high-quality talent in a challenging and competitive business environment: delivers an appropriate balance between fixed and variable compensation: places strong emphasis on performance, both short and long-term: strongly aligns achievement of strategic objectives and delivery of sustainable value to shareholders interests: and seeks to avoid incentivising excessive risk taking.
The Group seeks to achieve this alignment over both the short and long-term through the use of an annual performance-related bonus which rewards the achievement of a balanced mix of financial, operational and other relevant performance measures, and the use of a Performance Share Plan PSP which is currently linked to revenue growth and Adjusted EPS growth.
The Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements for the wider employee population in making its decisions on remuneration for senior executives.
Remuneration decisions are also informed by external considerations, including global demand for talent.
Remuneration paid to Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors in 2013 and remuneration arrangements proposed for 2014 are set out later in this report.
Executive Director Remuneration Policy Table.
Objective Details Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Salary is generally reviewed annually Any salary increases are applied n a To support or following a significant change in in line with the outcome of the recruitment responsibilities annual review and retention of Executive Directors Salary levels are targeted to be competitive In respect of existing Executive of the calibre and relevant to the digital media and Directors, it is anticipated that any required technology sector, with reference to salary increases will be in line with general economic and market conditions, the wider employee population the remuneration of executives in similar over the term of this policy.
In positions in comparable companies and certain circumstances including, individual performance but not limited to, a material increase in job size or complexity the Committee has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to salary levels to ensure they remain competitive Details of salaries for 2014 are provided on page 79 Pension Executive Directors are eligible to Executive Directors are eligible to n a To provide a participate in the Groups defined receive a maximum contribution market competitive contribution Pension Plan or receive a cash of up to 15% of salary package supplement in lieu of pension contributions Details of pensions for 2014 are provided on page 80 Benefits Benefits include the provision of medical The provision and level of benefits n a To provide a insurance, death in service cover, annual are competitive and appropriate market competitive health assessments and childcare vouchers in the context of the local market.
package The value of the benefits may Where appropriate, other benefits may vary by role and individual be offered including, but not limited to, circumstance and are reviewed allowances for relocation periodically Details of benefits for 2014 are provided on page 80 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Remuneration Committee Report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Objective Details Opportunity Performance metrics SAYE An HMRC approved scheme whereby Savings are capped at the n a To encourage employees including Executive Directors prevailing HMRC limit at the employee may save up to the maximum monthly time employees are invited ownership of savings limit as determined by prevailing toparticipate Perform shares HMRC guidelines over a period of three or five years.
Options are granted at a 20%discount Annual bonus Performance measures, targets and For Executive Directors, the Performance is determined by To support our weightings are set by the Committee at the maximum annual bonus the Committee on an annual business strategy start of the year opportunity is 100% of salary basis by reference to Group and the ongoing financial measures e. g. Group enhancement At the end of the year, the Committee The bonus earned is 25% Revenue, Adjusted EBITDA, of shareholder determines the extent to which targets of maximum for entry level as well as the achievement of value through have been achieved, taking into account performance and 50% for target personal or strategic objectives a focus on the the individual performance of each performance delivery of annual ExecutiveDirector The financial and personal financial, strategic Details of annual bonus awards strategic objectives are typically and operational 1 3 of any bonus earned is mandatorily made to Executive Directors in weighted 67% and 33% of objectives deferred into Perform shares for three 2014 in respect of performance maximum, respectively years.
The remainder of bonus payments in 2013 on page 76 and proposed are delivered in cash awards for performance in 2014 to The Committee uses its be made in 2015 are provided on judgement to determine Dividends may accrue on deferred shares page 80 the outcome of personal or and be paid on those which vest strategicobjectives Clawback applies on unvested deferred A review of the quality of bonus shares in the event of gross earnings is conducted by misconduct, material misstatement, or in the Committee to determine any other circumstance that the Committee whether any adjustments considers appropriate should be made to the reported profit for the purpose of bonus outcomes, where appropriate, so that bonus outcomes are fair and not impacted by unbudgeted non-recurring or one-off items, or circumstances outside of Managements control that could distort the overall quality of earnings The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to payments up or down, within the limits of the Plan, if it believes exceptional factors warrant doing so.
Any discretion exercised will be justified in the following annual report Details of the measures and weightings applicable for the financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration 68 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance Objective Details Opportunity Performance metrics Performance Share The Remuneration Committee has the The PSP provides for an award up Vesting of PSP awards is subject Plan PSP ability to grant awards of shares nil-cost to a normal limit of 150% of salary to continued employment and To motivate, retain options annually to Executive Directors, for Executive Directors, with an Company performance over a and incentivise conditional on Group performance over a overall limit of 200% of salary in three-year performance period the delivery of period of at least three years.
The vesting exceptional circumstances sustained longof these awards is subject to the attainment The Committee reviews the term performance, of specific performance conditions.
If For each element, up to 25% of performance measures, their aligning interests no entitlement has been earned at the maximum will vest for threshold weightings, and performance with those of the end of the relevant performance period, performance, increasing to 100% targets, from time to time to shareholders and awardslapse for maximum performance ensure they remain appropriate to support the recruitment of Award levels and performance conditions Details of PSP awards vesting in Awards in recent cycles have senior positions may be reviewed from time to time to 2014 for 2011-2013 performance been based on the achievement and longer-term ensure they remain appropriate and no less are provided on page 78 and of stretching Adjusted EPS retention stretching than the first cycle details of PSP awards made growth and revenue growth during 2013, which will vest based targets.
The Committee will Awards may also be settled in cash at the on 2013-15 performance, are review measures annually to discretion of the Committee provided on page 76 ensure continued alignment with Company strategy.
Dividends may accrue on awards and be Should the Committee opt to paid on those shares which vest introduce additional measures, the weighting on Adjusted EPS Clawback applies on unvested PSP shares growth and revenue growth in the event of gross misconduct, material combined will be not less than misstatement, or in any other circumstance 50% of the total award that the Committee considers appropriate Details of measures and targets used for specific PSP grants are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration Share ownership Requirement to hold a minimum number 150% of salary for all Executive n a guidelines of Perform shares defined as a % of salary.
Directors and 100% of salary for To encourage share Executives are required to retain at least the Executive Committee ownership and 50% of shares vesting after tax under ensure alignment of the PSP and deferred bonus until targets Details of the guidelines for 2013 executive interests aremet and current shareholding values with those of are disclosed on page 77 shareholders Notes to the policy table Payments from existing awards Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this report.
Details of these awards are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measurement selection and approach to target setting Performance targets are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Targets are set taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups strategic plan and broker forecasts for both the Group and sector peers.
For the annual bonus, performance targets for financial measures are set with reference to the Companys budget for the year.
The Committee believes that the performance targets set are stretching, and that the maximum outcomes are only available for truly outstanding performance.
The measures used under the annual bonus are selected annually to reflect the Groups main strategic objectives for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial priorities.
The Committee considers that Adjusted EPS growth and revenue continue to be the most appropriate measures of long-term performance of the Company as they are transparent and well-aligned with shareholder interests and Company strategy.
The above policy has been designed to be sufficiently flexible to allow the Committee to introduce additional measures for future cycles to ensure that the vesting of awards continues to drive the delivery of Company strategy.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Remuneration Committee Report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration policy for other employees Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based on the same principle that reward should support our business strategy and should be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate high-performing individuals without paying more than is necessary.
Perform is a global organisation with employees at a number of different levels of seniority and in a number of different countries and while this principle underpins all reward arrangements, the way it is implemented varies by geography and level.
Many employees participate in cash-based annual incentives or sales commission plans opportunities and specific performance conditions vary by organisational level with business area-specific metrics incorporated where appropriate, and key senior executives participate in the performance share plan.
Benefits for employees around the Group reflect the local labour market in which they are based.
All employees in the UK currently participate in similar pension arrangements as the Executive Directors.
Pay scenario charts The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, On-target and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on Performs remuneration policy, applied to basic salaries as at 1 January 2014.
Note that the projected values exclude the impact of any share price movements and dividend accrual.
Joint CEOs CFO Maximum Maximum 30% 28% 42% 1,006K 30% 28% 42% 818K On-target On-target 55% 26%19% 546K 55% 26%19% 444K Minimum Minimum 100% 298K 100% 243K 0 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 200 400 600 800 1000 Fixed Remuneration Fixed Remuneration Annual Bonus Annual Bonus PSP PSP The Minimum scenario shows basic salary, pension and benefits i. e. fixed remuneration.
These are the only elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages which are not at risk.
The On-Target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus a target payout of 50% of the annual bonus and threshold vesting of 25% of the maximum award under the PSP.
The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout of all incentives.
Approach to recruitment remuneration External appointments In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the above remuneration policy.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to make remuneration proposals on hiring a new Executive Director which are outside the standard policy to facilitate the hiring of someone to the calibre required to deliver the Groups strategy, as follows: Component Approach Maximum annual grant value Basic salary The basic salary will be determined by reference to external data which takes into account the new appointees duties and responsibilities, as well as internal relativities and their current remuneration.
Where new appointees have initial basic salaries set below market, larger increases may be made over a period of years as part of phased increases to market, subject to the executives development in the role Pension New appointees will be entitled to become members of the Companys defined contribution scheme or receive a cash alternative on the same terms as other executives Benefits and SAYE New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits and participate in SAYE in line with the policy 70 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance Component Approach Maximum annual grant value Annual bonus The scheme described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with 100% of salary the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the year employed.
Targets for the personal element will be tailored to the role of theappointee PSP New appointees will be granted awards under the PSP on the same terms as 150% of salary, existing Executive Directors, as described in the policy table 200% in exceptional circumstances In determining the appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including the nature of remuneration and where the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of Perform and its shareholders.
The Committee may also make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met, and the Committee may avail itself of Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R if appropriate which provides for awards outside of the normal long-term incentive structure provided the arrangement is established specifically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of the relevant individual.
In certain circumstances, for example in order to rebalance the pay mix for a new Executive Director towards the long-term and to ensure the overall fair value of the package is maintained, the Committee may grant a sign-on award as part of the initial package.
In doing so, the Committee will ensure that the award is granted in Company shares and subject to performance conditions, and may additionally apply a holding period.
Internal promotion In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Committee will determine remuneration in line with the policy for external appointees as detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to his promotion to the Board, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.
Incentive opportunities for below Board employees are typically no higher than for Executive Directors, but measures may vary to provide better line-of-sight.
For more details on the remuneration policy for other employees see page 70.
NED recruitment In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on page 73.
A base fee in line with the prevailing market rate would be payable for Board membership, with additional fees payable for acting as Senior Independent Director or as Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees as appropriate.
Service contracts and provisions for exit payment and change of control Executive Director Date of service contract Simon Denyer 23.03.11 Joint Chief Executive Officer Oliver Slipper 23.03.11 Joint Chief Executive Officer David Surtees 23.03.11 Chief Financial Officer David Surtees left the Group on 31 January 2014 The Executive Directors service contracts provide that either the Director or the Company may terminate the employment by giving 12 months written notice and that the Company may pay compensation in lieu of notice, in line with the practice of many comparable companies.
The Executive Directors service contracts provide that their remuneration is reviewed although not necessarily increased at least on an annual basis.
Executive Director service contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing Executive Director may have a legal entitlement under statute or otherwise to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
In addition, the Committee retains discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably due to the Executive Director, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Remuneration Committee Report Directors Remuneration Policy continued When considering exit payments and payments in the event of a change of control, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants.
The table below summarises how fixed remuneration, annual bonus and awards under the PSP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committeesdiscretion: Scenario Timing of vesting Treatment of awards Payment in lieu of notice Payment of a cash sum in lieu of notice, including salary.
The payment can, at the Companys discretion, be paid as a lump sum or in equal monthly instalments over the notice period.
Annual cash bonus Retirement, ill-health, disability, death or Normal payment date, although No automatic eligibility for payment.
The Committee may in any other reasons the Committee may the Committee has discretion its absolute discretion award a bonus for the performance determine in its absolute discretion to accelerate year.
Cash bonuses will only be paid to the extent that Group and personal objectives set at the beginning of the year have Change of control On date of event been achieved.
Any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time served during the year Any other reason No bonus is paid Not applicable Deferred bonus Retirement, ill-health, disability, Normal vesting date, although Deferred bonuses will be awarded in full redundancy, injury or any other the Committee has discretion reasons the Committee may to accelerate determine in its absolute discretion Death On date of event Change of control On date of event Any other reason Awards lapse Not applicable PSP Retirement, ill-health, disability, Normal vesting date, although Any outstanding PSP awards will be pro-rated for time and redundancy, injury or any other the Committee has discretion performance to the date of event, subject to Committee reasons the Committee may to accelerate discretion determine in its absolute discretion Death On date of event Change of control On date of event Any outstanding PSP awards will be pro-rated for time and performance to the effective date of change of control.
Awards may alternatively be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer, where appropriate Any other reason Awards lapse Not applicable SAYE is treated in line with HMRC rules Non-Executive Directors The terms of engagement of Non-Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment.
Non-Executive Directors are currently appointed for a three-year term, subject to satisfactory performance, re-nomination and re-election at annual shareholder meetings.
Non-Executive Directors may terminate their engagement upon written notice.
The letters of appointment do not contain provision for notice periods or compensation if their appointments are terminated by Perform except in the case of the Chairman.
The Chairmans appointment is terminable by either party giving to the other three months written notice or at any time in accordance with the Articles or the Act.
The Company has the ability to terminate this appointment by the payment of a cash sum in lieu of notice equal to the fee payable for any unexpired portion of the notice period.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available to view at the Companys registered office.
72 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance Details of the Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment are shown in the table.
The appointment and re-appointment and the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors are matters reserved for the full Board.
Non-Executive Director Date of election re-election Paul Walker 16 April 2013 Peter Williams 16 April 2013 Marc Brown 16 April 2013 Jrg Mohaupt 16 April 2013 Peter Parmenter 16 April 2013 Gabby Logan 16 April 2013 Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Objective Details Opportunity Performance measures Base fees Fee levels are reviewed periodically Non-Executive Director fee n a To attract and retain increases are applied in line Non-Executive The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the with the outcome of the annual Directors of the Committee, and fees to Non-Executive Directors are feereview highest calibre determined by theBoard withbroad The maximum aggregate commercial and Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior annual fee for all Nonother experience Independent Director and as Chairman of any of Executive Directors provided relevant to the the Boards Committees Audit and Remuneration in the Companys Articles of Company excluding the Nominations Committee Association is 500,000 p. a.
Additional fees Fee levels are reviewed by reference to FTSE listed Non-Executive fees for 2014 are Paid in addition companies of similar size and complexity.
Time set out in the Annual Report on to base fees for commitment, level of involvement required and Remuneration on page 80 fulfilment of specific responsibility are taken into account when reviewing Committee roles feelevels The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the Companys performance-related incentive plans and do not receive any pension contributions.
External appointments policy The Board recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to serve as directors of other companies which can bring benefits to the Group.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the Company providing that the Chairmans permission is sought and granted.
The policy is that fees may be retained by the Director, reflecting the personal risk assumed in such appointments.
Details of external appointments and the associated fees received are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company The Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements for the wider employee population in making its decisions on remuneration for senior executives.
For example, the Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, responsibility, individual performance and pay levels in comparable companies.
The Committee does not currently consult with employees specifically on the effectiveness and appropriateness of the executive remuneration policy and framework.
However, the Company seeks to promote and maintain good relationships with employee representative bodies as part of its employee engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates.
Consideration of shareholder views The Company consults regularly with shareholders on all matters affecting its strategy and business operations.
As part of that process, we also engage with shareholders on matters relating to executive remuneration.
When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account views of shareholders and best practice guidelines issued by institutional shareholder bodies.
The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders on remuneration policy and arrangements, and intends to consult with shareholders in advance of any significant changes to remuneration policy going forwards.
The Committee will continue to monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the structure of the executive remuneration remains appropriate.
Further detail on the votes received on the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Remuneration Committee Report Annual Report on Remuneration The following section provides details of how Performs remuneration policy was implemented during the financial year ending 31 December 2013.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee currently comprises four Non-Executive Directors and met four times during the year.
The terms of reference of the Committee are reviewed annually and can be accessed on the Perform website www.
The Committees main responsibilities The Committees duties include: Setting a remuneration strategy that ensures the most talented leaders are recruited, retained and motivated to deliver results: Reviewing the effectiveness and appropriateness of the remuneration policy: Determining the terms of employment and remuneration for Executive Directors and Senior Managers including recruitment and termination arrangements: Approving the design, targets and payments for all short and long-term incentives for Executive Directors and Senior Managers: and Assessing the appropriateness and subsequent achievement of performance targets.
Committee member Period of membership in 2013 Meetings attended out of total possible Marc Brown Chair Full year 4 4 Peter Williams Full year 4 4 Peter Parmenter Full year 3 4 Gabby Logan Full year 4 4 Committees advisers The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings to provide advice so as to ensure that the Committees decisions are informed and take account of pay and conditions in the Group as a whole.
These individuals include the Chairman, the Joint Chief Executive Officers, Company Secretary, Chief People Officer and Global Head of Reward.
No individual was present when their own remuneration was beingdiscussed.
The Committee also receives advice from independent consultants.
During the year the Committee received advice from the followingconsultants: Kepler Associates Kepler was appointed by the Committee in October 2013 following a competitive tender process.
The Committee undertakes due diligence periodically to ensure that Kepler remains independent of the Company and that the advice provided is impartial and objective.
Kepler is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.
In 2013, Kepler Associates provided independent advice on executive remuneration and incentive design, and provided remuneration data.
Kepler Associates does not advise the Company on any other matters.
Their total fees for the provision of remuneration services to the Committee in 2013 were 38,500 on the basis of time and materials.
Shareholder voting Perform remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to Directors remuneration, Perform would seek to understand the reasons for any vote and would set out in the following Annual Report and Accounts any actions in response to it.
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our previous Report at the AGM held on 16 April 2013: Total number of votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 189,642,427 99.9% Against 200,361 0.1% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 189,842,788 100% Votes withheld 797,454 Total votes cast including withheld votes 190,640,242 The Committee will continue to engage with shareholders to facilitate a better understanding of the Company, the environment in which it operates and how this translates into the Groups executive remuneration policy.
74 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance The information provided in this part of the Directors Remuneration Report is subject to Audit.
Executive Directors Single Figure of Remuneration The table below reports a single figure for total remuneration for each individual Executive Director for 2013.
Taxable benefits relate to private medical insurance.
Includes the value of matching contributory pension contribution of 5% of salary.
A nnual bonus payment for performance during the year.
See Variable pay awarded in respect of the financial year on page 76 for details.
P SP shares vesting for the performance period ending during the year, valued at the share price as at 31 December 2013 of 2.24.
These awards will be trued up in next years Directors Remuneration Report for the share price on date of vesting.
NonExecutive Directors Single Figure of Remuneration Remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2013 was as follows: 2013 total fees 2012 total fees 000 000 Paul Walker 150 150 Peter Williams 55 55 Marc Brown 48 48 Jrg Mohaupt 48 48 Peter Parmenter 48 48 Gabby Logan 48 4 Note: See page 80 for NED fees payable in respect of different roles in 2014 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75 Remuneration Committee Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Variable pay awarded in respect of the financial year For 2013, one-third of the annual bonus was measured against each of EBITDA, revenue and personal performance.
Given the close link between these targets and Performs longer-term strategy, the Committee has deemed that the targets remain commercially sensitive and will not be published.
The Committee intends to disclose bonus targets for future years on a retrospective basis when they cease to be commercially sensitive.
The Remuneration Committee determined that no bonus awards will be granted in respect of performance in 2013.
PSP awards granted to Executive Directors during 2013 were as follows: Executive Number of PSP shares awarded Face Maximum value of awards % of award vesting at threshold and Performance period at grant date maximum Simon Denyer 88,111 414,120 25% 100% 01.01.13 31.12.15 Oliver Slipper 88,111 414,120 25% 100% 01.01.13 31.12.15 David Surtees 73,425 345,099 25% 100% 01.01.13 31.12.15 David Surtees left the Group on 31 January 2014 Based on a share price of 4.70 on 11 April 2013 The performance measures and targets for the awards made in 2013 are as follows: MATRIX Revenue growth p. a.
Below 10% 15% 20% or above Adjusted EPS growth p. a.
0% 25% 50% Below 10% 15% 25% 50% 75% 20% or above 50% 75% 100% For levels of performance between the points set out in the table, vesting would be determined on a straight-line, pro-rata basis.
Performance is measured over three financial years to 31 December 2015.
Awards granted under the Performance Share Plan in 2011 were subject to three-year performance to 31 December 2013 and are due to vest on 24 June 2014.
Awards were subject to compound revenue growth and compound Adjusted EPS growth, based on a matrix structure asfollows: MATRIX Revenue growth p. a.
Below 25% 25% 35% 40% or above Adjusted EPS growth p. a.
0% 0% 0% 20% Below 35% 35% 0% 25% 40% 50% 45% 25% 50% 65% 75% 55% or above 50% 65% 85% 100% For levels of performance between the points set out in the table, vesting was determined on a straight-line, pro-rata basis.
At 31 December 2013, revenue was 208.1 million and Adjusted EPS was 10.4 pence.
Therefore, 50% of the awards are due to vest.
76 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance Total pension entitlement The Joint CEOs and the CFO receive matching contributory pension contributions of 5% of salary.
Directors shareholdings Executive Directors are required to acquire a minimum holding in Perform shares equivalent to 150% times base salary.
The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2013.
There have been no changes in Directors shareholdings from 31 December 2013 to 21 February 2014.
Shares held Shareholding Current shareholding % Requirement met?
2 requirement salary 1 Owned outright or Unvested Unvested and subject to % salary 1 vested performance condition Simon Denyer 24,142,188 87,021 221,450 150% 8847% Y Oliver Slipper 4,000,000 87,021 221,450 150% 1439% Y David Surtees 976,976 72,517 184,542 150% 419% Y Paul Walker 136,640 N A N A N A Peter Williams 9,615 N A N A N A Marc Brown N A N A N A Jrg Mohaupt 568,620 N A N A N A Peter Parmenter N A N A N A Gabby Logan N A N A N A David Surtees left the Group on 31 January 2014 1.
Based on a Directors 2013 salary and the share price at 31 December 2013 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 Remuneration Committee Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued The Executive Directors interests under the PSP were as follows: As at 31 December 2013 Executive Share price at Awarded during Awarded during Awarded during Unvested and Date of award Vesting date i ii iii Directors date of award 2011 2012 2013 Unvested subject to performance conditions Simon Denyer 24.06.11 2.19 174,041 24.06.14 23.03.12 3.03 133,339 23.03.15 11.04.13 4.70 88,111 11.04.16 Total 174,041 221,450 Oliver Slipper 24.06.11 2.19 174,041 24.06.14 23.03.12 3.03 133,339 23.03.15 11.04.13 4.70 88,111 11.04.16 Total 174,041 221,450 David Surtees 24.06.11 2.19 145,034 24.06.14 23.03.12 3.03 111,117 23.03.15 11.04.13 4.70 73,425 11.04.16 Total 145,034 184,542 David Surtees left the Group on 31 January 2014 i I n respect of the 2011 award, nil vesting if compound revenue growth is less than 35% p. a. over the three-year performance period and compound Adjusted EPS growth is less than 35% p. a. over the same period.
Full vesting requires compound revenue growth of at least 40% p. a. over the three-year performance period and compound Adjusted EPS growth of at least 55% p. a. over the same period.
ii In respect of the 2012 award, nil vesting if compound revenue growth is less than 30% p. a. over the three-year performance period and compound Adjusted EPS growth is less than 30% p. a. over the same period.
Full vesting requires compound revenue growth of at least 35% p. a. over the three-year performance period and compound Adjusted EPS growth of at least 50% p. a. over the same period.
iii In respect of the 2013 award, nil vesting if compound revenue growth is less than 10% p. a. over the three-year performance period and compound Adjusted EPS growth is less than 10% p. a. over the same period.
Full vesting requires compound revenue growth of at least 20% p. a. over the three-year performance period and compound Adjusted EPS growth of at least 20% p. a. over the same period.
Historical performance graph and table The graph below illustrates the total shareholder return performance of the Group against the FTSE 250 over the period since the Group listed on 7 April 2011.
The FTSE 250 has been chosen as it is a recognised broad equity market index of which the Group has been a member throughout the period since the Group listed on 7 April 2011.
300 250 200 150 100 50 Apr 2011 Jul 2011 Oct 2011 Jan 2012 Apr 2012 Jul 2012 Oct 2012 Jan 2013 Apr 2013 Jul 2013 Oct 2013 Dec 2013 Perform Group plc FTSE 250 Index 78 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance JCEOs historic data The following table shows historic data in respect of the JCEOs single total figure of remuneration, the amount of bonus earned as a percentage of the maximum opportunity and the vesting of long-term awards as a percentage of the maximum number of shares that could have vested over the period since listing.
Individual 2011 2012 2013 CEO single figure of remuneration 000 Simon Denyer 313 285 488 Oliver Slipper 312 284 488 STI payout as % of maximum opportunity Simon Denyer 90% 0% 0% Oliver Slipper 90% 0% 0% PSP vesting as % of maximum opportunity Simon Denyer N A N A 50% Oliver Slipper N A N A 50% Comparison of change in remuneration of JCEOs and employees as a whole The following table shows the comparison of the change in remuneration based on salary, benefits and annual bonus between the current and the previous financial period for the JCEOs and for the employees as a whole.
Cumulative Joint CEOs UK members Average 2013 2012 % change 2013 2012 % change 000 000 2012 - 2013 000 000 2012 - 2013 Base salary 552 538 3% 41 39 5% Taxable benefits 2 7 -71% N A Annual bonus N A 1 1 0% Total 554 545 2% 42 40 5% The Company considers the UK employee population to be an appropriate comparator group and is a stable point of comparison rather than a comparison against an aggregrate of increases across our worldwide employee base.
Relative importance of spend on pay The illustration below shows shareholder distributions i. e. dividends and share buybacks and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013, along with the percentage change in both 2012 2013 % change Shareholder distributions N A Total employee pay expenditure 000 36,601 54,632 49% Statement of implementation of policy in following year Base salary Executive Director salaries were reviewed in line with our remuneration policy.
In considering the level of increase, the Committee has been mindful of the general level of increase across the Group of, on average, 2.5%, as well as the positioning of the role against the market.
In line with the approach being taken across the organisation, the Joint CEOs and the CFOs salaries will be increased effective 1 January 2014, asfollows: 2013 Salary 000 2014 Salary 000 Increase on 2013 salary Simon Denyer 276 283 2.5% Oliver Slipper 276 283 2.5% David Surtees 230 N A David Surtees left the Group on 31 January 2014 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79 Remuneration Committee Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Annual bonus For 2014 the Committee has approved an annual bonus opportunity for the Joint CEOs and the CFO in line with the stated remuneration policy.
For2014, bonuses will be based on Adjusted EBITDA, revenue and personal performance, each equally weighted.
The Adjusted EBITDA, revenue and personal performance targets set by the Committee require Executive Directors to deliver significant stretch performance.
Given the close link between these targets and Performs longer-term strategy, targets remain commercially sensitive and will not be published until such time that the Committee is confident there will be no adverse impact on the Company of such disclosure.
At this time the Committee believes that disclosure of targets in next years Directors Remuneration Report is appropriate.
PSP The Annual Report on Remuneration is published prior to the date of grant of awards under the PSP.
For 2014, the Committee intends to grant PSP awards to Executive Directors in line with the stated remuneration policy.
Detail of these awards will be set out in next years report.
Pension and benefits The Joint CEOs and the CFO will receive matching contributor pensions contributions of 5% of salary and benefits in line with the stated remuneration policy.
NED fees The annual fees payable to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were reviewed effective 1 January 2013 taking into account general economic and market conditions, time commitment and responsibility, and the remuneration of non-executives in similar positions in comparable companies.
No increases were made in the year under review.
2014 000 Base fees Chairman 150 Non-Executive Director 48 Additional fees Chairman of Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director 7 Exit payments made in the year No exit payments were made during the year.
David Surtees left the Group on 31 January 2014, details of his exit payment are on the Company website and will be published in next years report.
Payments to past directors No payments were made to past directors in the year.
80 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
