Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration report Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2013 Members Meetings attended Thomas Thune Andersen 1 Stefano Cao Roxanne Decyk 1 Stefano Cao was unable to attend one ad hoc telephonic Thomas Thune Andersen meeting due to a prior business commitment.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee How the Committee spent its time during the year Role of the Committee Determine and agree with the Board the broad policy and framework for the Governance Other 19% New remuneration remuneration of Executive Directors, the reporting regulations 28% Chairman and certain senior managers.
Review of external environment 7% Review the continued appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy.
2013 remuneration review, including Ensure that incentives are appropriate annual bonus and PSP arrangements 46% to encourage enhanced performance and provide alignment with long-term shareholder value.
Approve the design of, and determine the targets for, performance related pay schemes.
Review the design of all share incentive plans before approval by the Board and shareholders and monitor the application of the rules of such schemes and the overall aggregate amount of the awards.
Determine the remuneration of all Executive Directors, the Chairman and certain senior managers within the agreed policy, taking into account remuneration trends across the Company and remuneration practices inother peer companies.
Terms of Reference The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and has adopted many of the governance changes recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code and the ICSA model terms.
Copies are available on our website.
92 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Our TSR and EPS performance from 2011 to In recognition of best practice, we are Dear shareholder 2013 was such that the 2011 Performance proposing this year to incorporate malus As Chairman of Petrofacs Remuneration Share Plan PSP awards are due to vest at and claw-back provisions into the PSP and Committee, I am pleased to present our 2013 12% of maximum, reecting the stretching DBSP rules, so that the Committee may Directors Remuneration Report.
targets which the Committee attaches to our reduce or cancel awards under certain variable pay arrangements.
In addition, in order 2013 performance and to bring the plan approval timescale in line remuneration outcomes 2014 proposals with our remuneration policy, these plans In determining remuneration outcomes will be submitted for shareholder approval We believe that our existing remuneration for 2013, the Committee has sought to framework continues to be appropriate for at the AGM in 2014.
The SIP rules are being ensure that the decisions taken are fair updated to reect recent regulatory changes.
Petrofac and remains t for purpose and and fully representative of our performance therefore no major changes to the structure Other than this, the terms of the plans during 2013.
Our policy is to set stretching are unchanged.
are proposed for 2014. performance targets, which require the delivery of outstanding performance for There have been moderate increases to New remuneration reporting significant payouts to be achieved.
Since our Executive Directors salaries for 2014, in regulations IPO in 2005, our financial performance has line with those of the wider workforce in We fully support the focus on transparency been strong, with returns to shareholders the relevant geographies.
There has been which is the cornerstone of the new substantially exceeding those in the majority no increase in the level of cash allowances UK remuneration reporting regulations.
of our peers and this has been reected paid in lieu of car allowances and pension These came into force on 1 October 2013, in the strong payouts under our variable contributions for UK-based Executive and are applicable to UK-incorporated incentive plans.
This year, maintaining these Directors for 2014.
A modest adjustment companies listed on the London Stock high growth levels has been tougher to has been made to our UAE-based Executive Exchange.
As a Jersey-incorporated achieve and therefore remuneration has Directors cash allowance for 2014, to reect company, Petrofac is not subject to these beenadjusted accordingly.
general increases in the cost of living in regulations.
Nevertheless, the Committee the UAE.
2013 saw a number of important successes.
recognises the importance of effective We delivered four major projects, two in corporate governance and is rmly committed We have also taken the opportunity to review Abu Dhabi and one each in Turkmenistan, the performance targets under the PSP to best practice.
We have therefore structured and Algeria.
We also continued to build this years report to reect the new regulations to ensure that they remain appropriately and strengthen our capabilities in new stretching in light of our strategic priorities and and are submitting our Policy Report and geographies, particularly the North Sea and Annual Report on Remuneration for two earnings expectations.
We consider that the Iraq.
As a result, at the end of 2013, backlog TSR performance target remains appropriate separate advisory shareholder votes.
is at a record level of US$15.0 billion and our and are proposing no change to this measure.
We have also provided a summary of our ability to deliver our strategy over the next few However, taking into account internal and remuneration framework changes for years is in good shape.
external forecasts for performance over the 2014, our performance during 2013 and next three-year period, we are repositioning Nevertheless, 2013 has not been without its how this aligned with our remuneration the EPS performance targets.
Given the challenges for both our Company and the outcomes overleaf.
maturity and increased size of the Company sector.
Overall, we achieved modest growth in we have sought to strike a balance between We hope that you nd the approach we have net profit in 2013.
We generally delivered good setting EPS targets which are appropriately taken clear and transparent.
The Committee operational performance, although we did not stretching, whilst ensuring that they do values all feedback from shareholders, meet our own expectations in all respects.
not drive unacceptable levels of risk and and hopes to receive your support at the In particular, there were three fatalities during encourage inappropriate behaviours.
the year, two in Turkmenistan and one in Algeria.
Additionally, some operational targets Three of our share incentive plans, the PSP, were missed due to delivery of some projects the Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP and Thomas Thune Andersen falling behind our high expectations.
the Share Incentive Plan SIP were each Chairman of the Remuneration Committee introduced at IPO in 2005 and we are taking 25 February 2014 All of the above factors were taken into the opportunity to submit these plans for account when the Committee determined renewal at the 2014 AGM.
The PSP remains annual bonuses.
As a result, 2013 cash our sole long-term vehicle for incentivising bonuses for the continuing Executive Directors Executive Directors and senior management.
were around 60% of maximum, which is down The DBSP is our key share plan for on previous years outcomes.
below Board participants with over 3,200 participants and under our policy, Executive Directors cannot participate in the DBSP.
The SIP is an all employee share incentive plan for UK employees approved and operated in accordance with UK HM Revenue and Customs.
93 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued In summary The Annual Report on Remuneration, beginning on page 105, provides more detail on our policy implementation.
Our remuneration framework changes for 2014 Element Opportunity Structure Salary Salary increases in line with the wider employee n a population in the relevant geographical area Benets No change n a Cash allowance in lieu of No increase in 2014 for UK-based Executive Directors.
n a pension and other benets Modest increase for UAE-based Executive Director to reect a general increase in the cost of living Annual bonus No change No change Performance Share Plan No change Re-balancing of the EPS performance targets, toreect our growth prole Introduction of malus claw-back provisions Our performance in 2013 2013 was a challenging year, and in some areas our performance did not meet the stretching expectations which we set ourselves.
Nevertheless, operationally, we handed over four major projects and continued to extend our business into new geographies.
In addition, we enter 2014 with a record backlog of US$15.0 billion.
Revenue Net profit Backlog 1% 3% 27% US$6,240m US$6,329m US$650m US$15.0bn US$632m US$5,801m US$540m US$11.8bn US$10.8bn 1 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Operational performance Four mega projects were handed over in Turkmenistan South Yoloten, Abu Dhabi NGL4 and Asab and Algeria El Merk.
We continued to extend the business in the North Sea, Iraq and Mexico, and signed major deals in Algeria, Abu Dhabi, Kazakhstan, Nigeriaand Oman.
The Petrofac Academy was founded and, in Malaysia, we began our largest training project to date.
Regrettably, there were three fatalities during the year: two in Turkmenistan and one in Algeria.
94 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Our pay On the whole, pay outcomes for 2013 are down from those in 2012, reecting performance against the challenging targets set by the Committee: All gures shown in US$000.
1 Salary Benets Cash allowance Bonus PSP Total Ayman Asfari $988 $56 $109 $1,173 $277 $2,603 1 Maroun Semaan $595 $110 $220 $150 $119 $1,194 1 Marwan Chedid $575 $69 $220 $700 $53 $1,617 Andy Inglis $852 $2 $109 $0 $0 $963 Tim Weller $688 $2 $109 $782 $1,581 1 For the purposes of this table, the annual increase in the End of Service benefit for UAE-based Executive Directors required under local statute has been shown in the benets column.
Our remuneration principles The Committee aims to establish a level of remuneration which: is sufficient to retain, attract and motivate Executive Directors and key executives of the calibre required to achieve the Groups objectives, whilst paying no more than necessary: and reects the size, complexity and international scope of the Groups business, together with an executives individual contribution and geographical location Under our remuneration policy: base salaries are generally median or below, against a relevant benchmarking group variable elements of remuneration are structured so that individuals can achieve upper quartile total remuneration, subject to achievement of challenging performance standards This remuneration policy has remained unchanged since 2007 and the Committee considers that it remains t for purpose and ensures that Executive Directors and senior managers are incentivised to deliver the Groups strategic goals and long-term shareholder value.
How to use this report This report has been divided into three sections Policy Report looking forward Annual Report on Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration This section contains details of the Companys looking backwards implementation looking forward implementation remuneration policy that will govern future of the policy in 2013 ofthepolicy in 2014 remuneration payments that the Company This section provides details of how the This section provides details on how the will make.
Companys remuneration policy was Company will implement our remuneration implemented in 2013. policy in 2014.
Within the report we have used different colours to differentiate between: Fixed elements of remuneration Variable elements of remuneration See: See: See: pages 96 to 104 pages 105 to 111 page 112 95 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued Looking forward Policy Report The following section sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy.
This Policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM and will apply to payments made on or after 15 May 2014.
As a Jersey-incorporated company, Petrofac does not have the benefit of the statutory protections afforded by the UK Companies Act 2006 in relation to the new reporting regime.
Accordingly, if there is any inconsistency between the Companys Policy Report as approved by shareholders and any contractual entitlement or other right of a Director, the Company may be obliged to honour that existing entitlement or right.
Formal legal advice taken during the year afrms that it would not be practical for us to submit our Policy Report for a binding shareholder vote in the manner of a UK-incorporated company.
We are therefore submitting our Policy Report and our Annual Report on Remuneration as two separate advisory votes at the 2014 AGM.
Further details regarding the operation of the Policy can be found on pages 105 to 111 of this report.
Fixed remuneration Element Purpose and Operation Maximum Performance link to strategy opportunity measures Salary The Committee takes into consideration a number Whilst there is no maximum salary level, any None Core element of of factors when setting salaries, including but not increases will normally be broadly in line with the remuneration, paid for limited to : wider employee population within the relevant doing the expected geographic area.
size and scope of the day-to-day job individuals responsibilities: Higher increases may be made under certain circumstances, at the Committees discretion.
the individuals skills, experience For example, this may include: and performance: increase in the scope and or responsibility of the typical salary levels for comparable roles within individuals role: and appropriate pay comparators: and development of the individual within the role.
pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
In addition, where an Executive Director has Basic salaries are normally reviewed at the been appointed to the Board at a lower than beginning of each year, with any change usually typical salary, larger increases may be awarded being effective from 1 January.
to move them closer to market practice as their experience develops.
Benets UK-based Executive Directors receive benets Whilst no maximum level of benets is prescribed, None Provide employees which typically may include but are not limited to they are generally set at an appropriate market with market private health insurance for the Executive Director competitive level, taking into account a number of competitive benets and his family, life assurance and long-term factors, which may include: disability insurance.
the jurisdiction in which the individual is based: UAE-based Executive Directors receive similar the level of benets provided for other employees benets to UK-resident Executive Directors and in within the Group: and addition receive other typical expatriate benets, market practice for comparable roles within which may include but are not limited to childrens appropriate pay comparators.
education, return ights to their permanent home and appropriate insurance arrangements.
The Committee keeps the benefit policy and benefit levels under regular review.
Where Executive Directors are required to relocate, the Committee may offer additional expatriate benets, if considered appropriate.
UK-based Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any tax-approved all employee share plans operated by the Company on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Petrofac currently operates a Share Incentive Plan in the UK.
96 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Fixed remuneration continued Element Purpose and Operation Maximum Performance link to strategy opportunity measures Cash allowance in lieu UK-resident Executive Directors receive a Whilst there is no maximum level of cash allowance None of pension and other cash allowance in place of certain benets prescribed, in general, the levels provided are benets including, but not limited to, car allowances and intended to be broadly market typical for role and Provide employees pension contributions.
with an allowance UAE-resident Executive Directors receive a cash The levels of cash allowance provided are kept under for benets and allowance in respect of housing, utilities and regular review by the Committee.
retirement planning transport, inline with local market practice.
Normally, in determining any increase to cash allowances, the Committee will have regard to the rate of increase in the cost of living in the local market and other appropriate indicators.
End of service A statutory end of service payment is due to all The statutory payment is based on the individuals None indemnity non-UAE national employees working in the UAE number of years of service and salary level at the time Paid to UAE-based at the end of their contracted employment.
Executive Directors only, The Company accrues an amount each year in in order to comply with order to satisfy this indemnity when it falls due.
local UAE statute Pension Executive Directors receive a cash allowance Although both current UK-based Executive Directors None No Executive in lieu of pension provision see above.
have opted to receive a cash allowance in lieu of Director currently pension provision, this position is kept under review.
The Company operates dened contribution participates in a formal pension arrangements across the Group.
As the Committee would want to conduct a thorough pension arrangement In line with legal requirements, the Company review prior to Executive Directors joining a Group offers participation in the UK pension plan to its pension arrangement, it would not be appropriate to UK-based Executive Directors.
However, both provide a maximum level of pension provision at this current UK-based Executive Directors chose time.
However, if this did occur, the level of provision to opt out of these arrangements and as such would typically be dependent on seniority, the cost continue to receive a cash allowance in lieu of of the arrangements, market practice and pension pension provision.
practice elsewhere in the Group.
97 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued Variable remuneration Element Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus Awards based on performance in the relevant Maximum bonus The precise bonus targets are set by the Incentivise delivery of financial year.
opportunity of 200% Committee each year, taking into account a the business plan on an of basic salary.
number of internal and external reference points, Performance measures are set annually and annual basis.
including the Companys key strategic objectives pay-out levels are determined by the Committee for the year.
after the year-end, based on performance against Rewards performance those targets.
When setting these targets, the Committee against key ensures that they are appropriately stretching in performance indicators Delivery in cash.
the context of the business plan and that there which are critical to is an appropriate balance between incentivising the delivery of our Executive Directors to meet financial targets for business strategy.
the year and to deliver specic non-financial, strategic, operational and personal goals.
This balance allows the Committee to effectively reward performance against the key elements of our strategy.
Measures used typically include but are not limited to : HSE and integrity measures: financial measures: Group and or business service line strategic and operational performance measures: and people-related measures.
Normally, each of these measures will have a broadly equal weighting but the Committee will keep this under review on an annual basis.
Typically, 30% of the maximum opportunity is paid for threshold performance, i. e. the minimum level of performance which results in a payment.
98 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Variable remuneration continued Element Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Performance Share Award levels are determined by reference to The maximum Awards vest based on three-year performance 1 Plan individual performance prior to grant.
award that can be against a combination of financial and share price Incentivise Executive granted in respect performance measures.
Vesting of awards is dependent on achievement of performance over the of a financial year of stretching three-year performance targets.
The ultimate goal of the Companys strategy longer term.
the Company under is to provide long-term sustainable returns to At vesting, the Committee considers if the the PSP is 200% of shareholders.
The Committee strives to do this Rewards the delivery Companys TSR is a genuine reection of the basic salary orin by aligning the performance measures under the of targets linked to the underlying Company performance and may circumstances which PSP with the long-term strategy of the Company long-term strategy of reduce or cancel the portion of award subject to the Committee and considers that strong performance under the business, and the TSR if it considers it appropriate.
deems to be the chosen measures should result in sustainable creation of shareholder Awards are normally made in the form of exceptional, awards value creation: value over the conditional share awards, but may be awarded in up to 300% of longer term.
financial measure to reect the financial other forms if appropriate such as nil cost options.
base salary can performance of our business and a Awards may also be satisfied in cash.
direct and focused measure of Company Additional shares are accrued in lieu of dividends success.
The Committee sets targets to and paid on any shares which vest.
be appropriately stretching, with regard The Committee may adjust or amend the terms of to a number of internal and external the awards in accordance with the plan rules.
The PSP rules are due to expire in 2015. share price performance measure New rules, however, will be submitted for a measure of the ultimate delivery of shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
This promotes alignment these rules being approved, all PSP awards from between Executive Director reward and the the date of the AGM onwards will incorporate shareholder experience.
Targets are set malus and claw-back provisions, such that the with reference to wider market practice and Committee may reduce or cancel unvested awards positioned at a level which the Committee or require repayment of amounts already paid out considers represent stretching performance.
at any time up to the second anniversary of the Normally the weighting would be split equally vesting date of the relevant award, in a number of across these two measures.
specic circumstances, including: For threshold levels of performance under material misstatement of financial results: the financial performance measure, 0% of the material failure of risk management: award vests, increasing to 100% of the award for maximum performance.
material breach of any relevant health and safety or environment regulations: and For threshold levels of performance under the share price performance measure, 30% of the serious reputational damage to the Company award vests, increasing to 100% of the award for orany Group member.
The Committee sets targets each year, achievement of which it considers would represent stretching performance in the context of the business plan.
The Committee may amend the performance conditions applicable to an award if events happen which cause the Committee to consider that it fails to full its original purpose and would not be materially less difficult to secure.
1 Share Incentive Plan Participants may invest gross salary to purchase Participants may None SIP Ordinary Shares.
invest up to the Encourage long-term prescribed HMRC The Company does not make awards of Matching, shareholding and to limits in operation Free or Dividend Shares under the SIP.
align the interests at the time.
of UK employees This is currently with shareholders.
1,500 gross salary per tax year increasing to 1,800 from April 2014.
1 The Committee may in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, delisting, or other event which may affect the value of awards, adjust or amend the terms of awards in accordance with the rules of the relevant share plan.
In the case of the SIP, any changes may be subject to HMRC approval if required.
99 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued Remuneration arrangements throughout the Company Notes to the policy table The remuneration policy for our Executive Directors is designed in Legacy matters line with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin The Committee can make remuneration payments and payments for remuneration for the wider Group.
All our reward arrangements are loss of ofce outside of the Policy set out above, where the terms of builtaround the common objectives and principles outlined below: the payment were agreed before the Policy came into effect, or at a Performance driven the Company intentionally places time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company significant focus on variable remuneration, ensuring that a provided that, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in meaningful proportion of remuneration is based on performance.
consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
Performance targets are typically aligned with those of the Executive This includes the exercise of any discretion available to the Committee Directors.
As a result, individuals are incentivised towards consistent in connection with such payments.
financial and non-financial business goals and objectives, in addition For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying to appropriate individual goals.
awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over Employees as shareholders a substantial number of employees shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award participate in our various share incentive plans.
this participation, as well as those shares owned and purchased Outstanding share awards under the Value Creation Plan VCP were by employees prior to and since IPO, Petrofac is proud of the granted prior to 27 June 2012.
Under the rules of that plan approved significant levels of employee share ownership within the Company.
by shareholders on 11 May 2012 no further awards can be made after We consider that this is one of the key drivers of performance 11 May 2014.
Outstanding awards are set out in the Annual Report on throughout the business.
If the stretching performance conditions are satisfied, awards under the VCP would vest in 2016, 2017 and 2018.
Non-executive Directors Element Purpose and Operation Opportunity Performance metrics link to strategy Non-executive NEDs receive a basic annual fee paid quarterly in Current fee levels can be found in the Annual None Director NED fees respect of their Board duties.
Report on Remuneration on page 112.
Core element Further fees are paid to NEDs in respect of Fees are set at a level which is considered of remuneration, chairmanship of Board committees.
No fees are appropriate to attract and retain the calibre of paid for fullling the paid for membership of a Board committee.
individual required by the Company.
The Non-executive Chairman receives an allFee levels are normally set by reference to the inclusive fee for the role.
level of fees paid to NEDs serving on boards of similarly-sized, UK-listed companies and the size, The remuneration of the Non-executive Chairman responsibility and time commitment required of is set by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board as a whole is responsible for The Companys Articles of Association provide determining NED fees.
These fees are the sole that the total aggregate remuneration paid to the element of NED remuneration.
NEDs are not Chairman and NEDs will be within the limits set by eligible for annual bonus, share incentives, shareholders.
The current aggregate limit of 1m pensions or other benets.
was approved by shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
Fees are typically reviewed annually.
Expenses incurred in the performance of duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax due on the payments.
100 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 To facilitate recruitment, the Committee may make a one-off award to Recruitment policy buy out incentives and any other remuneration opportunities.
In doing In determining remuneration arrangements for new appointments to so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any the Board including internal promotions or interim appointments, the performance conditions attached to any forfeited incentive awards, Committee applies the following principles: the likelihood of those conditions being met, the proportion of the The Committee takes into consideration all relevant factors, vesting performance period remaining and the form of the award including the calibre of the individual, local market practice, existing e. g. cash or shares.
arrangements for other Executive Directors, pay relativities and The Committee may grant awards to a new Executive Director under market positioning: the provision in the FCA Listing Rules, which allows for the granting Typically, the new appointment will have or be transitioned onto of awards specically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the the same policy framework as the other Executive Directors, as recruitment of an Executive Director, without seeking prior shareholder outlined above: approval.
In doing so, it will comply with the provisions in force at the Upon appointment, the Committee may only offer additional date of this report.
remuneration arrangements if it is considered essential to do so in Where an executive is appointed from within the organisation, the order to secure the appointment: Company will honour legacy arrangements in line with the original The Committee commits to explaining the rationale for the relevant terms and conditions.
arrangements to shareholders in the remuneration report following any appointment: In the event of the appointment of a new Non-executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed The Committee may also consider providing additional benets to in the relevant table opposite.
expatriate appointments, where appropriate: and The Committee will have regard to the best interests of both Petrofac and its shareholders and is conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary, particularly when determining buyout arrangements.
Executive Director service contracts The key employment terms and other conditions of the current Executive Directors, as stipulated in their service contracts are set out below: Provision Policy Notice period 12 months notice by either the Company or the Executive Director no xed expiry date.
Termination payment The Company may terminate employment by making a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to the value of base salary and benets in respect of the notice period.
The Company would normally expect Executive Directors to mitigate any loss upon their departure.
Remuneration and benets Participation in the incentive plans, including the annual bonus and the PSP, is non-contractual.
Policy on payment for loss of ofce The Committee takes a number of factors into account when Individuals will not normally be eligible to receive an annual bonus determining leaving arrangements for an Executive Director.
if on the date the bonus is paid they are no longer employed by the Group or, have submitted their notice, or are under notice of The Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations agreed termination of employment or on garden leave.
Where an individual with the Executive Director.
As a non-UK incorporated company, is considered by the Committee to be a good leaver, in exceptional without the benefit of the statutory protections afforded by the UK circumstances it may consider the individual eligible for a time proCompanies Act, we would be obliged to honour any contractual rated annual bonus, subject to business and individual performance.
entitlement or other right of an Executive Director, even if it were Other payments such as legal fees and outplacement fees may be inconsistent with our Policy Report.
paid if it is considered appropriate.
101 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued Policy on payment for loss of ofce continued The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules, this includes plans operated at below Board level and under which Executive Directors are not entitled to be granted awards.
The following table provides a summary of the leaver provisions of each of our share plans.
In the event of any disagreement, the share plan rules will take precedence.
Plan Performance Value Creation Plan Deferred Bonus Restricted Share Plan Share Incentive Plan Share Plan Share Plan 1 1 Summary of plan Current long-term One-off plan.
HMRC-approved, taxincentive plan for Awards made in Vehicle for deferral of Typically used to make efficient plan available Executive Directors and 2012 only annual bonus amounts, awards to individuals for participation to all senior management with awards matched by upon appointment UK-based employees the Company Automatic good leaver categories Death 9999 9 Injury, ill-health 9999 9 ordisability Transfer of employing 9999 9 company or business outside Group Retirement by 9999 9 agreement with employer Redundancy 9999 9 2 Any other scenario in 99 99 8 which the Committee determines good leaver treatment isjustied Treatment for good leavers under normal circumstances as governed by the share plan rules and in accordance with the 3 Companys share dealing code Vesting of award s Subject to the Unvested awards shall vest Invested awards vest On a timeLeaver provisions 5 achievement of to the extent determined by in full.
under the SIP are performance conditions the Committee taking into in accordance with Matching awards vest on tested at the relevant account the performance the standard HMRC 5 a time-apportioned basis.
vesting date, unless the conditions where the leaver provisions Committee determines performance period has it fair and reasonable not been completed and, that a greater proportion unless the Committee should vest, on a timedetermines otherwise the apportioned basis.
period of time elapsed since grant.
4 4 6 6 Vesting date The original vesting date The original vesting date The date of cessation The date of cessation Death All unvested awards shall All unvested awards shall All unvested awards shall All unvested awards shall All shares will be vest in full on the date vest following death, to vest in full on the date vest in full on the date released on the date of death the extent determined by of death of death of death 7 the Committee 8 Treatment for bad leavers i. e. any other leaving reasons than those provided above Unvested awards lapse Unvested awards lapse Unvested awards lapse Unvested awards lapse All shares are released, 5 5 5 5 in full in full in full in full subject to any relevant tax requirements 1 Executive Directors may hold awards which were granted prior to their appointment to the Board.
3 For all plans other than the SIP, individuals leaving as good leavers will be deemed to cease employment when the relevant notice period ends unless the Committee determines to deem cessation to be on an earlier date on or following the date notice was given.
4 The Committee has the exibility to determine that awards can vest upon cessation of employment.
5 Unless determined otherwise by the Remuneration Committee.
6 Awards are generally not subject to performance conditions and will vest on cessation of employment, subject to the terms of the relevant share plan rules.
7 Taking into account the performance conditions where the performance period has not been completed and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time elapsed since grant.
8 For all plans other than the SIP, individuals leaving as bad leavers will be deemed to cease employment when notice is given, unless the Committee determines to deem cessation to be on a later date, no later than the end of the relevant notice period.
102 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Other events On a change of control or winding up of the Company: Invested awards under the DBSP vest in full.
RSP awards, PSP awards and Matching Awards under the DBSP will vest on a time pro-rated basis, and where applicable subject to the achievement of the relevant performance conditions, unless the Committee determines that the circumstances are sufciently exceptional to justify a higher level of vesting.
VCP awards vest taking into account: the achievement of the performance conditions where the performance period has not completed and: unless the Committee determines otherwise, the time elapsed since grant.
In the event of a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event, which in the opinion of the Committee may affect the current or future value of shares, the Committee may allow awards to vest on the same basis.
Non-executive Director letters of appointment The Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman of the Company, have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below: Provision Policy Period In line with the UK Code, all Directors will seek annual re-appointment by shareholders at the AGM.
Termination Three months notice by either the Company or the Non-executive Director.
Non-executive Directors and the Chairman are not entitled to compensation on leaving the Board.
If a Non-executive Director or the Chairman is requested to resign, they are entitled to prior notice or fees in lieu of three months notice.
Illustration of the remuneration policy Petrofacs remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short-term and long-term performance targets, aligned with the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
The Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be received under different performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate in the context of the performance delivered and the value added for shareholders.
The charts on page 104 provide illustrative values of the remuneration package in 2014 for Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios.
Assumed performance Assumptions used All performance scenarios Consists of total xed pay, including base salary, benets and cash allowance Fixed pay Base salary salary effective as at 1 January 2014 Benets amount received by each Executive Director in 2013 Cash allowance allowance effective as at 1 January 2014 Minimum performance No pay-out under the annual bonus No vesting under the Performance Share Plan Performance in line with 50% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus i. e. 100% of salary expectations Variable pay 30% vesting under the Performance Share Plan i. e. 60% of salary 1 Maximum performance 100% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus i. e. 200% of salary 100% vesting under the Performance Share Plan i. e. 200% of salary 1 We have used a maximum PSP award opportunity of 200% of base salary, in line with the usual maximum award under the plan rules.
Please note that in circumstances which the Committee deems to be exceptional, awards up to 300% of base salary may be made.
Performance Share Plan awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth or discount rate assumptions.
All-employee share plans have been excluded, as have any legacy awards held by Executive Directors.
For UK-based Executive Directors who are paid in pound sterling, amounts have been translated to US dollars based on the average exchange rate for 2013 of 1:US$1.5641.
103 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued As noted on page 103, these charts are for illustrative purposes Consideration of conditions elsewhere only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown: intheCompany When determining remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors, Group Chief Executive Ayman Asfari the Committee considers as a matter of course, the pay and conditions All gures expressed as a % of total of employees throughout the Group.
In particular, the Committee pays specic attention to the general level of salary increases and the size Base salary $1,017k of the annual bonus pool within the wider population, with particular Benets $87k reference to the year-on-year change in these gures.
Cash allowance $109k Total xed pay $1,213k Whilst the Committee does not directly consult with our employees as part of the process of determining executive pay, the Committee does Below receive feedback from employee surveys and takes this into account 100% $1,213k threshold when reviewing executive pay.
In addition, a significant number of our employees are shareholders and so are able to express their views in Target 43% 36% 21% $2,840k the same way as other shareholders.
Maximum 23% 38% 39% $5,280k Consideration of shareholder views Fixed remuneration Annual bonus PSP The Company places great emphasis on our strong relationship with shareholders, and recognises the importance of clear and full consultation on all aspects of remuneration and governance at Petrofac.
In reviewing our approach to directors remuneration reporting this year Chief Executive, Engineering, Construction, and our forward-looking remuneration policy, we maintained a dialogue Operations & Maintenance Marwan Chedid with our major shareholders and took their views into account.
All gures expressed as a % of total The Committee continues to monitor shareholder views when Base salary $605k evaluating and setting on-going remuneration strategy, and we commit Benets $21k to consulting with major shareholders prior to any significant changes to our remuneration policy.
Cash allowance $230k Total xed pay $856k Minor amendments Below The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out 100% $856k threshold above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining Target 47% 33% 20% $1,824k shareholder approval for that amendment.
Maximum 26% 37% 37% $3,276k Availability of documentation Fixed remuneration Annual bonus PSP Service contracts and letters of appointment for all Directors are available for inspection by any person at our registered ofce in Jersey and at our corporate services ofce in London.
They will also be available for inspection during the 30 minutes prior to the start of our AGM to be held in London in May 2014.
Chief Financial officer Tim Weller All gures expressed as a % of total Base salary $720k Benets $2k Cash allowance $109k Total xed pay $831k Below 100% $831k threshold Target 42% 36% 22% $1,982k Maximum 22% 39% 39% $3,709k Fixed remuneration Annual bonus PSP 104 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration Looking backwards The information presented from this section up until the relevant note on page 111 represents the audited section of this report.
Single total gure of remuneration The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013, with prior year gures also shown.
All gures are presented in USD.
UK-resident Executive Directors receive private health insurance, life assurance and long-term disability insurance.
Ayman Asfaris benets primarily relate to the employment of a personal assistant who is partly engaged in support of the administration of his personal affairs.
UAE-resident Executive Directors receive similar benets to UK-resident Executive Directors and in addition receive other typical expatriate benets, such as childrens education and return ights to their permanent home.
c Cash in lieu of pension and car allowance UK-resident Executive Directors receive a cash allowance in place of benets including, but not limited to, car allowances and pension contributions.
Directors do not receive pension contributions from the Company.
UAE-resident Executive Directors receive a cash allowance in respect of housing, utilities and transport, in line with local market practice.
d Post-employment benefit UAE-resident Executive Directors are required by local statute to receive an end of service indemnity payment.
Such payments are due to all non-UAE national employees working in the UAE and are based on years of service and salary.
These sums will be payable by the Company only on termination of the individuals employment from the UAE.
The amounts disclosed are the increase in entitlement benefit for 2013.
The total amount retained as at 31 December 2013 in respect of Marwan Chedid is US$957,224.
As a result of his departure from the Company on 31 December 2013, Maroun Semaan received payment of his UAE end of service indemnity in full, which amounted to US$1,034,000.
The indemnity has been accrued over his 22 years of employment at the Company, in line with requirements under UAE local statute.
e Annual bonus cash bonus paid in respect of 2013. f Long-term incentives 12% of the 2011 awards under the Performance Share Plan are due to vest on 19 March 2014.
The value shown represents an estimate of the market value of the shares that are due to vest, based on a three-month average share price of 1311 pence 1 October to 31 December 2013.
The 2012 values in this column relating to awards which vested in May 2013 have been revised from last years report, based on the actual share price of 1325 pence at the date of vesting on 16 May 2013.
Further notes to the table 1 UK-based Directors are paid in sterling.
Amounts have been translated to US dollars based on the prevailing rate at the date of payment or award with the exception of the bonus amounts, which have been translated using the average exchange rate for 2013 of 1:US$1.5641.
2 Maroun Semaan ceased to be a Director from 31 December 2013.
3 Marwan Chedid and Ren Mdori were appointed as Directors on 19 January 2012.
The 2012 gures reect the period from this date to 31 December 2012.
4 Andy Inglis will cease to be a Director from 28 February 2014.
5 Non-executive Directors receive a basic fee of 65,000 per annum and an additional fee of 15,000 per annum for acting as a Chairman of a Board Committee.
Norman Murray receives a fee of 280,000 per annum.
These fees were last changed in July 2013.
6 Ren Mdori succeeded Rijnhard van Tets as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2013.
7 Kathleen Hogenson was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 1 August 2013.
105 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued The bonuses awarded to Executive Directors in respect of 2013 Additional disclosures in respect of the single recognise that, on the whole, our performance against our strategic guretable and growth targets was good, with achievement of a number of Benets key strategic and operational milestones.
Our programme to drive The single total gure table on page 105 sets out the total amount capability within the Group was also delivered well, placing us on a rm of benets received by each Executive Director.
The table below footing for future growth.
provides an overview of the most significant components of the In terms of financial results, we achieved modest growth in net profit relevant benets.
in 2013 and there was also continued growth in our backlog, which Provision of Housing and Education ended the year at a record high of US$15.0 billion.
Personal Assistant transport allowance Set against this, however, the Committee recognises that there were Ayman Asfari US$53,802 three fatalities during 2013.
In addition performance against some Maroun Semaan US$219,996 US$29,700 financial metrics, whilst still good, did not fully meet our stretching Marwan Chedid US$219,996 US$12,375 expectations and some of our operational targets were not met in all respects.
Annual bonus Taking all these factors into account, the Committee used its The table below sets out the annual bonus awards made to Executive judgement to set bonuses in the context of our overall performance.
The significant reduction in out-turn from 2012 reects both the stretching targets which we set at the beginning of the year and missed As a % of 2013 maximum As a % of base expectations in some areas.
annual bonus opportunity salary At this stage, the Committee considers that the goals within the Ayman Asfari 750,000 59% 119% balanced scorecard remain commercially sensitive.
We always seek Maroun Semaan US$150,000 13% 25% to be as transparent as possible with shareholders.
As such, we Marwan Chedid US$700,000 61% 122% will continue to keep the disclosure of our performance framework Andy Inglis 0 0% under review so that we can respond to developing best practice Tim Weller 500,000 57% 114% and provide shareholders with as much context as possible within commercial constraints.
At the start of the year, the Committee determined whether to award each Executive Director a cash bonus in respect of 2013.
In doing Performance Share Plan so, the Committee considered the extent of achievement by each The PSP value shown in the single gure table relates to the 2011 Executive Director against their balanced scorecard measures, set award, which is due to vest in March 2014.
The performance conditions by reference to the Groups corporate plan, and took into account for this award are set out below.
the Companys financial performance and personal objectives.
The balanced scorecard is used as a framework for the Committee to a 50% of the award three-year relative TSR performance against a use its judgement to determine bonuses for each Executive Director on sectoral peer group the Index a discretionary basis, and does not provide a formulaic out-turn.
Percentage of TSR Three-year Petrofac TSR performance element vesting These targets are designed to be stretching, and drive performance Less than the Index 0% and delivery of the Groups strategic aims.
Equal to the Index 30% The measures include: 25% out-performance of the Index 100% HSE and integrity measures: Straight-line vesting operates between these points.
financial performance, including net income, total revenue, order intake, cash ow targets, backlog and costs: The peer group for the 2011 award is set out below: Group and where relevant business service line strategic and Aker Solutions Saipem operational performance measures: and AMEC Schlumberger people-related measures Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. SNC-Lavalin Group In addition, some Executive Directors have targets related to Fluor Corporation Technip succession planning, risk management and specic capability Foster Wheeler Tecnicas Reunidas measures.
In this way, the Committee considers that it has an incentive Halliburton Wood Group John structure for senior management that promotes responsible behaviour.
JGC WorleyParsons Maire Tecnimont 106 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 b 50% of the award three-year EPS growth Percentage of EPS EPS growth per annum element vesting 10% or less 0% 15% 30% 20% or more 100% Straight-line vesting operates between these points.
The table below provides an overview of Petrofacs performance against the 2011 PSP award targets and resulting vesting: Actual performance Vesting as % of element Relative TSR Performance below Index 0% EPS growth 14% per annum 24% Total vesting 12% of shares awarded Scheme interests awarded during the financial year Performance Share Plan awards As outlined in the policy table, PSP awards are granted over Petrofac shares with the number of shares under award determined by reference to a percentage of base salary.
Award levels are based on individual performance prior to grant.
Details of the actual number of shares granted are set out on page 109.
The following table provides details of the awards made under the PSP on 24 May 2013.
Performance for these awards is measured over the three financial years from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015.
They are subject to the same performance conditions as for the 2011 award outlined in the previous section on page 106.
Face value Threshold vesting Maximum vesting End of performance Type of award Face value % of salary % of face value % of face value period Ayman Asfari 1,219,987 193% For TSR element 50% of award Maroun Semaan Performance 30% of face value Marwan Chedid 727,597 191% 100% 31 Dec 2015 shares For EPS element Andy Inglis 1,049,994 193% 50% of award Tim Weller 849,995 193% 0% of face value Awards were made based on a share price of 1529.40 pence, and the face values shown have been calculated on this basis.
This share price represents the five-day average share price up to 22 March 2013.
Due to share dealing restrictions placed on senior management at that time, although awards were made in May, the March dates were used for the award pricing calculations as this was when the majority of employees received awards.
Share Incentive Plan awards UK-based Executive Directors are eligible to participate in HMRC-approved all-employee share plans on the same basis as other eligible employees.
During 2013, Tim Weller participated in the Share Incentive Plan SIP and purchased 109 shares during 2013.
Payments for loss of ofce After more than 22 years invaluable service, Maroun Semaan who is one of the founders and major shareholders of the Company, retired from the Group on 31 December 2013.
He stepped down from the Board at the same time.
Mr Semaan received his base salary, benets and cash allowance up until that date.
As Mr Semaan is a good leaver, the Committee determined he should receive an annual bonus payment for the achievement of his specic objectives.
In addition, under the rules of the Performance Share Plan, all outstanding long-term incentive awards that he holds under the Performance Share Plan will vest on a time-apportioned basis subject to their existing timescales and satisfaction of the applicable performance conditions.
As required under the provisions of UAE labour law, Mr Semaan received an end of service indemnity payment of US$1,034,000.
Other than this statutory requirement, he did not receive any payment for loss of ofce.
Andy Inglis will cease to be an Executive Director of the Company on 28 February 2014.
Mr Inglis will receive his base salary, benets and cash allowance for 2013 and for the period of 2014 up until that date.
Mr Inglis did not receive an annual bonus in respect of 2013 and will not be considered for an annual bonus in respect of 2014.
All outstanding long-term incentive awards he holds under the Performance Share Plan have lapsed.
As Mr Inglis had given notice of his termination of employment to the Company prior to the final tranche of his 2011 RSP award vesting, this award has also lapsed.
Full details of Mr Inglis leaving arrangements including a single gure of remuneration for 2014 will be published in our 2014 Directors Remuneration report.
107 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Directors shareholdings at 31 December 2013 and share ownership guidelines Following discussions with shareholders in relation to the VCP in 2012, the Committee introduced a shareholding requirement of 300% of base salary for those Executive Directors participating in the plan.
Neither Ayman Asfari nor Maroun Semaan were participants in the VCP and were therefore not subject to a formal shareholding requirement.
In any event, as founders, these two individuals already had substantial shareholding interests in the Company, signicantly in excess of the required levels.
Until the relevant shareholding guidelines have been met, Executive Directors are encouraged to retain vested shares earned under the Companys incentive plans.
Unvested share awards are not taken into account when considering an Executive Directors progress towards theshareholding requirements.
Current shareholding requirements and the number of shares held by Directors at 31 December 2013 are set out in the table below: Interests in share Interests in share incentive schemes, incentive schemes, awarded without awarded subject to Shares owned outright performance conditions performance conditions Shares owned outright Shareholding requirement at 31December at 31December at 31December at 31December 1 as a % of salary Target 2013 2013 2013 2012 Director % achieved No.
of shares 2 Ayman Asfari No formal 62,950,678 269,332 62,900,835 shareholding requirement 2 Maroun Semaan No formal 28,288,813 91,771 28,217,864 shareholding requirement 3 Marwan Chedid 300% 1,519% 1,368,733 21,558 119,479 1,321,913 4 Andy Inglis 300% 30% 39,494 22,144 248,944 18,035 3 5 Tim Weller 300% 43% 46,208 10,548 99,192 28,211 Norman Murray 17,130 9,630 Thomas Thune Andersen 4,000 4,000 Stefano Cao Roxanne Decyk 5,804 5,804 Rijnhard van Tets 100,000 100,000 Ren Mdori Kathleen Hogenson 1 These relate to shares awarded under the DBSP to Marwan Chedid prior to his appointment as an Executive Director, and exceptional one-off awards made to Andy Inglis and Tim Weller under the RSP at the time of their employment by the Company.
2 Although neither Ayman Asfari nor Maroun Semaan have formal shareholding requirements, both substantially exceed the shareholding requirement set for the other Executive Directors.
3 Marwan Chedid and Tim Weller are expected to build up a shareholding of three times salary over a period of five years from appointment.
Tim Weller was appointed as an Executive Director on 13 October 2011.
Whilst at this time, Tim has yet to fully meet the shareholding requirement, he has taken steps to acquire shares since his appointment.
Marwan Chedids shareholding requirement has been met in full.
For the purposes of determining Executive Director shareholdings, the individuals salary and the share price as at 31 December 2013 has been used 1224 pence.
4 Andy Inglis will cease to be an Executive Director of the Company on 28 February 2014.
5 Includes shares purchased through the SIP totalling 187 shares as at 31 December 2013.
2 Dividends awarded on shares granted under the share plans are reinvested to purchase further shares.
3 The performance conditions for the May 2010 PSP award were satisfied and the award vested in full on 16 May 2013 when the closing share price was 1325p.
4 Following Maroun Semaans retirement on 31 December 2013, the PSP awards detailed have been scaled back proportionally to reect the number of shares that he was entitled to as at 31 December 2013.
These awards will be released on the original vesting dates, to the extent that the original performance conditions attached to each award are met.
5 Following his appointment to the Board on 19 January 2012, no further awards have been made to Marwan Chedid under the DBSP.
On 16 May 2013, his 2010 DBSP award vested in full and a third of his 2011 DBSP award vested.
The closing share price on 16 May 2013 was 1325p.
Mr Chedids final tranche of DBSP awards will vest in March 2014.
6 Shares awarded on 19 March 2011 have partially satisfied performance conditions and therefore 12% of the maximum award levels will vest on 19 March 2014.
Based on a share price of 1368 pence, which is the closing share price on 24 February 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to the adoption of this Report by the Committee, the value of the awards made to Executive Directors on 19 March 2014 would be as follows: Ayman Asfari: 184,872, Maroun Semaan: 79,276 and Marwan Chedid: 35,376.
7 Shares awarded under the RSP on 5 January 2011 and 6 September 2011 are not subject to performance conditions and will vest, subject, inter alia, to continued employment, in equal annual tranches over three years from the date of grant in accordance with the share scheme rules and the Companys share dealing code requirements.
8 These shares were originally due to vest under the RSP on 5 January 2013, but were delayed as a result of the Company being unable to deal at that time.
These shares vested on 16 May 2013 when the closing share price was 1325p 9 These shares will lapse on 28 February 2014, when Andy Inglis ceases to be an Executive Director of the Company.
109 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued Share interests share options Share options held at the year-end, to Executive Directors are given in the table below: Number of options at Date from which Director Date of grant Plan 31.12.12 and 31.12.13 Exercise price exercisable Marwan Chedid 1 18 May 2012 VCP 112,910 1710.28p 18 May 2016 1 VCP 112,910 1710.28p 18 May 2017 1 VCP 112,910 1710.28p 18 May 2018 338,730 Andy Inglis 1 18 May 2012 VCP 173,161 1710.28p 18 May 2016 1 VCP 173,161 1710.28p 18 May 2017 1 VCP 173,161 1710.28p 18 May 2018 2 519,483 Tim Weller 1 18 May 2012 VCP 46,726 1710.28p 18 May 2016 1 VCP 46,726 1710.28p 18 May 2017 1 VCP 46,726 1710.28p 18 May 2018 140,178 1 As outlined in our 2012 remuneration report, share options under the VCP will only vest subject to the achievement of stretching performance targets.
The number of share options shown represents the maximum number of shares that will vest at each vesting date.
In addition, at each vesting date the Committee will assess performance against certain performance safeguards, retaining discretion to reduce the number of share options that may vest in certain circumstances.
Following vesting, all options will be exercisable until 18 May 2020.
2 All outstanding options will lapse on 28 February 2014.
This represents the end of the audited section of the report.
Historical TSR performance and Group Chief Executive remuneration outcomes The chart below compares the TSR performance of the Company over the past five years with the TSR of the FTSE 100 Index.
This index has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market index of which Petrofac is a member.
The table below the chart summarises the CEO single gure for total remuneration, annual bonus payouts and LTIP vesting levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity over this period.
TSR rebased to 100 on 1 January 2009 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Petrofac FTSE 100 Source: Datastream Group Chief Executive 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Group Chief Executive single gure of remuneration US$000 US$3,501 US$4,889 US$6,088 US$4,663 US$2,603 Annual bonus payout as a % of maximum opportunity 100% 100% 75% 81% 59% PSP vesting out-turn as a % of maximum opportunity 100% 100% 100% 100% 12% 110 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 To provide an additional reference point, we have also provided a chart below which presents our TSR performance against the same index since IPO in October 2005.
TSR rebased to 100 on 3 October 2005 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Petrofac FTSE 100 Source: Datastream Percentage change in remuneration of the Group Chief Executive The table below illustrates the increase in salary, benets including cash allowance in lieu of pension and annual bonus for the Group Chief Executive and that of a representative group of the Companys employees.
For these purposes, we have used all UK-based employees as the comparative group, as this represents the most appropriate comparator group for reward purposes for our UK-based Group Chief Executive.
% change in benets excluding cash % change in allowance in lieu % change in basesalary of pension annual bonus 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Group Chief Executive 3.4% 3.8% 24.2% All UK-based employees 5.0% 0% 3.6% Relative importance of the spend on pay The chart below illustrates the change in total remuneration, dividends paid and net profit from 2012 to 2013.
The gures presented have been calculated on the following bases: Dividends dividends paid in respect of the financial year.
Net profit our reported net profit in respect of the financial year.
This is a key performance indicator for the Company.
The Committee therefore believes it is the most direct reection of our underlying financial performance.
Total remuneration represents total salaries paid to all Company employees in respect of the financial year see page 136 of the report foran explanation as to how this value is calculated.
Note that this excludes social security costs, benefit and pension costs and share-based payment expenses.
Spend in respect of the financial year US$m FY2012 FY2013 0.1% 1,264.0 1,265.0 2.8% 650.0 632.0 2.8% 221.3 227.6 Dividends Net profit Total remuneration 111 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued Performance Share Plan Looking forward to 2014 The operating maximum PSP award for Executive Directors will remain Implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 at 200% of base salary in 2014.
This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing Proposed 2014 awards to be granted to Executive Directors have been to implement our remuneration policy in 2014. set by reference to individual performance during 2013.
The following table sets out the proposed 2014 PSP awards for Executive Directors: Base salary In determining salary increases for 2014, the Committee took into 2014 PSP 2014 PSP account a number of factors, including the level of salary increases in award as % award as % the wider workforce, internal and external positioning and the general of base salary of maximum economic climate.
Ayman Asfari 177% 91% Marwan Chedid 182% 91% The Committee has agreed salary increases of between 3% and 5% Tim Weller 174% 87% for UK-based Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2014.
For Marwan Chedid, a UAE-based Executive Director, the salary 50% of the 2014 PSP award will be subject to a TSR performance increase is 5%.
All increases are in line with the wider employee condition over a three-year period, requiring Petrofac to outperform population in the relevant local market.
an index of sectoral peers.
The peer group to be used for this award is The table below shows base salaries for 2014. the same as outlined on page 106, with Maire Tecnimont replaced by Baker Hughes.
The TSR outperformance requirements and associated 2014 basic 2013 vesting schedule remain the same.
salary basic salary Ayman Asfari 650,000 632,000 The remaining 50% of the 2014 PSP award will be subject to an EPS performance condition over the same three-year period.
Marwan Chedid US$605,000 US$575,000 Tim Weller 460,000 440,000 The Committee reviewed targets in early 2014 by reference to a number of internal and external reference points to ensure that they are positioned at a level which it considers appropriate and stretching in Benets The Committee sets benets in line with the policy set out on page 96. the context of the business strategy and earnings expectations for the next three years, whilst ensuring that they do not drive unacceptable There are no changes proposed to the benefit framework in 2014. levels of risk and encourage inappropriate behaviours.
Cash allowance in lieu of pension and car allowance As a result, the EPS targets have been repositioned for the 2014 The levels of cash allowance provided are intended to be broadly awards as follows: market typical for role and geographic location, although current levels are below median.
Percentage of EPS element No increase in cash allowance is proposed for UK-based Executive EPS growth per annum vesting Directors in 2014.
The cash allowance for Marwan Chedid, a UAE- 7.5% or less 0% based Executive Director, has been increased by US$10,000 with 10% 30% effect from 2014, to reect an increase in the general cost of living in 15% or more 100% the UAE.
The table below shows cash allowances for 2014.
Non-executive Director remuneration The table below shows the Non-executive Director current 2014 cash 2013 cash fee structure: allowance in lieu allowance in lieu of pension of pension 2014 fees Ayman Asfari 70,000 70,000 Chairman of the Board fee 280,000 Marwan Chedid US$230,000 US$220,000 Basic Non-executive Director fee 65,000 Tim Weller 70,000 70,000 Board Committee Chairman fee 15,000 Annual bonus There are no fees paid for membership of Board Committees.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors will remain at 200% of base salary in 2014.
No change is proposed to the annual bonus framework that applied in 2013, as outlined on pages 98 and 106.
At this stage, the Committee considers that the exact annual bonus targets remain commercially sensitive.
In next years annual report, we commit to providing shareholders with as much context as possible on performance against those targets and the resulting bonus out-turn rationale, withincommercial constraints.
112 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 The Committee considers executive remuneration matters in Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to the context of alignment with risk management.
All members of Directors remuneration the Committee are also members of the Board Risk Committee.
Support for the Committee This allows them to provide oversight on any Group risk factors During the year, the Committee received independent advice relating to remuneration matters.
The Committee believes that the on executive remuneration matters from Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
remuneration arrangements in place do not raise health and safety, Deloitte were formally appointed as advisers by the Committee in environmental, social or ethical issues, nor inadvertently motivate October 2005, following a recommendation from the Non-executive irresponsible behaviour.
Shareholder voting Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and The table below outlines the result of the advisory vote on the 2012 as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to Directors Remuneration report received at the 2013 AGM.
executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee has reviewed the advice provided by Deloitte during Number of votes cast For Against Abstentions the year and is satisfied that it has been objective and independent.
247,605,438 235,369,476 12,235,962 797,680 95.06% 4.94% 0.32% Total fees received by Deloitte in relation to the remuneration advice provided to the Committee during 2013 amounted to 110,325, based The Committee is pleased to note that over 95% of our shareholders on the required time commitment.
approved the 2012 Directors Remuneration report.
Since our listing in In addition, during 2013, Deloitte also provided tax services, certain October 2005, we have received at least 95% support for the Directors strategic and advisory consulting services and secondees who Remuneration report at all AGMs excluding abstentions, and the assisted in routine internal tax and finance functions.
Committee would like to take this opportunity to thank shareholders fortheir support over this period.
During 2013, the Committee also received support from legal advisers Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Freshelds, who provided advice External board appointments on delayed awards and vestings for PSP and DBSP awards for some Executive Directors are normally entitled to accept one non-executive employees, as well as general interpretation of the scheme rules.
appointment outside the Company with the consent of the Board.
Any fees received may be retained by the Director.
The individuals listed in the table below, none of whom were Committee members, materially assisted the Committee in considering As at the date of this report, Tim Weller is a non-executive director executive remuneration and attended at least part of one meeting by withThe Carbon Trust and G4S plc, for which he received 17,000 invitation during the year.
and 42,600 respectively in fees during the year.
Until March 2013, TimWeller also served as a non-executive director on the BBC Attendee Position Comments Worldwide board, for which he received 10,200.
Norman Murray Chairman of Board Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive To provide context Annual General Meeting Geoff Traneld Group Head of HR for matters under As set out in my statement on page 93, with consideration to the new discussion Richard Milne Group Director of Legal & remuneration reporting regulations, our Policy Report and Annual Report on Remuneration will each be subject to two advisory shareholder votes Commercial Affairs at the AGM to be held on 15 May 2014.
Mary Hitchon Secretary to the Board Secretary to Committee Carol Arrowsmith Partner at Deloitte LLP Adviser On behalf of the Board Simon Evans Partner at Freshelds Legal adviser Thomas Thune Andersen None of the individuals attended part of any meeting in which their own Chairman of the Remuneration Committee compensation was discussed.
25 February 2014 Governance The Board and the Committee consider that, throughout 2013 and up to the date of this report, the Company has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to Directors remuneration.
In addition, the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI and the National Association of Pension Funds NAPF have been noted.
The Company also took the opportunity to respond to the GC100 Working Group consultation on the new remuneration reporting regulations.
