governance REmunERation PoliCy REPoRt RemuneRAtiOn POlicy RePORt The Remuneration Committee reviews the Companys remuneration philosophy and structure each year to ensure that the remuneration framework remains effective in supporting the Companys strategic objectives, is in line with best practice and fairly rewards individuals for the contribution that they make to the business, having regard to the international nature, size and complexity of the Groups operations and the need to attract and motivate employees of the highest calibre.
Remuneration packages are designed to reward executive directors and members of the senior management team fairly for their contributions, whilst remaining within the range of benefits offered by similar companies in the sector.
The Committee believes that the individual contributions made by executive directors and senior executives are fundamental to the successful performance of the Company.
The Committee after discussion with the executive directors and its advisers, New Bridge Street, has therefore adopted a remuneration policy with the following objectives: pay executives competitively, recognising that they have highly marketable skills to companies already in and those considering entry to the online gambling industry, but acknowledge local market levels, and where appropriate, practices: incentivise and reward behaviours that will contribute to superior Company performance: avoid the need to make ad hoc payments outside the formal structure: enable the Company to attract and retain international executives at the required calibre, particularly in potential new markets: be simple and understandable: provide good lock-in of key employees through deferred elements: and avoid reward for failure.
The Committee believes that its remuneration policy creates a coherent and appropriate framework for remunerating directors and senior executives of the Company and draws a clearer link between performance and reward.
The details of this policy are clearly set out in the following pages.
A separate resolution will be put to shareholders at the annual general meeting on 21 May 2014 AGM to approve the policy which, if approved, will take effect from the date of the AGM and will apply until shareholders next consider and vote on the policy.
The Committee considers that the targets set for the different components of performance related remuneration are both appropriate and sufficiently demanding in the context of the business environment and the challenges with which the Group is faced as well as complying with the provisions of the Code.
RemuneRAtiOn POlicy fOR executiVe diRectORs At a glance Element & maximum Purpose and link to Strategy Operation maximum Performance targets n a Salary To attract, retain and Normally reviewed annually Other than when an motivate high calibre by the Committee, executive changes roles individuals for the role and effective in June.
or where benchmarking duties required.
indicates individual salaries Takes account of the require realignment, To provide market external market and other annual increases will competitive salary relative relevant factors including not exceed the general to the external market.
internal relativities and level of increases for the individual performance.
To reflect appropriate Groups employees, taking skills, development and into account the country experience over time.
where the executive ordinarily works.
Where benchmarking indicates that any individual salaries require realignment, these may be spread over a period of time if the required adjustment is particularly large.
Playtech plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Element & maximum Purpose and link to Strategy Operation maximum Performance targets Bonus Clear and direct Paid in cash.
Normally 150% of salary Based on a mixture of incentive linked to annual for the CEO but 200% financial performance performance targets in very exceptional including adjusted EBITDA Incentivise annual delivery circumstances as described and performance against of financial measures and below and 100% of strategic objectives.
personal performance salary for other Executive No less than 70% of the Corporate measures Directors but 150% in very bonus will be dependent on selected consistent with exceptional circumstances.
and complement the The additional limit will only Bonus is paid on a sliding budget and strategic plan.
be used in truly exceptional scale of 0% for threshold circumstances where increasing to 100% for performance significantly maximum performance.
exceeds the targets already set for bonus and reflects the unique and challenging environment in which the Company operates.
long term Aligned to key strategic Grant of performance 150% and 100% of salary Performance measured Incentive Plan objective of delivering shares, restricted shares in performance shares for over three years.
ltIP strong returns to or options.
the CEO and CFO Performance targets shareholders and Awards may be respectively.
aligned with the Groups earnings performance.
subject to clawback in strategy of delivering strong certain circumstances.
returns to shareholders and earnings performance.
25% of the awards vest for threshold performance.
Pension Provide retirement Provision of 5% of salary.
Other benefits To help attract and retain Provision of private n a n a high calibre individuals.
medical, permanent health insurance, life insurance and rental and accommodation expenses on relocation non pensionable.
Share The Company has a policy Executive directors are n a n a ownership of encouraging Directors required to retain 50% of guidelines to build a shareholding in the net of tax out-turn from the Company.
the vesting of awards under the LTIP until a shareholding with a minimum value has been achieved.
non-Executive To provide a competitive Fees are set in conjunction Other than when an n a Directors fee for the performance with the duties undertaken.
individual changes roles of NED duties, sufficient or where benchmarking to attract high calibre indicates fees require individuals to the role.
realignment, annual increases will not exceed the general level of increases for the Groups employees.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Financial statements Governance Strategic report governance REmunERation PoliCy REPoRt CONTINUED exPlAnAtiOn Of chOsen PeRfORmAnce meAsuRes And tARget setting Performance measures have been selected to reflect the key performance indicators which are critical to the realisation of our business strategy and delivery of shareholder returns.
The performance targets are reviewed each year to ensure that they are sufficiently challenging.
When setting these targets the committee will take into account a number of different reference points including, for financial targets, the Companys business plan and consensus analyst forecasts of the Companys performance.
Full vesting will only occur for what the Committee considers to be stretching performance.
POlicy On RecRuitment OR PROmOtiOn Of executiVe diRectOR Base salary levels will be set to reflect the experience of the individual, appropriate market data and internal relativities.
The Committee may feel it is appropriate to appoint a new director on a below market salary with a view to making above market and workforce annual increases over a number of years to reach the desired salary positioning subject to individual and Company performance.
Normal policy will be for the new director to participate in the remuneration structure detailed above, including the maximum incentive levels of 350% and 250% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively.
The Committee may decide that different performance criteria will apply to awards made in the year of appointment from those stated in the policy above.
The Committee may also provide relocation expenses arrangements, legal fees and costs.
The variable pay elements that may be offered will be subject to the maximum limits stated in the policy table.
The Committee may consider it necessary and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to offer additional cash and or make a grant of shares including use of awards made under section 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules in order to compensate the individual for remuneration that would be forfeited from the current employer.
Where possible such awards would be structured to mirror the value, form and structure of the forfeited awards or to provide alignment with existing shareholders.
In the case of an internal promotion, any commitments entered into prior to the promotion shall continue to apply.
Any variable pay elements shall be entitled to pay out according to its original terms on grant.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
seRVice cOntRActs And exit PAyments Executive Directors The service agreements of the executive directors are with PTVB Management Limited, a wholly owned Isle of Man incorporated subsidiary of the Company.
The service agreement of the Chief Financial Officer was entered into on 5 December 2012 and effective from 1 January 2013 and the service agreement of the Chief Executive Officer was amended effective from 1 January 2013.
Both service agreements are for an indefinite term and provide for formal notice of twelve months to be served to terminate the agreement, either by the Company or the director.
Future service contracts will provide for a notice period of up to twelve months.
Set out in the table below are the other key terms of the executive directors terms and conditions of employment: Provision Detail Remuneration Base salary and benefits Company car Private health insurance for director and dependents Life assurance 25 days paid annual leave in the case of the CFO and 30 days paid annual leave in the case of the CEO Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules Participation in LTIP, subject to rules plan Contribution equal to 5% of salary to personal pension plan change of control No special contractual provisions apply in the event of a change of control notice period 12 months notice on either side termination Payment The Company may make a payment in lieu of notice equal to basic salary plus benefits for the period of notice served Restrictive covenants During employment and for twelve months thereafter Playtech plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A bonus is not ordinarily payable unless the individual is employed and not under notice on the payment date.
However, the Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to award a bonus payment for the notice period served not on garden leave.
The LTIP rules provide that other than in certain good leaver circumstances awards lapse on cessation of employment.
Where an individual is a good leaver the Committees policy is for the award to vest on the normal vesting date or cessation of employment in the event of death following the application of performance targets and a pro-rata reduction to take account of the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed.
The Committee has discretion to partly or completely disapply pro-rating or to permit awards to vest on cessation of employment.
The Committee acknowledges that Directors leave for a variety of reasons that do not necessarily fall within the prescribed categories in the plan rules.
It therefore retains discretion to deem an individual to be a good leaver in accordance with the plan rules and in making that decision will take into account the performance of the individual in office and their reason for leaving.
Non-Executive Directors The non-executive directors each have specific letters of appointment, rather than service contracts.
Their remuneration is determined by the Board within limits set by the articles of association and is set taking into account market data as obtained from independent non-executive director fee surveys and their responsibilities.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and, under normal circumstances would be expected to serve for additional three year terms, up to a maximum of nine years, subject to satisfactory performance and re-election at the annual general meeting as required.
On his appointment as Chairman of the Board being announced, Alan Jackson entered into a new letter of appointment effective from 9 October 2013 when Roger Withers announced his decision to retire as chairman of the board in August 2013.
The following is a summary of the key terms of the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors: name Date term termination Alan Jackson 29.08.13 Until third AGM after appointment 120 days notice on either side or if not re-elected, unless not re-elected disqualification or commits gross misconduct Andrew Thomas 19.06.12 Until third AGM after appointment 120 days notice on either side or if not re-elected, unless not re-elected disqualification or commits gross misconduct 1 Hilary Stewart-Jones 9.10.13 Until third AGM after appointment 90 days notice on either side or if not re-elected, unless not re-elected disqualification or commits gross misconduct 1 Hilary Stewart-Jones was appointed to her position as a non-executive director on 9 October 2013.
3.2 of the Code the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys registered office and will be available before and after the Annual General Meeting.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 Financial statements Governance Strategic report governance REmunERation PoliCy REPoRt CONTINUED total remuneration opportunity 2,500 2,183 2,000 37% 1,500 37% 1,181 1,000 17% 17% 34% 753 32% 579 49% 26% 500 454 100% 32% 1 13% 3% 275 26% 26% 100% 61% 36% Fixed Pay 0 Bonus below target target maximum below target target maximum LTIP mor Weizer Ron hoffman RemuneRAtiOn POlicy illustRAtiOns The graphs above show an estimate of the remuneration that could be received by Executive Directors under the policy set out in this report.
Each bar gives an indication of the minimum amount of remuneration payable, remuneration payable at target performance and remuneration payable at maximum performance to each Director under the policy.
Each of the bars is broken down to show how the total under each scenario is made up of fixed elements of remuneration, the annual bonus and the LTIP.
The assumptions underlying the chart in respect of the percentage of maximum opportunity are set out below: threshold target maximum Bonus 0% 50% 100% LTIP 0% 25% 100% mor Weizer Ron Hoffman Salary 534,725 238,757 Benefits 17,583 24,604 Pension 26,736 11,783 cOnsideRAtiOn Of emPlOyment cOnditiOns elseWheRe The Remuneration Committee when setting the policy for Executive Directors takes into consideration the pay and employment conditions through the Company as a whole.
In determining salary increases for Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee considers the general level of salary increase across the Company.
Typically salary increases will be aligned with those received elsewhere in the Company unless the Committee considers that specific circumstances require a different level of salary increase for Executive Directors.
The Company extends its annual bonus plan and share awards to senior management and other key members of the workforce as the Committee feels that it is important to incentivise and retain these employees in order for the Company to continue its development.
Playtech plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 000s cOnsideRAtiOn Of shARehOldeR VieWs The Company is committed to engagement with shareholders and will seek major shareholders views in advance of making significant changes to its remuneration policies.
legAcy ARRAngements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Policy Report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments previously entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed previously to shareholders.
The policy described above, includes some flexibility to allow the Remuneration Committee discretion to increase the maximum bonus payment to an executive director: it was considered that given the unique, fast-changing and challenging environment in which the Group operates, the Committee needed some discretion if, acting fairly and reasonably it feels that the pay-out is inconsistent with the Companys overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
The Committee would expect to consult with major shareholders before any exercise of its discretion to increase the bonus outcome.
discRetiOns Vested in the cOmmittee The Remuneration Committee will operate the annual bonus and LTIP according to their respective rules or relevant documents and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of regards to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include, but are not limited to, the following in relation to the LTIP: the participants: the timing of grant of an award: the size of an award: the determination of vesting: discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and the annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets for the LTIP from year to year.
In relation to the annual bonus plan, the Committee retains discretion over: the participants: the timing of a payment: the determination of the amount of a bonus payment: determination of the treatment of leavers: and the annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets for the annual bonus plan from year to year.
In relation to both the Companys LTIP and annual bonus plan, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures if events occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Given the unique, fast-changing and challenging environment in which the Group operates, the Committee considers that it needs some discretion if, acting fairly and reasonably, it feels that the pay-out is inconsistent with the Companys overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Financial statements Governance Strategic report governance annual REPoRt on REmunERation 1.
Any difference in the table above arises because the basic salary of the executive directors is determined in pounds sterling and the converted into euros at the average exchange rate applicable during the relevant financial year for the purpose of this report.
2 The figure for bonuses in 2013 above, represents a payment at the maximum opportunity for the executive directors given achievement of the financial and non-financial targets set for the executives at the start of the year.
Details of the how the annual performance bonus for the executive directors has been determined as set out below.
3 Benefits include private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, car and life assurance.
In addition, as Ron Hoffman was required to relocate from Israel on his appointment and is now based in Cyprus, his rent and other accommodation expenses in Cyprus are paid by the Company.
4 Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2013.
Non-executive directors emoluments in euros Director Fees Annual bonus Benefits Pension total emoluments 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Alan Jackson 246,055 185,072 nil nil nil nil nil nil 246,055 185,072 1 Andrew Thomas 106,844 61,520 nil nil nil nil nil nil 106,844 61,500 Hilary 2 Stewart-Jones 45,049 n a nil nil nil nil nil nil 45,049 n a 3 Roger Withers 337,847 537,668 nil nil nil nil nil nil 337,847 537,668 1 Andrew Thomas was appointed on 19 June 2012 therefore the comparable figure for 2012 represents only part of the financial year.
2 Hilary Stewart-Jones was appointed to the Board on 9 October 2013 therefore the figure for 2013 only represents part of the year.
3 Roger Withers retired from the Board on 9 October 2013.
As previously announced Roger Withers has been retained as a special adviser on industry matters, until the end of September 2014. deteRminAtiOn Of 2013 bOnus In 2013 the CEO and CFO had the opportunity to earn a bonus of 150% and 100% of salary respectively as stated in the Companys remuneration policy.
The 2013 performance was against a mixture of financial and non-financial targets: The financial targets representing 70% of bonus opportunity were based on the achievement of Adjusted EBITDA of 168.3 million payable on a scale of 90%-105% around this target, with 0% of bonus payable below 90% of target and 100% of bonus payable over 105% of target.
Adjusted EBITDA for the financial year ended 31 December 2013 was 177.5 million and Adjusted EBITDA excluding the share of profit of WHO was 159.4 million representing 17% increase on prior year.
Adjusted EBITDA was selected as an appropriate measure as it is the key financial performance metric of the Company, most closely representing the underlying trading performance of the businesses and is calculated after adding back certain non-cash charges, cash expenses relating to professional costs on acquisitions, gains on sale of investments and certain one-off charges as set out in the financial statements on page 92.
The non-financial performance targets were selected to underpin key strategic objectives of the Group, in particular recognising the challenges for the senior management team in obtaining a satisfactory price for the sale of the Companys stake in William Hill Online and replacing the regulated revenue lost from the share of profit.
The committee determined that the bonus payable for 2013 was 802,088 for the CEO 100% of the maximum and a bonus of 238,757 for the CFO 100% of the maximum.
These bonus payments were determined against corporate financial performance which was significantly ahead of budget and over 100% of target and full achievement of personal objectives.
Playtech plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 LTIP Awards No awards have been made under the LTIP to date.
Termination Payments As disclosed in last years remuneration report, the former CFO, David Mathewson was paid a sum of 276,288 as a pro-rata payment of his bonus entitlement, representing 75% of his maximum entitlement following the termination of his employment on 31 December 2012.
RemuneRAtiOn decisiOns mAde in 2013 Salary and benefits in kind The committee takes into account individual performance and experience, the size and nature of the role, the relative performance of the company, pay policy within the company including the general pay and employment terms of all employees in the Group and salaries in comparable companies.
While base salaries around the Group rose by an average of 11 per cent, during the financial year to 31 December, 2013, there were no increases to base salary for Executive Directors.
The current basic salary levels of the Executive Directors are: M. Weizer: 450,000 equivalent to 534,725 at the average exchange rate between and used in the accounts R. Hoffman: 200,000 equivalent to 238,757 at the average exchange rate between and used in the accounts In October 2013 the Board reviewed the fees payable to non-executive directors and decided that it was appropriate to increase the fee to 100,000 per annum to reflect core responsibilities and additional duties as chair of a board committee.
Annual bonus For 2014, bonuses for the Executive Directors will be based on the following: Performance target Weighting Adjusted EBITDA Commercially confidential 70% Non-financial and strategic objectives Commercially confidential 30% In setting the adjusted EBITDA the Committee was mindful of the impact of regulatory change in the UK the Groups largest single market and the loss for the entire year of the profit contribution from William Hill Online and believe that the targets set are very challenging.
The level of bonus payable by reference to the financial performance of the company will be determined on a sliding scale based on the Companys budget for the forthcoming financial year.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Awards made to Executive Directors vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to i participants remaining in employment other than in certain good leaver circumstances and ii achievement of challenging performance targets.
Awards that are structured as options can be exercised up to ten years after the date of grant or such shorter period in respect of vested options held by a leaver.
Awards granted in 2014 will be subject to the achievement of a mixture of performance conditions: 70% of the award will be subject to a performance condition that the companys simple annual EPS growth must match a threshold determined by the committee for 25% of this portion of the award to vest, increasing to full vesting for achieving a maximum performance level.
EPS will be measured over three financial years commencing with the financial year in which the Award is granted.
The remaining 30% of any award would be subject to a performance condition comparing the Companys total shareholder return against a comparator group of other international gambling companies over three financial years commencing with the financial year in which the Award is granted.
For median performance 25% of this portion of the award will vest increasing to full vesting for performance at the upper quartile.
The comparator group includes William Hill, 888 Holdings, BWIN Party, Ladbrokes, SNAI, IGT, Betfair Group, Gtech, Intralot, Paddy Power and Scientific Games, and will be finalised prior to grant.
At the time of preparing this report, EPS targets have not been determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The EPS targets will be stretching and demanding and these targets will be set out in Stock Exchange announcements when these awards are made.
Awards made to Executive Directors will also be subject to clawback provisions for a period of three years following vesting.
The committee may decide to clawback awards in the event of misconduct or material misstatement of the Groups financial results resulting in an award vesting to a greater degree than would otherwise have been granted.
Awards may be satisfied by the issue of new shares, market purchase shares or may be cashed-out, subject to the tax treatment in the hands of the recipient.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 Financial statements Governance Strategic report governance annual REPoRt on REmunERation CONTINUED dilutiOn limits All of the Companys equity based incentive plans other than the Option Plan which was established before the Companys floatation in 2006 incorporate the current ABI Guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a 10 year period in relation to the Companys issued share capital or reissue of treasury shares, with a further limitation of 5% in any 10 year period for Executive plans.
The Committee monitors the position and prior to the making of any award considers the effect of potential vesting of options or share awards to ensure that the Company remains within these limits.
Any awards which are required to be satisfied by market purchased shares are excluded from such calculations.
No treasury shares were held or utilised in the year ended 31 December 2013. ReVieW Of PeRfORmAnce The following graph shows the companys total shareholder return TSR performance over the past five years: the companys TSR is compared with a broad equity market index.
The index chosen here is the FTSE 350 Travel & Leisure Index, which is considered the most appropriate published index.
total shareholder return tSR performance 300.0 250.0 200.0 150.0 100.0 50.0 Playtech - FTSE 350 Travel & Leisure dec-08 jun-09 dec-09 jun-10 dec-10 jun-11 dec-11 jun-12 dec-12 jun-13 dec-13 rebased The Committee believes that the current Executive Director remuneration policy and the supporting reward structure provide a clear alignment with the strategic objectives and performance of the Company.
To maintain this relationship, the Committee constantly reviews the business priorities and the environment in which the Company operates.
The table below shows Mor Weizers total remuneration over the last five years and his achieved annual variable and long term incentive pay awards as a percentage of the plan maxima.
year ending 31 December 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total Remuneration 000 636 826 808 800 1,381 1 Annual bonus % 54% 48% 34% 100% 100% 2 LTIP vesting % n a n a n a n a n a 1 For the financial year ended 31 December 2012, Mor W eizer decided in light of his overall aggregate remuneration, to waive approximately three quarters of his earned bonus for that year.
2 As awards previously granted were share options without performance conditions, under the Regulations they are not required to be shown in this table.
Playtech plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 PeRcentAge chAnge in RemuneRAtiOn Of chief executiVe OfficeR In the financial year ended 31 December 2013, Mor Weizer received no increase in salary or taxable benefits and after waiving part of his 2012 bonus, as disclosed below 174% bonus more than the equivalent amounts for the year ended 31 December 2012.
For the financial year ended 31 December 2012, Mor Weizer decided in light of his overall aggregate remuneration, to waive 600,000 of his bonus, representing approximately three quarters of the annual bonus that he would have been entitled to receive based on the financial and non-financial measures set out at the start of the year.
The average percentage changes for all UK-based full-time employees were 5% salary increase, 47% increase in benefits and 0% increase in bonus payments respectively.
The reason for the increase in benefits across the UK relates to the introduction of a harmonised benefits package across the Groups UK operations, including the provision of Group stakeholder pension provision.
The UK workforce was chosen as a comparator group as the Committee looks to benchmark the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer with reference mainly to the UK market albeit that he has a global role and responsibilities, and remuneration packages across the Group vary widely depending on local market practises and conditions.
RelAtiVe imPORtAnce Of sPend On PAy The following table sets out the amounts paid in share buybacks, dividends, and total remuneration paid to all employees is as follows: 2013 2012 change Pay-outs m m % 1 Dividends 188.5 67.3 180 Share buy-backs nil nil n a 2 Total employee remuneration 111.0 99.9 10 1 The total dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013 is calculated on the basis that the shareholders approve the proposed final dividend of 15.4 cents per share and includes the special dividend declared as a second interim dividend of 34.1 pence sterling per share on 20 February 2014.
2 Total employee remuneration for continuing and discontinued operations, includes wages and salaries, social security costs, share-based payments and pension costs for all employees, including the Directors.
The average number of employees, including Directors and part-time employees in continuing and discontinued operations was 3,261 during the financial year to 31 December 2013. diRectORs inteRests in OPtiOns number of Options number of options at 1 January 2013 at 31 December 2013 or date of Exercised or cessation of Expiry of exercise 1,2 3 appointment Date of grant Exercise price during the year employment period Mor Weizer 600,000 16 May 2007 3.79 600,000 nil 16 May 2017 200,000 6 November 2009 3.70 200,000 nil 6 November 2019 Ron Hoffman 50,000 18 April 2010 5.12 25,000 25,000 18 April 2015 32,500 11 March 2011 3.52 nil 32,500 11 March 2021 1 Share options are granted for nil consideration.
2 These options were granted in accordance with the Rules of the Playtech 2005 Global Share Option Plan the Option Plan.
Options under the Option Plan are granted at market value and in the case of Executive Directors exclusively and the options vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of the relevant grant date.
Unexercised options expire ten years after the date of grant, unless the relevant employee leaves the Groups employment, in which case the unvested options lapse and any vested options lapse three months after the date that the employment ends.
It is not intended that the Option Plan will be used for future share option grants for executive directors or for members of senior management.
3 Mor Weizer exercised 800,000 share options on 18 March 2013.
In accordance with the rules of the Option Plan, the Company has in lieu of issuing new shares elected to pay the cash equivalent being the closing market value of the Companys ordinary shares on the day immediately prior to the date of exercise of the option, being 6.465, less the cost of exercise of the option, resulting in an aggregate cash payment of 2,158,000.
On the same date Ron Hoffman exercised 25,000 options having an exercise price of 5.12 In accordance with the rules of the Option Plan, the Company has in lieu of issuing new shares elected to pay the cash equivalent being the closing market value of the Companys ordinary shares on the day immediately prior to the date of exercise of the option, being 6.465, less the cost of exercise of the option, resulting in an aggregate cash payment of 33,625.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Financial statements Governance Strategic report governance annual REPoRt on REmunERation CONTINUED The share price on 31 December 2013 was 737p and the share price ranged between 422.5p and 761.5p during the year.
None of the non-executive directors have any options over shares in the Company.
diRectORs inteRests in ORdinARy shARes Ordinary Shares Share Options total Interests 31 12 2013 31 12 2012 31 12 2013 31 12 2012 31 12 2013 Executive Directors Mor Weizer nil nil nil 400,000 nil 1 Ron Hoffman nil nil 57,500 82,500 57,500 non Executive Directors Alan Jackson 5,000 5,000 nil nil 5,000 Andrew Thomas 7,500 7,500 nil nil 7,500 Hilary Stewart-Jones nil n a nil n a nil 1 These options represent two grants: options over 25,000 ordinary shares vested and are exercisable and options over 32,500 ordinary shares, which will vest on 11March 2014, after which date they will be exercisable.
ROle And membeRshiP The Remuneration Committee is comprised entirely of three independent Non-executive Directors as defined in the Code.
The committee was chaired by Alan Jackson until he took up the role of Chairman of the Board on 9 October 2013, after which Hilary Stewart-Jones took the chair on her appointment to the Board.
The other members are Andrew Thomas and Alan Jackson, who remains a member of the committee.
Details of attendance at the Committee are set out on page 48 and their biographies and experience on pages 42 and 43.
The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference detailing its authority and responsibilities.
The committees terms of reference were reviewed at the time of move to a premium listing and are available for inspection on the companys website www.
com and include: determining and agreeing the policy for the remuneration of the CEO, the Chairman and other senior management team: review the broad policy framework for remuneration to ensure it remains appropriate and relevant: review the design of and determine targets for any performance-related pay and the annual level of payments under such plans: review the design of and approve any changes to long term incentive or option plans: and ensure that contractual terms on termination and payments made are fair to the individual and the Company and that failure is not rewarded.
The Committee also considers the terms and conditions of employment and overall remuneration of Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and members of the senior management team and has regard to the Companys overall approach to the remuneration of all employees.
Within this context the remuneration committee determines the overall level of share options, salaries, incentive payments and performance related pay due to Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee also determines the performance targets and the extent of their achievement for both annual and long-term incentive awards operated by the Company and affecting the senior management.
No Director is involved in any decisions as to his her own remuneration.
The Committee takes advice from both inside and outside the group on a range of matters, including the scale and composition of the total remuneration package payable to people with similar responsibilities, skills and experience in comparable companies that have extensive operations inside and outside the UK.
During the year the Committee received material assistance and advice from the Chief Executive Officer and from the Company Secretary & Legal Counsel who is also secretary to the Committee.
Playtech plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Committee has a planned schedule of at least four meetings throughout the year, with additional meetings held when necessary.
During the year, the committee met 5 times and these meetings addressed wide variety of issues, including: month Principal activity January Approving the performance conditions applying to grants of long-term incentives if any during the year for the directors and senior managers Approving the terms of a new contract of employment for the CEO Approving the last exercise date from 5 years to 10 years in respect of certain historic grants of options under the Share Option Plan march To approve the annual bonus payments to be made to the executive directors April To consider the payment of special bonus to certain senior employees in respect of the sale of the companys interest in William Hill Online July To consider proposals for the appointment of a new non-executive director and the remuneration arrangements for the non-executive directors December To receive a report from the Company Secretary and the Committees remuneration advisers on new reporting arrangements for remuneration committees.
To consider the design of the Companys remuneration policy and whether the same remained fit for purpose with the Committees remuneration advisers.
exteRnAl AdViseRs New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited is the Committees independent adviser.
New Bridge Street does not provide any other services to the Company.
New Bridge Street was paid 24,498 in relation to advice provided during 2013. engAgement With shARehOldeRs And shARehOldeR VOting The Committee is committed to ensuring open dialogue with shareholders in relation to remuneration and would normally consult with major shareholders regarding any significant future changes to remuneration policy or remuneration arrangements.
The voting outcome at the annual general meeting on 8 May 2013 in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 was as follows: For Against Withheld To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 211,225,915 28,910,661 11,171,967 Percentage of votes cast on the resolution 87.96% 12.04% n a Percentage of issued share capital at time of meeting 72.25% 9.89% 3.82% By order of the board Hilary Stewart-Jones Chair of the Remuneration Committee 20 February 2014 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
