Training and development On appointment to the board, directors are provided with a full, formal and tailored programme of induction, to familiarise them with the Groups businesses, the risks and strategic challenges the Group faces, and the economic, competitive, legal and regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
The Chairman agrees and regularly reviews the training and development needs of each director.
A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with the other training provided during the year, ensures that directors continually update their skills, their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups businesses, and their awareness of sector, risk, regulatory, legal, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil effectively their role on the board and committees of the board.
Meetings and attendance Board meetings are scheduled to be held nine times each year.
Between these meetings, as required, additional board meetings and or board committee meetings may be held to progress the Companys business.
A part of each board meeting is dedicated to the discussion of specific strategy matters.
In advance of all board meetings the directors are supplied with detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Groups operating functions.
Members of the management team attend and make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the board.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the board for the timeliness and quality of information provided to it.
The Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors during the year without the executive directors being present.
The attendance of directors at scheduled board and committee meetings in the year to 26 January 2013 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Maximum 9 Maximum 4 Maximum 5 Maximum 1 Executive R. A.
B. C. Short 9 J. D. Kemp 9 A. L. Memmott 9 Non-executive R. G. Hanna 9 5 1 W. R. G. Barr 9451 M. A. Griffiths 9451 J. Warburton 3121 J. R. Nicolson 1 J. Warburton resigned from the board and all committees of the board on 20 August 2012.
J. Warburton could have attended a maximum of 5 board meetings, 2 Audit Committee meetings, 2 Remuneration Committee meetings and 1 Nomination Committee meeting.
J. R. Nicolson was appointed to the board on 1 January 2013 and the Audit Committee on 17 January 2013.
J. R. Nicolson could have attended a maximum of one board meeting and no committee meetings.
During the year, the board also convened 5 additional board meetings and 2 additional sub-committee meetings in relation to the proposed merger with Britvic plc.
All of the directors who were entitled to attend those board meetings attended each board meeting, with the exception of A.
B. C. Short and A. L. Memmott, who attended 4, and M. A. Griffiths, who attended 3.
Both of the sub-committee meetings were attended by R. G. Hanna, R. A.
B. C. Short with no further directors required to attend the sub-committee meetings.
Conicts of interest The Articles allow the board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise from time to time, subject to certain conditions.
The Company has established appropriate conflicts authorisation procedures, whereby actual or potential conflicts are regularly reviewed and authorisations sought as appropriate.
During the year, no such conflicts arose and no such authorisations were sought.
Committees of the board The terms of reference of the principal committees of the board Audit, Remuneration and Nomination have been approved by the board and are available on the Companys website, www.
Those terms of reference have been reviewed in the current year and are reviewed at least annually.
The work carried out by the Audit and Nomination Committees in discharging their responsibilities is summarised below.
The work carried out by the Remuneration Committee is described within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 58.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Statement on Corporate Governance Continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors: M. A. Griffiths, W. R. G. Barr and J. R. Nicolson.
The Audit Committee is chaired by M. A. Griffiths.
The board is satisfied that M. A. Griffiths, who is a chartered accountant and is currently Finance Director of Stagecoach Group plc, has recent and relevant financial experience, as required by provision C. 3.1 of the Code.
The Audit Committee meets with executive directors and management, as well as privately with the external and internal auditors.
In the current year the Audit Committee has: r monitored the financial reporting process: r monitored the statutory audit of the Groups accounts: r reviewed and advised the board on the integrity of the Groups interim and annual financial statements and announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: r reviewed the Groups risk register and the control of the Groups financial and business risks: r discussed and agreed the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external auditors and internal auditors: r reviewed the results of this audit work and the response of management to matters raised: r reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls and the appropriateness of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures: r reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups anti-bribery systems and controls: r monitored and reviewed the performance of the internal auditors and the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit activities: r made recommendations to the board on the reappointment and remuneration of the external auditors and monitored the performance of the auditors: r made a recommendation to the board on the appointment of the internal auditors: r reviewed its policies on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors and on the employment of former employees of the Groups external auditors: r reviewed the non-audit services provided to the Group by the external auditors and monitored and assessed the independence of both the external and internal auditors: and r reviewed the performance of the Audit Committee and its terms of reference.
The Audit Committee ensures that safeguards are in place to prevent the compromise of the auditors independence and objectivity.
The external auditors report regularly to the Audit Committee on the actions that they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain their independence.
The Audit Committee reviews the external auditors performance, independence and objectivity annually.
The Group has a policy in place which ensures that the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors does not impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
Where fees for any non-audit project are expected to exceed 50,000, the prior approval of the chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Finance Director is required.
Where fees for non-audit projects are in aggregate expected to exceed 150,000, the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required.
The Audit Committee has considered the nature and level of non-audit services provided by the Groups external auditors during the year and related fees, and is satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the external auditors were not affected by the non-audit work undertaken.
The external auditors report their audit results to the Audit Committee, including a summary of any significant accounting and auditing issues, internal control findings and a summary of any audit differences identified.
The Audit Committee would consider disagreements in accounting treatment between management and the external auditors, should any arise.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 3 to the financial statements.
At the beginning of each year, an internal control plan is developed by the internal auditors following meetings with directors and senior managers within the business and with reference to the significant risks contained within the Companys risk register and identified controls.
The Audit Committee receives updates on progress against the internal control plan throughout the year.
In addition to the standing members of the Audit Committee and representatives from the external and internal auditors, A.
B. C. Short, the Finance Director, routinely attends.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises R. G. Hanna, W. R. G. Barr, and M. A. Griffiths.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by R. G. Hanna.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for making appointments to the board, ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board, reviews the composition of the board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of directors, and ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the board.
48 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Treasury Committee The Treasury Committee consists of R. A.
B. C. Short and senior members of the finance and purchasing departments.
The Treasury Committee reviews purchase requirements in foreign currencies and implements strategies, including the use of foreign exchange hedges, in order to reduce the risk of foreign exchange exposure and provide certainty over the value of non-domestic purchases in the short to medium term.
The Treasury Committees remit also includes the ability to utilise financial instruments in order to hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Further details of the work carried out by the Treasury Committee are contained within the Financial Review on pages 18 to 26.
Internal control The board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and annually reviews their effectiveness, including a review of financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors and other senior management.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems, including controls related to financial, operational and reputational risks identified by the Group, in accordance with the Code for the period from 29 January 2012 to the date of approval of this annual report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during this review.
Had any failings or weaknesses been identified then the board would have taken the action required to remedy them.
At the Audit Committee meeting on 17 January 2013, following a review and evaluation of the controls and systems in place, the Audit Committee concluded that the Group has a sound system of internal controls in place.
The board confirms that there is an ongoing process, embedded in the Groups integrated internal control systems, allowing for the identification, evaluation and management of significant business risks, as well as a reporting process to the board.
The board requires the departments within the Group to undertake at least an annual review to identify new or potentially under-managed risks.
The results of these reviews are reported to the board via the Audit Committee.
This process has been in place throughout the year ended 26 January 2013 and up to the date of the approval of this annual report and it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The three main elements of the Groups internal control system, including risk identification, are as follows: The board The board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and exercises this through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority as well as appropriate reporting procedures.
The board has a schedule of matters that are brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for decision, aimed at maintaining effective control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
This structure includes the Audit Committee which, with the Finance Director, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial and operating control environment.
Financial reporting There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the board.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, cash flow statements, statement of financial position and indebtedness, is reported.
The board and the management committee review their business and financial performance against the prior year and against annual plans approved by the board.
Audits and reviews The key internal risks identified in the Group are subject to regular audits or reviews by the internal auditors.
This role is fulfilled by an external professional services firm which is independent from the board and the Company.
The review of the internal auditors work by the Audit Committee and monitoring procedures in place ensure that the findings of the audits are acted upon and subsequent reviews confirm compliance with any agreed action plans.
The board confirms that there has been an independent internal audit function in place for the year.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Statement on Corporate Governance Continued Share capital structure The share capital structure of the Company is set out in the Directors Report.
U. K. Corporate Governance Code compliance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Code.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
Each of the provisions of the Code has been reviewed and, where necessary, steps have been taken to ensure that the Company is in compliance with all of those provisions as at the date of this report.
The directors consider that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 26 January 2013 with the provisions of the Code, except in relation to provisions A.
The Company did not comply with provision A.
4.1 of the Code at all times during the year ended 26 January 2013 due to the fact that the board did not have an appointed senior independent director in place during the period between 20 August 2012, when J. Warburton resigned from the board, and 1 January 2013, when J. R. Nicolson was appointed to the board.
J. R. Nicolson was appointed senior independent director with effect from his appointment to the board.
Subject to the following, during the year the board comprised four executive directors, the non-executive Chairman, and two independent non-executive directors.
In addition, W. R. G. Barr was a non-executive director during the year although he is not considered by the board to be independent.
During the period between 20 August 2012 and 1 January 2013, the board composition was the same with the exception that there was only one independent non-executive director.
Therefore, during the year to 26 January 2013 the composition of the board did not, at any time, comply with provision B.
The composition of the Companys Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee did not comply with provisions C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 of the Code during the year to 26 January 2013 due to the fact that these Committees did not comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
Following a performance evaluation during the year, the directors believe that the board, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee are currently able to discharge their respective duties and obligations successfully.
The board is mindful of its obligations under the Code and regularly reviews the composition of the board and its committees to ensure that each is able to effectively and successfully discharge its duties.
Provision D. 1.5 of the Code recommends that executive directors contracts contain a maximum notice period of one year.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, in the event of a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction the notice period of the executive directors reverts to two years in certain circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee considers that, given the shareholding structure of the Company, this condition is appropriate in order to attract and retain high calibre executive directors.
A copy of the financial statements has been placed on the Companys website, www.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
A. Barr Company Secretary 21 March 2013 50 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee During the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised the following non-executive directors: r W. R. G. Barr chairman r R. G. Hanna r M. A. Griffiths r J. Warburton resigned 20 August 2012 Remit The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year and is responsible for determining, within agreed terms of reference, all aspects of the remuneration of the executive directors and such other members of senior management as it is designated to consider.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the remuneration trends, pay levels and employment conditions across the Group.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for recommending the remuneration of the Chairman to the board.
No director makes a decision relating to their own remuneration.
Individual directors leave the meeting when their own remuneration is being discussed.
Advisers The Remuneration Committee has access to professional advice, both inside and outside the Company, and consults with the Chief Executive.
During the year,  were appointed by the Remuneration Committee to provide advice that materially assisted the Remuneration Committee.
 also provided internal audit services and corporate pensions advice to the Company.
Remuneration policy The ongoing policy of the Remuneration Committee is to reward the executive directors in line with the current remuneration of directors in comparable businesses, taking into consideration the advice of independent benefit consultants in order to recruit, motivate and retain high quality executives within a competitive marketplace.
Consistent with this policy, the benefit packages awarded to executive directors are intended to be competitive and comprise a mix of performance and non-performance related elements designed to incentivise directors and align their longer term interests with those of shareholders.
In the year to 26 January 2013, a significant proportion of the executive directors remuneration was performance related through the annual performance bonus and share awards pursuant to the LTIP.
During the year, the performance related elements of the remuneration package amounted to 60.1% of the total executives package 2012: 57.7%.
The executive directors remuneration consists of the following elements: Base salary and benets Basic salaries and benefits in kind are reviewed within the policy each year.
Basic salaries are reviewed each year to take account of movements in the marketplace and individual contribution.
Annual bonus This scheme aims to provide focus among the senior executives, including executive directors, on the annual financial performance of the Group.
It is principally based on profit before tax excluding exceptional items : the Remuneration Committees view is that this is the most appropriate performance measure since it represents a key short-term operational driver of the business.
A maximum of 100% of each executive directors base salary is currently payable in cash under the scheme.
There have been no changes to the policy from the preceding year and no departures from this policy in the current year.
The current policy is expected to continue in place through the next financial year.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP This scheme was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 19 May 2003 and amended by resolution of the shareholders at the AGM held on 26 May 2009.
It is available to reward executive directors by the award of shares if the average earnings per share EPS of the three years running up to and including the year of calculation exceeds the average EPS of the three years preceding that period, both being adjusted for Retail Price Index, by 10% points or more.
EPS is calculated on the basis of profit before tax, adjusted to exclude exceptional items and other significant non-recurring items as the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate.
No part of an award vests if EPS growth is less than 10% points above RPI growth over the three year period.
20% 99.9% of an award vests on a sliding scale where EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 10% points or more but by less than 32.5% points.
100% of an award vests where EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 32.5% points or more.
The maximum value of any award of shares is 100% of basic salary.
The LTIP performance conditions were chosen to align executive directors share awards to Company performance over a three year period, thereby aligning the interests of the directors with those of the shareholders.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Remuneration policy Continued In addition to the above elements of remuneration, there are two further elements which are available to all qualifying employees: All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP The AESOP is HMRC approved and was re-approved by shareholders for a further period of 10 years at the 2012 AGM.
The executive directors participate in both sections of the scheme, which is open to all qualifying employees.
The partnership share element provides that for every three shares a participant purchases in the Company, up to a maximum contribution of 125 per month, the Company will purchase one matching share.
The matching shares purchased are held in trust in the name of the individual.
There are various rules as to the period of time that the shares must be held in trust but after five years the shares can be released tax free to the participant.
The free share element allows participants to receive shares to the value of a common percentage of their earnings, related to the performance of the Group.
The maximum value of the annual award is 3,000 and the shares awarded are held in trust for five years.
Under the terms of this scheme, the matching shares will be forfeited if the participant leaves the employment of the Company within three years of the award.
All partnership, matching and free shares must be removed from the trust if employment with the Company ceases.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE The SAYE is HMRC approved and is available to all qualifying employees, including executive directors.
It is based on a five year savings contract which provides the participant with an option to purchase shares after five years at a discounted price fixed at the time the contract is taken out, or earlier as provided by the scheme rules.
No performance conditions require to be met by any participant in order to exercise their option under the SAYE.
Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS The ESOS is HMRC approved and was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
The 2010 ESOS replaced the Companys current Executive Share Option Scheme, which expires on 19 May 2013 2003 ESOS.
To date, no options have been awarded under the 2003 ESOS or the 2010ESOS.
Share ownership guidelines In order to align the executive directors longer term interests with those of shareholders, share ownership guidelines require executive directors to retain all shares acquired under Company sponsored share plans until the value of their shareholding is equal to their annual gross basic salary.
Until this shareholding is acquired, the executive directors may not, without Remuneration Committee approval, sell shares other than to finance any tax liabilities arising from the vesting of LTIP awards.
Pension schemes Executive directors are all members of the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme has a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section.
The defined benefit section was closed to new entrants from 14 August 2003.
Details of the entitlements accruing to the two directors who are currently members of the defined benefit section are detailed in the table on page 57.
The contributions paid to the defined contribution section in respect of three directors are disclosed on page 58.
During the year to 26 January 2013, R. A.
B. C. Short and J. D. Kemp participated in the A. G. BARR p. l. c. Unfunded Retirement Benefit Scheme URBS with the agreement of the Company.
The URBS was approved by the Remuneration Committee and is an unfunded employer financed retirement benefits scheme.
It was established to satisfy the Companys contractual obligations to provide retirement benefits for the benefit of these three executive directors.
As a result, from April 2011 employer contributions to the defined benefit section of the Scheme ceased in respect of R. A.
White and employer contributions to the defined contribution section of the Scheme reduced in respect of A.
From April 2012, employer contributions to the defined contribution section of the Scheme reduced in respect of J. D. Kemp.
Non-executive directors remuneration The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the board within the limits set by the Articles and reviewed annually.
Nonexecutive directors received remuneration for their services during the year as disclosed in the table showing a detailed analysis of directors emoluments on page 54.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys share option schemes, share award schemes, or bonus schemes.
With the exception of W. R. G. Barr, the non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys pension schemes.
52 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors service contracts Executive directors are appointed on rolling contracts which do not have a set termination date.
An executive directors contract will terminate following either the Company or the executive director giving the other requisite notice that they wish to terminate the executive directors contract.
It is the Companys current policy that executive directors service contracts have a notice period of not normally more than one year.
The service contract for each of the executive directors provides for a notice period of one year except during the six months following either a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
Under these conditions and certain circumstances the notice period reverts to two years for each of the executive directors.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Code.
It is the Companys current policy that non-executive directors may serve a maximum of three consecutive three-year terms, with any term beyond six years being subject to rigorous review.
Their service contracts are terminable by either the Company or the directors themselves upon three months notice.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during business hours and at the AGM.
The executive and non-executive directors have no contractual entitlement to compensation payments in the event of loss of office other than those related to their period of notice.
Details of the service contracts of the executive directors and of the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are as follows: Effective date of contract Notice period required from director Notice period required from Company Executive R. A.
B. C. Short 28 May 2008 6 months 1 year J. D. Kemp 11 October 2003 6 months 1 year A. L. Memmott 01 March 2008 6 months 1 year Non-executive R. G. Hanna 26 May 2009 3 months 3 months W. R. G. Barr 26 May 2009 3 months 3 months J. Warburton 16 March 2009 3 months 3 months M. A. Griffiths 01 September 2010 3 months 3 months J. R. Nicolson 01 January 2013 3 months 3 months Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group In determining remuneration, consideration is given to reward levels throughout the organisation as well as in the external employment market.
The Remuneration Committee aims to reward all employees fairly based on their role, their performance and salary levels in the wider market.
In the year under review, the average base salary increase for the executive directors was 5.7% and for all other staff was 4.0%.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Performance review The graph below shows the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts over the past five years.
In the opinion of the board, the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts is the most appropriate index against which the TSR of the Company should be measured because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent member.
350 300 250 200 150 100 A. G. BARR 50 FTSE 250 Excluding Investment Trusts 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Year to January Detailed analysis of directors emoluments This section of the remuneration report is audited.
Value of Gross LTIP shares salaries and Salary Net salaries Benefits in Annual LTIP cash Total Emoluments vested in Total fees sacrifice and fees kind bonus bonus 2013 2012 2012 2012 Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive R. A.
J. R. Nicolson appointed 1 January 2013.
Whites gross salary is stated after the deduction of his contribution of 34,000 to the A. G. BARR p. l. c. Unfunded Retirement Benefit Scheme URBS.
54 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Total Shareholder Return
