Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 55 REMUNERATION REPORT Overview by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Companys strategy and bring profound experience and stability to the Companys executive leadership.
No Chief Operating officer has been 2012 13 has been a busy year for Premier Farnells Remuneration appointed following Laurences change of role, and Laurence and Mark Committee the Committee and one of transition for the Company.
have accordingly each taken on additional responsibilities.
Recognising TheCompany has gained a new Chief Executive officer, been fortunate that executive salaries had been realigned in 2011 12 and in light of the tohave its former Chief Financial officer return to us and seen the duties wider desire for restraint, Laurence and Mark have lower base salaries and ofits Chief Operating officer absorbed by these two Executives.
These a lower total remuneration opportunity than the previous incumbents in changes have taken place against a background of general economic their respective roles, notwithstanding these increased duties.
By way of uncertainty, which continues to present a challenge in forecasting for the comparison, we paid the Executive Directors in place at the year end salary longer term for businesses with no forward order book like Premier and annual variable pay of 1,468,000 in respect of the year to 29 January Farnell.
The wider socio-economic backdrop has included the 2012 and 967,000 in respect of the year to 3 February 2013: a reduction announcement of the UK Governments measures to reform the framework of over 65%.
surrounding executive remuneration and ongoing shareholder concern over Executive Directors pay.
The awards granted under the Companys long term incentive plan in 2009 10 matured in 2012 13 and failed to meet their performance criteria, The Committee believes that pay for Executive Directors and other resulting in the lapse of these awards in full.
The annual bonus plan also members of the senior management should: comprised challenging profit targets and strategic metrics for 2012 13. t support the strategy and its execution: Although the Group continued to achieve an industry leading return on sales, the threshold level of operating profit set for the plan was not met t be closely aligned with shareholder returns: and no bonus is payable in respect of this element of the plan for 2012 13. t be based on clear principles and objectives, consistently applied: Cash bonus awards equivalent to 7.3% and 7.6% of the maximum havebeen paid to Laurence and Mark respectively in respect of their t provide the opportunity to receive competitive rewards for performance, achievement of strategic objectives, with grants made under the aligned to the sustained success of the Group: deferredelement of the annual bonus plan at the same percentage t be simple, easily understood and supported by clear communication: ofmaximum opportunity.
t offer broad-based incentives: The table below shows the operating profit target at plan for this year and last year and the resulting level of cash bonus paid to the Chief Executive t enable the organisation to attract, motivate and retain talented individuals: officer.
and Financial year ending: 3 February 2013 29 January 2012 t be commensurate with what is needed to achieve these aims.
1 MIP OP plan m 111.7 124.9 2 2012 13 offered the Committee considerable opportunity to re-visit how OP actual m 98.9 106.8 these principles are put into practice at the Company.
First, when Laurence 3 CEO MIP award as % of salary 7.03% 0% Bain took over as Chief Executive officer in June 2012, and again in 1 MIP is cash element of the annual incentive scheme.
November when Mark Whiteling rejoined the Company as Chief Financial 2 The actual operating profit OP gure used for the purposes of the MIP is that at the budget officer.
Laurence has been with the Company for almost 11 years as its exchange rates in effect at the time the operating profit target was set in order to remove the Chief Operating officer, with ten of those years serving on the Board, and effect of exchange rate movements from the outcome and therefore differs from the reported operating profit gure for the relevant year which is arrived at using average exchange rates for the Board were delighted to appoint him as Chief Executive after Harriet the year.
Mark was Chief Financial officer for five years to 2010 11 and 3 Total cash payment from the profit and strategic target elements of the plan.
For the agreed to return to the Company following Nicholas Cadburys departure.
year-ending 3 February 2013, this percentage includes the period during the year when Laurence Bain acted as Chief Operating officer for the Company.
Both Laurence and Mark had key roles in developing and implementing the Premier Farnell 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 REMUNERATION REPORT In the year ahead the Committee proposes two further changes to our The Remuneration Committee and its role executive remuneration structure to ensure that executive pay fulls the Remuneration Committee aims set out above.
First, the management incentive plan continues to have Paul Withers Chairman operating profit as its primary financial target in order to drive profitable Andrew Dougal growth for the benefit of the Companys shareholders but, consistent with Dennis Millard market practice, the target is now set for the full year, rather than two half-yearly measures.
The strategic objectives include the focus areas Secretary for2013 14 of cash, and growth in the Companys customer base.
Steven Webb Second, the awards granted in July 2012 under the Groups long term Paul Withers, Dennis Millard and Andrew Dougal served on the incentive plan set stretching return on sales targets for awards under the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
executive share option plan and earnings per share growth on grants All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee considers that these The Committee met six times during the year covered by this report.
The measures remain appropriate to enhance shareholder value and drive Chairman ensures that the Company maintains contact with its principal profitable growth, but are proposing to apply both metrics to the whole shareholders about remuneration: during the year he has had a number long term incentive plan for grants in 2013 14 to ensure a more rounded ofconsultations with major shareholders and shareholder representative view of performance and greater simplicity.
There are also changes organisations.
proposed to the return on sales target to ensure that, while the target remains challenging, it is also aligned to our strategy of seeking faster The Committee determines the specic remuneration packages for profitable growth without sacrificing profitable sales opportunities.
Executive Directors and senior managers being the first layer of management below Board level.
Harriet Green and Nicholas Cadbury left the Company during 2012 13.
Inline with the provisions of their service agreements and the terms of the During the financial year covered by this report, the Board Chairman and annual cash bonus and long term incentive plans, no termination payments the Chief Executive have attended all meetings of the Committee as a were made to either and their unvested long term incentives lapsed.
matter of course in order to provide their counsel save where there has been a possible conict.
Laurence in his former role as Chief Operating As a Committee, we fully support the principle of providing shareholders officer has also attended several meetings of the Committee.
Nicholas with access to clear and frank information on executive pay in a way that Cadbury was present at two meetings of the Committee.
In accordance facilitates greater engagement without compromising commercial with the output of the Board evaluation in 2012 13 summarised on page sensitivities.
We have therefore chosen to adopt early the majority of the 44, Mark Whiteling has not attended any Committee meetings since his requirements outlined in the Governments proposed new remuneration appointment in November.
reporting regulations in the form and content of this years report.
You will During the year the Committee received advice from Laurence Bain and see that the report sets out how the Committee is made up and how it from Harriet Green, each as Chief Executive, in respect of the remuneration operates, the policy it works to including a brief policy table for easy review arrangements for other senior executives and from Sandra Campopiano, of the main features of our policy on each element of remuneration, how the Chief People officer, in respect of remuneration arrangements this policy has been put into practice in 2012 13 and concludes with the generally.
The Companys policy is that no individuals be present to provide audited information required under current regulation.
As the report also input when their own remuneration or fees are decided.
contains the detail required under the existing regime, this has inevitably ledto some duplication.
We expect further renement and clarity next year New Bridge Street NBS has been appointed by the Committee to provide as the regulations are nalised.
executive remuneration advice to the Committee and to the Company.
NBS has not provided any other services and has no other connections A resolution to approve this report will be put to the vote at our Annual with the Group.
The Committee Chairman and other members of the General Meeting in June 2013.
I trust it will have your support.
Committee have direct access to advice from NBS, and the Committee Chairman is informed of all material advice NBS provides to the Company.
Paul Withers New Bridge Street is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Group and a signatory of its Code of Conduct which sets out the role of executive remuneration consultants and the professional standards by which they advise their clients.
The Committee members also use their experience serving on other Boards to assess the objectivity and independence of the advice they receive.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are summarised inthe Corporate Governance report on page 46 and are available in full on the Companys website, www.
com, or on request from the Company Secretary.
Notes for clarity: Years: all references in this report to years such as 2010 11: 2011 12: 2012 13: 2013 14 etc areto our financial years unless it is clear from the context that we mean calendar years.
Executives: means our Executive Directors unless it is clear that another layer of senior management is included in the description.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 57 Annual timetable of Committee activities Annual Long term Governance General bonus incentive plan matters March Preliminary discussion of executive Assess year-end performance Assess performance outcomes for Approve Remuneration Report for base salaries.
outcomes, and decide bonus vesting of awards.
Approve Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP awards.
June Executive base salary review.
Determine proposed grants under the ESOP and PSP.
December Consider performance targets and Report on grants made under Remuneration adviser fees review.
updates required for coming year.
Review of Committee terms of reference.
January Annual update on remuneration Review and nalise performance Approve timetable for SAYE grant.
Annual review of long term incentive Finalise strategic objectives for plan and performance targets.
Executive Directors in coming year.
Remuneration policy The implementation of this policy involves: t Paying base salaries that reect individual roles, sustained individual This section sets out the Companys policy on Directors remuneration performance and contribution, taking account of market levels in for2012 13 and identies any changes for 2013 14. companies of similar size and complexity: Our overall remuneration policy aims are to: t Enabling executives to enhance earnings by meeting and out-performing t Maintain a consistent executive compensation strategy, based on clear challenging short term and longer term targets, which support Company principles and objectives: strategy and shareholder interests: t Support the Company strategy and its execution: t Requiring executives to build and maintain significant shareholdings in t Closely align executive reward with shareholder returns: the Company: t Ensure that the organisation can attract, motivate and retain high-calibre t Rewarding executives fairly and responsibly for their contribution to the talent, to enable Premier Farnell to compete in an international market: Groups performance: t Provide the opportunity for executives and other colleagues to receive t Paying what is commensurate with the achievement of these objectives: competitive rewards for performance, aligned to the sustained success and of the overall Group, paying what is commensurate with achieving t Including claw-back or scale-back provisions, as appropriate, in the theseaims: annual bonus plan including the deferred share bonus plan, t Operate broadly-based incentives to recognise talented performers performance share plan and executive share option plan.
throughout the Group: and t Be easy to understand and supported by clear communication.
Premier Farnell 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 REMUNERATION REPORT The following table gives an overview of the Companys policy on the different elements of the Executive remuneration it offers.
As this is a brief overview, there is more information on each element later in this report: Future policy table Type of Its purpose and How it operates What is its maximum Are there Were there any remuneration how it links to potential value?
performance changes in this policy the strategy metrics?
Executive Directors remuneration Base salary To i recruit and ii retain Salaries take account of: No specic cap on Personal and Company No.
individuals with skills and salaries.
In determining performance and levels t skills and experience: Details of how the experience relevant to the any increases, the rate of of increase throughout Companys policy on role and appropriate to t salaries across the Group, including of increase for other the Company are base salaries has been contribute to the success other senior employees: colleagues is considered.
considered when implemented in 2012 13 of the Company.
deciding whether a salary t salaries paid by other FTSE 250 are on page 63. increase should be companies and by other companies of awarded.
similar size and complexity operating internationally.
Salaries usually reviewed annually, withchanges implemented at 1 July in 1 eachyear.
Benets To i recruit and ii retain Benets vary dependent on the No pre-determined No performance metrics.
individuals with skills and requirements of the role and the individual maximum.
Details of the benets experience relevant to the within an overall framework that requires provided to Executives in role and appropriate to the benets to be reasonable and in line 2012 13 are on page 63. contribute to the success with market practice.
Annual Bonus To drive and reward The bonus is performance-related: the Reviewed and Yes.
Company performance greater part based on Company financial determined by the Performance measured For 2012 13, targets for relative to the annual plan results and the balance on personal Committee annually.
against i Company the Groups operating and individual objectives driving key elements of strategy See pages 64 and 65 financial results: and ii profit were set at the performance against within the individuals sphere of control.
forthe maximum annual the strategic priorities of beginning of each half personal objectives, both Targets are set by the Remuneration bonus opportunity of the the Group most relevant year, with any bonus aligned with the Committee at the beginning of the year and CEO and CFO in 2012 13 to each Executives role, determined at the year Companys strategic achievement reviewed after the year end.
and 2013 14. as achieved during the end by reference to goals.
course of the financial operating profit for the full Part of the annual bonus is in the form of a Deferral of a portion of year to which the bonus year.
Strategic objectives deferred share award with vesting annual bonus promotes relates.
were measured against dependent on the executive remaining with retention and aligns the the full year.
the Company for a vesting period.
The main weighting is interests of the Executive onCompany financial For 2013 14, the Directors with those of Awards can be subject to claw-back if results.
operating profit target has 2 shareholders.
performance is misstated or in the event been set for the full year.
Details of how the Companys policy on annual bonuses has been implemented in 2012 13 and those proposed for 2013 14 are on pages 64 and 65.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 59 Type of Its purpose and How it operates What is its maximum Are there Were there any remuneration how it links to potential value?
Long Term To i incentivise the There are two elements i awards under a Under the rules of the Yes.
Details of how the Incentives LTI delivery of stretching performance share plan PSP with no plans the maximum grant Companys policy on Awards subject to targets designed to grow exercise price: and ii awards under an for any participant is LTIawards has been performance metrics shareholder value: and executive share option plan ESOP with an 100% of base salary implemented in 2012 13 determined by the ii retain key executives exercise price set by reference to the under the PSP and 100% and the terms of awards Remuneration and increase their share market price at grant.
of base salary under the proposed to be made in Committee.
See page 66 ownership, in accordance ESOP.
Details of the 2013 14 are on page 66.
Both have performance conditions over a for the performance with the Companys maximum potential value minimum three-year period.
metrics in 2012 13 and share ownership of awards actually 2013 14. guidelines.
Awards granted annually and subject to granted are on page 65. claw-back or scale-back in the event of misstated performance or misconduct.
Pension To help i recruit and The final salary section of the Companys As set out as a No.
ii retain individuals with scheme was closed to new entrants percentage of salary in Details of the pension skills and experience in1998.
each executives service arrangements in place in relevant to the role and agreement.
Executives can take: 2012 13 are on page 67. appropriate to contribute Company contribution to the success of the i money purchase benets only: or levels take account of Company.
market practice for ii equivalent cash supplement: or executives.
Pension entitlements are not included as salary for the purposes of the annual bonus including the DSBP awards or LTI awards.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Fees To recruit and retain Annual fee for Chairman.
individuals with skills and prescribe a cap on fees Annual base fee for Non-Executive For details of the fees experience relevant to the or operate a standard Directors.
paid in 2012 13, see role and appropriate to percentage increase.
contribute to the success Additional fees paid to the Senior However fee levels are of the Company, without Independent Director SID and the benchmarked against compromising their Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration market levels.
Committees of the Board and the Web Advisory Board.
Fees reviewed annually: with the Board Chairmans fees reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and the Non-Executive Directors fees reviewed by the Board, to avoid any conicts.
Benchmarked against fees paid to the non-executive directors and chairmen ofother FTSE 250 companies.
1 There may also be reviews and changes during the year if and when exceptional circumstances arise such as new appointments to Executive positions.
2 Exceptionally, the Company may, on recruitment, award one-off compensatory long term shares or bonus, where the new joiner would lose a bonus or long term awards relating to his or her former role.
Details of a special one-off bonus to be paid to the CFO in 2013 14 to compensate him for the loss of a bonus which would have been due to him from his former employer are on page 65.
Notes: A Differences in policy compared with other employees: The following notes outline any differences in the Companys policy on the remuneration of its Executives from other employees within the Group by reference to each element of remuneration: Base salary: there are no differences in policy.
The Committee takes into account the Groups overall salary budget and percentage increases made to other employees with similar levels of performance in setting the Executives salaries.
Benets: there are no differences in policy although the benets available vary by grade and jurisdiction and with job role.
For example: cars or car allowances and health and life insurance are only available in the UK where there is a need based on role or to managers of above a certain grade.
Annual bonus: the annual bonus including the deferred share bonus is an integral part of the Groups management philosophy.
All employees of management grade are eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme, with the maximum bonus opportunity varying by grade and performance.
The strategic objectives for those below Board level mirror those of the Executives to the extent relevant to the individuals role, with bonuses primarily based on the profit centre to which the individual contributes.
For those at the level immediately below the Board, this is Group operating profit.
LTI: employees of management grade participate in the LTI plan, while other talented performers may be nominated by their managers to take part.
Executives immediately below Board level are granted awards under the PSP and ESOP subject to performance conditions.
Those conditions may be the same as those chosen for Executive Directors where this is considered by the Committee to be appropriate.
In 2012 13 the same performance measures apply to the Executive Directors and executives below Board level and this is also proposed for awards in 2013 14.
Other managers and talented performers receive awards under the ESOP without performance conditions.
The maximum available opportunity at face value at grant for employees below Board level varies according to grade and individual performance.
370 employees below Executive Director level were granted awards under the LTI plan in 2012 13.
Pension: the level of contribution made by the Company varies with jurisdiction and the age and grade of the employee.
B Performance Conditions: Details of the performance conditions applicable to the annual bonus scheme and LTI awards to the Executives in 2012 13 and proposed for 2013 14 are on pages 64, 65 and 66 respectively.
The DSBP awards to Directors are not subject any further performance conditions as the granting of these awards requires each Executive to have met the performance targets relevant to the annual bonus before any award can be granted to him.
C Other share-based schemes: In common with all eligible employees of the Group, Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Companys SAYE option scheme.
These options are not subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition as this scheme is not restricted to Executive Directors and senior executives and is HMRC approved.
Premier Farnell 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 REMUNERATION REPORT Relative importance of remuneration elements Executive Directors recruitment, service contracts and loss ofofce payment policies The Committees view is that the performance-related elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors should be a substantial When recruiting Directors, the Companys policy is to pay what is portion of the total.
This serves to align the interests of such Directors necessary to attract individuals with the skills and experience appropriate withshareholders.
to the role to be lled, taking into account remuneration across the Group, including to other senior appointees, and that offered by other FTSE 250 The charts below illustrate the mix, as at the date of this report, between companies and other companies of similar size and complexity.
Each the xed and performance-related pay of the Executive Directors at element of remuneration to be included in the package offered to a new minimum, on-target performance and maximum.
These show that at Director would be considered separately and collectively in this context.
on-target performance over 42% and at maximum performance over Save as required by this policy no maximum salary has been set for new 60%of the Executive Directors total remuneration is performance-linked.
The Executive Directors service contracts do not have a set duration and Performance scenarios as at the date of this report: specify that any Director appointed by the Board during the year holds Chief Executive total remuneration scenarios 000 ofce only until the next Annual General Meeting and must then stand for election to continue in ofce.
Minimum The table overleaf summarises the notice periods and other termination 100% 690 rights of the executive and the Company.
These rights vary according tothe circumstances in which the termination arises and, where this is anticipated by the service contract or the rules of any applicable scheme On-target performance orplan, this is detailed below.
The approach of the Committee on any termination would be to consider all relevant surrounding circumstances 54% 25% 21% 1,273 and to act in accordance with any relevant rules or contractual provisions.
Maximum 34% 40% 26% 2,015 0 500 1000 1500 2000 Total fixed Total annual incentive Total long term incentive Chief Financial officer total remuneration scenarios 000 Minimum 100% 497 On-target performance 59% 25% 16% 845 Maximum 38% 42% 20% 1,301 0 500 1000 1500 Total fixed Total annual incentive Total long term incentive Notes to the charts above 1.
Total xed includes salary applicable from start of 2013 14, plus value of benets and pension contributions.
Total annual incentive is the sum of cash and deferred annual bonus.
Total long term incentive is the face value of performance shares and approximate fair value of options calculated by multiplying the option face value by 25%.
There is no allowance for share price appreciation.
The value at maximum is the amount granted: the value at on-target is taken to be half the amount granted.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 61 Effect on: Nature of Notice Pension termination Period Salary Benets Annual bonus LTI contributions By Executive on notice 6 months.
Normally no cash pay-out and No grants following service Continue to except special no DSBP awards granted ofnotice.
circumstances following service of notice.
But Granted awards lapse seebelow a cash bonus may be paid: for 1 onleaving.
example, to recognise By Company on notice 12 months.
exceptional performance except special throughout the Executives circumstances notice period.
seebelow Granted awards lapse 1 onleaving.
Discretion to Company to pay salary and As above.
payinlieu of notice benets in a single payment or in monthly exceptspecial instalments.
Where payments are made circumstances monthly, the Executive is under an seebelow obligation to mitigate his loss and monthly payments will reduce or cease altogether 2 on his accepting alternative employment.
No cash pay-out and no No grants.
Granted awards lapse 1 Granted awards lapse onleaving.
Normally cease at date employment Discretion to award annual Discretion to award long term Cease at date leaving by reason ends.
bonus for the period of the incentives for the period of the employment ends.
ofinjury, disability, year that has been worked year that has been worked Discretion to Company to pay salary and redundancy, sale of subject to performance.
benets in a single payment or in monthly employing company instalments.
Where payments are made DSBP awards already granted Unvested awards remain orbusiness, retirement monthly, the Executive is under an are reduced pro rata to reect subject to performance with the agreement of obligation to mitigate his loss and monthly unexpired portion of vesting conditions and are reduced the Committee or other payments will reduce or cease altogether period as at death leaving.
pro rata to reect unexpired special circumstances 2 on his accepting alternative employment.
portion of performance period atthe discretion of the Awards are exercisable for as at leaving.
If performance is 1 Committee 12months from employment achieved and the award vests, ending.
it can be exercised for 12 months from the vesting date.
All awards are subject to claw-back.
Vested awards are exercisable for 12 months from leaving.
All awards are subject to claw-back or scale-back.
1 There are additional provisions under the share plans applicable where the participant dies while in service or where in exceptional circumstances the Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion to treat a participant as a good leaver.
In the case of certain awards made under the Companys older share plans, vested awards may not lapse when the participant leaves.
2 The contractual discretion to pay monthly does not apply where termination results from a change of control.
Premier Farnell 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 REMUNERATION REPORT Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment Consultation with shareholders on remuneration policy The Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service, but have The Remuneration Committee is committed to an open dialogue with letters of appointment.
Such appointments are initially for a three-year term, shareholders on Executive remuneration and throughout 2012 13 has although in accordance with the Code, all Directors stand for re-election sought extensive input on the Companys Executive remuneration policy bythe shareholders each year at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Board Chairman and the Chair of the Subject to this annual re-election, it is normal that appointments are Remuneration Committee have met investors in person or by phone renewed for a second three-year period, and thereafter annually.
The during the course of the year to discuss Executive pay.
Paul Withers has letters of appointment set out the time commitment expected of the written to major shareholders on a number of occasions in relation to the Non-Executive Directors in the performance of their duties, with more time outcome of the bonus plan in 2011 12, the proposed changes to the annual expected to be spent by the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration bonus, base salaries and performance conditions under the long term Committees.
incentive plan awards in 2012 13, the outcome of the LTI plan awards granted in 2007 8 and the voting on the 2012 Remuneration report at the Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any incentive Companys 2012 AGM.
Among other things, the feedback provided by plans, share options schemes or Company pension arrangements and are shareholders in this and prior years on the need for pay restraint and pay not entitled to any payment in compensation for any early termination of linked to performance, the preference for a single year target for the annual their appointment.
bonus, the application of more than one performance measure to the LTI plan and the performance conditions for the LTI plan has shaped the Outside Directorships proposed implementation of all major elements of the Companys Executive pay policy for 2013 14.
It is the Companys current policy that Executive Directors are normally permitted to hold one Non-Executive Directorship with another company, provided that the appointment is approved by the Board.
The fees payable in respect of that Directorship are retained by the Executive Director.
Inexceptional circumstances, the Board may permit an Executive Director to hold more than one outside Directorship.
Considerations elsewhere in the Group In setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee has taken account of the pay arrangements for other colleagues in the Premier Farnell Group.
The same principles apply to remuneration policy for all colleagues: that pay should be benchmarked against relevant markets to ensure competitiveness whilst controlling costs: that there should be performance-based components: and that performance-related pay should be aligned with and help to drive the achievement of the Companys business strategy.
In determining any increase in the level of base salaries for Executive Directors, the policy requires that the rate of increase for other colleagues be considered.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 63 Report on implementation of the Companys Remuneration policy in 2012 13 Single total remuneration gure for each Director In 2012 13 the Executive Directors who served on the Board were Laurence Bain for the whole year, Mark Whiteling from 5 November 2012, Harriet Green until 12 June 2012 and Nicholas Cadbury until5November 2012.
No exit payments were made to Harriet andNicholas when they left the Board.
The table below shows the total remuneration for 2012 13 for each of the Directors.
Total remuneration table 000 AB C D E LTI awards Base salary Company vesting based and fees Benets pension on performance received received contribution Annual period ending during during during bonus for during Total 2012 13 2012 13 2012 13 2012 13 2012 13 2012 13 Executives L Bain 464 55 125 56 700 M Whiteling 94 4 24 145 267 H Green 288 11 79 378 N Cadbury 325 17 81 423 Non-Executives V Gooding 152 152 A J H Dougal 49 49 D H Millard 61 61 T Reddin 79 79 P N Withers 58 58 Total 1570 87 309 201 2,167 Notes to the table above D Annual bonus for Laurence Bain is 62% in cash and 38% in deferred shares.
The annual bonus gure for Mark Whiteling includes a one-off compensatory cash bonus, further details of which are on page 65.
The remainder of the bonus is split 64% in cash and 36% in deferred shares.
Details of the performance conditions, weightings and performance achieved against targets are provided in subsequent sections of this report.
E Long term incentive performance conditions, weightings and performance achieved against targets are detailed in subsequent sections of this report.
Relative importance of spend on pay Base salaries and benets The following table and illustrative graph set out the amounts spent in the The average base salary increase across the Group in July 2012 was financial year ended 3 February 2103 on Directors total remuneration 2.86%, with increases ranging from 2% to up to 24%, primarily in cases including the accounting impact of share-based awards to the Directors, where a new role or additional responsibilities were undertaken.
The overall expenditure on pay, amounts chargeable to tax and dividends in increase in Laurence Bains salary in 2012 13 was 25%, reecting his respect of the same period, together with the percentages that each promotion from Chief Operating officer to Chief Executive and his greater represents of profits during the period under review: responsibilities in that role.
The salaries for our Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer at the end of the financial year to 3 February 2013 were 1 Item s in millions % 21% and almost 7% lower, respectively, than those paid to their 1 profits for 2012 13 prior to the 243.0 100 predecessors in those roles at 29 January 2012, notwithstanding that 1 allocation of items 2 to 5 Laurence and Mark have both taken on additional responsibilities.
2 Directors total 2.2 The annual base salary levels of Executive Directors with effect from 1 July remuneration 2012 or from the date of his appointment as Chief Executive for Laurence Accounting credit for 0.4 Bain and as from the date of joining for Mark Whiteling are as follows.
share-based awards toDirectors From From 1 July 2012 1 July 2011 Increase Total cost of Directors 1.8 1 Name remuneration Laurence Bain 500,004 400,020 25% 3 Total compensation expense 165.5 68 Mark Whiteling 385,000 n a n a 4 Tax charged in respect 21.8 9 1 Harriet Green 562,008 562,008 n a of2012 13 Nicholas Cadbury 412,008 400,008 3% 5 Dividends in respect 37.9 15 of2012 13 1 Having resigned in May 2012, Harriet Green was not awarded a pay increase in July 2012.
6Retained profits 16.0 7 The value of benets for Executive Directors is included in the table of 1 Before adjusting items.
Directors remuneration Total compensation expense Tax charge Ordinary dividend Retained profit Premier Farnell 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 REMUNERATION REPORT Other Directorships Awards may be forfeited if it emerges that performance has been incorrectly stated or in the event of misconduct.
There are no further Mark Whiteling is a Non-Executive Director of Future plc and Chairman of performance conditions on the DSBP awards as the granting of these its Audit Committee.
Mark received 11,250 in fees for this role in respect awards requires each Executive to have met the performance targets ofthe period under review from the date of Marks appointment to the relevant to the annual bonus before any award can be granted to him.
Premier Farnell Board in November 2012.
While on the Board in 2012 13, Harriet Green was also a Non-Executive In 2012 13 Director of BAE Systems plc and Emerson Electric Co and a member of In 2012 13, in recognition of the lack of a forward order book for the Group the Audit Committee for Emerson Electric Co.
In this case, the Board had and the prevailing uncertain economic conditions, the Groups operating permitted Harriet Green to hold two external Directorships, as they profit target was set at the beginning of each half year and bonuses paid recognised the potential benets of this for the Group and did not perceive following determination of the full years results, taking into account the time commitments of these additional appointments to present a risk performance for the year as a whole.
Achievement of strategic objectives toits interests given the strength and commitment of the overall senior was measured against the full year.
The remuneration Harriet received for these roles whileon the Board of the Company in 2012 13 was as follows: The maximum total opportunity under the annual bonus for the Chief Share Executive and for the Chief Financial officer in 2012 13 was 160% and Options 140% of base salary respectively, with: Entity Fees Awards Dividends t The Chief Executive having the opportunity to receive up to 100% of base Emerson Electric Co. US$44,033 Restricted US$4,125 salary in cash and, if a cash bonus is due, up to 60% of his or her base stock grant salary by way of deferred shares under the DSBP: over 2,409 shares on t The Chief Finance officer having the opportunity to receive up to 90% of 7February base salary payable in cash and, provided that a cash bonus is payable, 2012 up to 50% of his base salary by way of deferred shares under the DSBP.
The same maximum opportunity was formerly available to the Chief BAE Systems plc 33,674 0 0 Operating officer.
The split of this maximum between operating profit and the strategic Annual bonus objectives, the potential available at cut-in and maximum performance and The annual bonus scheme includes a cash element MIP and the grant of more detail on the strategic objectives for the year under review are set out deferred shares under the Companys Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
The deferred element of the bonus is only available where the performance measures for the cash element of the bonus have been met.
If they are, anaward is granted over the relevant number of shares in the Company under the DSBP but vesting of this award is dependent on the Executive remaining with the Company for two years from grant.
No dividends are receivable by the holders of DSBP awards until such time as those awards vest and are exercised.
Actual pay out in Percentage of maximum bonus Percentage of maximum bonus respect of 2012 3, as a payable for this element at payable for this element, at stretch percentage of maximum Key performance area Weighting threshold performance performance available for this element Achievement of specified levels of operating 70% 10% 70% 0% profit for the financial year to 3 February 2013 Personal objectives for each of the CEO and CFO linked to the key elements of the strategy including those referred to below: 1 CEO: targets relating to the development 30% 30% 30% 73% ofthe Groups customer proposition, provided operating provided operating growth in active customer base and prottargetmet.
Otherwiseupto Otherwiseupto 10%atthe 10%atthe Committees Committees discretion discretion CFO: targets relating to the development 30% 30% 30% 76% ofthe Groups customer proposition, provided operating provided operating cash, information systems prottargetmet.
enhancements and employee Otherwiseupto Otherwise up to engagement.
10% atthe 10% at the Committees Committees discretion discretion 1 Including performance in respect of the strategic objectives of Laurence Bain as Chief Operating officer.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 65 In 2011 12, despite the Companys strong performance in very challenging Exceptional bonus payable to Mark Whiteling to compensate conditions, the threshold level of operating profit under the plan was not forforfeiture of bonus opportunity with previous employer met.
Although positive progress had been made with a number of strategic When he joined the Company in November 2012, Mark Whiteling gave objectives, it was decided that no bonus would be payable for that year.
upabonus opportunity with his former employer which he expected Asno payment was made under the cash element of the annual bonus, toreceive had he remained with that company.
To secure Marks noDSBP awards were made to the Executive Directors for the year.
employment, the Company agreed to pay Mark a one-off compensatory In 2012 13, economic conditions remained demanding and, again, the bonus of 135,745, equal to the amount Mark was expected to have operating profit target was not achieved.
However, recognising the received had he stayed in his former role.
Payment by Premier Farnell was Companys industry leading return on sales, the Committee has exercised subject to the Company receiving satisfactory evidence that the relevant its discretion to award a bonus of up to 10% of base salary in respect of level of performance applicable to the bonus opportunity with Marks achievement against the individual strategic objectives.
The bonus payable by the Company had no performance conditions and is included in the Total Remuneration table The amounts paid in respect of the cash element of the annual bonus on page 63 and the Directors Remuneration table on page 68. andthe DSBP awards made to Laurence and Mark in respect of 2012 13 are set out below.
Laurences cash bonus and DSBP awards have been Long term incentive award apportioned to reect his tenure as Chief Executive and formerly as Chief Operating officer during the year and the maximum opportunity for each The Company makes a single long term incentive award to each Executive ofthese roles.
Mark Whitelings cash bonus and DSBP award have been Director.
Each award provides the opportunity to receive shares PSP and pro-rated to reect his joining the Company three-quarters of the way shares under option with an exercise price set at the market price at grant through the financial year.
Both components of the single award are subject to performance conditions and vest after three years.
DSBO Annual Cash shares This blended approach provides a good mix of shares that are less Bonus award awarded sensitive to market share price volatility and therefore give a clear focus on Laurence Bain 20,562 10,114 achievement of the performance condition, and market priced options that 1 Mark Whiteling 3,475 1,079 are dependent on absolute share price growth to deliver any return to Executives also subject to a performance condition.
1 Excluding the exceptional one-off award made to Mark Whiteling to compensate him for loss ofbonus with his former employer detailed further on page 65 below.
Awards are granted annually, with the quantum reviewed by the Committee on each occasion.
The maximum LTI plan award size at face value is In 2013 14 equal to 100% of salary in conditional shares and 100% of salary in share For 2013 14, the maximum opportunity under the annual bonus plan options.
The Committee also reviews the performance conditions to which for2013 14 and the split between cash and deferred bonus remain awards are subject prior to each grant to ensure that the performance unchanged.
Performance will be measured against a single operating profit targets are stretching but motivational and designed to drive the target for the full year and against a number of strategic objectives.
To Companys strategy, thereby growing shareholder value.
Performance is recognise these strategic imperatives, the weighting of the performance measured over a three-year period, starting not earlier than the beginning measures has been adjusted as set out in the table below.
As in prior of the financial year in which the grant is made.
years, the operating profit target must be met before there is any pay-out Awards are subject to claw-back in the event of misstated performance inrespect of the strategic objectives save where a payment of up to 10% ormisconduct.
The Company has the option to satisfy the shares under of base salary is made at the Committees discretion.
option as share appreciation rights SARs.
SARs are market priced options Maximum Maximum that, on exercise, deliver only the gain in shares, rather than all of the shares percentage percentage comprised in the option, thus reducing the Companys share usage.
opportunity at opportunity at threshold maximum The awards granted in 2012 13 were: Key performance area Weighting performance performance In shares In options Achievement of specified 60% 10% 60% 1 1 face value face value levels of operating profit 2 Chief Executive 80% 100% for the financial year to 2 Chief Financial officer 50% 75% 2February 2014 1 Expressed as a percentage of base salary.
Personal objectives for 40% 40% 40% 2 At the grant of awards in July 2012 13, the role of Chief Operating officer had been each of the CEO and CFO provided provided superseded.
linked to the key elements operating profit operating profit Nicholas Cadbury also received awards in shares at 60% of his base salary of the strategy including target met.
and in options at 75% of his salary.
These awards lapsed when Nicholas cash and growth in active Otherwise up to Otherwise up to left the Company in November 2012.
Mark Whitelings awards were made customer base 10% at the 10% at the in December 2012 following his appointment.
As Harriet Green had Committees Committees resigned at the July grant, no awards were made to her in 2012 13. discretion discretion Premier Farnell 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 REMUNERATION REPORT Performance conditions in 2012 13 Under the Executive Share Option Plan ESOP t Awards matured The awards made under the ESOP in 2012 13 have a pre-vesting return onsales RoS performance condition.
As RoS is a key strategic financial During 2012 13, the performance outcomes applicable to the awards target for Premier Farnell, the adoption of RoS performance measure made in financial year 2009 10 were assessed.
For full vesting, the awards promotes the targeting of high-margin sales.
If RoS in 2014 15 hits the made under the PSP required the return on sales RoS in the financial year following target, the ESOP awards granted in 2012 13 willvest to the extent to January 2012 to be at least 12%, with full vesting at 13%.
As RoS in set out below: 2011 12 was 11%, the awards granted under the PSP in 2009 10 lapsed Return on sales in 2014 15 Vesting percentage infull.
The ESOP awards made in 2009 10 were subject to a performance 15% or more 100% condition requiring the relative total shareholder return TSR of the Company in three consecutive months at the end of the performance Between 20% and 100% period in 2013 to be at median for the minimum 20% vesting.
As TSR was Between 12% and 15% on a straight-line basis below median when compared with the prescribed FTSE 250 comparator Less than 12% 0% group, the ESOP awards also lapsed entirely.
t Awards granted In 2013 14 All awards to executives and senior management to be made in 2013 14 Under the Performance Share Plan PSP under the PSP and the ESOP are proposed to be subject to the same two The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance conditions that performance conditions in order to ensure a rounded view of performance, apply to long term incentives each year to ensure that they remain relevant with one half of the award under each scheme subject to an EPS target and stretching.
During the year, the Committee decided that an earnings and the other half subject to an RoS performance measure.
per share EPS related performance condition constituted the most As it represents an appropriate measure of the Companys strategy for appropriate measure to reect the Companys profitable growth strategy, growth, the same EPS-based target as that set in 2011 12 will apply to one expressed as a Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR to assist in the half of each award under the PSP and the ESOP, requiring the CAGR in clear communication of targets.
The CAGR is measured from the actual EPS from 2013 to 2016 to be 5% for threshold vesting and 12% to vest in gure achieved for the Companys 2011 12 financial year being adjusted full.
The EPS which will be required for vesting in 2015 16 is: EPS of 17.4 pence.
The target for PSP awards granted in 2012 13 istherefore: For threshold vesting: 17.1 pence EPS required For vesting in full: 20.8 pence Vesting in 2014 15 The other half of each award granted under the PSP and the ESOP will CAGR in EPS 2011 12-2014 15 percentage for vesting besubject to an RoS performance metric.
The Committee proposes a 12% or more 100% 24.4p or more change to the parameters for this target for 2013 14, with RoS of 10% Between 5% and 12% Between 20% and 100% 20.1p to 24.4p required in 2015 16 to achieve threshold vesting and full vesting at 12% on a straight-line basis RoS.
Higher RoS performance conditions could lead to the business Less than 5% 0% Under 20.1p turning down profitable sales opportunities and the Committee considers this change appropriate given the market sectors and mix of customers now targeted by the Group.
This revised RoS performance condition remains challenging.
Overview of performance of recent LTI plan awards This table sets out the current progress against the performance targets forawards to Executive Directors under the PSP and ESOP schemes which have yet to vest, or which have lapsed, in the case of the 2009 10 PSP awards.
Performance condition Financial year Scheme Performance see above for detailed description, Actual performance awarded type period and vesting scale % of award where period completed 2009 10 PSP January 2009 to January 2012 RoS: Range from 12% to 13% RoS 11% no vesting April 2009 to April 2012 TSR: FTSE 250 comparator: TSR: below median Range of vesting from 20% at no vesting median to 100% at upper quartile 2010 11 ESOP January 2010 to January 2013 RoS: Range from 11.7% to 13% RoS 10.1% no vesting 2010 11 PSP January 2010 to January 2013 EPS: Range from 15.0p to 20.0p EPS 14.8p no vesting 2011 12 ESOP January 2011 to January 2014 RoS: Range from 12.0% to 15.0% Performance period not complete 2011 12 PSP January 2011 to January 2014 EPS: Range from 21.9p to 25.8p Performance period not complete 2012 13 ESOP January 2012 to January 2015 RoS: Range from 12.0% to 15.0% Performance period not complete 2012 13 PSP January 2012 to January 2015 CAGR in EPS: Range from 5% to 12% Performance period not complete Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 67 Share ownership guidelines and shareholdings Throughout the year under review, Laurence Bain elected to receive a cash supplement in place of the contributions which would otherwise have been The Companys executive shareholding policy requires Executive Directors made by the Company on his behalf to the Premier Farnell UK Pension and other senior executives to retain a number of the shares acquired as a Scheme the UK Scheme and a funded unapproved scheme previously in result of the exercise of Company share plans or their own purchases until place.
This supplement is paid at the same rate as the Companys previous a shareholding with a value equal to a multiple of the executives annual contributions to the UK Scheme and the funded unapproved scheme and base salary is reached.
Once achieved, this level of shareholding is then equates to 27% of Laurences base salary.
The total cost to the Company tobe maintained.
Executive Directors are required to reach a shareholding of contributions made in respect of Laurence Bain for the year under review with a value, calculated in accordance with the policy, equal to their annual was 124,825 2011 12: 99,879. base salary.
The table on page 69 shows the shareholdings of each Executive Director in ofce at 3 February 2013.
Mark Whiteling is entitled to elect to receive either money purchase benets from the UK Scheme or to have contributions made to a registered personal pension scheme as were Harriet Green and Nicholas Cadbury Share usage under share-based incentive schemes while with the Company.
In each case, the Companys contributions are Based on the number of options outstanding under the share plans where equal to 25% of base salary.
Marks contributions are made to the UK options are satisfied using new issue shares i. e. excluding the PSP and Scheme, as Nicholass were, while Harriet elected to have all contributions DSBP as at 3 February 2013: made to a personal pension scheme.
The total cost to the Company of these contributions during the financial year to February 2013 was: 23,766 t The number of new shares issued under all share option plans over the 2012: 42,919 in respect of Mark Whiteling: 78,857 2011 12: 137,168 last ten years, together with the number potentially to be issued under inrespect of Harriet Green: and 81,091 2011 12: 41,667 in respect of allplans, including both executive and all-employee plans, totalled an Nicholas Cadbury.
amount equal to 3.05% of the Companys issued ordinary capital: and No Executive Directors receive any final salary pension benets.
t The number of new shares issued under all executive share option plans over the last ten years, together with the number potentially to be issued under all such executive plans, totalled an amount equal to 2.67% of the Service contracts Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The dates of the Executive Directors service contracts are as below and These totals are well within the dilution limits of 10% and 5% respectively specify that they are terminable by the Company on 12 months notice and set by the Association of British Insurers and reected in the rules of the by the individual on six months notice.
Laurences contract was updated Companys share plans.
during the year to entitle the Company to pay salary and benets in lieu ofthe whole or part of the notice period in a single payment or by way ofmonthly instalments.
Where payments are made monthly, Laurence is Pension arrangements under an obligation to mitigate his loss and monthly payments reduce or The final salary section of the Premier Farnell UK Pension Scheme the UK cease altogether on his accepting alternative employment save that the Scheme was closed to new entrants during 1998.
Employees joining the Companys right to pay monthly does not apply where termination results UK Scheme since 1 January 1999 are entitled to money purchase benets from a change of control.
Similar provisions were set out in Harriet Green only and the UK Scheme is no longer contracted out.
and Nicholas Cadburys contracts and are contained in the service agreement entered into with Mark in November 2012.
All Directors As a result of changes to pension legislation which came into effect in April servicecontracts require them to stand for re-election annually.
2006, the Company offers employees who are over or close to reaching the Lifetime Allowance beyond which pension savings do not receive Date of contract favourable tax treatment, a cash supplement as an alternative to pension Laurence Bain 5 November 2012 accrual beyond the Lifetime Allowance.
Any such cash supplement is paid Mark Whiteling 23 November 2012 net of income tax and employees National Insurance Contributions and 1 Harriet Green 23 February 2012 isan amount no greater than the amount that the Companys pension Nicholas Cadbury 14 July 2011 contributions would have been for that individual.
1 Harriets contract was amended in 2012 to reect the requirement that she stand for annual For high earners receiving pension contributions in excess of 50,000, re-election.
This cash allowance is equal to the pension contribution that the individual would have received over the 50,000 Aside from the lack of requirement to phase termination payments, threshold.
The cash allowance is paid net of income tax and employees intheevent of a change of control of the Company there are no special National Insurance Contributions.
contractual provisions outside of the standard terms of the service contracts.
The vesting of awards under the Companys share incentive The cash allowances or supplements referred to above are not included plans is determined by the rules of the relevant plans approved by aspart of the relevant Executive Directors salary for the purposes of shareholders on adoption.
calculating annual cash bonuses, deferred share bonuses or long term incentive awards.
The maximum amount expressed as a percentage of the Executives basesalary of the Companys contribution to the Executives pension arrangements is set out in the Executives contract of service and is expressed to be subject to the Executive making personal contributions ofa minimum percentage amount.
The cash allowance is paid to Laurence Bain, Mark Whiteling and two othersenior executives who are affected by these changes, as were HarrietGreen and Nicholas Cadbury while with the Company.
The contribution gures referred to in the following paragraphs include these cash allowances.
Premier Farnell 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 REMUNERATION REPORT Non-Executive Directors appointments The time commitment excluding travel expected of the Non-Executive Directors in the performance of their duties is 22 days per annum for each During the year the base fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors and of the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and 18 days the Chairman were reviewed and, consistent with market practice in the for other Non-Executives.
FTSE 250 and the Group-wide pay review in 2012 13, an increase of 2% was approved by the Board for the Non-Executives and by the Remuneration The commencement dates for the current appointments of Non-Executive Committee for the Chairman.
These adjustments took effect from 1 July 2012.
Directors are: A J H Dougal 12 June 2012 one-year In addition to the base fee, additional fees are payable to the Chairman ofthe Audit and Remuneration Committees and the Senior Independent D H Millard 1 September 2010 three-year Director.
Thomas Reddin also received an additional fee of 30,000 per T Reddin 30 September 2010 three-year annum in addition to the base fee in respect of his duties as Chairman of P N Withers 1 September 2010 three-year the Web Advisory Board, further details of which appear in the Corporate V Gooding 15 June 2011 three-year Governance report.
Business expenses are also reimbursed.
The fees payable as from 1 July in each of 2012 13 and 2011 12 were Statement of shareholder voting asbelow: At the AGM held on 12 June 2012 the voting outcomes in respect of the 2012 13 fee 2011 12 fee resolution put to the meeting to approve the Directors Remuneration Board Chairmans fee 153,000 150,000 report were as follows: NED base fee 49,000 48,000 Number % of Additional fees for chairing cast votes cast AuditCommittee 9,000 9,000 Votes for 207,290,117 67.53 Additional fees for chairing Votes against 98,189,880 31.99  9,000 9,000 Abstentions 1,494,302 0.49 Additional fees for chairing Total 306,974,299 100 WebAdvisoryBoard 30,000 29,400 Additional fee for Senior Following consultation with major shareholders it is understood that one of IndependentDirector 3,000 3,000 the main reasons for voting against the Remuneration report in 2012 was the use of two six-month operating profit targets for calculation of vesting under the annual bonus.
The reversion to a single target for the fullyear asdescribed earlier in this report was partly in response to this feedback.
Directors remuneration audited Pension contributions Total Total Salary Cash Deferred Benets emoluments emoluments 2012 13 2011 12 1 2 2 or fees bonus bonus in kind 2012 13 2011 12 Pension Pension 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 3 L Bain 464 56 55 575 409 125 100 4 M Whiteling 94 145 4 243 182 24 43 5 H Green 288 11 299 604 79 137 6 N Cadbury 325 17 342 176 81 42 7 V Gooding 152 152 94 8 Sir P Gershon 56 A J H Dougal 49 49 44 D H Millard 61 61 55 T Reddin 79 79 78 P N Withers 58 58 52 Total 1,570 201 87 1,858 1,750 309 322 1 The gures for benets in kind paid to Laurence Bain, Mark Whiteling, Harriet Green and Nicholas Cadbury include, for each of them, a cash allowance in place of a Company car.
No expense allowances chargeable to UK income tax were paid.
All Executive Directors are provided with life and health insurance during their term in ofce.
2 As described above, Executives whose pension contribution would exceed the 50,000 limit set by HMRC are allowed to take the excess as a cash allowance.
The pension contribution shown above includes the amount of such cash allowances.
3 L Bain was appointed Chief Executive in June 2012.
4 M Whiteling re-joined the Board on 5 November 2012, having also served on the Board for five years until 1 August 2011.
The emoluments and pension contributions given for Mark for 2011 12 reect amounts paid in that year up to the date he left the Company.
5 H Green retired from the Board on 12 June 2012.
6 N Cadbury retired from the Board on 5 November 2012.
7 V Gooding was appointed to the Board on 15 June 2011.
8 Sir P Gershon retired from the Board on 14 June 2011.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 69 Directors interests audited The following table sets out the beneficial interests of the Directors in ofce at 3 February 2013 in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the financial year.
There had been no changes in those interests as at 13 April 2013, being within one month of the date of the Companys Notice of Annual General Meeting.
3 February 2013 29 January 2012 Executive L Bain 150,378 141,408 M Whiteling 104,314 Non-Executive V Gooding 16,853 16,853 A J H Dougal 10,000 10,000 D H Millard 27,500 27,500 T Reddin 15,000 15,000 P N Withers 70,000 70,000 In addition to the above beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary shares, the Executive Directors are regarded for Companies Act purposes as being interested in 5,368,303 ordinary shares held by the Premier Farnell Executive Trust.
All employees including Executive Directors are potential beneciaries of the trust.
It is not anticipated that any employee or Executive Director will be entitled to receive from the trust a greater number of shares than that to which they are entitled on exercise of awards made to them under the PSP and DSBP.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP audited The table below shows the interests of Directors in the Companys ordinary shares under the plan.
At Market price at Market price at At 29 January date of award date of vesting 3 February End of 1 2012 Awarded Vested pence Lapsed 2013 vesting period Laurence Bain 59,983 2.802 59,983 March 2013 Mark Whiteling Harriet Green 113,491 2.802 113,491 March 2013 Nicholas Cadbury 1 At the date of cessation of their appointment in the case of Harriet Green and Nicholas Cadbury.
2 SAYE share options are not subject to any performance conditions.
The other options listed above are executive options which are subject to the performance conditions described below.
3 The gain on exercise totalled 5,103.90.
These shares were retained by Laurence Bain on exercise.
The rules of the current ESOP allow annual awards to be made, with a maximum grant equal to 100% of the individuals annual salary.
Exercise of options granted under the scheme is subject to the performance conditions described on page 66 above.
No price was paid for any option.
There were no variations to the terms and conditions of any Directors options during the year.
The market price of the Companys shares at 3 February 2013 was 215.2 pence 27 January 2012: 211.1 pence and the range during the year was 153.2pence 228.8 pence.
The conditions for the vesting of the awards are described on page 66.
There were no variations made to the terms and conditions of any award during theyear.
Performance graph unaudited The graph below shows the total shareholder return for a holding of the Companys ordinary shares for the five financial years of the Company of which the year to 3 February 2013 is the last.
This is compared to the total shareholder return for a hypothetical holding in the FTSE mid-250 Index excluding investment trusts.
This was chosen as it is the index of which the Company is a constituent.
Total shareholder return is the growth in value of a share plus the value of dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares on the day on which they are paid.
The subsequent table sets out the total remuneration of the Chief Executive officer of the Company over the same period, showing the annual bonus and LTI plan awards made in each year as a percentage of maximum opportunity in each case.
Total shareholder return Premier Farnell FTSE 250 Index excl.
Investment Trusts 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 This graph shows the value, by 3 February 2013, of 100 invested in Premier Farnell over the last five financial years compared with 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Source: Thomson Reuters Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 71 Table of CEO remuneration over the same period Annual bonus as a percentage of LTI vesting as a percentage 1 1 Year Total remuneration maximum opportunity of maximum opportunity CEO PSP ESOP 2 2012 13 316,669 7.3% 0% 0% Laurence Bain 378,000 0% 0% 0% Harriet Green 2011 12 1,632,826 0% 79% n a Harriet Green 2010 11 1,539,531 100% 49% n a Harriet Green 3 2009 10 1,151,270 57% 59% 100% Harriet Green 2008 9 767,302 10% n a n a Harriet Green 1 Indicating the extent to which the relevant awards vesting in this year met their performance conditions.
2 Paid in respect of the period of tenure of Laurence Bain as Chief Executive, but excluding his period of tenure as Chief Operating officer.
3 Share options granted and meeting their performance conditions but underwater at the date of becoming exercisable.
These awards subsequently lapsed without exercise.
Elements of report subject to audit The information above under the headings Directors Remuneration, Directors Interests, DSBP, Executive Share Option Plan and Performance Share Plan is auditable.
All other information provided in the Remuneration report is not subject to audit.
Approved by the Board on 22 April 2013.
Signed on behalf of the Board by Paul Withers Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
