74 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT On behalf of the Nomination Committee, I am pleased to present our report for the financial year ending 31 December 2013.
Composition and role of the Nomination Committee The Committee comprises Joe Darby, Jane Hinkley, David Lindsell, Simon Lockett and Michel Romieu and is chaired by me.
The role of the Committee includes: Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and making recommendations to the Board should any adjustments be required with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Committee makes assessments on an ongoing basis to ensure that the Board comprises the appropriate Mike Welton skills mix required in light of the strategy of the company in the medium-term: Chairman Responsibility for preparing descriptions of the role and capabilities required for any Board vacancy and identifying and nominating candidates, subject to Board approval: Reviewing the leadership potential of senior executives below Board level, ensuring that appropriate succession and development plans are in place for both Board and senior positions: and Reviewing and approving Premiers policy on Board diversity below including consideration of objectives for delivery and how the policy can be measured.
Board diversity policy The Board is committed to ensuring that the process for all Board appointments is conducted, and appointments made, on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
When preparing for a new Board appointment, external search companies will be requested to prepare a short list which takes into account the capabilities, skills and experience required for the role, as well as diversity of the Board in its widest sense, including gender diversity.
The Board will consider the proportion of women on the Board as part of its assessment when selecting a candidate for a Board position.
The Board fully embraces a culture based upon equal opportunities in the workplace.
To this end, the Board will maintain its practice of embracing diversity in all its forms but has chosen not to set any measurable objectives.
2013 agenda The Committee met twice in 2013.
Its core agenda concerned future organisation structures at a senior level, in particular the Executive Committee and their direct reports.
Key concerns have been to ensure that the organisation has the depth of talent required to run the business units in the future as well as to provide specialist functional leaders as and when needed.
The Committee also monitored a number of new initiatives launched in 2013 which are designed to contribute to the development of future leaders.
These included: The personal development for middle and senior managers arising from the results of the 360 degree feedback programme for 70 leaders which undertook to identify and clarify development priorities: A mentoring programme launched to provide managers with the opportunity to be mentored by a colleague: and A new Graduate Programme with the first trainees commencing their three-year programme in October 2013 and working as drilling engineers, a reservoir engineer, a mechanical engineer and a geoscientist.
The programme is designed to give them global work experience whilst being sponsored and mentored from the UK.
Following the unexpected death of Professor David Roberts in July 2013, the Committee led the process for the recruitment of two non-executive directors.
The Committee agreed a job specification for the vacancies, taking into account the capabilities required for the roles and an estimate of the time commitment required.
An external search consultancy, Ridgeway Partners, was selected to facilitate the recruitment process.
Ridgeway Partners are a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
A gender-neutral list of potential candidates for the roles was provided by Ridgeway Partners to ensure that gender diversity, as well as diversity in general, was taken into account by the Committee and the Board in selecting the chosen candidates.
Ridgeway Partners has no other connection with the company.
The new directors are David Bamford and Anne Marie Cannon.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 75 Planning for 2014 The Nomination Committee has also focused on the development and implementation of a number of new programmes in 2014 to identify and develop talented people in the group.
These include: The completion of a competency mapping project to identify the skills and expertise required for particular functional and business unit management roles: The roll-out of a talent review programme to identify those with the highest potential to grow into future senior leaders and consider the appropriate succession plans to enable them to fulfill their potential: The bedding in of the UK Graduate Programme: and The development of a leadership programme with an external partner to develop the commercial and behavioural skills needed to lead the business in the future.
The key focus for the Nomination Committee continues to be the need to develop the talent that Premier will require in order to grow the business in line with agreed strategies and plans.
By order of the Board M W Welton Chairman 26 February 2014 76 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the group, together with the audited group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
There are certain disclosure requirements which form part of the directors report and are included elsewhere in this annual report as detailed below.
Likely future developments in the business of the company are included within the Strategic Report.
Research and development activities are included in the business review.
Information regarding the companys policy concerning employees including employment of disabled persons is included within the Corporate Responsibility Report.
In addition, information regarding the companys greenhouse gas emissions is included in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Information regarding the companys governance arrangements is included in the Corporate Governance Report and related Board committee reports.
Dividends The directors propose a final dividend of 5 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 21 May 2014 to shareholders whose names appear on the Register of Members on 22 April 2014.
Annual General Meeting The companys 12th AGM will be held on Wednesday 14 May at 11.00am.
The Notice of the AGM, together with details of all resolutions which will be placed before the meeting, accompanies this report and is also available online at www.
Directors The directors who served throughout the year are shown on pages 58 and 59: Professor David Roberts also served as a director until 4 July 2013.
Following the financial year end, on 1 February 2014, Anne Marie Cannon was appointed a non-executive director.
As announced on 24 January 2014, David Bamford will be joining the Board as a non-executive director with effect from 1 May 2014.
Both Anne Marie Cannon and David Bamford will stand for election by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Articles of Association The companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a General Meeting of shareholders.
The companys Articles of Association contain provisions regarding the appointment, retirement and removal of directors.
A director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders in a General Meeting following nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a meeting.
The directors may appoint a director during any year provided that the individual stands for re-election by shareholders at the next AGM.
Further detail regarding the appointment and replacement of directors is included in the Corporate Governance Report.
Directors indemnities The company has granted an indemnity to all of its directors under which the company will, to the fullest extent permitted by law and to the extent provided by the Articles of Association, indemnify them against all costs, charges, losses and liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their duties.
Related party transactions Andrew Lodge, Exploration Director, is a non-executive director of Egdon Resources plc, an AIM listed company in which Premier Oil plc owns an indirect interest, via its subsidiary EnCore Oil Limited, of 27.07 per cent as at 26 February 2014.
EnCore Oil Limited has provided a loan facility to Egdon Resources plc, details of which are given in note 24.
Share capital Details of the companys issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the issued share capital during the year are shown in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
The company has one class of Ordinary Share which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at General Meetings of the company.
Subject to applicable law and the companys Articles of Association the directors may exercise all powers of the company, including the power to authorise the issue and or market purchase of the companys shares, subject to an appropriate authority being given to the directors by shareholders in a general meeting and any conditions attaching to such authority.
No shares were bought back during the year.
The current authority, approved at the 2013 AGM, for the allotment of relevant securities is for a nominal amount of up to i 22,046,280 and ii equity securities up to a nominal amount of 44,092,560 less the nominal amount of any shares issued under part i of the authority.
These standard authorities are renewable annually and the directors will seek to renew the authority to issue and buyback its own shares at the 2014 AGM.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, both of which are governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 19.
The voting rights in relation to the shares held within the Employee Benefit Trust are exercisable by the trustees but they have no obligation to do so.
Details of the number of shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration Report on page 98.
No person has any special rights of control over the companys share capital and all issued shares are fully-paid.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 77 Significant shareholdings As at 26 February 2014 the company had received notification from the institutions below, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of their significant holdings of voting rights three per cent or more in its Ordinary Shares: Date of Notified Notified notification number percentage to the stock of voting of voting Nature of Name of shareholder exchange rights rights holding 1 AXA Investment Managers SA 24 10 2011 40,173,814 8.58% Indirect Schroders plc 02 02 2012 27,072,247 5.12% Indirect Artemis Investment Management LLP 27 11 2013 26,509,959 5.01% Direct & Indirect 1 Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 27 04 2009 3,933,529 4.95% Direct & Indirect Ameriprise Financial Inc 20 01 2012 24,666,346 4.66% Direct & Indirect Norges Bank 10 06 2013 21,351,817 4.04% Direct Legal & General Group Plc 20 12 2013 16,089,316 3.04% Direct Notes: 1.
Interests shown for AXA Investment Managers SA pre-date the EnCore transaction and related share issue in 2012: interests shown for Aviva plc pre-date the Share Split in 2011.
Hedging and risk management Details of the groups policy on hedging and risk management are provided in the Financial Review.
A further disclosure has been made in note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements related to various financial instruments and exposure of the group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk.
Political donations No political contributions were made during the year 2012: US$nil.
Auditor Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Statements confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and the director has taken all reasonable steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
On the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditor and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board S C Huddle Company Secretary 26 February 2014 78 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT Dear fellow shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report which we have presented in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2013.
In doing so, we have divided the Report into two sections: The Policy Report, which sets out our forward-looking remuneration policy.
We propose that this will apply from the date of our 2014 AGM, subject to obtaining shareholder approval at the AGM: and The Annual Report on Remuneration, which sets out how our directors were paid in the year ending 31 December 2013 and how the Policy will apply for the year ending Jane Hinkley 31 December 2014.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee As part of the new reporting arrangements, the Directors Remuneration Report will be subject to two votes at our 2014 AGM.
As set out in the Notice to the AGM, the Policy Report will be put to a binding vote, and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory vote.
We fully support the aim of these reporting arrangements of increasing transparency, and we welcome any feedback you have on our Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee aims to ensure that our remuneration policy, which is weighted towards variable performance related pay, serves shareholder interests and closely reflects the companys business strategy.
The Committee believes that the current remuneration policy the Policy continues to meet these objectives, and for this reason, we are not proposing any changes to the Policy for 2014.
The Committee is mindful of the need to demonstrate the link between remuneration and performance of the company, and is satisfied that the incentive outcomes in 2013 prove this to be the case.
The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards granted in 2011 were subject to three year absolute and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance: the companys TSR over this period was below threshold and as a result the 2011 LTIP awards did not vest the only LTIP awards to be released in early 2014 will be the deferred 2008 Asset and Equity Plan AEP awards.
Further, in determining the 2013 annual bonus awards, the Committee assessed performance against a scorecard of financial and operational measures, as well as individual performance: only a proportion of the scorecard targets were achieved, resulting in bonus awards to the executive directors of no more than 26 per cent of salary.
The Committee considers that these incentive outcomes are appropriate given the performance of the company during 2013.
During 2014, the Committee will be reviewing the effectiveness of the LTIP in which all staff are eligible to participate in attracting, retaining and motivating our global below-Board employee population.
As part of this review, the company will assess whether this population could be better incentivised by rewarding those performance metrics that provide better line-of-sight e. g. project specific measures rather than share price performance, which can be too remote for many of our staff.
Any changes to the LTIP for the below-Board population may, of course, justify some changes to the LTIP structure for the executive directors also.
We expect that the review will be concluded during 2014, at which point we will consult shareholders on any substantive changes and seek shareholder approval, as appropriate.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank shareholders for their continuing support.
Yours sincerely I J Hinkley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 February 2014 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 79 Directors Remuneration POLICY REPORT The Committee regularly reviews the Policy to ensure it supports shareholder interests Report and closely reflects business strategy.
Remuneration packages are intended to be This report has been prepared sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the quality required in accordance with Schedule 8 to achieve the groups objectives and thereby enhance shareholder value.
The of the Large and Medium-sized Committee aims to ensure that pay rewards all employees fairly and responsibly for Companies and Groups their contributions.
In addition, the Committee aims to ensure that the Policy does not Regulations 2013.
The raise environmental, operational, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating Companies Act 2006 requires irresponsible behaviours.
the auditor to report to Specifically, remuneration packages are designed with the following objectives in mind: shareholders on certain parts of the Directors Remuneration Gear remuneration significantly towards performance-related pay to support direct Report and to state whether, alignment with shareholders and a highly performance-oriented culture: in the auditors opinion, those Provide annual incentives that reward achievement of short-term objectives key parts of the report have been to delivering the long-term strategy, encompassing financial, operational and properly prepared in accordance strategic measures: with the regulations.
The Chairmans Annual Statement Ensure a particular emphasis on long-term performance, to encourage direct and the Policy Report are not alignment with shareholders, retention and long-term motivation: subject to audit.
The sections Incorporate significant deferral requirements to support staff retention and lengthen of the Annual Report on the incentive time horizon: Remuneration that are subject to audit are indicated accordingly.
Ensure incentive payments are commensurate with the companys underlying performance.
This section of the report sets out the Policy for executive and non-executive directors which shareholders are asked to approve at the 2014 AGM.
If approved, the Policy will come into effect from the date of the AGM.
The remuneration package for 2014 is consistent with this Policy and is discussed in more detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 96 to 97.
Executive director policy The summary of the Policy for executive directors is set out below: Salary Purpose and link to strategy To provide an appropriate level of salary to support recruitment and retention, and with due regard to the role and the individuals responsibilities and experience Operation Typically reviewed annually with reference to company and individual performance, each executives responsibilities and experience, the external market for talent, and salary increases across the group Salaries are benchmarked against three relevant comparator groups, comprising: i international oil & gas sector companies, ii the constituents of the LTIP TSR comparator group, and iii UK-listed companies of a similar market capitalisation and revenue to Premier Adjustments are normally effective 1 January Salaries are paid monthly in arrears Opportunity Salary increases are awarded taking into account the outcome of the review and also broader circumstances including, but not limited to, a material increase in job complexity and inflation Salary increases will normally be in line with increases awarded to other employees.
However, the Committee may make additional adjustments in certain circumstances to reflect, for example, an increase in scope or responsibility, to address a gap in market positioning and or to reward performance of an individual The executive director salaries for the financial year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Performance metrics Not applicable 80 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Executive director policy continued Pension Purpose and link to strategy To help provide a competitive pension provision Operation Executive directors who join Premier on or after 20 August 2013 are eligible to participate in the companys defined contribution personal pension plan and or receive an equivalent cash supplement For executive directors who joined prior to 20 August 2013, the company provides a pension substantially as if they are contributing members of the companys final salary Retirement and Death Benefits Plan the Scheme, which was closed to new members in 1997 The only pensionable element of pay is salary Opportunity Executive directors who join Premier on or after 20 August 2013 receive pension contributions and or an equivalent cash supplement equal to 20 per cent of salary For executive directors who joined prior to 20 August 2013 the Scheme provides a payment on broadly a fiftieths accrual basis up to two-thirds of salary at age 60, with benefits actuarially reduced on early retirement and pensions in payment increased in line with the lower of inflation, or five per cent per annum.
The Scheme is subject to an internal earnings cap which is reviewed annually but for executive directors, the company provides for pension benefits above the earnings cap through a pension promise, based on the cash equivalent transfer value of benefits accrued within the defined benefit scheme for earnings above the earnings cap.
The way that this promise is currently administered is as follows: 1.
Executive directors are given a pension allowance equal to 20 per cent of uncapped salary.
This may either be paid into a pension scheme and or as a salary supplement 2.
Executive directors accrue notional defined benefits entitlement within the defined benefits scheme 3.
To the extent that payments made under 1 above are not paid into the Scheme, they are deemed to have been invested into a Life fund 4.
At the point that a director departs or retires, a comparison is undertaken between the value of the notional defined contribution pot outlined in 3 above and the cash equivalent transfer value of the notional defined benefits.
Subject to appropriate deductions, the differential is available either as a contribution into their pension plan or a cash payment 5.
Regular reviews are carried out to assess the extent to which the payments already made to each director are projected to be sufficient to provide the accrued component of their target pension: where such reviews indicate a shortfall, the company may provide an additional payment Performance metrics Not applicable Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide a benefits package competitive in the market for talent Operation Executive directors receive a competitive benefits package, which may include medical and dental insurance, car allowance, life assurance and critical illness cover, expatriate benefits, relocation allowance, health checks and a subsidised gym membership Other benefits may be introduced from time to time to ensure the benefits package is appropriately competitive and reflects the circumstances of the individual director Opportunity Set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate for the role and individual circumstances The benefits payable to the executive directors during the financial year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Performance metrics Not applicable Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 81 Executive director policy continued Share Incentive Plan SIP Purpose and link to strategy To encourage share ownership in Premier Operation An HMRC approved scheme under which employees including executive directors are invited to make contributions to buy partnership shares using gross pay.
If an employee agrees to buy partnership shares the company currently matches the number of partnership shares with matching shares which are subject to continued employment for a minimum of three years Dividends accrue on both partnership shares and matching shares, and any historical free shares no longer awarded, and are automatically reinvested Opportunity Employees may spend up to the HMRC permitted allowance to buy partnership shares Matching shares are granted based on investment in partnership shares and up to the HMRC permitted match Performance metrics Not applicable Save As You Earn SAYE Purpose and link to strategy To encourage share ownership in Premier Operation An HMRC approved scheme under which employees including executive directors are invited to make regular monthly contributions over three or five years to purchase shares through options which are granted at a 20 per cent discount to the mid-market closing price on the day prior to the date of grant Opportunity Employees may save up to the HMRC permitted allowance Performance metrics Not applicable Annual Bonus Purpose and link to strategy To reinforce the delivery of key short-term financial and operational objectives and, through the deferred share element, help ensure alignment with shareholders and support retention Operation Performance is measured on an annual basis for each financial year measured against stretching but achievable financial and non-financial targets, comprising Key Performance Indicators KPIs, other corporate objectives and personal performance Performance measures, weightings and targets are set at the beginning of the year and weighted to reflect business priorities Each performance measure has Threshold and Stretch targets.
The final bonus outcome is determined by the Committee, having assessed achievement against corporate as well as personal targets, taking into account the Committees broader assessment of overall company performance Annual bonus awards up to 50 per cent of salary are paid in cash.
Any annual bonus earned above 50 per cent of salary is deferred in shares for three years Dividend equivalents accrue on deferred share awards and are paid on vesting, in accordance with the rules of the bonus plan Annual bonus payouts and deferred shares are also subject to clawback in the event of material misstatement of the companys financial results, gross misconduct, or material error in the calculation of performance conditions The Committee may exercise clawback until the later of: i one year from the payment of the bonus or the vesting of the shares, or ii the completion of the next audit after payment vesting Opportunity The annual bonus provides for awards of between 0 per cent and 100 per cent of salary for executive directors 82 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Executive director policy continued Annual Bonus continued Performance metrics Performance is assessed against a scorecard encompassing several performance categories, which may include some or all of: production, exploration, HSES, finance, business development, and personal and strategic objectives Normally, the Committee would not expect the weighting for any performance category to be higher than 50 per cent.
However it retains discretion to adjust weightings to align with the business plan for each year The Committee uses its judgment to determine the overall scorecard outcome based on the achievement of the targets and the Committees broad assessment of company performance Further details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for the financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 92 LTIP Purpose and link to strategy To support alignment with shareholders by reinforcing the delivery of absolute and relative returns to shareholders, through the delivery of strong share price growth and relative stock market out-performance over the long-term, and with due regard for the underlying financial and operational performance of the company Operation The LTIP comprises three elements: Equity Pool Awards, Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards Equity Pool Awards are based on an allocation of units in the Equity Pool.
The Equity Pool is funded by a percentage share of the growth in the companys equity value per share over a performance period, if growth above the threshold level has been achieved.
At the end of a performance period, Equity Pool Awards are awarded as shares calculated on the mid-market closing share price on the day prior to the date of award Performance Share Awards are conditional share awards granted annually, with the grant value defined as a percentage of salary at the date of grant Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards are measured over three years.
50 per cent of the shares vesting from the Equity Pool and Performance Shares are subject to compulsory deferral for a further three years and are eligible for a discretionary Matching Share Award, which is granted as shares and is subject to a further three-year performance period For Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards, dividend equivalents may accrue and be paid on vesting in proportion to performance achieved, in accordance with the rules of the Plan Award levels are reviewed before each award cycle to ensure they remain appropriate All LTIP awards are subject to clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, gross misconduct, or material error in the calculation of performance conditions The Committee may exercise clawback until the later of: i one year from vesting, or ii the completion of the next audit after vesting Opportunity Executive directors may be awarded a share of the Equity Pool.
The Committee intends to continue with the existing approach of awarding not more than 6 per cent of the Equity Pool to any one individual, though it retains the discretion under the Plan to award more than 6 per cent in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment.
The value of vested awards is subject to a limit of 100 per cent of salary, but which may be exceeded, at the discretion of the Committee, up to the full value warranted by the size of the Equity Pool provided the Committee is satisfied with the underlying performance of the company.
The Committee also has discretion to reduce the size of the Equity Pool if the formulaic outcome is not reflective of the companys underlying performance Performance Share Awards may be granted up to 150 per cent of salary Matching Share Awards may be granted up to 2.5 times the number of shares deferred Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 83 Executive director policy continued LTIP continued Performance metrics The funding of the Equity Pool is based on three-year annualised compound growth in the companys equity value per share.
Threshold performance requires compound growth in the companys equity value per share of at least 10 per cent per annum at which 1 per cent of the compound growth is credited to the Equity Pool.
A maximum of 2.5 per cent of the compound growth is credited to the Equity Pool when growth in equity value per share is 20 per cent per annum.
The funding rate is based on straight-line interpolation between these points Performance Share Awards vest on three-year TSR relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas sector peers.
25 per cent vests for median performance, with full vesting for upper quartile performance and straight-line vesting in between Matching Share Awards vest on three-year TSR relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas sector peers.
25 per cent vests for median performance, with full vesting for upper decile performance and straight-line vesting in between Before finalising long-term incentive payouts, the Committee assesses the underlying financial and operational performance of the company, and if appropriate, may reduce the level of vesting.
In assessing the underlying performance of the company, the Committee may consider Net Asset Value per share, finding and development costs per barrel, delivery of the strategy, relative TSR, returns on invested capital, reserves replacement, operating cash flow, earnings per share EPS growth, health and safety record, and other measures as the Committee deems appropriate Ahead of each performance cycle, the Committee may review and adjust the TSR comparator group for future cycles to ensure relevance to Premier.
The Committee may adjust the TSR comparator group of outstanding cycles in the event that a TSR comparator ceases to exist, fide-lists or is acquired or the Committee deems it to be no longer a suitable comparator Further details on the policy Performance measure selection Annual bonus The annual bonus is based on a corporate scorecard capturing financial, operational and strategic objectives that are key to achieving our long-term strategy.
Performance measures, weightings and targets are set at the beginning of the year to reflect KPIs, business priorities and other corporate objectives, and encompassing both financial and non-financial criteria.
Performance targets are set at such a level as to be stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular strategic priorities and economic environment in a given performance period.
LTIP The LTIP ensures alignment with shareholders, being based on both absolute and relative TSR.
The chart below illustrates how the three elements of the LTIP operate.
LTIP Performance Share cycle Performance period Deferral period Award 50% of vested Balance is released award is released 3.
LTIP Matching Share cycle Performance period Award Vested award is released 84 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Further details on the policy continued The Committee believes TSR appropriately rewards the delivery of the companys strategy and also aligns managements interests with those of shareholders.
Absolute TSR captures the absolute return delivered to shareholders and relative TSR measures performance on a relative basis, thereby helping to negate the impact of uncontrollable forces such as oil price movements on the reward delivered through the LTIP.
The review of the companys underlying performance before LTIP payouts are finalised ensures the impact of external factors are taken into account where appropriate.
The performance measures applied to LTIP awards are reviewed periodically to ensure they continue to support shareholders interests and are appropriately aligned to Premiers long-term strategy.
Targets are geared to provide the opportunity to achieve above market levels of pay only through exceptional sustained relative TSR performance over six years.
Remuneration policy for other employees The companys Policy for all employees is to provide remuneration packages which reward them fairly and responsibly for their contributions.
All employees participate in the companys incentive structures and, like the remuneration package for executive directors, remuneration is structured such that a proportion of total remuneration is potentially delivered through long-term share-based incentives to ensure maximum alignment with shareholders.
Similarly, all employees are eligible to receive an annual bonus, with measures and targets tailored to individual business units and responsibilities as appropriate.
The specific bonus framework varies by job level and scope to ensure annual incentives support motivation and retention accordingly.
These schemes provide a clear link between pay and performance, ensuring that superior remuneration is paid only if superior performance is delivered.
Share ownership requirements The Committee aims to ensure that our remuneration Policy serves shareholder interests and closely reflects the groups business strategy.
Further, the company recognises the importance of aligning the interests of executive directors with shareholders through the building up of a significant shareholding in the company.
Accordingly, the company requires the executive directors to retain no less than 50 per cent of the net value of shares vesting under the companys deferred bonus and LTIP until such a time they have reached a holding worth 100 per cent of salary 200 per cent for the Chief Executive.
Details of the current shareholdings of the executive directors are in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 98.
Payments from existing awards Any commitment made prior to, but due to be fulfilled after, the approval and implementation of the remuneration Policy detailed in this report will be honoured.
Such commitments are as follows: The AEP preceded the LTIP as the companys main long-term incentive and expired in 2009.
Messrs Lockett, Allan, Durrant, Hawkings and Lodge hold awards under this plan, the last of which are due to vest in 2014.
Details of the AEP awards are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 103.
Mr R A Allan was employed by the company between September 1986 and November 1999 and is entitled to a deferred pension under the Scheme in respect of this period of employment.
The pension he had accrued as at November 1999 was 25,409.
Further information on Mr Allans pension arrangements is provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 94.
Illustration of application of the executive director remuneration policy Remuneration is significantly geared towards  pay, with particular emphasis on long-term performance.
For example, at on-target performance, approximately 55 per cent of the Chief Executives remuneration package is delivered through variable components, rising to approximately 88 per cent at maximum performance.
The maximum value is delivered only if upper quartile TSR is delivered against sector peers over six years, with a requirement for upper decile performance in the last three years.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 85 Illustration of application of the executive director remuneration policy continued The performance scenario charts illustrate remuneration receivable for different performance scenarios.
The assumptions underlying each performance scenario are provided in the table below: Remuneration receivable for different performance scenarios Fixed On-Target Maximum Fixed pay 2014 salary, as disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 96 2013 pension and taxable benefits as provided in the single figure table in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 91 Annual bonus Nil payout Payout of 60 per cent of salary Payout of 100 per cent of salary LTIP Nil payout Equity Pool based on 1 per cent of Equity Pool equity value per share the change in market value and growth based on 2.5 per cent equity value per share appreciation of the change in market value of 10 per cent per annum and equity value per share compound growth appreciation of 20 per cent per Performance Shares vesting at 25 annum compound growth per cent of award All Performance Shares vest in full Matching Share Awards matched All Matching Share Awards matched over deferred Equity Pool Awards over deferred Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards and Performance Share Awards vesting at 25 per cent of award vest in full The charts below illustrate the potential reward opportunities for each executive director for the three performance scenarios.
However, Equity Pool Awards assume equity value per share compound growth of 10 per cent p. a. at on-target performance and equity value per share growth of 20 per cent p. a. at maximum performance.
It should also be noted that the LTIP is subject to a performance period of up to six years: EPA and PSA awards are assessed on three year performance and MSA awards, which are based on the number of EPA and PSA shares deferred, are subject to a further three year performance period.
86 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Approach to executive director recruitment remuneration In the cases of hiring or appointing a new executive director, the Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration.
The salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to the experience and skills of the individual, relevant market data, internal relativities and their current salary.
New appointees will be eligible to receive a personal pension, benefits and to participate in the companys HMRC approved all-employee share schemes, in line with the Policy.
The approach to variable pay on recruitment is summarised in the table below: Component Approach Maximum annual opportunity Annual Bonus The annual bonus described in the Policy 100 per cent of salary Table will apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Targets for the individual element will be tailored towards the executive LTIP New appointees will be granted awards Equity Pool Awards: up to 6 per cent of the under the LTIP on the same terms as other Equity Pool, which may be exceeded in executive directors, as described in the exceptional circumstances Policy Table Performance Share Awards: up to 150 per cent of salary Matching Share Awards: up to 2.5 times the number of deferred Equity Pool Awards and deferred Performance Shares When determining appropriate remuneration for a new executive director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited to ensure that the pay arrangements are in the best interests of both Premier and its shareholders.
The Committee may consider it appropriate to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will use the existing Policy where possible or, in exceptional circumstances, the Committee may exercise the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
The value of any such award will not be higher than the expected value of the outstanding equity awards and, in determining the expected value, the Committee will use a Black-Scholes, or equivalent, valuation and, where applicable, discount for any performance conditions attached to these awards.
In cases of appointing a new executive director by way of internal promotion, the Committee will apply the Policy for external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments that vary from our Policy for executive directors, but made prior to his or her promotion to executive director level, the company will continue to honour these arrangements.
Service contracts and exit payments and change of control provisions Executive director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to manage the company.
The service contract of each executive director may be terminated on 12 months notice in writing by either party.
Executive directors contracts are available to view at the companys registered office.
Details of the service contracts of the executive directors are as follows: Director Contract date Unexpired term of contract S C Lockett 09.12.03 Rolling contract R A Allan 09.12.03 Rolling contract A R C Durrant 01.07.05 Rolling contract N Hawkings 23.03.06 Rolling contract A G Lodge 20.04.09 Rolling contract The company will consider termination payments in light of the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual terms, the circumstances of the termination and any applicable duty to mitigate.
In such an event, the remuneration commitments in respect of the executive director contracts could amount to one years remuneration based on salary and benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period, together with payment in lieu of any accrued but untaken holiday leave, if applicable.
There are provisions for termination with less than 12 months notice by the company in certain circumstances.
If such circumstances were to arise, the executive director concerned would have no claim against the company for damages or any other remedy in respect of the termination.
The Committee would apply general principles of mitigation to any payment made to a departing executive director and will honour previous commitments as appropriate, considering each case on an individual basis.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 87 Service contracts and exit payments and change of control provisions continued The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and LTIP are typically treated in different leaver scenarios and on a change of control.
Whilst the Committee retains overall discretion on determining good leaver status, it typically defines a good leaver in circumstances such as retirement with agreement of the company, ill-health, disability, death, redundancy, or part of the business in which the individual is employed or engaged ceasing to be a member of the group.
Final treatment is subject to the Committees discretion.
Event Timing of vesting award Calculation of vesting payment Annual Bonus Good leaver Annual bonuses are paid at the same time Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that any as to continuing employees performance conditions have been satisfied and Unvested deferred share awards vest on is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial cessation of employment year worked before cessation of employment Bad leaver Not applicable Individuals lose the right to their annual bonus and unvested deferred share awards 1 Change of control Annual bonuses are paid and unvested Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that any deferred share awards vest on effective performance conditions have been satisfied and date of change of control is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year worked to the effective date of change of control LTIP Good leaver On normal vesting date or earlier at the Unvested awards vest to the extent that any Committees discretion performance conditions have been satisfied and a pro-rata reduction applies to the value of the awards to take into account the proportion of vesting period not served Deferred shares vest in full Bad leaver Unvested awards lapse Unvested awards lapse on cessation of employment Outstanding deferred shares vest on cessation of employment 1 Change of control On the date of the event Unvested awards vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied and a pro-rata reduction applies for the proportion of the vesting period not served Outstanding deferred shares vest in full Notes: 1.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may determine that deferred share awards under the annual bonus and both unvested and deferred awards under the LTIP will not vest on a change of control and instead be replaced by an equivalent grant of a new award, as determined by the Committee, in the new company.
Upon exit or change of control, SAYE and SIP awards will be treated in line with the approved plan rules.
If employment is terminated by the company, the departing executive director may have a legal entitlement under statute or otherwise to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
In addition, the Committee retains discretion to settle other amounts reasonably due to the executive director, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the executive director in connection with the termination of employment, where the company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and, in which case, the individual is required to seek independent legal advice.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing executive directors including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the company and its shareholders to do so.
88 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued External appointments Executive directors are entitled to accept non-executive director appointments outside the company and retain any fees received providing that the Boards prior approval is obtained.
Details of external directorships held by executive directors along with fees retained are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 98.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the company The Committee does not specifically consult with employees over the effectiveness and appropriateness of the Policy.
However, the Committee does consider the pay and conditions elsewhere in the company, including how the company-wide pay tracks against the market.
When awarding salary increases to executive directors, the Committee takes account of the salary increases across the group, particularly for those employees based in the UK.
Further, the company seeks to promote and maintain good relationships with employee representative bodies including trade unions as part of its employee engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the company operates.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee aims to ensure that the Policy serves shareholder interests and is aligned with the groups business strategy, market practice and evolving best practice.
The Committee Chairman consults major shareholders and proxy advisers from time to time to discuss the remuneration Policy.
The Committee considers all feedback received from such consultations, as well as guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally, to help to ensure the Policy is aligned with shareholder views.
In relation to the 2013 financial year, the Committee Chairman contacted Premiers major shareholders and proxy advisor firms.
Feedback from the consultation was predominantly positive.
Shareholders generally support the executive director remuneration structure, which ensures pay is highly  and heavily weighted to long-term performance, and little concern was noted with regard to the annual bonus and salaries.
Some shareholders suggested that the Committee consider simplifying the multifaceted LTIP and that greater disclosure of assessment of the LTIP underpin would be beneficial.
Premier is mindful of the views it receives in its annual consultations.
To this end, the company will continue to review the structure of the LTIP and will, in years when the LTIP meets its performance thresholds, disclose performance under the LTIP underpins subject to commercial sensitivity issues.
Non-executive director Remuneration Policy Non-executive directors have letters of appointment effective for a period of three years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders in the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
All letters of appointment have a notice period of three months and provide for no arrangements under which any non-executive director is entitled to receive remuneration upon the early termination of his or her appointment.
Non-executive directors letters of appointment are available to view at the companys registered office.
Ms A M Cannon will be subject to election at the AGM to be held in 2014.
The company announced in January 2014 the intended appointment of Mr D Bamford as a non-executive director with effect from 1 May 2014.
Mr Bamford will be subject to election at the AGM to be held in 2014.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 89 Non-executive director Remuneration Policy continued The companys Articles of Association provide that the remuneration paid to non-executive directors is to be determined by the Board within limits set by the shareholders.
The Policy for the Chairman and non-executive directors is as follows: Fees Purpose and link to strategy To provide fees that allow Premier to attract and retain non-executive directors of the highest calibre Operation Fees for non-executive directors are reviewed at least every two years Fees are set with reference to three relevant comparator groups, comprising: i international oil & gas sector companies, ii the constituents of the LTIP TSR comparator group, and iii UK-listed companies of a similar market cap and revenue to Premier.
The fees also take into account the time commitments of the non-executive directors Fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the Committee, while the fees of the other non-executive directors are determined by the Board Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director, and as Chairman of any of the Boards committees Adjustments are normally effective 1 January The non-executive director fees for the financial year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Opportunity Non-executive director fees are set at a level that is considered appropriate in the light of relevant market practice and the size complexity of the role Performance metrics Not applicable Approach to non-executive director recruitment remuneration In the case of hiring or appointing a new non-executive director, the Committee will follow the Policy as set out in the table above.
90 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Remuneration Committee membership and considerations during 2013 As at 31 December 2013, the Committee comprised three non-executive directors and the Committee met six times during the year.
The members of the Committee and their attendance are summarised below: Member throughout Number of 1 Committee member 2013 meetings attended I J Hinkley 3 6 J Darby 3 6 D C Lindsell 3 5 2 D G Roberts See note 2 Notes: 1.
There were 5 scheduled meetings of the Committee during the year.
One meeting was additionally called attended only by Ms I J Hinkley and Mr J Darby.
Professor David Roberts died on 4 July 2013.
During 2013, the Committees main responsibilities included: Considering and determining the remuneration Policy for executive directors Considering and determining the total compensation package of each executive director, within this Policy Considering and advising on the general principles under which remuneration is applied to employees Considering the design of, and determining targets for, the annual bonus plan Determining the quantum and performance conditions for the long-term incentive awards Determining the Policy for recruitment remuneration Reviewing the Policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments to executive directors During the year, Stephen Huddle, Company Secretary, acted as Secretary to the Committee.
Nigel Wilson, Corporate Services Director, attended Committee meetings as appropriate: Lee Johnson, former Group Head of HR, attended meetings as appropriate prior to his departure in June 2013: and, Kay Penney, who was appointed Group Head of HR in July 2013, also attended meetings as appropriate.
The Board considers that the membership of the Committee is compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code recommendations.
No individual is involved in determining their own remuneration.
The Committee acts within its agreed written terms of reference, which are published on the companys website www.
Advisers Kepler Associates Kepler is the independent adviser to the Committee.
Kepler was appointed by the Committee in 2011 through a competitive tender process and was retained during the year.
The Committee is of the view that Kepler provides independent remuneration advice to the Committee and does not have any connections with Premier that may impair their independence.
Kepler is a founding member and signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.
In 2013, Kepler provided advice on remuneration for executives, market and best practice guidance, assisted with drafting the Directors Remuneration Report and attended Committee meetings.
Kepler reports directly to the Committee and provides no other services to the company.
Their total fees for the provision of remuneration services in 2013 were 138,475 on the basis of time and materials.
During the year the Committee also took advice from Capita in relation to pension policy and from PwC to provide performance updates on outstanding LTIP awards, including vesting of 2010 Equity Pool, Performance Share and Matching Share Awards.
Total fees for Capita for the provision of remuneration services in 2013 were 4,000, on the basis of time cost fees.
Total fees for PwC for the provision of remuneration services in 2013 were 35,000, on a fixed fee basis.
The Committee evaluates the support provided by its advisers annually and is satisfied that the advice it received in 2013 was objective and independent.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 91 Statement of shareholder voting at the 2013 AGM The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 December 2012 at the 2013 AGM and for the year ended 31 December 2011 at the 2012 AGM.
The level of support for the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report was broadly unchanged from the previous year: 2013 AGM 2012 AGM Total number % of Total number % of of votes votes cast of votes votes cast For 321,947,699 90.6% 329,048,105 90.7% Against 33,332,549 9.4% 33,720,372 9.3% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 355,280,248 100.0% 362,768,477 100.0% Votes withheld 234,212 2,308,778 Total votes cast including withheld votes 355,514,460 365,077,255 Single total figure of remuneration for executive and non-executive directors audited Single total figure of remuneration for executive directors The table below reports a single figure for total remuneration for each executive director, calculated in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2013.
Salary is shown on a gross basis.
Taxable benefits include medical and dental insurance, car allowance, life assurance and critical illness cover, health insurance and a subsidised gym membership.
In particular, in 2013, all executive directors received a car allowance of 15,000.
Annual bonus awarded for performance in 2013.
See page 92 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for further details on performance criteria, achievement and resulting awards to each executive director.
LTIP consists of 2011 Equity Pool Awards, 2011 Performance Share Awards, and 2011 Matching Share Awards matched over deferred awards under the AEP in 2008 for which the performance period completed on 31 December 2013 and no awards vested.
See page 93 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for further details on performance criteria.
LTIP figures for 2012 have been restated to reflect the number of vested shares multiplied by the share price on the date of vesting 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements quoted vested shares multiplied by the average three month share price to 31 December 2012.
Pension figures are accrued pension entitlements and exclude director contributions.
See page 94 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for further details on total pension entitlements for each executive director.
Includes SIP awards and SAYE options granted in line with the Policy on page 81.
Each executive director was awarded 1,500 SIP matching awards during the year: SIP awards are valued as the number of matching awards granted multiplied by the share price at date of award.
Messrs S C Lockett and A G Lodge were each awarded 2,865 SAYE options on 10 May 2013.
The value of SAYE options is the embedded value at grant 20 per cent discount multiplied by the number of options granted.
Full details of executive director SAYE options and SIP share awards are available on page 104 to 105 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
During the year, J Darby acted as Senior Independent Director, D C Lindsell was Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, and I J Hinkley was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
M W Welton was the Company Chairman and was also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Professor D G Roberts died on 4 July 2013.
92 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Single total figure of remuneration for executive and non-executive directors audited continued No fees were paid to non-executive directors for membership of a committee or for attending committee meetings.
Additional fees were payable of 10,600 2012: 10,000 for acting as Senior Independent Director, as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee or as Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The company Chairman, who is also the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, currently waives this fee.
Non-executive director fees were last reviewed with changes effective from 1 January 2013, and the next review is due to be effective 1 January 2015.
Annual bonus in respect of 2013 performance In line with the Policy, during 2013 executive directors participated in non-pensionable annual bonus arrangements.
The 2013 annual bonus provided for awards of between 0 per cent and 100 per cent of salary for executive directors.
Annual performance was assessed against a performance scorecard encompassing production, exploration, HSES, finance and business development, as well as personal performance.
In assessing the 2013 bonus payout, the Committee reviewed performance against each measure and applied judgement to determine the overall bonus level, taking into account other aspects of performance.
During 2013, performance was assessed 80 per cent on financial and operational targets and 20 per cent on personal objectives.
The table below summarises the financial and operational performance categories, their relative weightings and achievement against specific targets.
The actual target range has not been disclosed as this is considered to be commercially sensitive information.
Retrospective disclosure of the targets will be provided when they are deemed no longer sensitive.
Each executive directors achievement against the personal targets is also summarised below.
Targets Performance achievement Between At or Below threshold above Category Weighting Measure threshold and stretch stretch Production 24% Daily average kboepd 3 Exit rate kboepd 3 Final Investment Decisions FIDs approved by year-end 3 HSES 8% Group TRIR 3 Exploration 24% Risked prospective resources added mmboe 3 Finding costs for 2C 2P resource adds $ boe 3 Reserves replacement % 3 Finance 4% Net operating cash flow $ million 3 Delivering strategy 20% Growth in NAV per share 3 Business development 3 Personal 20% 3 Bonus award in respect of 2013 performance audited Based on its assessment on the companys and the individual performance of the executive directors, the Committee awarded bonuses of 24 to 26 per cent of salary to the executive directors.
Annual bonuses were paid as cash and are summarised in the table below: Bonus as % Cash of salary S C Lockett 24% 133,200 R A Allan 24% 82,800 A R C Durrant 26% 98,020 N Hawkings 24% 82,800 A G Lodge 25% 86,250 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 93 LTIP vesting outcomes in 2013 audited LTIP awards were granted in 2011 as Equity Pool Awards, Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards matched over deferred awards under the AEP 2008 award: see page 103 for further detail on the AEP.
The 2011 LTIP award cycles completed their three-year performance periods on 31 December 2013.
The vesting conditions of these awards are the same as that described in the Policy Table on pages 82 to 83.
The constituents of the comparator group for the 2011 Performance Share Award and 2011 Matching Share Award cycles are detailed on page 102 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The outcomes of the 2011 LTIP awards are as follows: Equity Pool Awards: over the performance period, the threshold of 10 per cent per annum growth was not met, and, as a result, awards under the 2011 Equity Pool will not vest.
Performance Share Awards: over the performance period the companys TSR was below the median of the comparator group.
As a result, the 2011 Performance Share Awards will not vest as the threshold was not met.
Matching Share Awards: over the performance period the companys TSR was below the median of the comparator group.
As a result, 2011 Matching Share Awards will not vest as the threshold was not met.
As performance thresholds were not met and therefore awards did not vest, the performance underpins were not assessed.
LTIP awards granted in 2013 audited The table below summarises the LTIP awards granted to executive directors in 2013, in line with the Policy on pages 82 to 83.
Performance for these awards is measured between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2015, and is based on equity value per share and relative TSR as detailed in the Policy Table.
Dividends accrue on Performance Share and Matching Share awards and will be paid on vesting as cash or shares, in proportion to performance achieved.
For Equity Pool Awards, the face value represents the full vesting value at growth in equity value per share of 20 per cent per annum assuming the Committee exercises its discretion to allow vesting at higher than 100 per cent of salary.
For Performance Share Awards, face value is calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if targets were met in full, multiplied by the closing mid-market price of 3.933 on 14 May 2013, the date of award.
The Committee granted a Matching Share Award of 2.5 times the deferred portions of the 2010 Performance Share Awards see page 101.
Face value is calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if targets were met in full, multiplied by the closing mid-market price of 3.368 on 24 June 2013, the date of award.
The constituents of the comparator group for the 2013 Performance Share Award and Matching Share Award cycles are detailed on page 102 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
94 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Total pension entitlements audited In line with the Policy, as directors who joined the company prior to 20 August 2013, Messrs S C Lockett, R A Allan, A R C Durrant, N Hawkings and A G Lodge receive a pension substantially as if they were contributing members of the Scheme and, in regard to service completed subsequent to their appointment as directors, not subject to the Schemes cap on pensionable earnings 141,000 for 2014.
The accrued pension entitlements of the directors who were members or deemed members of the Scheme during 2013 are as follows: f d Value of growth in a b c Value e accrued pension Accrued Accrued Accrued of growth Deduction above inflation pension as at pension in a pension as at in accrued for deemed less deemed 31 December after allowing 31 December pension above contributions contributions 2012 for inflation 2013 inflation by director by director 000s pa 000s pa 000s pa 000s 000s 000s S C Lockett 107.6 110.0 125.9 318.0 32.0 286.0 R A Allan 53.2 54.4 62.1 154.0 19.4 134.6 A R C Durrant 48.3 49.4 58.0 172.0 21.3 150.7 N Hawkings 39.9 40.8 48.1 146.0 19.4 126.6 A G Lodge 21.7 22.2 29.0 136.0 19.4 116.6 Notes: 1.
The amounts of accrued pension under a and c represent the accrued pension entitlements of the director as at the stated dates.
The values under d have been calculated using a capitalisation factor of 20 and are principally due to the additional pension accrued over the year.
The values stated above correspond with the target level of final salary pension provision: in practice, the pension benefits for these directors are principally established through individual money purchase arrangements and salary supplements.
In addition to the current provision noted above, Mr R A Allan is entitled to a deferred pension under the Scheme in respect of service with the company between September 1986 and November 1999.
Members of the Scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions: none of the directors have elected to do so.
In respect of 2013, Messrs A R C Durrant and N Hawkings elected to receive a salary supplement, whilst Messrs S C Lockett, R A Allan and A G Lodge elected to receive a combination of pension contributions and a salary supplement.
During the year a review was carried out to assess the extent to which the payments already made to each director are projected to be sufficient to provide the accrued component of their target pension: as a result, the company provided an additional, non-pensionable target funding payment.
These payments by the company in respect of pension benefits are summarised below: Target Total pension Salary Pension funding benefits paid supplements contributions payments by company 000s 000s 000s 000s S C Lockett 69.1 39.3 131.9 240.3 R A Allan 16.7 50.0 31.0 97.7 A R C Durrant 66.3 80.2 146.5 N Hawkings 60.6 63.9 124.5 A G Lodge 16.7 50.0 54.8 121.5 Payments for loss of office and payments to past directors audited No payments were made for loss of office or to past directors during the year.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 95 Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration, comprising salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus, and comparable data for the average of all UK-based employees within the company.
The company has chosen UK-based employees as the comparator group for the company as a whole, due to countries outside the UK having significantly different inflation rates.
UK-based employees who were employed for the full year in both 2012 and 2013.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the companys actual expenditure on shareholder distributions including dividends and share buybacks and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ending 31 December 2012 and ending 31 December 2013.
Unable to give percentage increase for total shareholder distribution since figure for 2012 was $0m Total shareholder distribution expenditure includes dividends and share buybacks.
The company paid a dividend on 14 June 2013 of 5 pence per share.
No share buybacks took place during 2013.
No shareholder distributions were made during 2012, and therefore a comparative percentage increase decrease cannot be calculated.
Comparison of company performance The chart below compares the value of 100 invested in Premier shares, including reinvested dividends, on 31 December 2008 compared to the equivalent investment in the FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index, over the last five financial years.
The FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index has been chosen as it comprises companies who are exposed to broadly similar risks and opportunities as Premier.
5-year TSR performance Value of 100 invested on 31 December 2008 250 200 158 150 140 100 50 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 11 31 Dec 12 31 Dec 13 FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index Premier Oil plc 96 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Comparison of company performance continued The table below shows the Chief Executive single figure of remuneration for the past five years and corresponding performance under the annual and long-term incentives, as a percentage of maximum.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Chief Executive single figure of remuneration 000 2,884.6 4,041.4 3,827.3 2,728.2 1,002.7 Annual bonus payout as % of maximum 85% 60% 55% 45% 24% Equity Pool funding rate as % of maximum 0% 100% 100% 0% 0% 1 Asset Pool funding rate as % of maximum 100% 55% n a n a n a Performance Share Award vesting as % of maximum n a n a 100% 90% 0% Matching Share Award vesting as % of maximum 63% 100% 100% 66% 0% Notes: 1.
Following the introduction of the LTIP in 2009, the Asset Pool was replaced by Performance Share Awards.
The last award under the Asset Pool had a performance period of 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010.
The introduction of the LTIP was disclosed in the Remuneration Report of the 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Implementation of executive director remuneration Policy for 2014 Remuneration in 2014 will be consistent with the Policy described on pages 79 to 83.
Salary The salaries of the executive directors are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate.
The Committee is mindful of salary increases across the group: the salary increases awarded to executive directors for 2014 are lower than the average increases across the groups UK operations of 5.1 per cent.
Salary from Salary from Percentage 1 January 2013 1 January 2014 increase Director Position % S C Lockett Chief Executive 555,000 569,000 2.5% R A Allan Director, Business Units 345,000 353,750 2.5% A R C Durrant Finance Director 377,000 386,500 2.5% N Hawkings Director, Falkland Islands 345,000 353,750 2.5% A G Lodge Exploration Director 345,000 353,750 2.5% Pension, benefits and all-employee share plans The company will offer executive directors pension, taxable benefits and HMRC approved all-employee share plans for 2014 in line with the Policy on pages 79 to 83.
Annual bonus For 2014, the executive director annual bonus opportunity is up to 100 per cent of salary.
Annual performance will be assessed against a performance scorecard of which 80 per cent will be based on financial and operational measures see below table and 20 per cent on personal objectives.
The 2014 personal objectives will be disclosed, to the extent that they are not commercially sensitive, in the 2014 Remuneration Report.
The table below summarises the criteria used to assess each measure and the relative weighting of each: Targets Category Weighting Measure Production 12% Daily average kboepd Developments 40% Near-term project milestones HSES 8% Group TRIR Exploration 8% Finding costs per boe $ boe Financial 8% Balance sheet ratios Business development 4% Subject to Committee discretion Personal targets 20% Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 97 Implementation of executive director remuneration Policy for 2014 continued Long-term incentive plan The Committee intends to grant LTIP awards in 2014 in line with the Policy on pages 82 to 83.
The company will provide details of the LTIP awards granted to executive directors and the TSR comparator group against which TSR will be assessed for the 2014 Performance and Matching Share Awards in the Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 December 2014.
Implementation of non-executive director remuneration Policy for 2014 Non-executive director fees were last reviewed effective 1 January 2013, with the next review due to be effective 1 January 2015.
Non-executive director fees for 2014 are as follows: From From Percentage 1 January 2013 1 January 2014 increase Role Fee type % Chairman Total fee 169,600 169,600 Other non-executive directors Basic fee 53,000 53,000 Committee Chairmanship 10,600 10,600 Senior Independent Director 10,600 10,600 Statement of directors shareholding and scheme interests audited Formal shareholding guidelines exist which encourage the executive directors to retain no less than 50 per cent of the net value of shares vesting under the companys deferred bonus and long-term incentive arrangements until such time as they have achieved a holding worth 100 per cent of salary 200 per cent for the Chief Executive.
As the graph below shows, all the executive directors hold shares with a value substantially higher than these threshold shareholding requirements.
Shareholding includes deferred awards under the annual bonus, Asset and Equity Plan and LTIP where performance conditions have been achieved and awards are subject to a holding period.
The valuation of shareholdings has been calculated using the mid-market closing price on 31 December 2013 3.136.
% of salary 98 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Statement of directors shareholding and scheme interests audited continued The table below summarises the directors interests in shares, including those held under outstanding LTIP, SAYE and SIP awards, as at 31 December 2013.
Further details of all outstanding awards are disclosed on pages 99 to 105.
Owned outright includes any shares owned by a spouse, and any SIP Partnership Shares, SIP Matching Shares held for more than three years, SIP Dividend Shares and SIP Frees Shares.
All deferred shares, with the exception of SIP Matching Shares held for less than three years, are subject to clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, gross misconduct or material error in the calculation of performance conditions.
The Committee may exercise clawback until the later of: i one year from vesting, or ii the completion of the next audit after vesting.
Unvested shares subject to performance include 2011 Performance Share Awards and 2011 Matching Share Awards, for which the performance period completed on 31 December 2013 and no awards vested.
See page 93 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for further details on performance criteria and achievement.
Sourcing of shares and dilution limits Awards under all the companys share schemes may be met using a combination of market purchases, financed by the company through the Premier Oil plc Employee Benefit Trust, and newly-issued shares.
The company complies with the Association of British Insurers recommended guidelines on shareholder dilution through employee share schemes: awards under the groups discretionary schemes which may be satisfied by new issue shares must not exceed five per cent of the companys issued share capital in any rolling 10-year period, and the total of all awards satisfied via new issue shares under all plans must not exceed 10 per cent of the companys issued share capital in any rolling 10-year period.
As of 31 December 2013, 2,964,541 shares were held by the Employee Benefit Trust 2012: 6,581,027 and the commitments to issue new shares are summarised below: Percentage Percentage of issued Dilution of dilution Number of shares issued or committed to be issued in the 10-year period to 31 December 2013 share capital limit limit used New issue shares under AEP, LTIP and historical Executive Share Option Schemes within 5 per cent limit 9,200,000 1.74% 26,461,048 34.77% As above plus SAYE within 10 per cent limit 10,407,875 1.97% 52,922,096 19.67% Share price movements during 2013 The mid-market closing price of the companys shares at 31 December 2013 was 3.136 31 December 2012: 3.365.
The intra-day trading price of the companys shares during 2013 was between 2.913 and 4.05.
Executive director external appointments Executive directors are entitled to accept non-executive appointments outside the company providing that the Boards approval is sought.
During the year, Mr Durrant was a non-executive director of Greenergy Fuels Holdings Limited appointed on 1 October 2012 and has retained associated fees for 2013 of 40,000.
As a result of the acquisition of EnCore, the company has a 27.07 per cent interest in Egdon Resources plc.
Egdon and is entitled to board representation.
Mr Lodge was appointed to the board of Egdon as a non-executive director on 9 March 2012 and has elected to donate his fees to several charities 2013: 15,000, 2012: 12,346.
External directorship fees have not been included in the single total figure of remuneration for executive directors, on page 91.
Some of the shares were sold to pay income tax and National Insurance contributions payable by Messrs S C Lockett, A R C Durrant and A G Lodge upon the accelerated vesting of the awards, but the amounts received from the sale were subject to clawback in the event of the participant leaving Premier other than as a good leaver.
In the case of Mr R A Allan, who was an expatriate and therefore not subject to UK tax, a percentage of the shares equal to the percentage tax rate that would have applied had he been subject to UK income tax was withheld.
These shares reverted to the Employee Benefit Trust and the company has paid any overseas duties payable by Mr Allan as a result of the vesting of his shares.
The amount paid was subject to clawback if Mr Allan had left Premier other than as a good leaver.
The remaining shares were held in a nominee account within the Employee Benefit Trust until the end of the original deferral period, and were forfeitable if the director had left other than as a good leaver.
Shares released from nominee account on 14 May 2013.
The mid-market closing price on 14 May 2013 was 393.3p.
The Committee determined in January 2014 that the 2011 Equity Pool Awards will not vest.
For further details see page 93.
100 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Outstanding share awards under the annual bonus, LTIP and previous long-term incentive awards, and share option schemes continued LTIP Performance Shares In each of 2011, 2012 and 2013, the executive directors were granted LTIP Performance Share Awards over shares with a value of 150 per cent of salary for the Chief Executive and 125 per cent of salary for the other executive directors.
The mid-market closing price on the date of vesting was 393.3p.
The performance outcome for the 2010 Performance Share Award cycle was disclosed in the Remuneration Report of the 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Committee determined in January 2014 that the 2011 Performance Share Awards will not vest.
Performance Share Awards were granted on 14 May 2013 using the closing mid-market price of 13 May 2013 393.0p to calculate the number of shares under award.
There are no performance criteria for the Deferred Shares.
Matching Awards granted are the maximum award possible under the Matching Award scheme, subject to performance criteria based on TSR against a comparator group of approximately 35 listed companies in the oil and gas sector.
Full vesting requires upper decile performance.
