41 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report on Directors Remuneration Foreword The Remuneration Committee is responsible for overseeing the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
It is also responsible for the operation of senior management incentive schemes throughout the Group.
Remuneration policy The principal aim of our remuneration policy is to drive the generation of long-term sustainable shareholder value by aligning the interests of our executives with those of our shareholders.
We are committed to rewarding our executives fairly, based on their role, performance and contribution to the business.
We also seek, when designing incentive structures, to set challenging targets and reward sustainable performance but avoid inadvertently encouraging risky or irresponsible behaviour.
Remuneration in 2012 13 Bonus pay-out of 69.5% of salary We again focused the annual bonus on performance against three key indicators: profit before tax and exceptional items, net working capital and operating contribution margin.
Company performance has been strong against all three measures.
In particular, in relation to our primary measure of profit before tax, performance was between target and stretch levels.
Asa result the Executive Directors qualified for annual bonuses of 69.5% of salary.
No vesting under 2010 Performance Share Plan PSP awards Despite delivering strong results in this, the final year of the three year performance period for our long-term PSP awards made in 2010, overall performance during the three years was such that the minimum earnings per share performance threshold was not met.
As a result, and for the second year running, none of the awards made to Directors in 2010 in respect of the three years ending 31 May 2013 will vest.
These awards will now lapse.
Changes in remuneration policy in 2013 14 We believe the Groups remuneration policy is appropriate and serving the Group well.
While no major revisions are envisaged in 2013 14, we have made some minor adjustments: Salary increases of 5% The Committee has decided that Executive Directors base salaries will be increased by 5% from 1 September reflecting the Directors strong performance during the year and the outstanding 2% balance of a planned increase originally to have been phased in over two years but subsequently spread over three years.
The 5% rise compares with an average 3% salary increase for the Groups wider UK workforce.
Introduction of non-financial objectives into the bonus scheme The on-target element of the Groups annual bonus scheme remains firmly focused on the delivery of financial targets.
Subject to the achievement of target profit however, we have decided to use part ofthestretch element of the 2013 14 bonus to introduce certain non-financial strategic and Corporate Social Responsibility CSR stretch targets.
Incorporation of absolute EPS growth targets within the 2013 PSP awards In order to increase transparency and improve the motivational effect of the awards, the Committee expects to make new PSP awards this year subject to the attainment of absolute adjusted earnings per share growth targets of 6% to 12% p. a. compounded over a three year period, rather than the RPI linked growth targets used previously.
The Committee believes that the new targets offer a similar level of challenge to those applying to past awards.
Review next year During the course of 2013 14, the Remuneration Committee intends to review the Groups remuneration framework to ensure that it remains aligned with our strategy.
We will report back our findings to shareholders next year when, in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, we will also be putting our Directors remuneration policy to the vote.
I hope you will find the Report on Directors Remuneration clear, transparent and informative.
As always, we remain committed to ongoing dialogue with our shareholders and take an active interest in your views and voting on the remuneration report.
James Steel Remuneration Committee Chairman 42 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Introduction This report on Directors remuneration has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The report also satisfies the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has complied with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code publishedinSeptember 2012 relating to remuneration matters.
A resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the 2013 AnnualGeneral Meeting.
The information on pages 47 to 49 relating to Directors interests in shares under incentive arrangements, remuneration during the year ended 31 May 2013 and Directors pension benefits constitutes audited information.
Remuneration Committee Role The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Committee is also responsible for determining within such policy the remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors, for determining the remuneration packages of the Chairman and the Company Secretary andfor approving the design and operation of all incentive schemes for the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and met on four occasions during the year ended 31 May 2013.
The Committees current Terms ofReference, which are reviewed annually and were last revised in May 2013, are available on the Companys website www.
Membership The members of the Committee during the year were all Non-executive Directors and comprised James Steel Committee Chairman, Professor John Arnold, Ngozi Edozien, Simon Heale, Helen Owers and, until his retirement from the Board on 19 September 2012, Derek Lewis.
All are independent of management and have no conflicts of interest or any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors with the exception of Richard Harvey as Non-executive Chairman is determined by the Board of Directors.
No Director is involved in any decisions on the level or composition of his or her own remuneration nor is any person present when his or her own remuneration is under discussion.
Advisers The Committee was advised generally in relation to Directors remuneration during the year by Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP also provided advisory services to the Group during the year relating to tax, operating model design and enterprise resource planning.
Deloitte is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed the voluntary Code of Practice for remuneration consultants.
During the year, the Committee consulted Richard Harvey Chairman on issues where it felt his experience and knowledge could benefit its deliberations and Mr Harvey attended meetings by invitation.
The Committee also consulted Alex Kanellis Chief Executive on proposals relating to the remuneration of members of the Groups senior management team and he too attended meetings by invitation.
The Global Human Resources Director also attended meetings by invitation.
The Committee is supported by Sam Plant Company Secretary who acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Policy on Executive Directors remuneration Key principles The Groups policy is that the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors should: align the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders: be sufficient to recruit, motivate and retain executives of the calibre required: be aligned with the generation of sustainable shareholder value: provide a competitive level of remuneration against companies of similar size and complexity: be structured such that an appropriate proportion of the remuneration package links reward to corporate and individual performance over the short, medium and long-term: recognise the long-term ambitions of and risks inherent to the Company: and reference both conditions elsewhere in the organisation and shareholder views.
43 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Remuneration framework The following table summarises the main elements of the Executive Directors current remuneration packages: Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation in 2012 13 and changes in 2013 14 Fixed remuneration Salary and benefits Recruitment and retention of talent through Basic salary varies by individual and will increase the provision of competitively positioned base by 5% with effect from 1 September 2013. salaries and benefits.
Benefits include life assurance, health insurance and car benefits.
Pension benefits Designed to be competitive in the market.
Company contribution of 20% of salary to a defined contribution pension scheme or receipt of cash in lieu.
Membership of a defined benefit pension scheme closed to further accrual since 2008 with a salary linkage which ceased on 31 May 2013.
Variable remuneration Annual Bonus Scheme Designed to motivate the executives to focus on Maximum opportunity of 100% of salary with annual financial goals which are consistent with 60% of salary payable for ontarget performance.
the Groups longer-term strategic aims.
During 2012 13 the Annual Bonus Scheme was focused on the achievement of profit before taxation, net working capital and operating contribution margin targets.
In 2013 14 the ontarget element of the Annual Bonus Scheme will remain focused on profit before taxation, net working capital and operating contribution margin targets.
Subject to achieving target profit, the stretch element of the Annual Bonus Scheme will be focused partly on profit outperformance and partly on certain non financial strategic and CSR stretch objectives.
Performance Share Plan Designed to motivate the executives to focus Annual awards of rights over shares worth 100% onthe generation of sustained shareholder value of salary, with vesting subject to the attainment over the longer term and align their interests of predetermined targets in respect of growth withthose of the Groups shareholders.
in adjusted earnings per share over a three year performance period.
In order to increase transparency and improve the motivational effect of the awards, the Committee expects to make PSP awards in 2013 14 subject to the attainment of absolute earnings per share growth targets of 6% to 12% p. a. compounded over a three year period, rather than the RPI-linked growth targets used previously.
Other aspects Shareholding guidelines Alignment of the Executives interests with those Requirement over time to build up interests in of the Groups shareholders.
theCompanys shares worth 150% of salary and to reinvest half of any after-tax bonus or gain arising from share incentive plans until this guideline is met.
Service contracts Provide reasonable assurance of continuity of One year rolling service contracts.
44 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Policy on Executive Directors remuneration continued Competitive positioning When considering how to position the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors, the Committee considers market data from UK listed companies of a similar size and complexity.
This data is provided by Deloitte LLP as independent advisors to the Committee.
The Committee also receives and takes into account information from the Global HR Director on pay and employment conditions applying to other Group employees when setting Executive Directors remuneration, consistent with the Groups general aim of seeking to reward all employees fairly according to the nature of their role, their performance and market forces.
In designing an appropriate incentive structure for the Executive Directors and other senior management, the Committee seeks to set challenging performance criteria which are aligned with the Groups business strategy and the generation of sustained shareholder value.
The Committee is also mindful of the need to avoid inadvertently encouraging risky or irresponsible behaviour including behaviour which could raise environmental, social or governance issues.
Balance of fixed versus variable remuneration The Committee believes that an appropriate proportion of the executive remuneration package should be variable and performance-related in order to encourage and reward superior corporate and individual performance.
The following chart illustrates the balance between fixed and variable remuneration for Executive Directors, based on the policy for 2013 14: Balance of xed versus variable pay Target 49% 10% 29% 12% Maximum 31% 6% 31% 31% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Salary Pension Bonus Performance Share Plan Basic salary and benefits Executive Directors salaries are normally reviewed annually, with effect from 1 September, to ensure the ongoing effectiveness of remuneration arrangements.
Reviews take account of various factors including individual performance, remuneration levels in companies of similar size and complexity and pay conditions elsewhere in the Group.
As mentioned in the Foreword, the Committee has decided that Executive Directors base salaries will be increased by 5% from 1September 2013.
As also mentioned in the Foreword the Committee will undertake an overall review of executive remuneration during 2013 14 and report back its findings and any proposals to shareholders in line with the new disclosure regime.
Details of the Executive Directors revised salaries effective from 1 September 2013 are set out in the notes to the table on Directors remuneration on page 48.
Pension benefits Since 1 June 2008 Executive Directors have participated in a defined contribution pension scheme under which the Group pays a contribution of 20% of salary into the scheme on their behalf subject to a minimum employee contribution of 5% of salary.
Executive Directors whose pension benefits have exceeded or are forecast to exceed the annual or lifetime allowances established by HM Revenue &Customs are eligible, at the discretion of the Committee, to receive a cash payment of 20% of salary in lieu of employer pension contributions.
Up to 31 May 2008 Executive Directors participated in a defined benefit pension scheme which provided benefits of up to two thirds of final salary subject to a schemespecific earnings cap.
With effect from 1 June 2008 no further benefits accrued under the defined benefit scheme although the benefits payable remained linked to salary until 31 May 2013 or, in the case of Mr Pantelireis, 31 March 2013, being the date upon which he retired from the Board and his employment with the Company ended in line with arrangements pertaining to all members of the scheme when it was closed to future accrual.
With effect from 1 June 2013, no salary link applies.
Further detail on Executive Directors benefits under the defined benefit pension scheme are set out in the table on page 49.
45 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual bonus scheme Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme Executive Directors and key senior executives are generally eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme providing for the payment of 1 cash bonuses of up to 100% of salary.
In respect of the year ended 31 May 2013, each of the Executive Directors participated in the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme.
Under this scheme they were eligible to earn a cash bonus of up to 100% of basic salary with 60% of salary payable for ontarget performance dependent upon the achievement of profit before taxation, net working capital and operating contribution margin targets.
These targets and bonus levels were established by the Committee at the beginning of the year: no changes were made during the year.
As a result the Executive Directors qualified for total bonus payments equivalent to 69.5% of their salaries in respect of the year.
Further details are set out in the table on page 48.
The bonus payable to Mr Pantelireis has been prorated to reflect his retirement part way through the year.
Executive Directors will continue to participate in the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of the year ending 31 May 2014.
The ontarget element of the annual bonus representing 60% of salary will remain dependent upon the achievement of certain profit before taxation, net working capital and operating contribution margin targets for the Group.
Subject to achieving target profit, however, the stretch element of the annual bonus will be split equally between the achievement of additional profit before taxation and the delivery of certain nonfinancial strategic and CSR stretch objectives.
The overall maximum bonus payable to the Executive Directors in respect of the year to 31 May 2014 will remain at 100% of basic salary.
1 The maximum bonus opportunity available under the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme may be exceeded in exceptional cases at the discretion of the Committee.
The maximum bonus opportunity was not exceeded during the year ended 31 May 2013.
Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme Prior to the introduction of the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme on 1 June 2010, the Executive Directors had participated in theDeferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme.
Under that earlier scheme, awards of deferred shares were made to the Executive Directors following the attainment of predetermined annual financial targets.
Vesting of such deferred shares was then subject to three years continuing employment.
During the year ended 31 May 2013 each Executive Director received certain shares which had been the subject of earlier deferred share awards in respect of performance for the year ended 31 May 2009, each having satisfied the related conditions in respect of such awards.
Sufficient shares to satisfy deferred share awards had generally been purchased in the market and retained in an employee benefit trust pending their transfer to participants.
Further details regarding the employee benefit trust are given in note 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
Performance Share Plan Executive Directors and certain key executives are also generally eligible to participate in the Performance Share Plan which provides forthe grant of conditional rights to receive shares subject to continued employment over a three year vesting period and the satisfaction of certain performance criteria established by the Committee.
Annual awards to any participant are limited to rights over shares with 1 amarket value at the time of grant equal to 100% of basic salary.
The year ended 31 May 2013 represented the final year of the three year performance period for awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2010.
Despite delivering strong results this year, the overall performance during the three years was such that the minimum performance threshold was not met.
As a result, none of the awards made to the Executive Directors in 2010 in respect of the three years ending 31 May 2013 will vest and these awards will now lapse.
During the year ended 31 May 2013 new awards were made to the Executive Directors over shares with a value equal to 100% of basic salary.
These awards are subject to adjusted earnings per share growth targets measured over the single three year performance period commencing on 1 June 2012.
Further details of these performance conditions are set out in the notes to the table setting out Directors interests in shares under incentive arrangements on page 47.
The Committee intends to make further awards to Executive Directors during the year ending 31 May 2014.
In order to increase transparency for participants and improve the motivational effect of the awards, the Committee expects any new awards to be subject tothe attainment of absolute rather than RPIlinked earnings per share growth targets.
The Committee expects 25% of any award to vest where adjusted earnings per share grows by 6% per annum rising on a straight line pro rata basis to 100% vesting where adjusted earnings per share grows by 12% per annum or more, in each case compounded over a three year performance period commencing on 1 June 2013.
The Committee believes that these targets offer a similar level of challenge to those which have applied to past awards.
The Committee did consider whether to apply additional or alternative performance measures.
However, it continues to believe that growth in adjusted earnings per share remains the most appropriate measure for the Group, being an important indicator of the Groups underlying financial performance and providing a clear line of sight for executives between their performance and potential reward.
1 This percentage may be increased to 150% in exceptional cases at the discretion of the Committee.
46 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Annual bonus scheme continued Executive Share Option Scheme Prior to the adoption by the Company of the Performance Share Plan in 2008, Executive Directors and certain other senior executives were generally eligible for the grant of options under the PZ Cussons Plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
There have been no grants of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme since the introduction of the Performance Share Plan and it is not expected that any further awards will be made under this scheme.
All options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme have now either vested and are capable of exercise or have lapsed.
Limits on shares issued to satisfy share incentive plans The Companys share incentive plans may operate over new issued Ordinary Shares, treasury shares or Ordinary Shares purchased in the market.
In relation to all the Companys share incentive plans, the Company may not, in any ten year period, issue or grant rights requiring the issue of more than 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company to satisfy awards to participants nor more than 5% of the issued Ordinary Share capital for executive share plans.
Shareholding guidelines for Directors The Committee has established Shareholding Ownership Guidelines which require Executive Directors: to build up and retain holdings of shares and or deferred shares net of tax worth 150% of salary from time to time: and until this share ownership threshold is met, to invest 50% of any aftertax bonus into the Companys shares.
They are also required to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net gain after tax arising from the acquisition of shares pursuant to any of the Companys share incentive plans, again until the share ownership threshold is met.
All Executive Directors have complied with the above guidelines in respect of the year ended 31 May 2013.
Richard Harvey Chairman is also required under his letter of appointment to invest 20% of his fees each year in the purchase of shares inthe Company and to retain such shares during the term of his appointment which he has complied with during the current financial year.
Non-executive Directors There were no changes in the fees payable to the Non-executive Directors during the year: details of the fees paid during the period are set out in the table on Directors remuneration on page 48.
Non-executive Directors fees are generally reviewed every two years, although the last such review was deferred from 1 July 2012 and took place with effect from 1 June 2013.
At that review, the Committee decided to leave the Chairmans fees unchanged.
Separately, the Board decided to make small increases in the annual fees payable to Mr Steel and Professor Arnold with effect from 1 June 2013 to reflect their chairmanships of the Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively: details of the revised annual fees payable to each are set out in the notes to the table on Directors Remuneration on page 48.
The annual fees payable to the other Non-executive Directors will remain unchanged.
All awards have now vested and are capable of exercise.
Pursuant to the rules of the PZ Cussons Executive Share Option Scheme, the awards previously granted to John Pantelireis remain exercisable by him for the period of 12 months following his retirement on31 March 2013.
2 Awarded under the PZ Cussons Performance Share Plan.
The vesting of each award is dependent upon the extent to which an adjusted earnings per share growth target is achieved over a single three year performance period.
No proportion of an award may vest unless the Companys adjusted earnings per share grows by at least RPI 4% per annum compounded over the relevant performance period.
25% of the award will vest where adjusted earnings per share grows by RPI 4% per annum rising on a straight line pro rata basis to 100% vesting where adjusted earnings per share grows by RPI 10% per annum or better compounded over the performance period.
Where awards vest, participants will also receive a payment in cash and or shares as determined by the Remuneration Committee on or shortly following vesting of an amount equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid on those shares between the time when the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
The minimum performance conditions relating to the awards made in 2010 in respect of the three years ended 31 May 2013 have not been attained with the result that the awards will lapse in their entirety.
Following the retirement of John Pantelireis on 31 March 2013, the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion pursuant to the rules of the PZ Cussons Performance Share Plan to allow him to retain the time served proportion of the awards which had been made to him previously under the Plan.
As stated above, the minimum performance conditions relating to the award made to him in 2010 were not attained andthis award will wholly lapse, as will the award made to him in 2011: a proportion of the award made in 2012, reflecting the proportion of the corresponding three year performance period during which Mr Pantelireis was employed and partial achievement of the performance conditions, will vest.
3 Awarded under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme following the attainment of predetermined financial targets.
Deferred shares will normally be received by participants following, and conditional only upon, three years of continuing employment from the date of the grant of the award.
The last awards were made under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme in 2010 and no further deferred shares will be received by the Executive Directors.
Following the retirement of John Pantelireis on 31 March 2013, the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion pursuant to the rules of the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme, to retain his entitlement to receive the deferred shares awarded to him.
The aggregate gross gains made by the Directors during the year on the vesting of the Performance Share Plan award made in 2009 was nil as the vesting conditions for the shares were not met.
The market value of the Companys shares at 31 May 2013 was 3.74 per share.
The range during the year was 2.97 to 4.16.
48 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Performance graph The graph below illustrates the performance of PZ Cussons Plc measured by Total Shareholder Return TSR over the five year period to 31May 2013 against the TSR of a holding of shares in the FTSE 250 index over the same period, based on an initial investment of 100.
TheFTSE 250 index has been chosen as PZ Cussons Plc is a constituent of that index.
Messrs Kanellis, Leigh and, until his retirement from the Board on 31 March 2013, Pantelireis each elected, with the permission of the Committee, to receive instead a salary supplement equivalent to 20% of base salary: these amounts are included in the column headed Pension Contributions.
Mr Davis continues to participate in the defined contribution pension arrangement but as the amount of Company contributions was less than 20% of his salary, the difference between those contributions and 20% of his base salary was paid as a salary supplement.
Both the pension contributions and the salary supplement are included in the column headed Pension Contributions.
2 In addition to the above, Executive Directors received the following cash payments during the year in lieu of dividends on the award of deferred shares made in 2010under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme which had not yet vested: Mr Kanellis: 8,567: Mr Davis: 5,448: Mr Leigh: 5,345: and Mr Pantelireis: 4,730.
3 As reported on page 44 above, the annual salaries of the Executive Directors will be revised with effect from 1 September 2013.
The following annual salaries will apply: Mr Kanellis: 524,160: Mr Davis: 333,060: and Mr Leigh: 327,600.
4 Mr Pantelireis retired from the Board and his employment terminated on 31 March 2013.
The annual bonus payment received by Mr Pantelireis is calculated at ten twelfths of the amount which he would have received had he been employed for the whole of the year, that being the proportion of the year during which he was employed.
The Company has reengaged Mr Pantelireis with effect from 1 June 2013 under a consultancy arrangement at a rate of 100,000 for the first 100 days work per annnum and 2,000 per day for each day worked thereafter.
The arrangement is subject to a minimum period of one year and is capable of extension if mutually agreed.
5 As reported on page 46, the annual fees of Mr Steel and Professor Arnold have been reviewed with effect from 1 June 2013 and increased in each case to 57,500.
The annual fees of the other Non-executive Directors remain unchanged.
6 Mr Lewis retired from the Board on 19 September 2012.
49 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors pension benefits The following Executive Directors were members of the defined benefit pension arrangements provided by the Company.
All of these defined benefit plans were closed to future accrual on 31 May 2008 and replaced by defined contribution arrangements.
Benefits built up in the defined benefit plans continued to receive a salary link until 31 May 2013 or, in the case of Mr Pantelireis, 31 March 2013, being the date upon which he retired from the Board and his employment with the Company terminated.
With effect from 1 June 2013, no further salary link applies.
The pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values below relate solely to the defined benefit arrangements.
Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the plan closure date 31 May 2008 and pensionable salaries at 31 May 2013.
Transfer values relating to benefits accrued in the Directors and expatriate pension plans have been calculated in accordance with the method and basis determined by the Trustee of each plan, on the advice of their Actuary, to be consistent with current legislation and the rules of the plans.
Transfer values relating to unfunded pension benefits see note 6 have been calculated using a method and basis consistent with those used for the funded plans.
The value of net increase b represents the incremental value to the Director of his increase in pension over the year, calculated on the assumption that he left employment with the Company at the year end.
It is based on the accrued pension increase a.
The change in the transfer value c includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors.
Suchfactors include the transfer value assumptions which were revised during the year for the expatriate pension plan, by the Trustee of that plan, resulting inanincrease in the value of benefits in that plan and gilt yield movements.
The Company provides unfunded, unapproved pension benefits for Messrs Leigh and Davis as their benefits would have been subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance Act 2004.
The funded benefits payable to these Directors remain subject to a scheme specific earnings cap, which increases each year and is calculated in a similar manner to the abolished statutory earnings cap.
The above figures include both the funded and unfunded pension benefits.
Mr Pantelireis started drawing his pension on 31 March 2013.
The above figures are based on the change to Mr Pantelireis accrued benefits between 31 May 2012 and 31 March 2013, but valued using his age at 31 May 2013.
On drawing his pension, Mr Pantelireis received an annual pension of 116,071 p. a. and a cash lump sum of 765,362: the total accrued pension and the value of the accrued pension at 31 May 2013 excludes the cash lump sum figure.
Mr Pantelireis total accrued pension at 31 May 2013 is lower than the previous year as Mr Pantelireis exchanged part of his pension for a cash lump sum at retirement.
The figures for Mr Pantelireis also include a restatement of his accrued pension entitlement under the Rules of the defined benefits plans as at 31 May 2012 following a review of the data underpinning the benefits.
As a result of this restatement, the value of accrued pension at 31 May 2012 above does not match the figure of 3,214,000 disclosed last year.
Messrs Pantelireis and Kanellis are former members of the expatriate pension plan operated by the Company and additional benefits are provided through that plan, as their benefits would have been subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance Act 2004.
The above figures are inclusive of the expatriate pension plan benefits.
The Company operates a defined contribution pension arrangement for current service.
Participation in the arrangement is optional and only Mr Davis chose to participate during the year.
The contributions paid to the arrangement during the year by the Company in respect of Mr Davis were 41,509.
These contributions areincluded in the Pensions Contributions column of the table on Directors remuneration on page 48.
As Messrs Pantelireis, Leigh and Kanellis chose not to participate in the defined contribution arrangement during the year, they received a salary supplement equivalent to 20% of base salary in lieu of pension provision.
As the amount of contributions paid to the defined contribution arrangement by the Company inrespect of Mr Davis were less than 20% of his salary, the difference between those contributions and 20% of his base salary was paid as a salary supplement.
Thesecontributions are also included in the Pensions Contributions column of the table on Directors remuneration on page 48.
Voluntary contributions paid by Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
Service contracts Executive Directors have one year rolling service contracts.
No Executive Director has a service contract with a notice period in excess ofone year or containing any provision for pre-determined compensation on termination exceeding one years salary and benefits in kind.
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed for initial periods of three years, normally renewable on a similar basis.
The present letters of appointment for Professor Arnold, Ms Edozien, Mr Heale, Mr Harvey, Mrs Owers and Mr Steel will expire on 31December 2015, 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013, 31 December 2015, 31 December 2014 and 30 September 2014 respectively.
By order of the Board of Directors James Steel Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 July 2013
