Corporate governance Corporate governance report The Board considers that QinetiQ has complied with the provisions Mark Elliott of the 2010 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Chairman Code throughout the last financial year.
In addition, during the year QinetiQ took steps to comply with the changes contained in the 2012 version of the Code within the required timeframe.
Both versions of the UK Code and associated guidance are publicly available on the Corporate Governance page of the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
This report Ensuring effective governance processes and systems of control provides details of the way the principles of the UK Code have been within the Company continues to be a priority of the Board to applied during the year.
ensure the optimum stewardship of the business and to provide The Board governance, processes and systems: a solid basis on which to build value and promote the long-term Board objectives success of the Company.
To demonstrate the highest standards of corporate governance In my role as Chairman of the Board, I am pleased to report that in accordance with the UK Code to: the Board continues to demonstrate the range of expertise and Ensure the continuing evolution and implementation of the engagement to challenge constructively and help develop strategy effectively.
Groups strategy to deliver value to all stakeholders: customers, employees and shareholders: During the year, the terms of reference of the Board Committees were reviewed and updated where necessary, succession Develop challenging objectives for the business and monitor management performance against those goals: planning at both Executive Director and Non-executive Director level was reviewed and the skills matrix of the Board updated, Provide a framework of effective controls to assess and manage to identify areas for development and to ensure that future risks, with clear expectations of conduct to the highest standards appointments to the Board complement and enhance the of ethics: existing capabilities.
Diversity continues to be a key factor when Provide support and constructive challenges to the Chief considering the composition of the Board, not only in terms of Executive Officer to promote the Groups success: gender but also in terms of background and experience.
Demonstrate leadership in management systems around health, As a Board, we are mindful of our duties as Directors, particularly safety and environment: and in terms of strategy and leadership, and we continue to maintain a dialogue with our key stakeholders on matters that are Manage succession planning for the Board and the Groups important to them.
During the year, the Company consulted with its key investors in Composition of the Board respect of issues such as executive remuneration and responses Details of the Board of Directors are on pages 38-39.
The Board to market conditions: the Board met with business leaders in currently has eight members: the Non-executive Chairman: five both the US and the UK to present the strategy and general other Non-executive Directors: and two Executive Directors the direction of the Group as a whole: the Audit Committee Chief Executive Officer CEO and the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
maintained an ongoing dialogue with the external auditors There have been no changes to the Board during the year.
and the internal audit function: non-financial risk oversight was transferred to the Risk & CSR Committee: and the full Board was available at the 2012 Annual General Meeting to meet with Non-executive Chairman 1 individual shareholders.
Non-executive Directors 5 The governance process will continue to evolve to allow for Executive Directors 2 changes in regulation and best practice and to continue to Total 8 promote the principles of good governance within the Company.
Mark Elliott Chairman Mark Elliott has been the Non-executive Chairman of QinetiQ since 1 March 2010, having first joined the Board as a Non-executive Director on 1 June 2009.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence of character and integrity of all the Directors and the experience and skills that they bring to their duties, which prevents any individual or small group from dominating its decision-making.
The Board has due regard to the benefits of diversity including gender diversity when considering its composition.
It considers 40QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Business review C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nce ce Financial statements Additional information that the skills and experience of its individual members, particularly Independence of Non-executive Directors in the areas of UK US defence and security, the commercialisation Of the current Directors of the Company, the Board considers all the of innovative technologies, corporate finance, mergers and Non-executive Directors to be independent of QinetiQs executive acquisitions, and risk management, have been fundamental in the management and free from any business or other relationships that pursuit of QinetiQs strategic initiatives as described in the Chief could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Executive Officers statement on pages 5-11 of this report in the judgement.
Notwithstanding that Colin Balmer has served on the past year.
In addition, the quoted company experience of members Board for more than nine years, the Board considers that he remains of the Board in a variety of industry sectors and international markets independent in character and judgement and the Board has found has also been invaluable to the Group as it seeks to consolidate its no information or circumstances to lead it to conclude otherwise.
position in its core markets and geographic territories.
As detailed on page 38, the Board views Colins considerable knowledge of the history of QinetiQ, and his experience of working Roles and responsibilities in government, as highly beneficial to the Board as a whole.
Colin is The Board of Directors: assisting with the search for a new Non-Executive director to refresh is responsible for overseeing the Executive Directors the Board membership, as detailed in the section on the management of operations and, in this capacity, determines Nominations Committee on page 46.
The Board considers that more the Groups strategic and investment policies: than half its members were independent Non-executive Directors throughout the last financial year.
monitors the performance of the Groups senior management team and organises its business to have regular interaction with Performance of the Board key members of senior management: and In accordance with the UK Code, QinetiQ continues each year to evaluate the performance of the Board and its Committees.
is responsible for overseeing the management of the business of the Group.
An external evaluation of the Boards effectiveness was carried out by Independent Audit Limited in the year ended 31 March 2012 and Its powers are subject to the Articles of Association and any reported in that years annual report and accounts.
During the year, applicable legislation and regulation.
the following progress was made against the actions arising from Chairman and Chief Executive Officer that external review: The roles of Chairman and CEO are separate, and the Board has With regard to risk strategy and the oversight of risk clearly articulated their responsibilities in writing.
management, the Compliance Committee has evolved into a Risk & CSR Committee with an increased focus on reviewing the The Chairman, Mark Elliott Groups risk appetite and overseeing the management of is responsible for the effective operation of the Board: and non-financial risks: is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are enabled and Non-executive Directors are provided with opportunities to meet encouraged to play their full part in its activities.
members of senior management and site visits are organised on request: The CEO, Leo Quinn The manner in which information is presented to the Board has is responsible to the Board for directing and promoting the been revised to provide greater clarity and to identify the actions profitable operation and development of the Group, consistent required: and with enhancing long-term stakeholder value.
This includes: Closer links continue to be fostered with the Board of the US business to improve oversight of matters specific to that business.
the day-to-day management of the Group: In addition to considering progress against the external review, the formulating, communicating and executing Group strategy: and following evaluations took place during the year: the implementation of Board policies.
Board Effectiveness questionnaire: A Board Effectiveness Senior Independent Director questionnaire was circulated to each member of the Board for The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is Michael Harper.
completion and the results evaluated by the Chairman and Michael is also the Deputy Chairman of the Board.
considered at the May Board meeting.
The questionnaire covered the following areas: The Senior Independent Director, Michael Harper: The role of the Board and its skills mix, including background, serves as an additional point of contact for shareholders should knowledge, experience and diversity: they feel that their concerns are not being addressed through the normal channels: and The clarity of the Board decision-making process and information provided to the Board: is available to fellow Non-executive Directors, either individually or collectively, should they wish to discuss matters of concern The assessment of Risk Appetite and the oversight of Group risks: in a forum that does not include the Chairman, the Executive and Directors or the senior management of QinetiQ.
The level of engagement with management and other stakeholders.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201341 Corporate governance report continued Individual performance reviews: The Chairman carried out a review Board meetings and attendance of the performance of the Non-executive Directors and the The Board has regular scheduled meetings.
Seven scheduled Board Executive Directors, and the Senior Independent Non-executive meetings and one Board meeting via telephone conference were Director carried out a review of the performance of the Chairman.
held in the last financial year.
Members of the Board were also In carrying out the reviews, feedback was obtained from fellow invited to attend a dinner on the occasion of each scheduled Board directors, the Company Secretary and senior management.
meeting, to assist with the process of relationship building and to ensure that key strategic initiatives were discussed thoroughly.
The overall conclusion of these reviews was that the Board During the year, the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors continues to be effective in its fulfilment of its governance met on four occasions without Executive Directors present.
responsibilities and that the actions agreed following the previous years external evaluation were being embedded in the Board The table below shows the number of meetings of the Board processes and would continue to evolve and be reviewed as part and its principal committees held during the last financial year, of a process of continuous improvement.
Directors induction, ongoing training and information Matters reserved to the Board All newly-appointed Directors take part in an induction programme The Board operates through a comprehensive set of processes, which is tailored to meet their specific needs in relation to which define the schedule of matters to be considered by the Board information on the Group.
The induction programme includes an and its Committees during the annual business cycle, the level of induction pack, which is refreshed to ensure that it contains the delegated authorities both financial and non-financial available to most up-to-date information available.
In addition, a series Executive Directors and other layers of management in the business, of visits to Group sites, giving the opportunity to meet the senior and QinetiQs business ethics, risk management, and health, safety management, is provided to new Directors to enable them to gain and environmental processes.
a full understanding of the business.
All Directors are encouraged The Board devotes one entire meeting each year to consider to visit QinetiQs principal sites, and to meet a wide cross-section strategy and planning issues that have an impact on the Group, of employees including members of the senior management team.
from which the corporate plan is generated.
It is also regularly Training is also available on key business issues or developments kept up to date on strategic issues throughout the year.
in policy, regulation or legislation on an as needed basis.
The The Board has a clearly articulated set of matters which are Company provides business-wide computer-based training for specifically reserved to it for consideration.
These include: employees and the Board in relation to compliance with its business ethics policies and practices.
reviewing the annual budgets: As part of the corporate planning process, the Board has the raising indebtedness: opportunity to question the Business Managing Directors and the granting security over Group assets: Executive Directors on the formulation of the corporate plan at Division level and the plans impact on Group strategy.
approving Group strategy and the corporate plan: Each of the Directors has access to the services of the Company approving the annual and interim report and accounts: Secretary, and there is also an agreed procedure for the Directors approving significant investment, bid, acquisition and divestment to seek independent advice at the Companys expense.
transactions: Re-election of Directors approving human resources policies including pension Rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors of arrangements : the Company are contained in the Articles of Association.
Changes reviewing material litigation: and to the Articles must be submitted to shareholders for approval.
According to the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject monitoring the overall system of internal controls, including to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting risk management.
AGM following their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
In line with best practice reflected in the UK Code, however, the Company requires each serving member of the Board to be put forward for election or re-election on an annual basis at each AGM.
Attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees April 2012 to March 2013 Committee Members Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk & CSR Mark Elliott 8 8 5 5 4 4 6 6 5 5 Colin Balmer 7 8 4 5 3 4 5 6 5 5 Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 8 8 5 5 4 4 6 6 5 5 Noreen Doyle 8 8 5 5 4 4 5 6 4 5 Michael Harper 8 8 5 5 4 4 6 6 5 5 David Mellors 8 8 5 5 Paul Murray 8 8 5 5 4 4 6 6 5 5 Leo Quinn 8 8 4 4 5 5 Any absences from meetings were owing to illness or travel difficulties.
42QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Business review C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nce ce Financial statements Additional information re-designated as an Operating Committee, with a specific focus on Operation of the Board The Board receives a written report from the CEO and CFO, together the achievement of the Groups strategic goals in respect of growth and operational excellence.
The Committee membership has been with a separate report on investor relations which is prepared in consultation with QinetiQs brokers, and a report produced by the adjusted to comprise the Group CEO, Group CFO, UK Divisional MDs, HR, Business Development and Operations Directors.
Company Secretary on key legal and regulatory issues that affect the Group.
Board Committees The CEOs and CFOs Executive report addresses the key strategic The Board has established five principal Committees: the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Remuneration initiatives which have had an impact on the Group since the previous Board meeting, with particular focus on the progress Committee, the Risk & CSR Committee and the Security Committee.
Each operates within written terms of reference approved by the of each of the businesses.
Other key areas of focus include health, safety and environmental matters: employee and organisational Board, details of which are set out in the Investor Relations section of the website, www.
issues: corporate responsibility: the status of key account management customer relationship initiatives: the pipeline of Where a Committee is not attended by the full Board, details potential bids, acquisitions, disposals and investments: and the of the key issues discussed, and decisions taken, are circulated to post-acquisition performance of recently acquired businesses.
all members of the Board after the relevant Committee meeting.
The Board also receives updates from key functional areas on an as Details of each of these Committees are summarised on pages needed basis, on issues such as human resources, treasury, corporate 46-49.
The composition of the Committee memberships was responsibility, real estate, security, trade controls and pensions.
reviewed by the Board at its meeting in November 2012.
It was agreed to continue with all-Director membership of Committees, Key issues considered by the Board in the past year include: other than where prohibited by the UK Code or statutory succession planning: requirements.
Details of each Committee members attendance at Committee meetings are set out in the table on page 42. strategy: Risk management and internal controls the proxy regime in respect of the US business: The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of liaison with the MOD in respect of specific changes to the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in safeguarding Companys UK defined benefit pension scheme: and shareholders interests and the Companys assets.
The system is the review of the LTPA contract.
designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only Conflicts of interest reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Company requires Directors to disclose proposed outside misstatement or loss.
business interests before they are entered into.
This enables prior assessment of any conflict, or potential conflict, of interest and any Identification and review of risks impact on time commitment.
An annual review of all external QinetiQ managers are responsible for the identification and interests is carried out by the Board.
evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of business, together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls Directors responsibilities to ensure effective mitigation.
These risks, which are related to the Statements explaining the Directors responsibilities for preparing achievement of business objectives, are assessed on a continual the Groups Annual Report and financial statements and the basis and may be associated with a variety of internal and external auditors responsibilities for reporting on those statements are events, including control breakdowns, competition, disruption, on pages 64-65. regulatory requirements and natural and other catastrophes.
Other Directors information The Board, the Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee Details of Executive Directors service contracts and the Nonregularly review significant risks to the business.
executive Directors letters of appointment are set out in the Report Self-certification process of the Remuneration Committee on page 58.
Copies of Directors An annual process of hierarchical self-certification, which provides service contracts and letters of appointment will be available for a documented and auditable trail of accountability for the operation inspection at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
of the system of internal control, has been established.
This Other management committees self-certification process is informed by a rigorous and structured During the year, responsibility for the day-to-day management of self-assessment that addresses compliance with Company policy.
the Groups activities, with the exception of QinetiQs US operations It provides for successive assurances to be given at increasingly which are managed through the Proxy Board, as described in the higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
The process section on page 45 headed Management and control of US is informed by the internal audit function, which also provides a subsidiaries, was conducted through the QinetiQ Executive Team degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system QET.
The QET comprised the Group CEO, Group CFO, functional of internal control.
directors and the Sector MDs of each of the three UK business divisions.
The QET met on a monthly basis, and received weekly updates on key operational issues by way of pre-scheduled conference calls.
The activities of the QET were supplemented by the QinetiQ North America QNA Board and its Executive Management Team.
Since the end of the year, the QET has been QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201343 Corporate governance report continued The market conditions in which the Group operates have been, Internal control The centrally provided internal audit programme is prioritised and are expected to continue to be, challenging as spending from the Groups key customers in its primary markets in the UK and according to risks identified by the Company and is integrated across all business and functional dimensions, thereby reducing US remains under pressure.
Despite these challenges, the Directors believe that the Group is well positioned to manage its overall issues of overlap or gaps in coverage.
These risks are identified dynamically and the Board and the UK executives are involved in the business risks successfully.
A similar process is undertaken within the Companys QNA After making the appropriate enquiries, including a review of the business, thereby providing assurance on the adequacy and efficacy latest two-year budget, the Directors have a reasonable expectation of internal controls in this business.
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The risk management process and the system of internal control necessary to manage risks are managed by the Audit Committee Consequently, the Annual Report and Accounts have been prepared financial risks and the Risk & CSR Committee non-financial risks on a going concern basis.
and each Committee presents its findings to the Board.
The internal Communication with shareholders audit function independently reviews the risk identification and The Company attaches significant importance to the effectiveness control processes implemented by management and reports of its communications with shareholders.
During the last financial to the respective Committee.
year, the Company maintained regular dialogue with institutional The Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee also review the shareholders and the financial community, which included assurance process, ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques presentations of the full-year and half-year results, investor road is used to obtain the level of assurance required by the Board.
shows held in the UK and US, and regular meetings with major Each Committee presents its findings to the Board on a regular basis.
In addition, each member of the The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal Board attended the Companys Annual General Meeting in July 2012 control that was in operation during the financial year ended and was available to take questions.
The Board also routinely challenges management The Chairman proactively offers to attend meetings with key to ensure that the systems of internal control are constantly shareholders on a regular basis.
In addition, the Chairman, the improving to maintain their effectiveness.
Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors routinely The internal control and risk management systems described above, attend key financial calendar events and make themselves available as well as finance policy and codes of practice, apply to the to meet shareholders as required.
All shareholders and potential Companys process of financial reporting and the preparation of shareholders can gain access to the Annual Report, presentations consolidated accounts.
A structured approach to the review and to investors and other significant information about QinetiQ in the challenge of financial information is also an essential element Investors section of the Companys website, www.
Holders of ordinary shares have the opportunity to attend the Anti-bribery and the prevention of corruption Companys Annual General Meeting AGM and to ask questions.
QinetiQ has internal procedures in place that are designed to The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, Risk & CSR ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act, and other international and Security Committees are available at that meeting to answer regulations and best practice relating to the prevention of corruption, any questions on the work of the Committees.
The Company which are applicable to its business.
Compliance is managed through confirms that it will send the Notice of Meeting and relevant a risk-based approach, using a combination of internal expertise and documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before external, internationally recognised organisations, such as TRACE, the date of the AGM.
international law firms and other expert service providers, who For those shareholders who have elected to receive conduct anti-corruption due diligence reviews of all third-party communications electronically, notice is given of the availability commercial intermediaries used by QinetiQs businesses.
of documents in the Investors section of the Groups website.
All Going concern shareholders will be entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the The Groups activities, combined with the factors that are likely to AGM and, to ensure that all votes are counted, a poll will be taken affect its future development and performance, are set out in the on all the resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
The results of the CEOs Statement on pages 5-11.
The CFOs Review on pages 24-29 votes on the resolutions will be published on the Groups website.
sets out details of the financial position of the Group, the cash flows, Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with committed borrowing facilities, liquidity and the Groups policies shareholders rests with the CEO and the CFO, assisted by an investor and processes for managing its capital and financial risks.
The Board is informed on a regular basis of key to the financial statements also provides details of the Groups shareholder issues, including share price performance, the hedging activities, financial instruments, and its exposure to composition of the shareholder register and City expectations.
44QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Business review C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nce ce Financial statements Additional information During the coming year, the Company will be looking to continue The Boards and Board Committees of each of the Company and to improve the quality of its engagement with shareholders and to QNA meet on a regular basis and review and discuss the important explore with investors any additional practical means by which it can commercial and governance activities taking place within QNA.
give effect to the requirements of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Group policies are shared with QNA and, to the extent they are Stewardship Code for institutional investors, and of the UK Code.
suitable in QNAs security, market and operational circumstances, are applicable within QNA, subject always to the requirement that Details of the Companys share capital, which are required to be QNA must conduct its business affairs without external control or disclosed in accordance with rule 7.2.
6 of the FCAs Disclosure and influence, and to the requirements necessary to protect the US Transparency Rules, and the Directors powers in relation to issuing national security interest.
In addition, the Company extends its and buying back shares can be found on page 63 in the Other involvement in QNAs activities through the conduct of regular Statutory Information section of this Annual Report.
and frequent business meetings and communications at the Management and control of US subsidiaries CEO, CFO, HR and Legal levels in the interests of transparency QinetiQs principal US subsidiaries are currently required by the and good governance.
US National Industrial Security Program to maintain facility security clearances and to be insulated from foreign ownership, control or influence.
To comply with these requirements, QinetiQ North America, Inc. QNA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of QinetiQ in the US and the holding company for the substantive part of QinetiQs US operations, and the US DoD, have entered into a proxy agreement that regulates the management and operation of these companies.
Pursuant to this proxy agreement, QinetiQ has appointed four US citizens Peter Marino, Riley Mixson, John Currier and Vince Vitto, who hold the requisite US security clearances, as proxy holders to exercise the voting rights in QNA.
The proxy holders are also appointed as Directors of the relevant US subsidiaries and, in addition to their powers as Directors, have power under the proxy arrangements to exercise all prerogatives of share ownership of QNA.
The proxy holders have a fiduciary duty, and agree, to perform their role in the best interests of shareholders including the legitimate economic interest, and in a manner consistent with the national security interests of the US.
QinetiQ Group plc does not have any representation on the boards of the subsidiaries covered by the proxy agreement, but regularly attends board meetings.
QinetiQ Group plc may not remove the proxy holders other than for acts of gross negligence or wilful misconduct or for breach of the proxy agreement with the consent of the US Defense Security Service.
In terms of the power to govern, the proxy agreement vests certain powers solely with the proxy holders and certain powers solely with QinetiQ.
For example, the proxy holders cannot carry out any of the below without QinetiQs express approval: sell or dispose of, in any manner, capital assets or the business of QNA: pledge, mortgage or encumber assets of QNA for purposes other than obtaining working capital or funds for capital improvements: merge, consolidate, reorganise or dissolve QNA: and file or make any petition under the federal bankruptcy laws or similar law or statute of any state or any foreign country.
Unlike minority interest holders with protective veto rights, QinetiQ can unilaterally require the above to be carried out and these are, therefore, considered to be significant participative features.
In addition, QinetiQ can require the payment of dividends, and the pay-down of parent company loans, from QNA.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201345 Corporate governance report continued Security Committee Board Diversity policy During the year, the Nominations Committee recommended, and Colin Balmer the Board approved, a Board Diversity Policy.
The key statement Chair and objectives of that policy the full text of which is available Security Committee on the Groups website are as follows: Statement: The QinetiQ Board recognises the benefits of diversity.
Diversity of skills, background, knowledge, international and industry experience, and gender, amongst many other factors, will be Membership taken into consideration when seeking to appoint a new Director The Security Committee is chaired by Colin Balmer.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Board Committee members are Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, appointments will always be made on merit.
Michael Harper, David Mellors, Paul Murray and Leo Quinn.
Objectives: Main responsibilities The Committee was established in June 2009 to enable UK nationals The Board should ensure an appropriate mix of skills on the Board to consider matters of a UK national security and experience to ensure an optimum Board and dimension that have an impact on QinetiQs UK business.
There efficient stewardship: was no requirement for the Committee to meet during the year.
The Board should ensure that it comprises Directors who are sufficiently experienced and independent in character and Nominations Committee judgement: and Mark Elliott The Board aims to increase the proportion of women on the Board to 25% by 2015.
Thereafter, the Board aims to maintain Chair Nominations Committee a minimum Board composition of 25% women, such percentage to be reviewed annually.
Details of the steps being taken in respect of diversity within the Group generally can be found in the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Review on pages 34-37.
Membership Succession planning The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mark Elliott.
The other As a result of the succession planning review, a specification was Committee members are Colin Balmer, Admiral Sir James Burnellprepared of the role and capabilities required to refresh the Board Nugent, Noreen Doyle, Michael Harper, Paul Murray and Leo Quinn.
The Committee recommended, and the Board appointed, two executive search firms, The Zygos Main responsibilities Partnership in the UK and Spencer Stuart in the USA, to progress The role of the Committee is to ensure that the composition the search for potential Non-executive Director candidates.
Both of the Board and Committees has the optimum balance of skills, firms are signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive knowledge and experience, and to oversee succession planning for Search Firms, which requires them to ensure that at least 30% of the Board and senior management.
It considers diversity, including the candidates are women, and have no other connections with the skills mix, international industry experience and gender, when Company.
As at the date of this report, the search remains ongoing.
seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
The Committee meets as necessary and when called by its Chair.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2013, the Committee met on four occasions.
Remuneration Committee Overview Noreen Doyle Key areas of focus during the year were: Chair Remuneration Committee the review of the size and composition of the Board and its Committees: the review and updating of the matrix recording the skills and experience of the current Board: and the review of succession planning processes at Executive Director, Membership Non-executive Director and senior management levels.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Noreen Doyle.
The Committee sets remuneration and incentives for Executive Directors and approves and monitors remuneration and incentives for senior executives of the Group.
The other Committee members are Colin Balmer, Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, Mark Elliott, Michael Harper and Paul Murray.
Other attendees The CEO, the CFO, the HR Director and the Group Reward Director normally attend meetings to provide information and advice.
46QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Business review C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nce ce Financial statements Additional information Overview Main responsibilities The Committee meets as necessary, although normally at least three The Committee has three primary functions: times a year.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2013, it met to oversee the sound operation of the Companys non-financial on six occasions.
risk management systems: During the year, the Committee received advice from its appointed to monitor non-financial risk exposures, including security, trade independent advisors, Towers Watson, who also provided market controls, ethics, corporate social responsibility and health, data and advice to help the Committee determine whether safety and environment: and performance targets had been met.
Towers Watson also provided to monitor adherence to the generic compliance system.
other consulting services during the year to QinetiQ, but did not provide advice on executive remuneration matters other than The Committee has an annual calendar of activities and meets to the Committee.
as necessary, although normally not less than four times a year.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2013, the Committee The Committee has reviewed the remuneration and rewards of the met on five occasions.
Companys Executive Directors and senior management and has processes in place to ensure that: Overview During the past year, the Committee continued to carry out its the level of reward given to the Executive Directors and senior core functions by way of regular reporting in accordance with management is stretching and designed to promote the long-term its annual calendar.
The Committee continued to oversee health, success of the Company: and safety and environment, trade controls, ethics and security remuneration incentives remain consistent with the Companys through quarterly reports from the heads of those functions in risk management policies and systems.
A summary of the key focus and activities of the No Executive Director or employee of QinetiQ is permitted to be health, safety and environment and ethics functions is set out present or participate in the Committees discussions about their in the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Review on own remuneration.
During the year, the Committees Terms of Reference were reviewed Key areas of focus during the year were: and updated to be consistent with best practice.
the operation of the QNA Proxy Regime: Further information on the activities of the Remuneration the move to the generic MOD compliance system: Committee during the last financial year is set out in the a review of the Companys risk management processes: Remuneration Report on pages 50-51. a review of the Risk Register in accordance with FRC Risk & CSR Committee recommendations: a review of the Companys risk appetite and providing clarity Colin Balmer to executive management on acceptable levels of risk: and Chair Risk & CSR Committee trials involving human subjects that fall within the scope of the Helsinki Protocol.
Generic compliance system The Committee continues to monitor the generic compliance system, which is designed to give the MOD customer confidence Membership that QinetiQ is able to provide impartial advice during any The Risk & CSR Committee is chaired by Colin Balmer.
All of the competitive evaluation of a procurement where the Company other members of the Board are members of the Committee.
wishes to operate on both the buy and the supply sides.
The aim is to achieve a balance between meeting the needs The name of the Committee was changed from the Compliance of the procurement customers in the MOD principally Defence Committee in 2012 as a result of a review of risk governance Equipment & Support and the need to allow QinetiQ the flexibility arrangements and the move from the bespoke MOD Compliance to exploit research into the supply chain and pursue its planned Regime to a generic MOD conflict of interest management system commercial activities, without compromising the defence or the generic compliance system in alignment with that followed security interests of the UK.
Oversight of the operation of the by other defence companies.
This change was effected by way of system is provided by the Committee.
the amendment of the rights attaching to the Special Share held by HM Government, following receipt of the requisite MOD approval The Board nominates two senior executives to act as Compliance and shareholder approval at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Implementation Director and Compliance Audit Director.
The Committees Terms of Reference were reviewed and updated It receives a bi-annual report on the compliance areas that in 2012 to take account of the changes.
it monitors from the internal audit function.
The Committee addresses any issues that would arise if QinetiQ were to fail to comply with the requirements of the generic compliance system.
No breaches were noted during the year.
The Company will continue with rigorous management of potential conflicts of interest while ensuring that proportionate governance is maintained by the Board.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201347 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee QNA is subject to external audit, by the same auditor as for the Company, KPMG.
The Company has the opportunity to meet with Paul Murray QNAs external auditor independently.
Further, the Company is able Chair to review in detail, with the Chair of the QNA Audit Committee and Audit Committee the QNA Internal Audit Manager, the audit work within QNA and to gain an understanding of the systems of internal control, and their effectiveness.
Review of internal controls The Audit Committee continually reviews the effectiveness of the Membership systems of internal control to gain assurance that an effective The Audit Committee is chaired by Paul Murray.
The Board considers control framework is maintained.
Reports on the effective operation him to have recent and relevant financial experience, given his former of the control framework are received from management and roles as Group Finance Director of Carlton Communications plc reviewed by the Committee along with key policies and processes and LASMO plc, and through his current role as Audit Committee including whistleblowing arrangements.
Regular reports on the Chairman at Royal Mail Holdings plc.
The other members of the operation of internal controls and risk management processes are Committee are Colin Balmer, Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, also received from the internal audit function.
Particular attention Noreen Doyle and Michael Harper, all of whom the Board considers is given to the timely and effective implementation of remedial to be independent.
The members bring extensive experience of actions, either identified by the business directly, or by internal corporate management in senior executive positions to the Company.
The Committee also regularly reviews the effectiveness of the financial risk management framework, including reviewing key Other attendees financial risks and assessing the effectiveness of managements The CEO, CFO, Director of Group Finance, Group Internal Audit remedial action plans.
As detailed above, the Committee meets Manager, the QinetiQ North America QNA Internal Audit Manager regularly with the Chair of the QNA Audit Committee and the QNA and representatives of the external auditor normally attend Audit Internal Audit Manager to gain assurance on the effectiveness of Committee meetings.
the QNA internal controls framework.
In addition, the Committee, Main responsibilities on behalf of the Board, undertakes an annual assessment of the The Audit Committee monitors the Groups integrity in financial control environment.
reporting and reviews the effectiveness of the financial risk Governance reviews management framework.
The Committee has an annual calendar As reported in the Report and Accounts in respect of the year ended of activities, in addition to which it identifies particular areas of 31 March 2012, during that year the Committee undertook focus during the year.
 governance reviews in respect of the The Audit Committee meets as necessary and at least four times a effectiveness of the Committee itself, the internal audit function year.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2013, the Committee and risk governance.
The external auditor has the right to request The recommendations from those reviews were progressed by the that a meeting of the Audit Committee be convened.
During the Committee Chairman during the past financial year and resulted in past financial year, and in accordance with its terms of reference, the reconfiguration of the Audit and Compliance Committees into the Committee met with QinetiQs external auditor on three an Audit Committee and a Risk & CSR Committee, with the former separate occasions, without Executive Directors present, to discuss dealing with financial risks and the latter with non-financial risks, the audit process.
The Committee also met with the Group Internal as well as oversight of the overall risk management process.
The Audit Manager on two separate occasions, without Executive Terms of Reference of both Committees were amended to reflect Directors present.
the change and the schedules of annual activity updated Overview accordingly.
In addition, changes were made to the structure Key areas of focus during the year were: and linkage between the Committee and the QNA Audit Committee QNA risks, issues and mitigating actions: to improve regulatory and governance reporting.
effectiveness of internal controls: During the current year, reviews of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee and the Internal Audit function were carried out as effectiveness of governance arrangements: follows: effectiveness of external audit: and a review by the Committee Chairman of the recommendations review of audit process for full-year and half-year results.
from the previous years  reviews and of the performance against those recommendations: and QNA risks, issues and mitigating actions As detailed on page 45 concerning Management and control of US high-level questions and answers completed by the Nonsubsidiaries, the Companys holding of its QNA assets is regulated executive Directors and reviewed by the Committee Chairman.
This arrangement, whose purpose is to The results of the reviews were considered at the May Committee insulate QNA from foreign ownership control or influence, directly meeting and the outcome showed that the governance impacts the way in which the Companys Board is able to gain improvements had been effective and had been embedded in the comfort on the effectiveness of QNAs systems of internal control.
The implementation of some actions, particularly in relation to QNA, remain ongoing but in line with agreed action plans.
48QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Business review C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nce ce Financial statements Additional information External Audit effectiveness review understandable and provide all information necessary to a The effectiveness and independence of the external audit process shareholder to assess the Groups performance, business model was assessed by the Internal Audit function during the year.
The review comprised the following elements: External Auditor independence: Non-audit services a questionnaire which was completed by the Non-executive The Company views it as essential that the external auditor is both Directors and senior QinetiQ staff: independent of any conflict of interest and perceived to be so.
To safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Company has a interviews with the KPMG partner and senior managers: and Code of Practice within its Operating Framework which sets out the interviews with senior business managers.
principles for regulating the award of non-audit work to the external auditor.
The policy clearly articulates the non-audit services which are The results of the review were considered at the March Committee prohibited, the non-audit services which can be purchased and the meeting and it was noted that the external audit function continued key approval requirements for non-audit work.
Pursuant to the policy, to be both independent and effective.
A small number of the Committee ensures that any other advisory and or consulting recommendations regarding audit scoping and reporting have been services provided by the external auditor do not conflict with its made which will be adopted by KPMG in their future work.
statutory audit responsibilities and are conducted through entirely Other areas of review separate working teams: such advisory and or consulting services During the year, the Committee also reviewed the activities of the generally only cover regulatory reporting, tax, and mergers and tax, insurance and treasury functions, as well as overseeing the level acquisitions work.
The cost and nature of non-audit work undertaken by the auditor The Committee confirms its view that it has received sufficient, is regularly reviewed by the Committee during the financial year reliable and timely information from management in the last and is included at regular intervals in its annual schedule as a financial year to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
This process enables the Committee to take Financial statements corrective action if it believes that there is a risk of the auditors independence being undermined through the award of such work.
The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, whether management has made appropriate It is also QinetiQs policy that no KPMG employee may be appointed to a senior position within the QinetiQ Group without estimates and judgements and also seeks support from the external auditors to assess them.
The Committee reviewed the following the prior approval of the CFO.
main issues for the year ended 31 March 2013: Any non-audit services conducted by the auditor require the consent of the CFO or the Chairman of the Audit Committee The basis of and key assumptions relating to managements assessment of the carrying value of the goodwill associated with before being initiated: any services exceeding 50,000 in value require the consent of the Audit Committee as a whole.
In the the US Services business.
last financial year, there have not been any non-audit services The basis for and judgements made by management in conducted by KPMG that exceeded 50,000 in value.
The determining the liabilities recorded for litigation, potential claims Committee concluded, therefore, that there had not been any and other disputes.
conflict of interest that might compromise the independence The accounting for longer term contracts and, in particular, of KPMGs audit work.
the basis of the estimates of forecast costs to complete on Auditor reappointment a significant contract.
KPMG has been the auditor of the QinetiQ Group since its The key assumptions and their sources used in accounting for formation in 2001 as the result of a competitive tender, and the the Groups defined benefit retirement obligations.
Companys auditor since its incorporation in 2002.
During that time, there have been periodic changes in audit partners in The disclosures in the preliminary announcement and annual accordance with professional and regulatory standards to protect report and accounts, in particular those relating to risk, goodwill, independence and objectivity.
The members of the Audit specific overlying items and the operation of the proxy regime Committee have declared themselves satisfied with the in the US.
performance of KPMG as the Companys auditor in the last The adoption and application of new accounting standards, financial year.
A rotation of KPMGs lead audit partner was last and in particular IAS19 revised.
undertaken during 2012 and it is anticipated that the new lead audit partner will continue in this role for a maximum of five years.
Based upon the business assurance process and discussions with management and the external auditors, the Committee was Having reviewed the effectiveness and the independence of the satisfied that the disclosures and assumptions were reasonable and external auditor, the Committee has not considered it necessary appropriate for a business of the Companys size and complexity, to conduct a tender process for the appointment of its auditor.
that the auditors had fulfilled their responsibilities in scrutinising The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG the financial statements for any material misstatements and that be reappointed for the financial year ending 31 March 2014. the disclosures were satisfactory.
In accordance with FRC guidance on transitional arrangements for the implementation of the 2012 version of the UK Code, it is The Audit Committee will consider in 2013 how to adapt, if necessary, the Groups procedures to provide advice to the Board the Companys current intention to align the process for putting the external audit contract out to tender with the conclusion to meet with the requirements of the new 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code as applicable to the Group for its next financial of the five-year tenure of the audit partner.
The Committee will continue, however, with the annual review of the performance year, ending 31 March 2014, and beyond on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and of the external auditor and act accordingly.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201349 Corporate governance report continued Remuneration report The key purpose of the Committee is to ensure that the Noreen Doyle remuneration structure supports the Companys strategy Chair and that we are able to attract, retain and motivate the highest Remuneration Committee calibre executives by rewarding the creation of long-term sustainable value.
Report of the Remuneration Committee The following Report of the Remuneration Committee has been Introduction approved by the Board for submission to shareholders.
I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees report The Report covers the remuneration of Directors and includes on Directors compensation for the year to 31 March 2013. specific disclosures relating to their compensation, shares and other The primary objectives of our remuneration policy are: interests.
The report also describes the share-based incentive plans available to Executive Directors and to other employees.
This report Attracting and retaining top talent: has been prepared and, where appropriate, audited, in accordance Incentivising key executives and managers: with statutory and regulatory requirements.
Ensuring an approach which values the diversity of our workforce: Membership and Governance Driving superior performance in both the short and long term: and Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board.
The Alignment with the interests of shareholders.
Committee comprises at least three members not including the Group Chairman of the Board, all of whom are independent Beginning in 2009, QinetiQ has created and implemented a self-help non-Executive Directors.
The Group Chairman of the Board also programme to support its transformation.
Following on from the serves on the Committee as an additional member if he or she success of this effort, the Company has begun its transition to the next was considered independent on appointment as Chairman.
Accordingly, with input from its advisors, Towers Watson, the Remuneration Committee undertook a market Only members of the Committee have the right to attend review and developed a revised compensation package which was Committee meetings.
However, other individuals such as the Chief endorsed at the Annual General Meeting in July 2012.
Executive, the Group HR Director and external advisers are invited The Value Sharing Plan VSP was designed in 2010 for the to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
Companys self-help phase and was considered to be a time bound The Board appoints the Committee Chairman who is an Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The current phase for the Company independent, non-executive director.
In the absence of the is aimed at resumption of growth, both in the UK and the USA, Committee Chairman and or an appointed deputy, the remaining despite defence markets forecast to be flat or falling, and therefore members present shall elect one of themselves to chair the meeting a new Performance Share Plan PSP was adopted to align with who would qualify under these terms of reference to be appointed this objective.
to that position by the Board.
The Chairman of the Board is not To enhance further managements alignment with shareholder permitted to be Chairman of the Committee.
interests, the mandatory deferral for Executive Directors under The following Non-executive Directors were members of the the Deferred Annual Bonus DAB plan was increased to 50% of bonus earned.
Remuneration Committee for the year ended 31 March 2013: In addition, we match our stretch business objectives to an increased Noreen Doyle Chair Annual Cash Bonus plan opportunity for our Executive Directors.
Mark Elliott Group Chairman These changes were implemented during the year ended March 2013 Colin Balmer after shareholder approval and as we are only part way through the next phase of our journey we are not proposing to alter our Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent remuneration policy for the coming financial year.
We believe the Paul Murray plan we have in place supports the business goals and ensures Michael Harper commensurate levels of remuneration with business performance.
This is demonstrated in reward attributed to the closing financial year The full Terms of Reference of the Committee can be found on the as, despite challenging markets, 2013 has been a strong year which is QinetiQ website www.
reflected in our Executive Directors performance-based remuneration.
Since 2010, our total shareholder return has increased by 60% which demonstrates the significant return on shareholder value.
In line with our overall remuneration policy, the Committee has determined 3% salary increases for the CEO and CFO which will be effective July 2013.
To help develop clarity around our Executive Directors remuneration, we have improved the format and flow of our report in line with best practice.
50QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Business review C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nce ce Financial statements Additional information Activities Directors remuneration policy During the year, the Committee met six times.
The Committee aims to maintain a remuneration policy, consistent with the Companys business strategy and objectives, which: The Committee received advice from its appointed independent advisors, Towers Watson, who also provided market data and attracts, retains and motivates individuals of high calibre: advised on the comparator groups TSR so that the Committee could is responsive to both Company and personal performance: and determine whether share plan performance targets had been met.
is competitive within relevant employment markets.
The Chief Executive, Group HR Director and Group Reward Director The remuneration policy is built on the following philosophy: also provided information and advice to the Committee.
remuneration packages are structured to support business The Committee meetings covered a number of topics including: strategy and conform to current best practice: May 2012 Annual Cash Bonus plan results appropriate rewards are given for meeting specific target Revised Performance Share Plan rules prior objectives set at the beginning of each year: to shareholder approval incremental compensation is achieved for attaining stretch July Share plan allocations and nominations performance targets: Share plan performance and vesting November Government reforms objectives are measured on metrics designed to be consistent with sustainable long-term business performance: Remuneration Committee programme for the year Review of Executive team shareholding all decisions are made taking into account the diversity of our Reward and retention all employee people at Director level: and IAS 19 impact on incentives to monitor pay and employment conditions elsewhere January Executive pay trends in the Group.
Executive incentive arrangements Changes to the Directors Remuneration Report The total remuneration levels of the Executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Committee, taking into account: March Projected share plan vesting Executive team salary review performance of the executive against specific targets set at the Executive team Annual Bonus Plan design beginning of each year: Share plan allocations competitive market practice and remuneration levels based In November 2012, the Committee discussed the impact of accounting changes on a consistent competitor group reviewed annually: and on incentives.
IAS 19 revised Employee benefits has been adopted for the year ended 31 March 2013 and the prior year comparatives have been restated the general economic environment, particularly in the defence sector.
accordingly, which has had specific impacts on the income statement.
The Each year, the packages are benchmarked independently by our reporting changes resulted in the baseline financials for the Performance Share Plan, Deferred Annual Bonus plan and Annual Cash Bonus plan being revised to advisors, Towers Watson, using two comparator groups: one group accommodate the accounting changes while retaining the incentive structure.
is based on company size, measured by market capitalisation and revenue and the second group is sector specific.
The first group is used as the primary reference with cross checking against the second group to capture any industry specific features: there are approximately 20 companies in each group.
The lower quartile, mid-market and upper quartile reference points are captured and the packages of the CEO and CFO are then benchmarked against these to ensure they remain competitive at the mid-market level.
The Executive Directors remuneration package is made up of the following components: Annual Long-Term Benets: Remuneration Base Salary Cash Incentives: Pension, Car Package Bonus PSP & DAB Allowance Performance driven QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201351
