GOVERNANCE 78 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Directors Remuneration Report Earlier this year, we announced the appointment of Nick Luff as The Directors Remuneration Report the Report describes CFO.
At a date to be determined later in 2014, NickLuff will take how Reed Elsevier applies the principles of good governance over from Duncan Palmer, who will leave the business when a relating to directors remuneration.
This Report has been hand-over has been completed.
The remuneration arrangements prepared by the Remuneration Committee of Reed Elsevier for Nick Luff will be provided in the 2014 Notices of Annual General Group plc in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Meetings which will be available on thecompanyswebsite.
Code, the UK Listing Rules, the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Subject to shareholder approval, our remuneration policy will Regulations 2013 the new UK Regulations and the Dutch apply from the conclusion of the 2014 Reed Elsevier PLC Annual Corporate Governance Code the Dutch Code.
General Meeting until the Reed Elsevier PLC Annual General Meeting in 2017.
It is intended to be comprehensive, but also The Report was approved by the Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, sufficiently flexible to allow it to operate throughout this time Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc.
It is designed for a global business with two parent shareholders will be invited to approve both our remuneration companies, with listings in London, Amsterdam and New York.
policy by way of a binding vote and our 2013 Annual The policy is based on the following principles: Remuneration Report by way of a non-binding advisory vote at the 2014 Annual General Meeting of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Performance-related pay with demanding performance measures linked to our strategy: Our remuneration policy is set out on pages 79 to 85 the Policy Creation of shareholder value: Report and the 2013 Annual Remuneration Report is set out Competitive remuneration to attract and retain the best on pages 86 to 94. talent globally: The audited sections of the Report are clearly marked.
A balance between fixed and variable elements, and annual and longer-term performance: Aligning the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders Introduction from Remuneration and other stakeholders: Operating the company consistent with long-term Committee Chairman sustainability: and Discouraging inappropriate risk taking.
I am pleased to present my first Report as Chairman of the Reed Elsevier Remuneration Committee.
The performance measures for the annual and multi-year incentives are designed to drive management behaviour in a way As you will have read elsewhere in this Annual Report, 2013 was which supports the companys strategy to transform the core another year of good progress for the company.
2013 annual business through organic investment and the organic build out of incentive payments for the Executive Directors were just above new products into adjacent markets and geographies, target and performance measures under the 2011-13 cycle of the supplemented by selective portfolio acquisitions and divestments.
BIP Bonus Investment Plan and the ESOS Executive Share The annual incentive is focused on operational excellence, Option Scheme will result in respective outcomes for the CEO measured by revenue, profit and cash generation and on the close to and at the full amount of the original awards.
In line achievement of individual key performance objectives which align withincreases for the wider employee population, the with our strategic plans.
The performance measures in the Remuneration Committee has approved a 2014 salary increase multi-year incentives, which focus on return on capital, returns for the CEO of 2.5%.
to shareholders and sustained earnings growth, further support At the Annual General Meetings in 2013, shareholders approved our strategy.
our proposed new LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan and our This years Report has been prepared in a manner which balances renewed ESOS and the first grants were made under these plans the specific local requirements of the new UK Regulations and the to Executive Directors in May 2013.
The Executive Directors also Dutch Code with the desire to provide additional information which participated in the 2013-15 cycle of the BIP.
The 2013 awards may be helpful to our broader investor base.
granted to the CFO, Duncan Palmer, under these plans lapsed on his notice of resignation in September2013.
Wolfhart Hauser For 2014 we are introducing claw-back provisions for the annual Chairman, Remuneration Committee incentive, similar to the provisions which are already in place for our multi-year incentives.
