Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 79 Remuneration Policy Report Set out in this section is the company's remuneration policy for Directors, which, subject to shareholder approval, will apply from the conclusion of the Reed Elsevier PLC Annual General Meeting to be held on 24 April 2014.
Remuneration policy table Executive Directors All footnotes to the policy table can be found on page 82.
ANNUAL BASE SALARY Purpose and link to strategy To recruit and retain the best executive talent globally to execute our strategic objectives at appropriate cost.
Operation Salaries for Executive Directors are set and reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee the Committee with changes typically taking effect on 1 January.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may review more frequently.
The following factors are considered: The executives role and sustained value to the company in terms of skill, experience and overall contribution.
Competitiveness with companies which are comparable in respect of industry, size, international scope and complexity.
Examples of global peers include Thomson Reuters, WPP, Pearson, John Wiley, Wolters Kluwer, Experian, McGraw-Hill andEquifax.
The companys guidelines for salaries for all employees for the year.
For the last two years, Executive Directors salary increases have been 2.5% per annum.
Maximum value Salary increases to Executive Directors are within the range of increases for the wider employee population.
However, the Committee has discretion to exceed this to take account of individual circumstances such as change in responsibility, increases in scale or complexity of the business, inflation or alignment to market level.
Performance framework n a Recovery of sums paid No provision.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy Retirement plans are part of remuneration packages designed to recruit and retain the best executive talent at appropriate cost.
Operation Our policy is to offer competitive long-term sustainable defined contribution plans.
Any amount above applicable limits, for example HMRCs annual allowance in the UK, will be paid in cash and will be subject to tax and social security deductions.
In certain circumstances, executives can take cash instead of pension contributions.
The UK defined benefit scheme is closed to new hires.
Continued membership of legacy defined benefit schemes requires annual increases to contributions or participation fees from all members, who have a choice to switch to the defined contribution plan at anytime.
The CEO is a member of a UK legacy defined benefit pension arrangement, accruing 1 30th of final year pensionable earnings base salary for each year pro-rated for part years of service, with a normal retirement age of 60.
The CEO contributes 7% of salary up to the scheme earnings cap.
In line with all UK defined benefit scheme members, the CEOs contributions will increase to 8% from April 2014 and then by a further 1% each year to a rate of 11% in April 2017.
In addition, the CEO currently pays a participation fee equal to 1% of the amount of his base salary in excess of the scheme earnings cap.
On 1 April 2014, and each April thereafter, this fee will increase by 2% of the amount of his base salary in excess of the scheme earnings cap.
Maximum value Defined benefit scheme accrual of 1 30th of salary for every year of service up to a maximum of 2 3rds of salary.
Defined contribution plan maximum company contribution of 30% of salary per annum or equivalent cash in lieu.
