Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 83 Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios CEO Remuneration 000 The Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be 8,090 paid in the context of the performance delivered and value added Multi-year incentives for shareholders.
The chart is an illustration of how the CEOs BIP, LTIP and ESOS regular annual remuneration could vary under different Annual incentive 5,325 performance scenarios.
The salary, benefits and pension levels 59% are the same in all three scenarios and are based on 2014 salary, Salary, the 2013 benefits figure from the Single Total Figure table and the 48% benets and 2013 pension disclosure consistent with prior disclosure.
Annual pension and multi-year incentives BIP, LTIP and ESOS are based on the 20% 21% 1,660 policy table and 2014 salary.
Given the one-off nature of the REGP see page 82 for further details, potential final payouts in H12015 100% 31% 21% are not reflected in this chart.
The performance assumptions which have been used are as follows: Minimum means no AIP Maximum Minimum In line with payout and no multi-year incentives vesting.
In line with expectations expectations means AIP payout at 100% of salary, BIP vesting at time employed in 2014, and his BIP, LTIP and ESOS awards have 67% of the award, LTIP vesting at 50% of the award and ESOS lapsed, his remuneration for 2014 is not variable according to vesting at 80% of the award.
Maximum means AIP payout at 150% performance.
Duncan Palmers successor will join the company at of salary and multi-year incentives vesting at 100% of the awards.
a date which is still to be determined.
No share price movement is assumed and dividend equivalents payable in respect of the BIP and LTIP are not included.
For options Approach to recruitment remuneration Executive Directors vesting in line with expectations, a valuation factor of 20% of the face When agreeing the components of a remuneration package on the value of the award at grant has been applied.
This is our internal appointment of a new Executive Director, or an internal promotion valuation assumption for options, based on the exchange ratio applied to the Board, the Committee would seek to align the package with to participants in ESOS below Board level who can choose options the remuneration policy stated in the policy table.
However, on an or shares at a ratio of 5:1.
For options vesting at maximum, a higher internal promotion to the Board, any existing contractual obligations valuation factor to reflect the higher performance achievement of and commitments may continue to be honoured, even if not 33% of the face value of the award at grant has been applied.
This is in consistent with the prevailing policy.
For example, if the individual line with the report on pay and performance published in March 2013 is a member of the legacy defined benefit pension plan, the by the Financial Reporting Council, an independent UK regulator.
Committee will consider the pension arrangements in the context of the package as a whole and may allow continued participation.
We have not included a chart for the CFO role as Duncan Palmer is leaving the company in 2014.
His salary, regular ongoing benefits The Committees general principle on recruitment is to offer a excluding relocation expenses and pension will continue in line with competitive remuneration package to attract high-calibre 2013 levels see Single Total Figure table on page 86 until his candidates from a global talent pool.
The various components and leaving date.
As he is not eligible for a pro-rated AIP in respect of the companys approach are as follows: Standard package on recruitment To offer remuneration in line with the policy table including the limits, taking into account the principles set out above.
Compensation for forfeited entitlements The Committee may make awards and payments on hiring an external candidate to compensate him or her for entitlements forfeited on leaving the previous employer.
If such a decision is made, the Committee will attempt to reflect previous entitlements as closely as possible using a variety of tools, including cash, share awards and options.
Claw-back provisions will apply where appropriate.
If necessary to facilitate the grant of awards, the Committee may rely on the one person exemption in the UK Listing Rules.
Relocation allowances and expenses The type and size of relocation allowances and expenses will be determined by the specific circumstances of the new recruit.
The standard package comprises annual base salary, AIP, other benefits, annual awards under BIP, LTIP and ESOS and retirement benefits.
Shareholding requirement The Executive Directors are subject to shareholding requirements.
These are a minimum of 300% of annual base salary for the CEO and 200% of annual base salary for the CFO.
On joining or promotion to the Board, Executive Directors are given a period of time to build up to their requirement.
Policy on payments for loss of office In line with the companys policy, the service contracts of the existing Executive Directors contain 12-month notice periods.
The circumstances in which an Executive Directors employment is terminated will affect the Committees determination of any payment for loss of office, but it expects to apply the principles outlined in the table on the next page.
The Committee reserves the right to depart from these principles where appropriate in light of any taxation requirements to which the company or the Executive Director is subject including, without limitation, section 409A of the US Internal Revenue Code, or other legal obligations.
Restricted shares were granted to Duncan Palmer on his recruitment in 2012 as compensation for forfeited entitlements from his former employer.
This award has been pro-rated for service to the date of notice of resignation, with the result that 74,042 PLC ordinary shares and 51,378 NV ordinary shares will vest on leaving.
As the pro-rated shares will only be released upon his yet to be determined leaving date, rather than the original vesting dates, a cash adjustment may be paid to him if required to ensure that the value of the pro-rated award received on leaving is equivalent to that which would have been received under the original arrangements.
Dividend equivalents on the shares will be paid on vesting.
indd 83 07 03 2014 11:16 GOVERNANCE 84 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Policy on payments for loss of office continued 1 GENERAL MULTI-YEAR INCENTIVES 2 Mutually agreed termination termination by the company other than for cause The Executive Director would be entitled to salary, benefits BIP 2010, LTIP 2013 and ESOS 2013: The default position is that andother contractual payments in the normal way up to the unvested awards will be pro-rated to reflect time employed and termination date including any unpaid annual incentive for any will vest subject to performance measured at the end of the prior year and would be paid for any accrued but untaken holiday.
Options are typically exercisable for a period of two years following vesting.
In respect of the BIP, Salary: Payment of up to 12 months salary.
a pro-rata number of investment shares will remain in the plan, Annual incentive: Any unpaid annual incentive for the previous year with the balance being released on cessation of employment.
and a pro-rata payment in respect of the part of the financial year The Committee has discretion to allow unvested awards to up to the termination date would generally be payable, with the vest earlier and to adjust the application of time pro-rating, amount being determined by reference to the original performance conditions and exercise periods subject to the performance criteria.
However, the Committee has discretion to rules of the respective plans.
decide otherwise depending on the reason for termination and other specific circumstances.
The company would not pay any REGP: The default position is that unvested matching shares will annual incentive in respect of any part of the financial year be pro-rated to reflect time employed and will vest subject to following the termination date e. g. for any part of unserved performance measured at the end of the 2013-14 performance notice.
The annual incentive claw-back provisions would apply.
A pro-rata number of personal shares and deferred performance shares will remain in the plan, with the balance Other benefits: Where possible, benefits would be continued for up being released on cessation of employment.
The Committee has to the duration of the unserved notice period not exceeding the discretion to allow the matching shares to vest earlier.
maximum stated in the policy table or, the Executive Director would receive a cash payment not exceeding the cost to the ESOS 2003: The default position is that options will typically company of providing those benefits.
become exercisable for a six-month period two years on retirement from the termination date, subject to time pro-rating Pension: Deferred or immediate pension in accordance with scheme and performance conditions.
The Committee may adjust the rules, with a credit in respect of, or payment for up to, the full application of time pro-rating, performance conditions and period of any unworked period of notice.
There is provision under exercise periods, subject to the rules of the plan.
the defined benefit pension arrangements for members leaving company service by reason of permanent incapacity to make an application to the scheme trustee for early payment of their pension.
Other: The company may pay compensation in respect of any statutory employment rights and may make other appropriate and customary payments.
The company would have due regard to principles of mitigation of loss.
Reductions would be applied to reflect any portion of the notice period that is worked and or spent on gardening leave.
On injury, disability, ill health or death, the Committee reserves the right to vary the treatment outlined in this section.
Employee instigated resignation The Executive Director would not receive any payments for loss of All outstanding awards lapse on date of notice.
The Executive Director would be entitled to salary, benefits personal or investment shares e. g. under the REGP and the BIP and other contractual payments in the normal way up to the will be released.
termination date and would be paid for any accrued but untaken holiday.
The Executive Director will be entitled to receive an annual incentive for a completed previous year, but not a pro-rated annual incentive in respect of a part year up to the termination date, unless the Committee decides otherwise in the specific circumstances.
Annual incentive claw-back provisions would apply.
A deferred or immediate pension would be payable in accordance with the scheme rules.
Dismissal for cause The Executive Director would not receive any payments for loss All outstanding awards lapse on date of dismissal.
A deferred or immediate pension would be payable in personal or investment shares e. g. under the REGP and the BIP accordance with the scheme rules.
In addition to what is set out in the table, on termination for any reason, Erik Engstrom will be entitled to payment of amounts held in his Retirement Account.
Before he joined the companys UK defined benefit arrangement, he was not a member of any company pension scheme and Reed Elsevier made annual contributions of 19.5% of base salary to a deferred compensation plan.
Contributions to this Retirement Account ceased when he became a member of the UK defined benefit arrangement.
As outlined in the multi-year incentives column, in cases where the approved leaver treatment applies, the multi-year incentive plans have a default position as well as giving the Committee discretion to adjust the default treatment within certain parameters.
The Committee would expect to exercise such discretion where the Committee believes the personal circumstances of the Executive Director so require.
