Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 85 Non-Executive Directors Remuneration policy table Non-Executive Directors FEES Purpose and link to strategy To enable Reed Elsevier to recruit Non-Executive Directors with the right balance of personal skills and experience to make a major contribution to the Boards and Committees of a dual-listed global business.
Operation Reed Elsevier Chairman: Receives an aggregate annual fee with no additional fees, e. g. Committee Chairman fees.
In respect of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Group plc, the Committee determines, on the advice of the Senior Independent Director, the Chairmans fee.
In respect of Reed Elsevier NV, the Committee makes a recommendation, on the advice of the Senior Independent Director, to the Board of Reed Elsevier NV, which determines the Chairmans fee.
Other Non-Executive Directors: Receive an aggregate annual fee in respect of their memberships of the Boards of Reed Elsevier plc, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Additional fees are payable to the Senior Independent Director and Committee Chairmen.
Since 1 January 2014, fees are also payable for membership of Board Committees.
In future, attendance fees may be paid.
The Boards determine the level of fees, subject to applicable law.
Fees may be reviewed annually, although in practice they have changed on a less frequent basis.
When reviewing fees, consideration is given to the time commitment required, the complexity of the role and the calibre of the individual.
Comparative market data is also reviewed, the primary source for which is the practice of FTSE 30 companies, with reference also to the NYSE Euronext Amsterdam AEX index and US-listed companies.
Maximum value The fees paid to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are in respect of their memberships of the Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The shareholders of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Group plc have approved a maximum annual fee limit of 500,000 and 700,000 respectively excluding additional fees for membership of or chairing Board Committees and assuming additional responsibilities such as acting as Senior Independent Director, all of which are not subject to a maximum limit.
The shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV have approved a maximum annual fee limit of 600,000 for the fees borne by Reed Elsevier NV.
The aggregate annual fee limit is therefore approximately 1.7m.
OTHER BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy To provide customary benefits at an appropriate cost.
Operation Other benefits for Non-Executive Directors are reviewed periodically and may include private medical cover, tax return preparation costs, secretarial benefits and car benefits, including, where appropriate, the tax on such benefits.
Maximum value There is no prescribed maximum amount.
The fees paid to a Non-Executive Director who serves only on the Board of Reed Elsevier NV reflect the time commitment to that company and to other companies within the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
Approach to recruitment remuneration Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere Non-Executive Directors in the company Following recruitment, a new Non-Executive Director will be When the Committee reviews the Executive Directors salaries entitled to fees and other benefits in accordance with the annually, it takes into account the companys guidelines for companys remuneration policy.
No additional remuneration is salaries for all employees for the forthcoming year.
We do not paid on recruitment.
However, any reasonable expenses incurred currently use any other remuneration comparison metrics when during the recruitment process will be reimbursed.
determining the quantum and structure of Directors pay.
We do not think it is appropriate to consult with employees in connection Policy on payments for loss of office Non-Executive Directors with our policy on Directors remuneration.
In addition to unpaid accrued fees, the Non-Executive Directors are entitled to receive one months fees for loss of office if their Consideration of shareholder views appointment is terminated before the end of its term.
Our practice is to consult shareholders and consider their views when formulating, or changing, our policy.
For example, in early Service contracts and letters of appointment 2013 we consulted with a number of shareholders in connection There are no further obligations in the Directors service contracts with the proposals for a new LTIP and the renewal of the ESOS.
and letters of appointment which are not otherwise disclosed in The feedback helped shape the design of the plans.
this Report which could give rise to a remuneration payment or loss of office payment.
All Directors service contracts and letters Prior commitments of appointment are available for inspection at the companys The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration or loss registered office.
The Executive Directors' service contracts do of office payments if the terms were agreed prior to an individual not have a fixed expiry date.
being appointed as a Director or prior to the approval of the policy.
