Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 79 Remuneration Policy Report Set out in this section is the company's remuneration policy for Directors, which, subject to shareholder approval, will apply from the conclusion of the Reed Elsevier PLC Annual General Meeting to be held on 24 April 2014.
Remuneration policy table Executive Directors All footnotes to the policy table can be found on page 82.
ANNUAL BASE SALARY Purpose and link to strategy To recruit and retain the best executive talent globally to execute our strategic objectives at appropriate cost.
Operation Salaries for Executive Directors are set and reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee the Committee with changes typically taking effect on 1 January.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may review more frequently.
The following factors are considered: The executives role and sustained value to the company in terms of skill, experience and overall contribution.
Competitiveness with companies which are comparable in respect of industry, size, international scope and complexity.
Examples of global peers include Thomson Reuters, WPP, Pearson, John Wiley, Wolters Kluwer, Experian, McGraw-Hill andEquifax.
The companys guidelines for salaries for all employees for the year.
For the last two years, Executive Directors salary increases have been 2.5% per annum.
Maximum value Salary increases to Executive Directors are within the range of increases for the wider employee population.
However, the Committee has discretion to exceed this to take account of individual circumstances such as change in responsibility, increases in scale or complexity of the business, inflation or alignment to market level.
Performance framework n a Recovery of sums paid No provision.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy Retirement plans are part of remuneration packages designed to recruit and retain the best executive talent at appropriate cost.
Operation Our policy is to offer competitive long-term sustainable defined contribution plans.
Any amount above applicable limits, for example HMRCs annual allowance in the UK, will be paid in cash and will be subject to tax and social security deductions.
In certain circumstances, executives can take cash instead of pension contributions.
The UK defined benefit scheme is closed to new hires.
Continued membership of legacy defined benefit schemes requires annual increases to contributions or participation fees from all members, who have a choice to switch to the defined contribution plan at anytime.
The CEO is a member of a UK legacy defined benefit pension arrangement, accruing 1 30th of final year pensionable earnings base salary for each year pro-rated for part years of service, with a normal retirement age of 60.
The CEO contributes 7% of salary up to the scheme earnings cap.
In line with all UK defined benefit scheme members, the CEOs contributions will increase to 8% from April 2014 and then by a further 1% each year to a rate of 11% in April 2017.
In addition, the CEO currently pays a participation fee equal to 1% of the amount of his base salary in excess of the scheme earnings cap.
On 1 April 2014, and each April thereafter, this fee will increase by 2% of the amount of his base salary in excess of the scheme earnings cap.
Maximum value Defined benefit scheme accrual of 1 30th of salary for every year of service up to a maximum of 2 3rds of salary.
Defined contribution plan maximum company contribution of 30% of salary per annum or equivalent cash in lieu.
indd 79 07 03 2014 11:16 GOVERNANCE 80 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT OTHER BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy To provide competitive benefits at appropriate cost.
Operation Other benefits, subject to periodic review, may include private medical and dental cover, life assurance, tax return preparation costs, car benefits, directors and officers liability insurance, relocation benefits and expatriate allowances and other benefits available to employees generally, including, where appropriate, the tax on such benefits.
Maximum value Over the past three years, ongoing benefits for Executive Directors excluding relocation benefits have amounted to between 3% and 5% of salary, in line with our policy that the maximum payable should not exceed 5% of salary.
However, the Committee may provide reasonable benefits beyond this amount in unexpected situations, such as a change in the individuals circumstances caused by the company, or if there is a significant increase in the cost of the benefit.
AIP ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN Purpose and link to strategy Provides focus on the delivery of annual financial targets and the achievement of annual objectives and milestones which are chosen to align with the companys strategy and create a platform for sustainable future performance.
Why performance measures are chosen and how targets are set Performance measures include a balanced set of financial targets and Key Performance Objectives KPOs, which are appropriately weighted and which support current strategy and incentivise the Executive Directors to achieve the desired outcomes without undue risk of focusing on any one financial measure.
The targets are designed to be challenging.
They are set with reference to the previous years performance and internal and external forecasts for the following year.
Operation The Committee reviews and sets the financial targets and KPOs annually, taking into account internal forecasts and strategic plans.
It approves four to six KPOs for each Executive Director, reflecting critical business priorities for which each is accountable.
At least one KPO will relate to the achievement of sustainability targets.
Following year end, the Committee compares actual performance with the financial targets and assesses the achievement of individual KPOs.
Maximum value The maximum potential annual incentive for Executive Directors is 150% of annual base salary.
Performance framework The measures include financial targets, which have a weighting of at least 70%, and individual KPOs, with each element assessed separately.
The minimum payout is zero.
If the financial measure with the lowest payout at threshold pays out at threshold and the others do not pay out at all, the overall payout for financial measures is 5% of salary.
If threshold is reached for each of the financial measures, the overall payout for the financial measures is 26% of salary.
There is no threshold level for KPOs.
Payout for target performance financial measures and KPOs is 100% of salary.
Following an assessment of achievement and scoring of KPOs, the Committee agrees the overall payout level for each Executive Director.
Recovery of sums paid 3 Claw-back applies.
indd 80 07 03 2014 11:16 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 81 CURRENT MULTI-YEAR INCENTIVE PLANS Purpose and link to strategy The multi-year incentive plans are the main component of Executive Directors pay.
They are designed to provide long-term incentives for Executive Directors to achieve the key performance measures that support the companys strategy, and to align their interests with shareholders.
The BIP encourages annual personal investment in Reed Elsevier shares.
Why performance measures are chosen and how targets are set Our strategic focus is on transforming the core business through organic investment and the build out of new products into adjacent markets and geographies, supplemented by selective portfolio acquisitions and divestments.
The performance measures in the multi-year incentives are chosen to support this strategy by focusing on return on capital, returns to shareholders and sustained earnings growth.
Targets are set with regard to previous results and internal and external forecasts for the performance period.
They are designed to provide exceptional reward for exceptional performance, whilst allowing a reasonable expectation that reward at the lower end of the scale is attainable, subject to robust performance.
BIP BONUS INVESTMENT PLAN LTIP LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN ESOS EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION SCHEME Operation Annually, Executive Directors may use up to Annual awards of performance shares, Annual awards of market value options an amount equal to their AIP target for with vesting subject to: that vest, subject to performance investment in Reed Elsevier shares.
In measured over three financial years, and performance measured over three return, they receive a matching award remain exercisable, subject to continued financial years: which vests subject to: employment, until the tenth anniversary continued employment: and of grant.
performance measured over three meeting shareholding requirements.
financial years: Vesting may be accelerated on a change Executive Directors are required to retain 4 continued employment: and of control.
their net vested shares for a period of at retention of the underlying investment least six months after release.
Dividend equivalents accrued during the Dividend equivalents accrued during the performance period are payable in respect performance period are payable in respect of the performance shares that vest.
of the matching shares that vest.
Vesting may be accelerated on a change Vesting may be accelerated on a change 4 of control.
Maximum value Up to 100% of the amount invested.
The maximum grant in any year is up to The maximum grant in any year is up to 250% of base salary for the CEO and up 250% of base salary for the CEO and up to 200% of base salary for other to 200% of base salary for other Executive Directors.
Performance framework The performance measures are earnings The performance measures are relative The vesting of options is subject to EPS per share EPS and return on invested Total Shareholder Return TSR, EPS and measured over three years.
capital ROIC, weighted equally and ROIC, weighted equally and assessed The minimum payout is zero.
assessed independently, such that a payout independently, such that a payout can be Payout at threshold performance is can be received under either one of the received under any one of the measures 33%.
or, for TSR, in respect of one of the three Payout in line with expectations is 80%.
If one measure pays out at threshold and If the measure with the lowest payout at the other does not pay out at all, the threshold pays out at threshold and the overall payout is 25%.
If both measures others do not pay out at all, the overall pay out at threshold, the overall payout payout is 3%.
If each of the measures is 50%.
pays out at threshold, the overall payout Payout in line with expectations is 67%.
Dividend equivalents are not taken into Payout in line with expectations is 50%.
account in the above payout levels.
Dividend equivalents are not taken into 1, 2 Committee discretion applies.
Recovery of sums paid 3 3 3 Claw-back applies.
indd 81 07 03 2014 11:16 GOVERNANCE 82 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DISCONTINUED ONE-OFF MULTI-YEAR INCENTIVE PLAN REGP REED ELSEVIER GROWTH PLAN Purpose and link to strategy The REGP was introduced in 2010 during a challenging and volatile business environment following the appointment of the current CEO.
It was designed as a one-off, five-year plan for the Executive Directors instead of LTIP grants in 2010, 2011 and 2012.
Operation The only current participant is the CEO and no further awards will be granted under this plan.
The CEO must retain a personal shareholding in the REGP of 300% of salary in addition to shares held under the BIP until vesting in H1 2015.
Initial performance share awards vested, based on performance measured over 2010-2012, at 66.8%.
50% of the vested shares were released along with a cash dividend equivalent and 50% were deferred and will only be released in H12015.
The full 66.8% has been included in the 2012 Single Total Figure on page 86.
Matching awards, equal to the number of personal shares and deferred performance shares, were granted in 2013 and vest, subject to performance, in H12015.
Dividend equivalents will be payable in respect of the matching awards and deferred performance shares which vest in H12015.
4 Vesting will be accelerated on a change of control.
Maximum value The maximum vesting over the five-year period 2010 -14 of the plan including what has already vested after year three is 150% of the shares comprised in the original performance share award of 600% of 2010 base salary.
Performance framework Matching awards TSR, EPS and ROIC, weighted equally and assessed independently, such that a payout can be received under any one of the measures or, for TSR, in respect of one of the three comparator groups.
TSR is measured over the five-year period 2010-2014, EPS is measured over the two-year period 2013-2014 and ROIC is measured at the end of 2014.
If the measure with the lowest payout at threshold pays out at threshold and the others do not pay out at all, the overall payout is 3%.
If each of the measures pays out at threshold, the overall payout is 50%.
Payout in line with expectations is 50%.
Recovery of sums paid withholding 3 Claw-back applies.
Discretion in respect of annual and multi-year incentive plan payout levels: In determining the level of payout under the AIP and vesting under the multi-year incentives, the Committee takes into account Reed Elseviers overall business performance and value created for shareholders over the period in review and other relevant factors.
It has discretion to adjust the vesting and payout levels if it believes this would result in a fairer outcome.
This discretion will only be used in exceptional circumstances and the Committee will explain in the next remuneration report the extent to which it has been exercised and the reasons for doing so.
Discretion to vary performance measures applying to existing annual and multi-year incentives: The Committee may vary the financial measures applying to a current annual incentive year and performance measures for multi-year incentives if a change in circumstances leads it to believe that the arrangement is no longer a fair measure of performance.
Any new measures will not be materially less, or more, challenging than the original ones.
Application of claw-back to annual and multi-year incentives: The Committee has discretion to apply claw-back if the payout was calculated on the basis of materially misstated financial or other data, in which case it can seek to recover the difference in value between the incorrect award and the amount that would have been paid had the correct data been used.
In respect of multi-year incentives, the Committee also has discretion to apply claw-back if a participant breaches post-termination restrictive covenants, in which case it may require repayment of gains arising during a specified period.
Multi-year incentives change of control: Under the BIP 2010, LTIP 2013 and ESOS 2013, the default position is that awards vest on a change of control on a pro-rated basis, subject to an assessment of performance against targets at that time.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that awards will not vest and will instead be exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
Under the REGP, awards vest within 30 days of the change of control on a pro-rated basis subject to performance.
Explanation of differences between the companys policy on Directors remuneration and the policy for other employees: A larger percentage of Executive Directors remuneration is performance related than that of other employees.
All managers participate in an annual incentive plan, but participation levels, measures and targets vary according to their role and local business priorities.
Approximately 100 senior executives participate in BIP and LTIP and about 1,000 in ESOS.
Grant levels under all plans vary according to role.
All participants in BIP and LTIP including the Executive Directors are subject to the same performance measures.
Under ESOS, performance measures apply only to the Executive Directors and all other participants can choose restricted shares instead of options on the basis of a pre-determined exchange ratio.
The range and level of benefits provided vary according to role and local market practice.
