Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration report Dear shareholder, Decisions in respect of 2013 Based on achievement against adjusted operating profit targets As the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to in the context of the significant increase to mature operating present to you this years report on Directors remuneration.
profit and substantial increase in new centres during the year Changes to remuneration reporting in the UK discussed in more detail on pages 19 to 23 of the Annual Since last years report, new remuneration reporting regulations Report, we awarded bonuses of 79% of salary 79% of the have come into effect for UK-incorporated listed companies.
maximum 100% to the Executive Directors.
Half of the awarded bonuses will be deferred as Regus Investment As a company incorporated under Luxembourg law, we are Shares for three years under the CIP see below.
not legally required to adopt the new regulations.
However, in keeping with our long-standing commitment to good corporate The Committee reviewed performance over the four-year governance, we will continue to voluntarily prepare a Directors performance period to 31 December 2013 under the second remuneration report, and we will do so on the basis of the tranche of Matching Shares awarded to Mark Dixon under requirements of the new regulations.
Based on achieving adjusted EPS of 17.2p and TSR of 126% vs FTSE All Share 51%, the The report is therefore split into two sections: Committee determined that 35% of the second tranche Remuneration Policy pages 42-46.
This sets out our executive should vest.
2014 decisions Annual Report on Remuneration pages 47-53.
This details There will be no salary increases for the Executive Directors the implementation of our policies in the current year and our in 2014. approach for 2014.
The structure and quantum of our incentive opportunities will Both will be submitted for shareholder approval at the forthcoming remain unchanged, as set out in the Policy Table on page 42.
Given the different legal jurisdiction in which we are Based on the deferral of half of the 2013 bonus i. e. 38.5% of incorporated, the approval of our Remuneration Policy will be salary, an opportunity to earn up to four Matching Shares on an advisory rather than a binding basis.
for each Investment Share will be awarded under the CIP.
Remuneration objectives and principles This will be equivalent to a maximum award of 158% of salary.
As context for considering the report, set out below are the These CIP Matching Shares will vest based on performance remuneration objectives and principles which have consistently against stretching targets over performance periods of three, underpinned our remuneration framework for a number of years: four and five years.
75% of the award will be based on EPS, Our remuneration packages must attract, retain and motivate with targets which require annual growth of 25-35% p. a. for people of the highest calibre and experience needed to shape maximum vesting.
The remaining 25% will be based on our and execute the Companys strategy and to deliver exceptional total shareholder return TSR ranking against the constituents shareholder value.
Total compensation opportunities should be of the FTSE 350 excluding financial services and mining.
commensurate with comparable packages available with similar We look forward to receiving your support for both resolutions at companies operating in similar markets.
A significant proportion of reward should be based on short and long-term performance measured by satisfaction of targeted objectives which are the main drivers of shareholder value.
Executives should be focused on delivering exceptional returns Alex Sulkowski to shareholders and be given the opportunity to receive Chairman, Remuneration Committee exceptional levels of reward if such performance is delivered.
Conversely, if returns are conservative, compensation levels should be conservative.
The interests of executives should be closely aligned with those of shareholders over the long term through substantial share ownership and share-based incentives.
This is achieved via our Co-Investment Plan CIP which measures performance over periods of up to five years and through our share ownership guidelines.
com investors 41 Remuneration report continued This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Listing Rules and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Company has been incorporated subject to Luxembourg law rather than UK law.
As a result, the Company does not have the benefit of the statutory protections afforded by the UK Companies Act in the event that there were to be any inconsistency between the Companys approved policy report and any contractual entitlement or other rights of a Director.
Therefore, in the event that there were to be such an inconsistency, the Company may be obliged to honour the contractual entitlement or right notwithstanding that it is inconsistent with the contents of the approved policy report.
Remuneration Policy This Remuneration Policy, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, will be effective following shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Policy Table for Executive Directors Purpose link to Component strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework Base salary To provide a Salaries are set by the Committee, taking There is no prescribed N A competitive into all relevant factors which may include: maximum salary.
Salary component the scope and responsibilities of the role, increases will normally of fixed the skills, experience and circumstances be broadly in line with remuneration to of the individual, sustained performance increases awarded to attract and retain in the role, the level of increase for other other employees in the people of the roles within the business, and appropriate business, although the highest calibre market data.
Committee retains and experience discretion to award larger Reviewed annually and any changes needed to shape increases if it considers normally made effective from 1 January.
and execute the it appropriate e. g. to The base salaries effective 1 January Companys reflect a change in role, 2014 are set out on page 47 of the strategy development and Annual Remuneration Report.
performance in role, or to align to market data.
Benefits To provide a Incorporates various cash non-cash Benefit provision is set at N A competitive benefits which may include: a company car an appropriately market benefits package.
or allowance and fuel allowance, private competitive rate for the health insurance, life assurance and, nature and location of where necessary, other benefits to reflect the role.
There is no specific individual circumstances, such prescribed maximum as housing or relocation allowances, as some costs may representation allowances, re-imbursement change in accordance of school fees, travel allowances, or other with market conditions.
Pension To provide Provided through participation in the 7% of base salary.
N A retirement Companys Money Purchase Personal The Committee may set benefits in line Pension Scheme, under which the a higher level to reflect with the overall Company matches individual contributions local practice and Group policy up to a maximum of base salary.
Annual To incentivise Provides an opportunity for additional reward 100% of base salary Payment is determined bonus and reward up to a maximum specified as a % of salary per annum by reference to annual based on annual performance against performance assessed performance for targets set and assessed by the Committee.
over one year using shareholders.
performance measures Up to 50% of any gross bonus earned can which are aligned to be deferred into Investment Shares under the objectives of the the CIP see below.
The remainder is paid business for the year in cash.
currently operating profit 42 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Purpose link to Component strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework CoExists to reward Awards are made under the terms of the Matching Shares Vesting is determined by Investment deferral under the Regus plc Co-Investment Plan, approved element: Award size reference to performance Plan CIP annual bonus, by shareholders in General Meeting in 2008. of 200% of salary assessed over a period encourage the The CIP has two elements: per annum of at least three years, build-up of with awards normally LTIP element: Award Matching Shares element significant split equally over periods size of 100% of salary This operates in conjunction with the annual personal of three, four and five per annum bonus arrangements whereby a gross bonus shareholdings years.
There is no Matching Shares and of up to 50% of base salary is awarded as over time, and opportunity for re-testing.
LTIP will not normally a deferred amount of shares Investment provide a variable Performance for 2014 be awarded in the Shares which will be released at the end pay opportunity, awards will be assessed same year.
of a holding period of not less than three which motivates against key measures of years, subject to continued employment.
and rewards long-term performance: The participant may then earn additional long-term Earnings Per Share shares Matching Shares based on the Company EPS number of Investment Shares awarded and performance.
Total Shareholder the Companys long-term performance.
Return TSR The maximum ratio of Matching Shares For future awards, the to Investment Shares is 4:1.
Committee may include LTIP element other quantitative, An award of shares to be released at the financial performance end of a period of not less than three years, measures which are based on the Companys long-term aligned to strategic performance.
objectives and Awards of Investment Shares, Matching shareholder value.
Shares and LTIP awards can be made in The performance the form of either a nil cost option or a measures framework conditional right to shares.
will normally be Awards may vest early on leaving weighted towards EPS.
employment or on a change of control The threshold level see later sections.
of vesting is 25% of the maximum.
Executive Directors may hold awards under the Regus plc Share The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration Option Plan, granted in respect of their recruitment or prior to payments and payments for loss of office including exercising and not in contemplation of their appointment to the Board, any discretions available to it in connection with such payments however this does not form part of their annual remuneration notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out framework.
Such awards are made under the terms of the Regus above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before plc Share Option Plan, approved by shareholders in General the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant Meeting in 2008.
Options are granted over Regus shares with individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion an exercise price not less than the market value of shares on the of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for date of grant.
Awards may not be exercised before three years the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these from grant and up to a maximum of ten years following grant.
purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards Awards may vest early on leaving employment or on a change of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, of control.
The Committee may make an award subject to a the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may make minor amendments to performance condition or other condition.
the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
com investors 43 Remuneration report continued Policy Table for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Component Approach of the Company Chairman fees Determined by the Remuneration Committee.
A single fee which reflects all Board and Committee duties.
Set at a level sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the required skills, experience and knowledge to allow the Board to effectively carry out its duties.
Non-Executive Director fees Determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The fee encompasses a basic fee and may also include supplementary fees for committee or other duties.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not receive any benefits, nor do they participate in any bonus or share incentive scheme, nor do they participate in any pension arrangements.
Performance measures and target setting Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group The annual bonus is based on stretching financial performance When setting the policy for the remuneration of the Executive targets determined by the Committee at the start of the year.
Directors, the Committee has regard to the pay and employment Operating profit is the performance measure for 2014 as this conditions of employees within the Group.
The Committee is a key performance indicator for the business.
does not consult directly with employees when formulating the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The CIP is based on long-term performance, using performance measures which the Committee feels are most appropriate for Consideration of shareholder views the Company.
For 2014, awards are based on EPS which the Views expressed by the Companys shareholders were taken into Committee believes is the most appropriate measure of financial account by the Committee in the development of the Companys and operational performance delivered for shareholders and TSR remuneration framework.
to ensure that an element of reward is based on value delivered The members of the Committee, including the Chairman, attend for shareholders.
The performance targets for CIP awards are the Companys Annual General Meeting and are available to determined by the Committee at the time of grant.
listen to views and to answer shareholders questions about Under the rules of the CIP, if events occur which cause the Directors remuneration.
Committee to consider that the performance targets have become The Committee also reviews the executive remuneration unfair or impractical, the Committee has discretion to amend the framework in the context of published shareholder guidelines.
target so that in the opinion of the Committee it is no more or less difficult to satisfy than when it was awarded.
Approach to recruitment remuneration When determining the remuneration package for a newly Differences in the Companys policy on the remuneration appointed Executive Director, the Committee would seek to of employees generally apply the following principles: Regus operates in a number of different geographies and therefore employee remuneration practices vary widely across The package must be sufficiently competitive to facilitate the the employee population within the Group.
However, employee recruitment of individuals of the highest calibre and experience remuneration policies are normally based on the same needed to shape and execute the Companys strategy.
broad principles: At the same time, the Committee would seek to pay no more than necessary.
they are sufficient to attract and retain the calibre of talent necessary to deliver the strategy for shareholders: The structure of the annual remuneration package would follow that described in the Policy Table for Executive Directors on the Committee believes firmly in the effectiveness of short-term page 42.
Salaries would reflect the skills and experience of incentives as a mechanism for incentivising and rewarding the individual, and may be set at a level to allow future salary annual financial performance for shareholders.
Accordingly, progression to reflect performance in role.
incentive schemes are widely used across the business: The Committee considers that having flexibility to respond the Group operates various employee share incentive schemes to the specific commercial circumstances of a recruitment to encourage employee share ownership: situation is in the best interests of the Company and its executive directors participate in the pension plan on the same shareholders, particularly in exceptional or unexpected basis as other employees.
circumstances which can arise when seeking to facilitate senior executive recruitment.
Therefore, the maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded is 450% of salary, which would be subject to stretching performance conditions.
44 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Where an individual forfeits remuneration at a previous employer Policy on payment for loss of office as a result of appointment to the Company, the Committee Where an Executive Director leaves employment, the Committees may offer compensatory payments or awards to facilitate approach to determining any payment for loss of office will recruitment.
Such payments or awards could include cash normally be based on the following principles: as well as performance and non-performance related share The Committees objective is to find an outcome which is in the awards, and would be in such form as the Committee best interests of the Company and its shareholders, taking into considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors account the specific circumstances, contractual obligations, such as the form, expected value, anticipated vesting and and seeking to pay no more than is warranted.
Payments in lieu timing of the forfeited remuneration.
There is no limit on the of notice will not exceed 12 months salary and benefits.
value of such compensatory awards, but the Committees intention is that the value awarded would be no higher than The Committee has discretion to make a payment under the value forfeited.
While cash may be included to reflect the annual bonus.
This will reflect the period of service during forfeiture of cash-based remuneration, the Committee does the year and performance measured at the same time as not envisage that substantial golden hello cash payments performance for other plan participants, if feasible.
The treatment of outstanding share awards would be Any share-based awards referred to in this section will be determined by the relevant plan rules, as summarised in granted as far as possible under the Companys existing share the table.
If necessary, awards may be granted outside these The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit plans as permitted under the Listing Rules, and in line with payments where such payments are made in good faith the approach and the limits set out above.
in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of Director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection Policy Table for Non-Executive Directors on page 44. with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
Service contracts CIP Investment Shares will be released to the participant Executive Directors have service contracts with the Group which Shares the number of which, unless the Committee can be terminated by the Company or the Director by giving determines otherwise, would reflect the 12 months notice.
This applies to current Executive Directors and proportion of the holding period that would normally be applied as the policy for future appointments.
The Company may terminate employment of the Chief Executive CIP Matching Awards will lapse unless the Committee in its by making a payment in lieu of notice which would not exceed Shares or LTIP absolute discretion determines otherwise for 12 months salary.
Unless it is renewed, the contract of the reasons including, amongst others, injury, Chief Financial Officer will terminate automatically after five disability, retirement, redundancy and death.
years from 1 September 2011 without requiring notice.
The release of such awards will be dependent on the proportionate satisfaction of the Under the current service agreements of the Executive Directors, performance target on the date of cessation on a change of control the Director may terminate the contract and will be reduced pro-rata to reflect the by giving one months notice and will, in addition to contractual proportion of the holding period that payments for the one-month notice period, receive a payment had elapsed.
equal to 12 months salary, and remain eligible for a discretionary bonus.
Share Options Unvested options will lapse unless specified otherwise in the terms of grant or if the The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a Committee so determines.
Vested options three-year term, which is renewable, with six months notice on can be exercised within six-months of either side, no contractual termination payments being due and cessation or such longer period as the subject to retirement pursuant to the Articles of Association at Committee may decide, not exceeding the Annual General Meeting.
com investors 45 Remuneration report continued Change of control and capital events The treatment of outstanding share awards would be dealt with in accordance with the relevant plan rules, as summarised in the table.
Change of control CIP Investment Shares will be released.
CIP Matching Shares or LTIP awards will be released, the proportion of any such awards released being dependent on the degree of satisfaction of the performance requirements on such date and in the Committees discretion the length of any holding period completed.
Unvested share options may only be exercised to the extent that the Committee decides based on the proportionate satisfaction of the performance targets taking into account the length of the period which has expired.
Mergers If the Company merges with another company or any of the businesses of the Group are demerged the Committee shall have discretion as to whether to release or adjust any CIP award.
Variation of share capital If a variation of capital takes place then the number of shares subject to any award and the terms and conditions applying to such awards may be adjusted in such a manner as the Committee may determine to be appropriate and as the auditors of Regus shall have confirmed in writing to be in their opinion fair and reasonable.
Illustration of remuneration policy The charts below illustrate the application of the Remuneration Policy set out in the Policy Table for Executive Directors.
This assumes the level of fixed remuneration salary, benefits and pension as at 1 January 2014 and the following in respect of each scenario: Minimum represents fixed remuneration only.
Target represents annual bonus of 50% of salary, half of which is deferred into the CIP and eligible for a maximum of four Matching Shares.
It is assumed the Matching Shares vest at the threshold level of 25% of maximum.
Maximum represents the maximum annual bonus of 100% of salary, half of which is deferred into the CIP and eligible for a maximum of four Matching Shares.
It is assumed the Matching Shares vest in full.
Chief Executive officer Mark Dixon Chief Financial officer Dominique Yates 000 000 2,441 2,500 2,500 48% 2,000 2,000 1,521 1,500 1,500 45% 1,120 24% 13% 1,000 1,000 752 26% 680 22% 11% 496 23% 100% 61% 28% 500 500 100% 66% 33% 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Fixed pay salary, benets, pension Annual bonus CIP 46 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report on Remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration for the Directors in respect of 2013.
Further discussion of each of the components, including the intended operation of the policy for 2014, is set out on the pages which follow.
None of the disclosures has been audited.
Single Total Figure of Remuneration Table The remuneration in respect of the year ending 31 December 2013 of the Executive Directors who served during the year is shown in the table below with the prior year comparative.
Benefits includes private health insurance and, for Dominique Yates, it also includes a representation allowance, expatriate allowances, and a car allowance 2012 only.
Annual bonus includes the full value of the annual bonus awarded in respect of the relevant financial year.
In both 2013 and 2012, 50% of the value shown in the table was deferred into Investment Shares for three years subject to continued employment under the terms of the CIP, with the remainder received in cash.
CIP awards includes the value of Matching Share awards made to Mark Dixon under the CIP in previous years which vested in respect of a performance period ending in the relevant financial year.
The vesting of the second tranche of the 2008 2009 Matching Shares is included in the 2013 column 334,047 shares vested out of the maximum of 954,420.
The vesting of the 2010 LTIP Shares and the first tranche of the 2008 2009 Matching Shares is included in the 2012 column.
Other Dominique Yates was granted market value share options over one million shares in 2011 to aid his recruitment exercise price 74.35p.
Based on the achievement against 2012 operating profit targets, the Remuneration Committee determined that 91% of the options vested.
The vested options will become exercisable in equal tranches in 2014, 2015 and 2016.
The remuneration in respect of the year ending 31 December 2013 of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors who served during the year is shown in the table below with the prior year comparative.
Fees 000 2013 2012 Douglas Sutherland 165.0 165.0 Lance Browne 61.5 57.0 Elmar Heggen 50.0 50.0 Alex Sulkowski 50.0 50.0 Florence Pierre 27.4 Florence Pierre was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 21 May 2013.
The Non-Executive Directors do not receive any other remuneration from the Company.
Key components of remuneration The following sections describe how the Committee implemented key elements of the policy in the year ending 31 December 2013 and how it is intended to operate in the year ending 31 December 2014.
Base salary and benefits The base salaries of the Executive Directors effective 1 January 2014 are set out in the table below together with the prior year comparative.
2013 2014 Mark Dixon CEO 587,000 587,000 Dominique Yates CFO CHF495,000 CHF495,000 The salary for Dominique Yates is denominated and paid in Swiss francs.
com investors 47 Remuneration report continued Benefits Both Executive Directors receive private health insurance and life assurance.
The CEO also receives a car fuel allowance.
The CFO also receives a representation allowance and housing expatriate allowances.
The benefits policy will remain the same for 2014.
The Committee believes it is appropriate to continue payment of expatriate and housing allowances to the CFO as part of a market competitive package for the location of the role, although the Committee will keep this policy under review for future years.
Annual bonus In 2013, the Executive Directors had a maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of salary based on performance against stretching Group operating profit targets for the financial year.
For the purposes of the annual bonus, the Committee makes adjustments to Group operating profit to reflect certain growth costs in order to ensure that the bonus does not act as a disincentive to the investment in new centres which underpins the long-term growth strategy.
Based on the adjusted operating profit achieved in the year, the Committee determined that performance was between the target and maximum levels and therefore the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer should each receive a bonus of 79% of salary 79% of maximum in respect of the year.
In considering the bonus for the year, the Committee took into the following performance context explained in more detail on pages 19 to 23 of the annual report : Growth in mature operating profit from 154.6m to 205.3m, with an increase in margin from 13.1% to 16.7%.
The addition of 448 new centres, in excess of the 300 expected at the start of the year.
The substantial returns to shareholders delivered via a doubling in the share price over the year.
The Committee believes that the adjusted operating profit targets used to assess the annual bonus are commercially sensitive and that it is not appropriate to disclose them currently or retrospectively.
Half of the awarded bonus 39.5% of salary is paid in cash and half the remaining 39.5% of salary will be awarded in the form of Investment Shares, the vesting of which will be deferred for three years, under the rules of the CIP discussed in more detail below.
There are no changes in bonus quantum or structure for the 2014 financial year.
The maximum opportunity will remain at 100% of salary and 50% of the bonus earned being deferred into Investment Shares for three years.
The bonus will continue to be assessed against stretching adjusted operating profit targets.
CIP awards vesting in respect of 2013 The 2008 and 2009 Matching Share awards were divided into three separate equal tranches subject to performance periods over three, four and five years respectively from 1 January 2010.
The vesting conditions are outlined below.
TSR target 25% of each tranche % of shares Regus TSR % achieved relative to FTSE All Share Total Return Index vesting 100% 0% Above 100% but below 101% 25% For each complete 1% over 100% 0.75% 200% or above 100% EPS target 75% of each tranche EPS targets for years ending 2013 2014 Vesting scale Tranche 2 Tranche 3 25% 17p 18p 50% 20p 22p 75% 23p 26p 100% 26p 30p 48 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The second tranche of the 2008 and 2009 Matching Share was based on a four-year performance period to 31 December 2013.
The Committee has assessed performance against the TSR and EPS targets set in 2010 and concluded that 35% of the second tranche should vest and the remainder of that tranche shall lapse : TSR 25%.
From a base point of 100%, Regus achieved a TSR value of 225.9% compared to 151.0% for the FTSE All Share Index over the performance period, equating to a vesting of 61.75% of this part of the award.
Based on an adjusted 2013 EPS of 17.2p, which reflects underlying performance, adjusted to exclude the positive impact of changes in accounting policy and estimates implemented during 2013, and to exclude certain growth costs and one-off exceptional items, in accordance with the terms of the original award, the Committee concluded that 30% of this part of the award should vest.
The final tranche of the 2008 and 2009 Matching Share awards will vest in March 2015 subject to performance over the five-year period to 31 December 2014.
CIP awards made in 2013 The Executive Directors deferred 50% of their 2012 annual bonus into Investment Shares under the CIP.
The Investment Shares will vest and be released at the end of a three-year holding period, subject to continued employment with the Regus Group during that period.
For each Investment Share held the Executive Directors may earn up to a maximum of four Matching Shares which will vest subject to EPS and TSR performance conditions in three equal tranches over performance periods of three, four and five years.
Details of the Investment Share and Matching Share awards made during 2013 to the Executive Directors are shown in the table below.
Face value Threshold Executive Director Type of interest, 000 vesting End of holding performance period Mark Dixon Investment Shares 283 N A 6 March 2016 Matching Shares 1,130 25% One third 31 December 2015, 2016 and 2017 Dominique Yates Investment Shares 173 N A 6 March 2016 Matching Shares 693 25% One third 31 December 2015, 2016 and 2017 The face value has been calculated using the share price of 149.8p, the closing price prior the date of grant 6 March 2013.
The Matching Shares awarded in 2013 are subject to the following performance conditions: TSR target 25% of each tranche % of shares Regus TSR % achieved relative to FTSE All Share Total Return Index vesting Below index 0% Equal to index 25% Equal to index 15% p. a.
100% Straight-line vesting between these points.
EPS target 75% of each tranche EPS targets for years ending 2015 2016 2017 Vesting scale Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 25% 12.0p 14.0p 16.0p 50% 12.6p 14.6p 16.6p 75% 13.3p 15.3p 17.3p 100% 14.0p 16.0p 18.0p Straight-line vesting between these points.
EPS is defined as basic EPS of the Group as adjusted to take into account one-off exceptional items which do not appropriately reflect underlying performance of the Group.
The equivalent EPS figure for 2012 was 7.5p.
com investors 49 Remuneration report continued CIP awards to be made in 2014 The Executive Directors will defer 50% of their 2013 annual bonus into Investment Shares under the CIP.
These Investment Shares will vest after three years in line with the terms described above.
For each Investment Share the Executive Directors will be awarded the opportunity to earn up to four Matching Shares.
As described above, the Investment Shares will have a value of 39.5% of salary, implying a maximum number of Matching Shares to be awarded in 2014 of 158% of salary.
The number of Investment Shares and Matching Shares awarded will be disclosed when granted and in next years report.
The Matching Shares will vest subject to EPS and TSR performance conditions in three equal tranches over performance periods of three, four and five years in accordance with the targets as set out below.
TSR target 25% of each tranche % of shares Regus TSR ranking against the constituents of the FTSE 350 index excluding financial services and mining companies vesting Median 25% Upper quartile or above 100% Straight-line vesting between median and upper quartile.
EPS target 75% of each tranche EPS targets for years ending 2016 2017 2018 Vesting scale Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 25% 14.3p 16.1p 17.1p 100% 17.0p 20.2p 25.5p Straight-line vesting between these points.
No vesting below the threshold target.
In previous years, the TSR targets were based on out-performance of the FTSE All Share index as illustrated in the tables in the sections above.
For 2014 awards, the Committee has re-calibrated the TSR targets which are now based on the ranked TSR performance of Regus against the constituents of the FTSE 350 excluding financial services and mining companies.
The Committee believes that, given the absence of any listed peer companies, the use of a broad equity index remains appropriate, and that the FTSE 350 is preferable to the All Share index on the basis of the position of Regus in the FTSE 350 index.
Companies from the financial services and mining sectors are excluded in order to ensure the TSR result is not unduly skewed by the performance of these sectors which are often subject to their own business cycles.
For the purposes of the CIP, EPS will be defined as basic EPS of the Group.
The Committee has discretion to adjust EPS both positively and negatively to take into account one-off exceptional items which do not appropriately reflect underlying performance of the Group, and to make adjustments where the number of new centres is significantly above or below that envisaged when the targets were set.
The purpose of such adjustments is to ensure a fair measurement of performance and to avoid the EPS targets acting as a disincentive to the investment in new centres which underpins the long-term growth strategy.
The equivalent basic EPS figure for 2013 would be 7.1p, and therefore the targets represent at the maximum approximately 26-34% growth per annum, which the Committee believes is very stretching in the current environment particularly over performance periods which extend over three, four and five years.
Pension The Executive Directors participate in the Companys money purchase pension scheme.
The Company matches contributions up to a maximum of 7% of basic salary.
The Committee considers that the pension benefits of the Executive Directors are low compared with comparative companies but prefers to offer enhanced variable compensation rather than a fixed additional pension contribution.
The Group does not operate a Group-wide defined benefit pension scheme with the exception of Switzerland, where pension schemes are treated as such for accounting purposes and has no plans to introduce such a scheme.
50 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Statement of share scheme interests and shareholdings Under the Regus Shareholding guidelines, Executive Directors are expected to build up a shareholding equivalent to 200% of base salary.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not subject to the share ownership guidelines.
The following table sets out for Directors who served during the year the total number of shares held including the interests of connected persons as at 31 December 2013.
It also shows the interests in share schemes for the Executive Directors.
Shareholding requirement Interests in share option awards CIP % of salary % of salary Guideline Investment Matching a b c d Shares held required achieved met?
Shares Shares SOP Executive Directors Mark Dixon 323,113,249 200 119,557% Yes 188,585 2,663,180 Dominique Yates 741,989 200 472% Yes 115,709 462,836 907,333 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Douglas Sutherland 400,000 Lance Browne Elmar Heggen Alex Sulkowski Florence Pierre a Based on share price 217.2p and base salary as at 31 December 2013. b The CIP Investment Shares are in the form of unvested conditional shares granted on 6 March 2013 and which vest subject to continued employment at the end of a three-year holding period.
c The CIP Matching Shares are in the form of unvested conditional shares which will vest subject to the achievement of EPS and TSR performance targets.
The number of share interests includes the following awards which were unvested as at 31 December 2013.
For Mark Dixon, the number includes1,908,840 Matching Shares under tranches two and three of the 2008 2009 CIP awards granted on 18 March 2008 and 23 March 2009, respectively and 754,340 Matching Shares granted on 6 March 2013.
For Dominique Yates, the number shows the Matching Shares granted on 6 March 2013. d The Share Option Plan SOP grants are vested market value share options exercise price 74.35p which were granted to Dominique Yates on 2 September 2011 to aid his recruitment.
The options will become exercisable in three equal tranches in September 2014, 2015 and 2016.
At the end of the previous financial year 31 December 2012, Mark Dixon retained an unvested interest over a maximum of 1.8 million shares under the Value Creation Plan VCP granted in 2008.
Based on the share price performance to 31 March 2013 the final Measurement Date under this award, the award lapsed in full as disclosed in last years Directors Remuneration Report.
With the exception of the Directors' interests disclosed in the table above, no Director had any additional interest in the share capital of the Company during the year.
There were no changes in the interests of Directors in the period 31 December 2013 to 31 March 2014.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees The fees of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are set out below.
No change is proposed for 2014.
2013 2014 Non-Executive Chairman 165,000 165,000 Basic fee for Non-Executive Director 42,000 42,000 Additional fees: Chair of Audit Committee 8,000 8,000 Chair of Remuneration Committee 8,000 8,000 Chair of Nominations Committee 6,000 6,000 Senior Independent Director 6,000 6,000 www.
com investors 51 Remuneration report continued Supporting disclosures and additional context Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive The chart below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive and all employees on a per capita basis between the year ended 31 December 2012 and the year ended 31 December 2013.
Chief Executive All employees Salary 3.9% 4.4% Benefits 1.4% 8.7% Annual bonus 17.9% 5.6% Performance graph and table The chart below shows the TSR of Regus in the five-year period to 31 December 2013 against the TSR of the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and All Share Indices.
TSR refers to share price growth and assumes dividends are reinvested over the relevant period.
The Committee considers the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts relevant since it is an index of companies of similar size to Regus.
The All Share Index is also shown as it was used historically to measure the Companys TSR performance under the CIP.
investment trusts The table below provides remuneration data for the Chief Executive for each of the five financial years over the equivalent period.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Single total figure of remuneration 628k 759k 1,130k 1,773k 1,808k Bonus % of maximum 0% 19% 50% 100% 79% Long term incentive vesting % of maximum 0% 0% 0% 11% 35% Long term incentive vesting in 2011 comprises 25% of maximum in respect of the CIP and 0% in respect of the VCP.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows total employee remuneration and distributions to shareholders in respect of the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012 and the difference between the two.
2013 2012 Change Total employee remuneration 318.8m 257.4m 24% Distributions to shareholders 34.0m 30.2m 13% 52 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements External non-executive directorships held by Executive Directors As at 31 December 2013 the Executive Directors did not hold any external positions for which they received fees.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments on external boards or committees so long as these are not deemed to interfere with the business of the Group.
Any fees received in respect of these appointments would be retained directly by the Executive Director.
Consideration of Directors remuneration Remuneration Committee and advisors The Committee, which met four times during the year, is made up of four Independent Non-Executive Directors and chaired by Alex Sulkowski.
During the year the members of the Committee were: Alex Sulkowski Chair Lance Browne Elmar Heggen Florence Pierre The Committee has responsibility for determining, in consultation with the Chairman and or Chief Executive as appropriate, the total remuneration package of the Executive Directors and senior managers, including bonuses, incentive payments and share options or other share awards.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website: www.
In addition to the designated members of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary also attended Committee meetings during the year although none was present during discussions concerning their own remuneration.
Deloitte LLP continued to provide independent advice to the Committee during the year.
Deloitte was appointed by the Committee in 2010 following a competitive selection process undertaken by the Committee.
The fees charged by Deloitte for the provision of independent advice to the Committee during 2013 were 42,000.
Deloitte also provided unrelated tax advice to Regus during 2013.
The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte engagement partner and team, that provide remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections with Regus that may impair their independence and objectivity.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Statement of voting at general meeting The Committee is directly accountable to shareholders and, in this context, is committed to an open and transparent dialogue with shareholders on the issue of executive remuneration.
The members of the Committee attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and are available to answer shareholders questions about Directors remuneration.
Votes cast by proxy and at the Annual General Meeting held on 21 May 2013 in respect of the advisory vote to approve the Directors Remuneration Report are shown in the table.
Votes for Votes against Total Votes Resolution # % # % votes cast withheld Approval of remuneration report for year ending 31 December 2012 811,639,161 99.64% 2,936,580 0.36% 814,575,741 4,390,898 For and on behalf of the Board Alex Sulkowski Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 March 2014 www.
