Renishaw plc 56 Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance directors remUneration report will no longer form part of the remUneration poLicy remUneration assessment.
targets will be related to the remuneration committee saLary adjusted group profit before tax alone, isresponsible for deciding the the remuneration committee reviews with agreed baseline, target and bonus companys framework of executive the basic salaries of executive directors cap levels.
director remuneration and setting totake effect from 1st July each year.
this bonus scheme, which only applies remuneration packages for each indeciding appropriate levels, the to executive directors, will continue to be oftheexecutive directors.
committee takes account of financial reviewed annually by the committee.
data from a cross-section of UK the committees policy is to motivate companies within the electronics otHer Benefits and retain executive directors by andengineering sectors.
company cars and other benefits rewarding them with competitive salary provided to directors are subject to and benefit packages and incentives.
the benefits are included these are linked to the overall during the year, the committee reviewed inthe directors remuneration table performance of the Group and, in turn, the existing incentive arrangements for innote 8. to the interests of theshareholders.
executive directors to ensure they are Geoff mcfarland is a non-executive the committee reviews annually the appropriately set.
director of delcam plc, in respect of executive directors remuneration for the year ended 30th June 2013, which no remuneration is payable inthecontext of the companys thebonus scheme required the Groups bydelcam plc.
earnings per share to exceed a baseline adjusted profit level, at which bonus pensions remUneration begins to be earned, of 80m which the company makes annual committee was translated into an equivalent contributions of 15% of underlying basic earnings per share eps of 87.90p.
salary to individual pension policies for all the members of the committee are a targeted eps level was also set at Ben taylor and allen roberts.
neither non-executive directors and comprise 109.90p representing the level at which bonus scheme payments nor other david Grant chair from 18th october a bonus equivalent to 75% of salary benefits are eligible for pension scheme 2012, carol chesney from would be earned.
19thoctober 2012, John Jeans earned above 75%, but were capped at Geoff mcfarland is a deferred member from11thapril 2013 and Bill Whiteley.
the bonus calculation is davidsnowden former chair of this of the companys defined benefit linear between the baseline, target and scheme which closed for future committee and terry Garthwaite both capped levels.
there are no subjective stepped down from their positions on accrualson 5th april 2007 and he now measures on which executive directors participates in the companys defined the Board and the committee on can earn a bonus.
Bonuses are paid in 18thoctober 2012. theterms of contribution scheme.
more details are cash and there are no equity incentives.
given in note 8. reference of the committee are executive director bonus payments for published on the companys website.
the non-executive directors do not 2013 totalled 208,000 versus no executive director attends meetings participate in the companys pension 1,353,000 in the prior year, reflecting of the committee.
the fact that, as is normal practice, the remuneration of the non-executive bonus targets were set during the first sUmmary directors is determined by the executive quarter of the financial year, and this details of directors remuneration directors.
there are no share options year the Groups performance was including pensions which form the available to non-executive directors.
audited section of this report are twonon-executive directors, carol shownin note 8. for the year ending 30th June 2014, chesney and John Jeans, were thebonus scheme remains relatively appointed to the Board during the year.
unchanged, although eps equivalents Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 57 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 50 0 Return 350 300 Renishaw FTSE mid 250 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 serVice contracts performance GrapH andcompensation the graph above shows the companys total shareholder return tsr the executive directors have each performance, compared with the ftse entered into a service contract with the mid 250 index, which the directors company.
the contracts do not contain believe is the most appropriate broad any specific provisions governing the index for comparison.
payment of compensation for loss of office or employment, whether as a result the report was approved by the Board of of a takeover bid or otherwise.
thenotice directors on 24th July 2013 and has been period for termination of the contract is signed on its behalf by: twelve months to be given byeither the company or the director.
David Grant the non-executive directors have been chair, remuneration committee appointed under contracts for services which are intended to continue for an initial period of three years.
However, these contracts may be terminated by either the company or the director on one months notice.
