Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report 55 Directors Remuneration Report Long-term incentive arrangements Alan Giles As I indicated last year, in 2013 we conducted a thorough review of Chairman, the Companys long-term incentive arrangements, and as a result Remuneration we have decided to introduce earnings per share as a second committee performance measure alongside relative Total Shareholder Return TSR for 2014 for approximately the top 100 participants, including executive directors, to further strengthen the link between performance and reward.
We have also decided to retain the performance modifier for long-term incentive awards to executive directors.
The final performance test for the share incentive scheme introduced in 2008 to facilitate the appointment of the new leadership team was conducted in 2013 and no additional shares vested.
The share incentive scheme is no longer in operation.
Long-term incentives for executive directors will continue to be delivered through the existing long-term incentive plan, as described in the report.
Dear fellow shareholder The committees report for 2013 sets out the Companys remuneration Remuneration outcomes for 2013 policy, the implementation of policy during 2013, the linkage with The committee reviewed performance in 2013 and determined that strategy and alignment with shareholders interests.
the Chief Executive, Andy Ransom, should receive a bonus of 34.5% The key remuneration challenges in 2013 were to review the of base salary.
While profit performance was below target although effectiveness of our long-term incentive arrangements for 2014 and above threshold, the committee considered that this represented beyond, in the context of portfolio rationalisation and the evolution good performance in a challenging market.
The West region for which of the Companys strategy and secondly to deal with remuneration Andy Ransom was responsible prior to taking on the role of chief issues around the change of chief executive in October 2013. executive had a good year with profit, cash and revenue performance above threshold and just below target.
The bonus paid reflects the Change of chief executive progress delivered this year and the chief executives contribution to We worked closely with the Nomination committee as, during the year, this.
Jeremy Townsend, the Chief Financial Officer, will receive a bonus it led a succession planning process that resulted in the appointment of 38.9% of target reflecting strong group cash performance and the by the Board of Andy Ransom as chief executive in October 2013. profit progress.
The chief financial officer also achieved a number of The committee is comfortable that in setting the remuneration for Andy key strategic objectives set by the committee at the start of the year.
Ransom in his new role it has provided a meaningful remuneration and Relative TSR performance for the Performance Share Plan awards incentive package that is fully aligned with our shareholders interests.
granted in 2010 was below median and therefore these awards The committee also reviewed the arrangements relating to Alan Brown lapsed in May 2013. stepping down as chief executive after five years in the role during Andy Ransoms salary was set at 700,000 with effect from his which the Companys structure and operational performance has been appointment as chief executive on 1 October 2013.
The report sets out the amounts paid to him received a 1.77% increase in salary with effect from 1 January 2014. in discharge of the Companys contractual obligations.
Link to strategy Remuneration policy The strategy for the group is articulated in the Strategic Report and is The remuneration policy in this report, for which we will seek focused on the core categories of pest control, hygiene and workwear.
shareholder approval at the annual general meeting in May, will, we The strategy utilises a differentiated approach based around a fourbelieve, be appropriate to permit the Board to undertake stewardship quadrant matrix, as described in the Strategic Report.
The strategy also of remuneration matters for the Company for the following three years.
utilises six operational levers to drive revenue whether through targeting The policy is in the most part an articulation of current practice.
new customers or up-sell and cross-sell of existing customers.
Engagement For the wider management and colleague population, sales effectiveness During the year I have engaged with a number of major shareholders and customer retention are two key levers where remuneration issues and I am extremely grateful for the input and support we have are critical.
Incentivisation of colleagues throughout the business is now received, particularly as we have been reflecting on how best to looked at in the context of both the business units strategic positioning incentivise executive directors and the broader team to deliver on in the matrix and the operational levers to drive growth.
the strategy and create value for shareholders.
With regard to executive director remuneration, the Company is clearly Yours faithfully focused on building on the platform created over the last five years to deliver sustainable, profitable growth and create shareholder value.
You will see in this report that the committee has introduced changes to short and long-term variable pay arrangements for 2014 placing greater emphasis on revenue, profit and cash conversion.
In 2013, with the City Link business divested from the group, the committee approved adjustments to existing short-term incentives to ensure that arrangements for the core business remained effective.
Alan Giles The links to strategy that relate to the elements of remuneration for Chairman, Remuneration Committee directors are described in the remuneration policy report.
28 February 2014 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 RemRep ID6 p55-74.
indd 55 01 04 2014 16:53 56 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report ensure alignment of executives with the overall shareholder Remuneration policy report objective of long-term value creation through linking a substantial This report sets out the Companys policy on the remuneration of part of the remuneration package to long-term performance targets executive and non-executive directors and it will be presented to shareholders for approval at the annual general meeting on 14 May deliver a total reward package that is market aligned, affordable 2014 in accordance with s. 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
The and reflective of business performance remuneration policy is largely unchanged from that in force in recent encourage executive behaviours consistent with Rentokil Initials years.
If approved, the policy will be effective from the date of the 2014 business values and risk appetite annual general meeting and can apply until 31 December 2017 unless a revised policy is approved by shareholders and comes into force The same principles apply for the remuneration policy for other before this date.
The Companys remuneration policy for executive directors, which is As noted in the introductory letter to shareholders, the committee described in the policy tables on pages 56 to 62, is designed to: is open to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters.
In early 2014, the Company communicated with larger attract and retain the leadership talent needed to drive and deliver investors regarding the adoption of an EPS measure alongside business growth, financial performance and other key strategic relative TSR for the long-term incentive plan.
priorities without paying more than is necessary recognise and reward individual contribution to delivering long-term, sustainable business performance Key elements of remuneration policy executive directors Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Operation Levels of payout Performance measures and periods Cash salaries are normally reviewed annually Salary policy is to set base salary at an The payment of salary is To attract and retain with effect from 1 January.
Salaries are set appropriate level taking into account the not dependent on achieving executives of the taking into account: factors described under Operation and performance targets although calibre required salary increases are considered in this individual performance is taken to implement our market data from both Towers Watson and context.
into account when setting salary strategy Deloitte or other appropriate data providers levels and determining any for a cross-section of companies of a similar While there is no maximum salary level, salary increases.
size and complexity at the time of review the committee would normally expect percentage pay increases for the executive scope and responsibilities of the role directors to be broadly in line with other external economic environment colleagues in relevant regions.
individual skills and experience However, higher increases may be awarded in certain circumstances, where contribution to overall business performance the committee considers this appropriate, pay conditions for other colleagues based in suchas: the UK or other regions which are considered where a new executive director has been by the committee to be relevant for that appointed to the Board at a lower than executive typical market salary to allow for growth in the role then larger increases may be awarded in following years to move salary positioning closer to typical market level as the executive grows in experience where the executive director has been promoted or has had a change in responsibilities salary increases in excess of the above level may be awarded where the positioning of an executive directors salary has fallen significantly behind market practice in exceptional circumstances, where a non-executive director temporarily takes up an executive position The annual remuneration report on pages 62 to 72 sets out base salaries of executive directors for 2013 and 2014.
However, the 2014 salary for the Chief Executive Andy Ransom is 700,000 and for the Chief Financial Officer Jeremy Townsend is 450,000.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 RemRep ID6 p55-74.
indd 56 01 04 2014 16:53 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report 57 Key elements of remuneration policy executive directors Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy Operation Levels of payout Performance measures and periods The annual bonus is paid in cash each Bonus payouts start to accrue at 10% of The annual bonus is normally Recognises and year after the committee has reviewed base salary for meeting threshold levels linked to a mix of financial rewards the delivery performance against targets, which are set of performance, with an on target bonus elements and other key strategic of exceptional at around the beginning of each year for each opportunity of 50% of base salary and performance targets, including business executive director, taking into consideration a maximum bonus opportunity of 100% achievement of personal performance the underlying performance of the business.
of base salary before the individual objectives where appropriate.
Financial elements will include financial, strategic The committee may reduce bonus payments profit and may include one or more and operational in respect of the current year or future years An individual performance modifier, based of the following annual measures: goals and individual potentially to nil in the event of a material on individual performance, as measured contribution misstatement of the Companys audited results by the Companys performance and cash to Company for the current year or prior years, serious development review process, may also revenue performance reputational damage to a member of the increase or decrease the opportunity At least 50% of the bonus will Companys group or in any other circumstances stated above to further recognise be based on financial measures.
where the committee considers that this individual contribution to business Financial measures may be treatment is appropriate.
The maximum opportunity linked to group performance or will not exceed 120% of base salary.
the executives specific area of responsibility if appropriate.
The annual remuneration report on pages 62 to 72 sets out the measures and weightings for 2013 and 2014.
The committee reserves the right to change the measures in future years to reflect alignment with business strategy and shareholder interests, subject to at least 50% of measures being financial in nature.
L Lo on ng g- -t te er rm i m in nc ce en nt ti iv five p e pl la an n L L T T II P P continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Levels of payout Performance measures and periods Awards are made over shares normally in the The core award is 120% of base salary Awards are subject to To motivate and form of nil-cost options or conditional shares for the chief executive and 100% of incentivise delivery relative total shareholder return with a face value set by reference to a multiple base salary for other executive directors.
of exceptional performance, and of base salary.
Awards normally vest after three 25% of the award shall vest for meeting business the achievement of earnings years, subject to the committees assessment threshold levels of performance.
performance over per share targets of the achievement of the relevant performance the long-term and Awards are subject to an individual conditions and underlying performance.
to create alignment Performance measures will typically performance modifier which is based on Awards may be settled in cash.
with growth in value be weighted two thirds relative annual bonus outcomes over the three for shareholders TSR and one third EPS but the Award levels and performance conditions are years of the plan.
To act as a retention committee shall retain discretion to set to support the businesss long-term goals This individual performance modifier tool for the determine that a different weighting and seek to reflect market practice and can increase the LTIP award to 200% of senior Executive shall apply for future awards.
base salary if exceptional business and Leadership Team Performance conditions are Award levels are generally set at a market individual performance is delivered over normally measured over a three competitive level, relative to companies of the performance period.
If bonus targets year period.
are not met in each of the three years of the performance period the LTIP award Awards granted under the LTIP A malus provision exists to allow the committee will normally reduce to 0%.
prior to 2014 were subject to the discretion to scale back awards granted total shareholder return on or after 1 May 2012 potentiallyto nil that The maximum award is therefore 200% performance only.
have not yet vested in the event of a material of base salary in line with the plan rule misstatement of the Companys audited results, approved by shareholders, this may If events happen which cause serious reputational damage to a member of be increased to 250% in exceptional the committee to consider that the Companys group or in other circumstances circumstances as determined by the a performance condition would where the committee considers that this committee.
not, without alteration, achieve its treatment is appropriate.
original purpose, it may amend that performance condition provided Vested LTIP awards include dividend that the amended performance equivalents linked to the performance period.
condition is materially no less challenging than it would have been had the event not occurred.
indd 57 01 04 2014 16:53 58 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Key elements of remuneration policy executive directors Long-term incentive plan LTIP continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Levels of payout Performance measures and periods Executive directors are normally expected to retain The annual remuneration report at least half of their vested shares after sufficient on pages 62 to 72 sets out the shares have been sold to settle any tax liability performance conditions for 2013 until their shareholding guideline is met, unless and 2014. agreed otherwise with the committee.
Under the shareholding guidelines, directors are expected to build up a shareholding in the Company of 100% of salary over a five year period.
The exercise period for awards in the form of nil cost options extends from the date of vesting to the tenth anniversary of the award being made.
The LTIP was approved by shareholders in 2006.
Awards may be a adjusted in accordance with the rules in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, special dividend or similar event that materially affects the price of shares and b amended in accordance with the plan rules.
Pensions Purpose and link to strategy Operation Levels of payout Performance measures and periods To attract and retain Executive director pension arrangements are Contribution of up to 25% of base salary.
executives of the by way of a defined contribution arrangement calibre required or through a cash alternative of a similar value.
to implement our The committee retains the discretion to operate strategy different pension arrangements where new To facilitate executive directors are appointed to reflect executives planning individual circumstances, market practice and for retirement Company strategy.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Operation Levels of payout Performance measures and periods Benefits are determined taking into account Levels of benefits are set in line with None.
To attract and retain market practice, the level of benefits market practice.
The level of benefits executives of the provided throughout the group and individual provided varies year on year depending calibre required circumstances.
on the cost of provision of benefits to to implement our the Company and therefore it is not strategy The main benefits for executive directors are: meaningful to identify a maximum level life assurance of benefits.
car or allowance family healthcare permanent health insurance relocation benefits in the event that an executive were required to relocate to undertake their role, the committee may provide an additional appropriate level of benefits to reflect the relevant circumstances.
Such benefits may be one-off or ongoing innature.
Should an executive director be appointed in a country other than the UK, benefits appropriate to that market would be considered.
The committee retains the discretion to change the benefits provided including offering additional benefits in line with market practice.
This may include offering participation in any future allemployee share plan offered and the provision of a car and a driver for the chief executive.
indd 58 01 04 2014 16:53 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report 59 Notes Performance scenario charts Measures and targets Our remuneration arrangements are designed so that a significant All the measures selected support the delivery of short and long-term proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of short and long-term financial performance of the business and shareholder value creation.
goals that are aligned with our strategic objectives and the creation Targets are set each year based on stretching internal budgets of shareholder value.
and achieving or exceeding these targets will both return value to In developing the scenarios below, the following assumptions have shareholders and reward the executive team for delivery.
been made: The committee has chosen revenue and profit for the 2014 bonus.
These measures have been chosen as revenue is a key focus No bonus payout Minimum for the business to increase and broaden our scale while ensuring No vesting under the Long-Term Incentive Plan that we also improve overall profitability.
The individual modifier 50% of maximum annual bonus payout On target allows the committee to incentivise executives to achieve specific assuming target individual performance under performance strategic operational objectives.
the personal modifier 50% of salary Over the long term, performance measures are focused on 25% of target awards vesting under the LongTerm Incentive Plan 30% of salary for the generating returns to shareholders through the relative TSR chief executive and 25% of salary for the chief measure and through a focus on improving earnings.
financial officer, with no change resulting from All colleague remuneration policy the individual performance modifier At the end of 2013 the Company had 52,000 colleagues based in Maximum annual bonus payout 120% of salary Maximum over 60 countries.
Our broad remuneration policy reflects the diversity performance Maximum Long-Term Incentive Plan vesting of cultures, legislative environments, employment markets and the 200% of salary i. e. maximum individual types and seniority of roles that this geographic spread provides.
performance modifier We structure our colleague reward to enable us to recruit and retain the right people doing the right job for our customers.
For the purposes of these illustrations, no share price growth or receipt of dividends is assumed.
A broad population of management colleagues are invited to join the annual bonus plan the Group Management Bonus Scheme the GMBS.
The measures for the GMBS are broadly aligned with those Chief Executive set out in the policy table above.
Illustration of remuneration policy for 2014 The senior management population are eligible to participate in the Minimum 100% 895,000 Long-Term Incentive Plan wherever practicable and possible, subject On target 62% 24% 14% 1,455,000 performance to local legislation and annually around 250 are invited to join the plan.
Maximum 29% 27% 45% 3,135,000 performance The measures for the 100 most senior colleagues will remain aligned 0m 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m 3m 3.5m with those of the executive directors, with the exception of the use of the individual bonus modifier, to support focus on key strategic Fixed pay Annual cash incentive Long-term incentive targets: however, the plan structure below this may be varied to support the retention of this population.
Chief Financial O cer Illustration of remuneration policy for 2014 Minimum 100% 533,500 On target 61% 26% 13% 871,000 performance Maximum 27% 27% 46% 1,973,500 performance 0m 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m Fixed pay Annual cash incentive Long-term incentive Fixed pay is derived as follows: Pension based on Base from salary from 1 January Benefits 1 January Total 2014 for 2013 2014 fixed 000 000 000 000 Andy Ransom Chief Executive 700 20 175 895 Jeremy Townsend Chief Financial Officer 450 16 67.5 533.5 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 RemRep ID6 p55-74.
indd 59 01 04 2014 16:53 60 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Key elements of remuneration policy Chairman and non-executive directors Fees Approach Details Other items Non-executive directors remuneration is Non-executive directors fees are payable in No element of non-executive director determined by the Board on the recommendation of cash and consist of a basic fee plus additional remuneration is performance related.
the non-executive directors terms committee of the fees payable to: Non-executive directors do not participate in any Board comprising the Chairman, the chief executive Senior independent director of the Companys incentive schemes, nor are they and the chief financial officer within the limits eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
Board committee chairmen set by the articles of association.
Non-executive The Chairman is not eligible to participate in the directors fees are set at a level which is considered Additional fees may be paid to non-executive Companys annual bonus plan or in the Companys appropriate for the calibre of individual required to directors on an ongoing or temporary basis Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The Chairman has support the delivery of business strategy and taking if there is a change in their responsibilities or access to a company car and driver.
into account skills, experience, time commitment a significant increase in the time commitment and independent surveys of fees paid to nonrequired from them to fulfil their role.
Non-executive directors who are based outside executive directors of similar companies.
the UK may be provided with support in relation The Chairman receives annual fees agreed to their tax reporting.
Fees for the Company Chairman are determined by periodically by the Board and based upon the Board based on external remuneration advice external remuneration advice considered by The Chairman and non-executive directors and considered by the Remuneration committee the committee.
do not currently receive any other benefits.
taking into account typical fee arrangements at However, benefits may be provided in the future The fees for directors were approved by other companies of a similar size and complexity, if, in the view of the non-executive directors shareholders in 2005 and shall not exceed in the time commitment required to fulfil the role fees committee for non-executive directors aggregate 1,000,000 per annum or such higher and the calibre of the individual required.
or the committee for the Chairman, this was amount as the Company may from time to time considered appropriate.
Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals.
The committee may make awards on appointing an executive director Recruitment to buy out remuneration terms forfeited on leaving a previous The committees key principle when determining appropriate employer.
In doing so the committee will take account of relevant remuneration arrangements for a new executive director appointed factors including any performance conditions attached to these from within the organisation or externally is to ensure that awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares arrangements are in the best interests of both Rentokil Initial and its and the time over which they would have vested.
Generally buy-out shareholders, without paying more than is considered necessary awards will be made on a comparable basis to those forfeited.
by the committee to recruit an executive of the required calibre to develop and deliver the business strategy.
When determining To facilitate awards outlined above, in the event of recruitment, the appropriate remuneration arrangements the committee will committee may grant awards to a new executive director under take into account all relevant factors.
These factors may include Listing Rule 9.4.
2 which allows for the granting of awards, to facilitate, among others : in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an executive director, without seeking prior shareholder approval or under other appropriate the level and type of remuneration opportunity being forfeited Company share plans.
2. will be limited the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from to granting buy-out awards only.
the skills, experience and calibre of the individual Where an executive director is required to relocate to take up their the circumstances of the individual role the committee may provide appropriate assistance with relocation The committee would generally seek to align the remuneration either on an ongoing or one-off basis.
package offered with our remuneration policy outlined in the table In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to the Board above.
However, the committee may offer additional variable legacy terms and conditions may be honoured, including pension remuneration arrangements in respect of an executive directors entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
appointment that it considers appropriate and necessary to recruit and retain the individual.
Any variable remuneration awarded in In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive respect of the executive directors appointment shall be limited to director remuneration arrangements will normally reflect the policy 370% of base salary.
This reflects bonus policy and the level of award outlined above for Chairman and non-executive directors.
under the LTIP in exceptional circumstances.
This limit excludes any The committees intention is that timely disclosure of the remuneration awards made to compensate the executive director for remuneration structure of any new executive director or Chairman will be made forfeited from their previous employer.
by the Company unless not practical.
indd 60 01 04 2014 16:53 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report 61 Directors service agreements and Non-executive directors letters of appointment Non-executive directors have letters of appointment, but not service Executive directors contracts.
Subject to annual re-election at the annual general The Companys policy is for executive directors to have rolling meeting, Non-executive directors will be appointed for an initial period contracts subject to one years notice from the Company.
of three years, which may be extended for a further period of three The Companys policy in respect of the notice periods for the years by mutual consent and thereafter reviewed annually, subject termination of executive directors contracts conforms to the Code.
to acceptable tests of performance and independence.
The remuneration and contractual arrangements for the executive directors and senior management do not contain any matters Director Letter of appointment Appointment period that are required to be disclosed under The Takeovers Directive.
Peter Bamford 15 December 2011 Annual The contracts of service for executive directors are as set out below.
Richard Burrows 15 December 2011 3 years Alan Giles 15 December 2011 Annual Executive Date of service Type of Notice by Notice by Peter Long 15 December 2011 Annual directors agreement agreement the Company the director Angela Seymour-Jackson 5 March 2012 3 years 31 December Rolling Andy Ransom 12 months 12 months 2013 contract Duncan Tatton-Brown 15 December 2011 Annual Rolling Jeremy Townsend 4 March 2010 12 months 6 months contract Chairman The Chairman, John McAdam, has a letter of appointment, dated 13 December 2012, setting out his responsibilities for the Current policy is for executive directors to be required to give management of the Board.
On termination of the appointment, six months notice to the Company.
Andy Ransom has a legacy the Company and the Chairman are entitled to two months notice agreement requiring that he give the Company one years notice in the year to May 2014 with no notice provision on either side which was a term of his previous service agreement as an executive thereafter.
If the Chairmans services were to be terminated without director prior to his appointment as chief executive.
Under the terms notice, prior to May 2014, he will be entitled to a payment in lieu of of their contracts, executive directors are entitled to participate in two months notice.
Following May 2014, the Chairmans contract the annual bonus scheme and performance share plan.
They are may be terminated by either party without notice.
also entitled to receive a car allowance, life assurance cover, family healthcare and permanent health insurance.
Copies of executive directors service contracts, the Chairman and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office and on the Companys website at www.
com Loss of office payments The policy on termination is as follows: Element Policy Disability, retirement, redundancy, death, sale of an individual employing business out of the group Base pay and benefits On termination without notice, executive directors are entitled to a payment in lieu of notice equal to base pay and the value of benefits only for the duration of the remaining notice period, subject to mitigation.
The Company has the ability to terminate executive directors employment, without notice, in the event of a prolonged mental or physical incapacity to carry out his her Company duties or in the event of gross misconduct or being disqualified to act as a director.
Appropriate medical benefits may still be provided in the case of prolonged mental or physical incapacity.
Executive directors may be entitled to appropriate repatriation relocation, outplacement, legal and or tax and other relevant Other professional costs.
The committee would look to ensure that the level of these costs benefits was reasonable and in the best interests of shareholders.
Policy Disability, retirement, redundancy, death, sale of an individual employing business out of the group Policy other leavers Executive directors may receive a bonus payment for the year Generally, executive directors must be employed Bonus in which they cease employment.
This payment will normally be at the date of payment to receive a bonus.
pro-rated for time and performance, however the committee retains In certain circumstances, the committee may the discretion to review overall business and individual performance determine that a bonus payment may be due to and determine that a different level of bonus payment is appropriate.
reflect performance and contribution to the point of cessation.
Awards may vest following a review by the committee of the extent to Vested awards may be exercised for six months The Long-Term which the performance conditions are met on a time pro-rated basis following cessations.
Incentive Plan LTIP on a monthly basis in the case of redundancy, retirement or the sale of the individual employing company or business.
In the case of disability, or death the level of vesting will be determined by the committee.
The committee may have regard in these circumstances to the performance conditions and time pro-rating formulae referred to above.
indd 61 01 04 2014 16:53 62 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report continued When an executive director leaves the business on the basis of Directors Annual Remuneration Report mutual agreement, the committee will determine an appropriate Directors remuneration in the year to payment taking into account the circumstances of leaving but any 31 December 2013 payment will be no more generous than that for leavers by reason This section of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the of disability, retirement, redundancy, death or sale of an individual Companys remuneration of its executive and non-executive directors employing business.
during 2013 and how the committee intends to apply policy for 2014.
This part of the report is subject to an advisory vote on an annual There are no provisions for notice periods or compensation in the basis.
In this section we describe the year under review.
This Annual event of termination of the appointment of a non-executive director Remuneration part of the report has been prepared in accordance other than for the Chairman to May 2014 as outlined above.
with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and Listing Rule 9.8.
Change of control If the Company is taken over or wound up, LTIP awards may The Remuneration committee vest by reference to the extent to which the performance conditions In summary, the role of the committee is to determine and agree are met and on a time pro-rated basis calculated on a monthly with the Board the policy, individual remuneration packages and basis.
Typically salaries and bonuses will be paid to date of change performance targets where appropriate for the remuneration of the of control.
Chairman of the Company, the executive directors and other members of the Companys Executive Leadership Team giving full regard to Comparison of remuneration policy to that of the the matters set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the wider employee group Code.
When determining policy, the committee shall consider the Whilst our colleagues are not currently formally consulted on pay and conditions across the rest of the Company.
The committees executive director pay, our employee opinion survey Your Voice role also includes ensuring that contractual terms on termination Counts provides an opportunity for them to provide the Company affecting executive directors and senior executives, and any payments with feedback on their own remuneration arrangements and also made, are fair to the individual and to the Company, that failure is not to comment on broader matters across the Company.
rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
The committee recognises that it needs an understanding of the The committee comprised four independent non-executive directors broader remuneration of colleagues when making decisions on during the year and at the date of this report, Alan Giles Chairman, executive director pay.
The committee annually reviews pay and Richard Burrows, Peter Long and Angela Seymour-Jackson.
Each conditions for all colleagues based in the UK, has sight of the high of the committee members has significant senior level experience level outcomes of annual bonuses and is responsible for approving of setting and monitoring remuneration matters in large complex all LTIP awards across the group.
international businesses with similar characteristics to those of the Company, giving them the collective experience to offer a balanced, Stakeholder views independent and informed view on remuneration matters.
No member of the committee has any personal financial interest, other than The views of shareholders are important to the committee and as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided by the committee.
provide the context for setting the remuneration arrangements for No member of the committee has any conflict of interest arising from executive directors.
The Chairman of the Remuneration committee, other directorships nor does any member participate in any of the the Company Chairman and the chief executive have met with a Companys remuneration, incentive or pension arrangements or number of major shareholders during 2013 and their views have have any involvement in the day-to-day running of the Company.
been taken into account when formulating this policy report.
The committees terms of reference are available on the Companys General website at www.
com or from the company secretary.
The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration They were reviewed during the year and a number of amendments payments and payments for loss of office including exercising were approved by the Board to ensure that they remain in line with any discretions available to it in connection with such payments best practice as well as reflecting the requirements of the Code.
notwithstanding that they are not line with the policy set out in this The committees main responsibilities are: report where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the to determine and agree with the Board the executive remuneration policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was strategy and policy not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the committee, to settle individual remuneration arrangements for the executive the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a directors and members of the Executive Leadership Team, including director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes arrangements relating to those leaving the business the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
to oversee the Companys incentive schemes including the operation and effectiveness of performance measures and targets The committee may make minor changes to this policy for regulatory, in both annual bonus plans and in long-term incentive schemes exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account to consider major changes in employee remuneration in the group of a change in legislation without seeking shareholder approval for to report to shareholders on remuneration matters to select and that amendment.
appoint advisers to the committee The committee met eight times in 2013 and in addition was consulted on various remuneration issues between formal meetings.
In 2013 the committee worked in conjunction with the Nomination committee over remuneration issues connected with the change in leadership and therefore met more frequently in 2013 that would usually be the case.
indd 62 01 04 2014 16:53 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report 63 Details of attendance can be found in the Corporate Governance Chairman attends the AGM to address any questions arising.
Key items considered by the committee during The committee conducted a review of its performance during the year the year are shown below.
with the assistance of Lintstock, an external independent specialist consultancy.
The review concluded that the committee continued to operate effectively and that individual directors serving on the committee Activities of the committee continued to have access to appropriate advice and information.
In 2013: Advisers to the committee Approval of the following for executive directors and senior Material advice and or services were provided to the committee executives: during the year by: Base salaries 2012 bonus outcome Deloitte LLP Deloitte Objectives for 2013 Towers Watson Ltd Towers Watson Bonus structure for 2013 Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer Freshfields Proposed long-term incentive awards for 2013 Martin Sawkins Group HR Director Approval of the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report Paul Griffiths Company Secretary Consideration of reward arrangements for key executives at Louise Baker Group Reward Director divisional level Deloitte has been retained by the committee to provide independent Review of group targets in light of the sale of the City Link business advice on executive remuneration matters and on the Companys Review of incentive arrangements for Initial Facilities key long-term incentive arrangements.
Deloitte is a founding member of the executives below executive director level Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its code in relation Approval of awards under the 2013 performance share plan to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Fees charged during the year for advice to the committee were 20,635.
Deloitte also Approval of the non-vesting of the 2010 Performance Share Plan provided services to the HR and company secretary teams in their award as a result of performance targets not having been met roles of supporting the committee.
These services included support Approval of final vesting of the 2008 SIP in preparing the Directors Remuneration Report, provision of market Consideration of the appointment terms of a new chief data and support in relation to the taxation of and accounting for executive, and the arrangements relating to the current chief share plans.
The committee is satisfied that the Deloitte engagement executive stepping down partner and team, who provide remuneration advice to the Broad review of existing LTIP arrangements with a particular committee, do not have connections with the group that may impair focus on performance conditions their independence.
The committee has initiated a review of sources of advice which will be undertaken during the first half of 2014. Review of remuneration arrangements for key executives below executive director level ongoing During the year separate teams within Deloitte provided the Company Annual performance review of the committee with a limited level of advice over non-remuneration matters, such as taxation and due diligence on acquisitions, although they are one Review of draft 2013 Directors Remuneration Report prepared of a number of advisers to the Company in such areas.
Deloitte also in accordance with the new reporting regulations ongoing acted as a co-source partner providing support to the internal audit Preliminary review of LTIP structure for 2014 function.
Neither the quantum nor the nature of services provided by Review of broad colleague reward arrangements across the group Deloitte to the Company that are unrelated to remuneration matters Discussion with remuneration advisers on market practice on represented a conflict of interest over the firms role as advisers remuneration and governance issues to the committee.
Preliminary review of proposed bonus structure for 2014 for Towers Watsons involvement with the committee is limited to the executive directors and senior executives provision of market data on competitiveness and current trends for Initiation of a process to review the provision of professional use in connection with remuneration matters.
Fees charged during advice to the committee to be undertaken in the first half of 2014 the year for market data were 3,500.
Towers Watson also advises the Company on UK pension scheme matters.
In 2014: Following year end approval of the following for executive Freshfields, who were appointed by the Company, advised in directors and other senior executives: connection with the employment contract for the chief executive.
Base salaries The Group HR Director has direct access to the Chairman of the 2013 bonus outcome committee and together with the group reward director advises the committee on remuneration matters relating to executive directors Bonus structure for 2014 and members of the Executive Leadership Team.
Proposed share awards and share plans Approval of the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report The Company Chairman attends meetings and makes recommendations in relation to the remuneration and incentive Review of results of the annual committee performance review arrangements for the chief executive.
The chief executive attends and The committee Chairman presents a summary of material matters makes recommendations in respect of remuneration arrangements discussed at each meeting to the following Board meeting and minutes for his direct reports.
No director or executive is present when their of the committee meetings are circulated all directors.
The committee own remuneration is under consideration.
reports to shareholders annually in this report and the committee Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 RemRep ID6 p55-74.
indd 63 01 04 2014 16:53 64 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration in the year to 31 December 2013 Single total figure for the remuneration of executive directors The table below has been audited: Purpose Fixed pay Variable pay Total Base Base Annual Annual Long-term Long-term Total single Total single 2 2 3 salary salary Benefits Benefits Pension Pension bonus bonus incentives incentives figure figure Executive directors 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 513 450 20 20 128 113 177 156 0 0 838 739 Andy Ransom Chief Executive 1 from 01 Oct 2013 581 775 16 22 145 194 251 124 0 0 993 1,115 Alan Brown Chief Executive 4 to 30 Sept 2013 442 434 16 16 65 65 172 104 0 0 695 619 Jeremy Townsend 1 Andy Ransom became chief executive on 1 October 2013, for the prior nine months he was an executive director.
His salary has been apportioned to show nine months at executive director salary and three months at the new chief executive salary 2 Executive directors are provided with life insurance, private health cover and a company car or a car allowance.
The value of the benefits is included under Benefits in the above table.
There were no other taxable benefits paid to executive directors in 2013 3 No LTIP vested in 2013 hence disclosure of nil.
Prior to 14 June 2013 there were two vesting dates under the 2008 Share Incentive Plan 2008 SIP.
In 2011 a total of 2,585,000 shares per participant vested plus dividend equivalents and the vested portion of the award was exercisable in three equal tranches following the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
At 2012 and 2013 vesting dates the share price achieved did not exceed the highest average share price already achieved in 2010 and therefore no further awards vested and any unvested shares lapsed in 2013 4 Alan Brown stepped down as a director on 30 September 2013 but continued to be employed by the Company until 31 January 2014 and continued to receive remuneration in line with the amounts previously paid as chief executive.
His salary, benefits and pension have been shown to the point he stepped down from the Board.
The bonus shown is the full bonus earned for the year ended 31 December 2013 Pensions Salary from 1 January 2014 Executive directors participate in defined contribution pension Executive director Salary Effective date arrangements or receive additional gross salary in lieu of pension contributions from the Company at a rate of up to 25% of base Andy Ransom 700,000 1 October 2013 salary.
Andy Ransom and Alan Brown received a cash supplement in Jeremy Townsend 450,000 1 January 2014 lieu of a pension contribution in 2013.
Jeremy Townsend participated in the Companys defined contribution pension scheme on the basis of 75.4% of the 15% of salary employer contribution to which he is entitled under current group policy and received a cash supplement for the balance.
A cash supplement in lieu of pension scheme contribution is not counted as salary for bonus purposes.
This figure is included in the single total figure for remuneration table above.
Annual bonus plan Executive director base salaries from 1 January 2014 2013 bonus outcome Executive directors and senior executives salaries are reviewed with The committee reviewed the 2013 bonus plan outcome for the groups effect from 1 January each year in accordance with the remuneration senior management population based on the targets set at the start policy.
Base salaries reflect the role, individual experience, skills and of the financial year.
The metrics and the levels of performance for contribution to overall business performance as well as external market the executive directors for the 2013 bonus plan are set out below.
On a review of the economic and market considerations Individual performance was also reflected using a personal performance in the UK, where average pay increases in the Company will be in modifier.
This is linked to the group performance and development the order of 2%, the committee agreed that the salaries of executive review process, details are set out below.
Bonuses earned are directors for 2014 should be as set out below.
The committee also reflective of the performance of the group, individual businesses and took into account the wider pay position across the group.
achievement against specific personal objectives where relevant.
Andy Ransoms base salary was reviewed on appointment as Bonus targets have not been disclosed as the Board believes chief executive in line with the policy set out on page 56 and was that this information is commercially sensitive.
This salary was not reviewed on 1 January 2014 targets could provide information about our business plan to our and will therefore next be reviewed with effect from 1 January competitors which could be damaging to our business interests 2015.
His salary was previously reviewed on 1 January 2013 and therefore to shareholders.
The committee will give consideration as an executive director and was at that time 450,000. to disclosing targets when they are deemed to be no longer With effect from 1 January 2014, the base salary for Jeremy Townsend commercially sensitive.
This was in line with the economic and market considerations in the UK and average pay increases across the Company.
indd 64 01 04 2014 16:53 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report 65 Annual bonus Andy Ransom Executive director to 30 September 2013 Chief Executive from 1 October 2013 Group profit West region profit West region cash West region revenue Total % weighting 20% 40% 20% 20% 100% Range around target from threshold to maximum 95% to 110% 95% to 110% 95% to 110% 99% to 102% 2013 performance 96.6% 99.7% 99.8% 98.1% % bonus achieved before modifier 4.6% 18.9% 9.8% 0.0% 33.3% value bonus before modifier 20,810 85,184 44,083 0 170,921 The bonus for Andy Ransom was prorated to reflect his salary before and after his appointment to the role of chief executive.
The metrics remained unchanged after his appointment to the role.
Given that his role change was at the start of the 2013 fourth quarter, the committee considered that this was appropriate.
The Chairman rated Andy Ransom a three rating for his contribution to 30 September and a four rating from 1 October to the end of the year reflecting his strong start in the role of chief executive.
As described on the next page, for 2014 Andy Ransoms bonus structure has been changed to focus on group metrics.
Alan Brown Chief Executive to 30 September 2013 Group profit Group cash conversion Group revenue Personal objectives Total % weighting 50% 20% 20% 10% 100% Individually measured based Range around target from threshold to maximum 95% to 110% 95% to 110% 95% to 102% on agreed goals linked to business strategy 2013 performance 96.6% 100.9% 95.8% 100.0% % bonus achieved before modifier 11.6% 10.9% 0.0% 10.0% 32.4% value bonus before modifier 89,600 84,233 0 77,500 251,334 The personal objective for the former Chief Executive, Alan Brown, was based on the transition to the new Chief Executive, Andy Ransom.
The Chairman considered the support of the outgoing chief executive to the incoming chief executive to be exceptional and on this basis considered that maximum payout for this element was an appropriate basis.
He also awarded him a three rating for his contribution during the year until he stepped down at the end of September 2013.
Jeremy Townsend Chief Financial Officer Group profit Group cash conversion Personal objectives Total % weighting 50% 30% 20% 100% Individually measured based on agreed Range around target from threshold to maximum 95% to 110% 95% to 110% goals linked to business strategy 2013 performance 96.6% 100.9% 55.0% % bonus achieved before modifier 11.6% 16.3% 11.0% 38.9% value bonus before modifier 51,121 72,088 48,639 171,848 The chief executive assessed the performance of Jeremy Townsend, the chief financial officer, as above target in relation to the delivery of his personal objectives relating to the finance function transformation and effectiveness and overall awarded him a performance rating of three for his contribution during the year.
indd 65 01 04 2014 16:53 66 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Performance ratings are linked to bonus through the personal To further support the delivery of growth in 2014, and align incentives performance modifier as set out in the table below: with the groups new strategy, revenue targets for executive directors are weighted to focus on sectors that are critical to the business.
To provide focus the following coefficients will be applied to revenue Rating 1 2 3 4 5 generated from businesses in the following segments as described in the Strategic Report on page 14.
Modifier % 0% 75% 100% 110% 125% The total bonus payment is capped at 120% of base Segment Co-efficient salary for executive directors Emerging 1.4 A personal performance modifier of 100% was applied to the bonus Growth 1.2 for Andy Ransom for the period to 30 September 2013 and 110% Protect & Enhance 0.7 for the period from 1 October to the end of 2013.
A modifier of 100% was applied to the bonus for Jeremy Townsend.
The modifier for Manage for Value 0.4 Alan Brown was based on his performance to 30 September 2013 and was agreed by the committee as 100%.
As in previous years 95% of the profit target has to be achieved The total bonus outcomes, including modifiers, in relation to 2013 before any bonus is paid.
Additionally for 2014 cash of 100m has are as follows: to be generated at the group level before any bonus is paid to the executive directors.
The individual performance modifier will continue Bonus outcomes to apply for executive directors and is unchanged from 2013.
Executive director Bonus Bonus targets have not been disclosed as the Board believes that Andy Ransom 176,757 this information is commercially sensitive.
Disclosing bonus targets Alan Brown 251,334 could provide information about our business plan to our competitors Jeremy Townsend 171,848 which could be damaging to our business interests and therefore to shareholders.
The committee will consider disclosing targets when they are deemed to be no longer commercially sensitive.
Bonus outcomes for 2013 for executive directors are also shown in the single total figure for the remuneration of executive directors table Long-term share incentive plans on page 64.
Bonuses were paid in cash.
The executive directors and senior management team participate in the Performance Share Plan PSP.
The Performance Share Plan 2014 bonus structure 2010 PSP Vesting The focus for 2014 is delivering profitable growth for Rentokil Initial Relative TSR performance for 2010 to 2013 was tested on the third plc as a group.
To align executive director reward with this priority, anniversary of the grant date on 14 May 2013.
The Companys the committee has approved the following structure of bonuses for position relative to the comparator group was below median and 2014 for the executive directors: as such no award vested and the award lapsed.
The LTIP number disclosed in the single total figure for the remuneration of executive Metrics and weightings Group profit Group revenue directors on page 64 is therefore nil.
99% to 102% Threshold to maximum as 95% to 110% see segment 2013 PSP Award range around budget co-efficients below 231 senior managers across the group received awards under the Andy Ransom 50% 50% PSP plan in 2013.
Awards to executive directors were in line with policy Chief Executive described on pages 57 to 58 and are set out in the table opposite.
Jeremy Townsend 70% 30% Chief Financial Officer On his appointment as chief executive on 1 October 2013 Andy Ransom received an additional award of shares to reflect policy for awards to the chief executive and his increase in salary.
indd 66 01 04 2014 16:54 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report 67 2013 PSP Award The table below has been audited: % vesting Face value Face value % vesting for for maximum of award of award for target levels levels of for target maximum Market price of Company Company levels of levels of Date of Form of No of shares at date of Exercise and individual and individual performance performance Performance 2 2 Participant award award awarded award price performance performance period Three Nil cost Andy Ransom 1 01 10 13 458,716 109p 0.00p 120% 200% 299,999 500,000 years to option Chief Executive 30 04 16 Three Nil cost Andy Ransom 30 04 13 937,500 96p 0.00p 100% 200% 529,265 900,000 years to option Executive director 30 04 16 Three Nil cost Jeremy Townsend 30 04 13 921,186 96p 0.00p 100% 200% 442,169 884,338 years to option 30 04 16 Three Nil cost Alan Brown 30 04 13 1,614,583 96p 0.00p 120% 200% 930,000 1,549,999 years to option 30 04 16 1 An additional allocation of 458,716 shares was awarded in accordance with policy for awards to the chief executive whereby the target level of award was based on 120% of his original salary.
The additional allocation of shares in total was valued at 390,000 2 Calculation based value of shares at date of grant of award 3 Awards were made in the form of nil cost options and vest after three years subject to the achievement of the performance conditions set out below Awards were subject to two performance measures: Individual performance modifier: For executive directors, the effect of the individual performance Relative TSR performance: modifier as set out in the table below, is to reduce the level A relative TSR measure is used to ensure participants are of award that would otherwise vest if an individual fails to incentivised to outperform key peers and to ensure that the reach threshold performance under the annual bonus in each interests of management are aligned with shareholders.
TSR of the three years of the performance period to zero, and was also selected to reflect market practice and shareholder increase vesting to a maximum of 200% if above bonus target preferences.
Measured relative to the constituents of the FTSE 350 index, excluding financial services, property and primary resources Achievement against annual bonus targets in respect of each financial year Below sectors.
The FTSE 350 is recognised as a broad index and average over performance period threshold Threshold Target Maximum is considered to be an appropriate benchmark for measuring Individual performance modifier 0% 20% 100% 200% performance given the Companys membership of the FTSE 250, the scope and scale of the Companys international operations, and the diverse nature of companies in the business services Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between each point above.
Accordingly, there is the possibility that awards could vest at 200% 25% of the initial award will vest if Rentokil Initials performance is of salary, if the business achieves upper quartile TSR performance positioned at median against the comparator group with the full over the performance period and financial performance that results initial award vesting for upper quartile TSR performance.
Vesting is in maximum bonus outcomes in each of the three consecutive on a straight-line basis between these two points.
No award vests financial years for the relevant business unit.
No shares will vest if TSR performance is below median at the end of the vesting period or if threshold financial performance conditions are not met 2 Jeremy Townsend was awarded compensatory share awards on 1 September 2010.
This award was granted to compensate him for awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
There were no performance measures as the awards forfeited were not subject to performance conditions but their vesting was subject to continued employment.
The first tranche of 113,273 shares vested on 1 September 2011 and were acquired on 29 September 2011.
58,902 shares were sold to satisfy the related tax liability.
The second tranche of 90,618 shares vested on 1 September 2012.
Following adjustments for dividend, 93,044 shares were acquired on 22 May 2013 with 43,730 being sold to satisfy the related tax liability.
The balance of 49,314 shares held by Jeremy Townsend is included in the directors share interests table on page 70.
No further awards are capable of vesting under this compensatory share arrangement 3 The PSP 2010 award was tested in May 2013.
The median TSR performance condition for the three-year performance measurement period was not met.
Therefore the PSP 2010 share awards lapsed on 14 May 2013 4 An additional award was made to Andy Ransom calculated on a basis of 90,000 additional target shares being the equivalent of 120% award of his salary as an executive director.
A further supplementary award calculated on a basis of Andy Ransoms new salary as chief executive with the target being to 120% of base salary.
The maximum that can be achieved is 200% of applicable salary Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 RemRep ID6 p55-74.
indd 68 01 04 2014 16:54 Finan Financial Sta cial Stat tem emen ents ts A Ad ddi diti tio onal Inf final Info orma rmati tio on n Str Stra at te egi gic R c Repo eport rt Co Corpo rpor ra at te G e Go ov vernan ernanc ce e Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report 69 2014 PSP Award a reduction of annual re-organisation costs although a substantial amount will be driven by underlying improvements in the business.
During 2013 and into early 2014 the committee carried out a review In this context, the committee will review EPS targets for awards to of the Performance Share Plan.
For the executive directors and the be made in 2015 and it anticipates that lower targets will be set for most senior colleagues approximately 100, the committee supported awards going forward.
the introduction of a measure based on earnings per share as well as the existing relative total shareholder return TSR measure.
In addition, when determining the level of vesting, the committee will The relative TSR and EPS performance measures will apply to two also consider the underlying financial performance of the business, thirds and to one third of the total award, respectively.
as well as the value added to shareholders during the performance periods and may adjust the vesting outcome if it considers this to The structure of the relative TSR return measure remains unchanged be appropriate.
The individual performance multiplier will continue from 2013.
EPS will be measured on a point to point basis over to apply in its current format for the executive directors.
the three-year period of the award.
In order to measure underlying earnings improvement EPS will be measured after adjusting for impairments, amortisation, pension interest and material exceptional The 2008 Plan items, as the committee considers that these items do not reflect the The 2008 Plan was approved by shareholders in 2008 to facilitate the underlying performance of the business.
Given the business focus appointment of John McAdam, Alan Brown and Andy Ransom and on improving efficiency and reducing costs around reorganisation, to motivate them to deliver a turnaround in corporate performance.
the committee felt that it was appropriate that these costs are Details of awards made under the 2008 Plan are set out in the share included in the EPS calculation in order to incentivise management to incentive awards table below.
Given the international nature of our business, EPS will The key features of the Plan were that awards would vest based be measured on an exchange neutral basis to reflect management on absolute share price performance targets.
A minimum share price performance by removing the impact of windfalls and losses as a of 1.20 achieved over a sustained period 60 consecutive dealing result of exchange rate movements.
days during the performance measurement period would allow The proposed targets for the 2014 are as follows with a straight-line 20% of the award to be earned, rising on a straight-line basis vesting between these figures : to full vesting at a share price of 1.80.
For achieving growth in market value between 1.80 and 2.80, further shares may be earned on a straight-line basis up to a maximum of a further Compound EPS Vesting level growth per annum 50% of the original award.
Target 25% of maximum 14% per annum During the first half of 2010 the Companys share price achieved a Maximum 100% of maximum 20% per annum 60 day highest average share price of 130.82p and therefore 34.43% of the award was earned, with one third vesting in 2011, a further one The committee recognises that these targets are higher than typical third in 2012 and the remaining third in 2013.
No further shares were market practice and considers that they are very stretching.
If these earned when performance was tested in 2012 or under the final test targets are achieved this will represent significant value creation in May 2013.
No further awards may be made under the Plan and all for shareholders.
Part of this growth is anticipated to be driven by remaining shares lapsed in 2013.
These vesting dates were 61 dealing days after the announcement of the Companys financial results for years ending 31 December 2010 first vesting date, 31 December 2011 second vesting date and 31 December 2012 third vesting date 2 At the first vesting date on 19 May 2011 61 dealing days after 31 December 2010 preliminary results announcement, 34.43% of the total plan interest at 1 January 2011 vested, representing 2,585,000 shares per participant in total.
Following dividend readjustment the first one third of 872,828 was released to each participant on 19 May 2011 first vesting date.
A further 887,020 including dividend equivalents were released on 31 May 2012 second vesting date and the final one third of 907,470 including dividend equivalents were released on 14 June 2013 third vesting date.
The total of vested shares including dividend equivalents for each participant is 2,667,318.
The remaining shares lapsed 3 Participants have 12 months from 14 June 2013 from which to call for their vested shares.
The creation of earned and vested shares is not an event requiring a stock exchange announcement.
However, when the participant exercises the right to call for the shares, a stock exchange announcement will be made at that time Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 RemRep ID6 p55-74.
indd 69 01 04 2014 16:54 70 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Share plan funding group and individual performance for 2013 relating to the nine months for which he was chief executive, further details of which Typically, shares granted under the executive incentive plans are are described in this report.
After stepping down as a director Mr satisfied by shares purchased in the market or by transfer from the Brown received his basic salary 193,750 and standard benefits, Companys employee share trust.
To the extent shares are newly comprising principally: car allowance value 5,000, life insurance issued to satisfy awards, the Company complies with ABI dilution value 3,771, medical insurance value 503 during the remainder guidelines on their issue.
of his employment with the group during 2013.
Mr Browns employment with the group ended on 31 January 2014.
Mr Brown Former Chief Executive departure arrangements received no other payments in 2013 from the Company in respect Following an announcement on 1 August 2013, Alan Brown of his employment.
stood down as a director and as chief executive with effect from 30 September 2013 and his successor Andy Ransom was Outstanding awards made to the former chief executive, Alan Brown, appointed chief executive on 1 October 2013. will vest only if performance conditions are met and will be time apportioned.
Mr Browns remuneration in respect of the period he was a director in 2013 is set out on page 64, including a bonus payment reflecting Single total figure for the remuneration of the Chairman and Non-executive directors The table below has been audited: Fees Fees Benefits Benefits Total single figure Total single figure Chairman and non-executive directors 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 1 1 John McAdam 350 350 21 22 371 372 Peter Bamford 55 55 0 0 55 55 Richard Burrows 55 55 0 0 55 55 Alan Giles 70 70 0 0 70 70 Peter Long 60 60 0 0 60 60 Angela Seymour-Jackson 55 41 0 0 55 41 Duncan Tatton-Brown 70 70 0 0 70 70 2 William Rucker 7 55 0 0 7 55 1 The benefit relates to the private use by the Chairman of a company driver and vehicle.
The comparative for 2012 was not included in the 2012 table as a result of a reporting error 2 William Rucker resigned as a non-executive director on 14 March 2013 Non-executive director fees from 1 January 2014 Position Fee policy for year beginning 1 January 2014 Chairman 350,000 per annum Non-executive director 55,000 per annum Senior independent director Additional 5,000 per annum Chairman of Audit committee Additional 15,000 per annum Chairman of Remuneration committee Additional 15,000 per annum Directors shareholdings and share interests The interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the Company on 1 January 2013 or their date of appointment if later, and at 31 December 2013, are set out below.
No director has any beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Companys subsidiaries.
Any changes in the interests of the directors and their families in the Company and its subsidiary companies during the year and from the end of the year to 28 February 2014 are shown below.
This table has been audited.
Directors shareholdings and share interests 31 December 2013 Beneficial 1 January 2013 interests Beneficial Rentokil Initial plc number or at interests ordinary shares of 1p each date of cessation number 1 1 John McAdam 2,688,118 1,780,648 1 1 Andy Ransom 2,719,318 1,811,848 Jeremy Townsend 148,685 99,371 Peter Bamford 38,000 38,000 Richard Burrows 25,000 25,000 Alan Giles 12,000 12,000 Peter Long 2,000 2,000 Angela Seymour-Jackson Duncan Tatton-Brown 12,000 12,000 1 1 Alan Brown to 30 September 2013 2,688,118 1,780,648 William Rucker to 14 March 2013 100,000 100,000 1 Includes a beneficial interest in vested shares held in the Share Incentive Plan 2008 set out in the table on page 69 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 RemRep ID6 p55-74.
indd 70 01 04 2014 16:54 Finan Financial Sta cial Stat tem emen ents ts A Ad ddi diti tio onal Inf final Info orma rmati tio on n Str Stra at te egi gic R c Repo eport rt Co Corpo rpor ra at te G e Go ov vernan ernanc ce e Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report 71 Executive shareholding requirements Recognising investors preferences for executive shareholding requirements, the Company has shareholding guidelines under which executive directors will be expected to build if necessary, over a period of up to five years from appointment and subsequently maintain an economic interest in Company shares with a market value equivalent to their annual salary.
The committee may take into account directors compliance with the shareholding guidelines acknowledging any special circumstances that might apply when considering future long-term incentive awards.
Value of shareholdInterest in PSP ing at 31 December share awards at 2013 based on 31 December 2013 Beneficial interests three month averShareholding as nil cost options, in shares at age share price to a percentage of Shareholding vesting subject to Executive 31 December 2013 that date salary guideline performance Chief Executive Andy Ransom from 1 October 2013 2,719,318 2,948,284 575.28% 100% of salary 3,458,990 Chief Financial Officer Jeremy Townsend 148,685 161,204 36.46% 100% of salary 2,889,804 Andy Ransom has a beneficial interest in 2,667,318 shares vested in the Share Incentive Plan 2008.
This includes an interest in 1,413,678 shares held in the SIP 2008 scheme on a net of tax basis External appointments Executive directors are entitled, subject to Board approval of the specific appointment, to accept one non-executive directorship or similar appointment outside the Company and to retain the fees in connection with such appointment.
Alan Brown joined the Board of Intertek Group plc on 15 April 2011 as a non-executive director.
He received and retained non-executive directors fees for the period ended 30 September 2013 the date on which he stepped down as a director of the Company of 50,250 2012: 60,000.
Jeremy Townsend is a director of a business run by a member of his family for which he received no remuneration.
He has no executive involvement in the business and the appointment does not represent a conflict of interest.
No other executive director currently holds an external non-executive director post.
Chief Executive remuneration over five year period 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 2 2 Chief Executive Alan Brown Alan Brown Alan Brown Alan Brown Alan Brown Andy Ransom Single figure of remuneration 1,656,000 989,000 3,564,971 1,115,000 931,562 287,949 % annual bonus payout vs. maximum opportunity 72% 0% 0% 13% 32.43% 34.49% % long-term incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity 0% 0% 22% 0% 0% 0% 1 2 011 single figure for the Chief Executive includes the value of the 2008 Share Incentive Plan of 2,573,971 which were valued on the release date of 20 May 2011 2 Alan Brown was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 April 2008 stepped down on 30 September 2013 and Andy Ransom was appointed from that date.
The total single figure has been apportioned to reflect payment during these periods 3 The Long Term incentive vesting includes Share Incentive Plan for Alan Brown whose share vested in May 2011 which is referred to in the 2008 Share Incentive Plan table on page 69 and appointed as Chief Executive on 1 April 2008 stepped down on 30 September 2013 and Andy Ransom was appointed from that date.
The total single figure has been apportioned to reflect the total single figure of remuneration paid to the each Chief Executive during the period TSR performance over a five-year period relative Rentokil Initials total shareholder return compared against total to FTSE Index shareholder return of the FTSE 100, the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 The following graph shows total shareholder return over a five-year FTSE 100 FTSE 350 Total Shareholder Return FTSE 250 Rentokil Initial plc period reflecting the holding of the Companys shares, plotted against the movement of a broad equity market index.
The following graph shows the Companys TSR performance relative to the FTSE 300 100 Index and the FTSE 250 Index, on a consistent basis with the graph shown last year which is compliant with the requirements.
250 The Company has been a constituent of both these indices over the 200 five year period that is shown.
The FTSE 350 Index is also shown on the basis that the constituents for the comparator group for long- 150 term incentive purposes are drawn from this index the comparator group excludes financial services, property and primary resource 100 companies.
The basis of assessment of relative TSR performance 50 in respect of awards made under the Companys PSP award differs from the basis on which this chart is prepared and is described on 01 Jan 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec pages 67 and 69 of this report.
This chart has been prepared by 2009 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Deloitte LLP for the Company for inclusion in the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013 and is based on data sourced from Thomson Reuters DataStream and uses spot Return Index data at each year end.
indd 71 01 04 2014 16:54 72 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Voting at the 2013 AGM Percentage change in remuneration At the AGM on 15 May 2013, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting The table below sets out a comparison of the change in pay for the in respect of the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report were as follows: chief executive for the year ended 2013 compared with 2012 and to all UK employees, excluding Initial Facilities which will be run as Approval of the remuneration report a non-core business during 2014, over the same periods.
The chief Total executive is based in the UK and as such is impacted by the same economic and legislative environments as other UK colleagues based Votes for 1,512,707,486 in core businesses.
Figures below for the chief executive reflect the % for 98.28% change of chief executive and associated terms and conditions on Votes against 26,398,941 1October 2013.
% against 1.72% Average base salary for all UK employees includes overtime and Total votes cast 1,539,106,427 premium rate pay, which is flexed to meet business requirements, as Votes withheld abstentions 4,415,000 well as annual and out of cycle pay increases and headcount changes % votes withheld 0.29% during the year.
All bonus schemes are performance related and reflect business performance during the year.
The impact of changes to the UK car scheme and private healthcare drove a reduced cost of benefits.
A vote for include those votes giving the Chairman discretion.
Avote withheld is not classed as a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of proportion of votes cast for or against a resolution.
Annual Base salary bonus Benefits Total The committee is pleased with the level of shareholder support 2.42% 103.79% 2.27% 11.88% received for the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report.
Rentokil Chief Executive decrease increase decrease increase remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an All UK employees 2.9% 1.5% 2.3% 2.2% active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote excluding Initial increase decrease decrease increase 1 2 3 Facilities per capita per capita per capita per capita against a resolution in relation to directors remuneration, Rentokil Initial would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would set out in the following Annual Report and Accounts any 1 Base salary includes overtime and premium rate pay 2 Annual bonus includes our Group Management Bonus Scheme and any other actions in response to it.
During late 2013 early 2014, the committee bonus commission or cash incentive consulted with shareholders regarding changes to the performance 3 Benefits includes private healthcare, car allowance including trade down, cars, fully expensed fuel cards and commercial vans private use measures for long-term incentive arrangements.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out amounts paid in total employee costs and total dividends paid for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012.
Alan Giles Chairman, Remuneration Committee 2013 2012 m m % change 28 February 2014 Remuneration paid to all 1 1 employees of the group 1,030.6 1,020.5 1.0% 2 2 2 Distributions to shareholders 38.6 36.2 6.6% 1 The figure for 2013 shows employee remuneration for continuing operations.
Itdoes not include discontinued operations following the sale of the City Link business in April 2013 2 The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2013 of 1.61p per share.
This equates to a full year dividend of 2.31p per share.
In 2012 a full year dividend of 2.1p per share was paid to shareholders Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 RemRep ID6 p55-74.
