64 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Proposed policy PROPOsEd dIRECTORs REMUnERATIOn POLICy It is intended that this remuneration policy shall take binding effect, subject to shareholder approval, from the date of the AGM 2014.
Policy table executive directors fixed pay Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually taking Annual salary increases for executive The overall performance of the account of our remuneration policy, personal directors will not normally exceed the individual is considered by the performance and the experience of the average percentage increase committee when reviewing salary.
To attract and retain executive director.
Other factors considered awarded to other employees in the high performing talent are the levels of base salary provided for the United Kingdom.
Increases may be by setting base salaries broader employee base, prevailing market above this level: for example if there at rates comparable with and economic conditions, and market data is an increase in the scope, scale, what would be paid in from companies of similar market market comparability or an equivalent position capitalisation and revenue to Rexam with responsibility of the role.
Benefits The Company provides private healthcare Set at a level which the committee None.
insurance, permanent health insurance, a considers will provide a sufficient car benefit or cash equivalent, travel, level of benefit based on the role and To provide competitive accommodation and meals whilst on individual circumstances, such as and cost effective benefits Company business.
The policy allows us relocation, and which are comparable to assist executive directors to provide any other benefits that are deemed with benefits offered by companies of to carry out their duties to be an employment benefit by the relevant similar size and complexity.
tax authority, or in certain circumstances are considered appropriate and reasonable by the committee.
Such benefits may include relocation expenses and education allowances.
Retirement and other Executive directors who commenced UK Current executive directors receive a None.
related benefits based employment prior to 6April 2011, pension entitlement equal to 1 30th participate in the Rexam Pension Plan, a of their selected pensionable salary To provide market career average revalued earnings defined with an optional cash supplement competitive retirement benefit plan the Plan.
Members select a of 44% of eligible base salary not and other related pensionable salary for the year and receive pensioned.
In the event of death in benefits.
a salary supplement on pension eligible service of a member of the Plan with base salary not pensioned.
dependants, an age related amount of between 11 and 15 times salary Executive directors who commence UK based is provided.
employment after 6April 2011 are entitled to membership of a defined contribution In the event of ill health and subject pension arrangement.
to meeting eligibility criteria a benefit may be provided through the Plan in accordance with the Plan rules.
A newly appointed executive director who is an internal recruit and already a member of the Plan is entitled to continue to participate in the Plan.
Executive directors who are newly recruited may opt for a retirement plan contribution of 25% of base salary, or alternatively elect for a cash supplement of 22% of base salary.
Death in service life cover of four times base salary and a Group income replacement plan, providing continuing income for two years at 50% of base salary after short term sickness benefit expires, with a lump sum of two times base salary payable on cessation of service if there is no return to work, is also provided.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 65 Policy table executive directors performance based pay Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Annual incentives Financial and personal objectives are set at Annual incentive opportunity as The annual incentive is based on the start of the year and are aligned to strategic a percentage of base salary: annual financial performance, objectives.
Following the end of the year, the usually profit and cash which To incentivise the Maximum performance 180% committee considers the extent to which these accounts for 80% of the overall executive directors Target performance 90% have been achieved and sets the award level.
incentive, and also on achievement and senior executives Threshold performance 45% of personal performance objectives to achieve profitable Annual payments are subject to overall Annual incentive payments are which accounts for 20% of the growth and to sustain committee discretion taking into consideration not pensionable.
Details of measures the Groups cash both the attainment of the financial measures for 2014 are included on page 78. performance.
and achievement against personal objectives.
Deferred bonus shares A proportion of the annual incentive as A part of any earned annual incentive All deferred shares vest after determined by the committee is paid in Rexam is to be deferred into Rexam shares, three years subject to clawback shares and deferred for three years.
Dividend the current mandated amount being provisions as detailed in the notes To add long term equivalents are awarded in shares or cash equal 25% of total incentive earned.
to the policy table below.
sustainability and to the dividends paid during the period between shareholder alignment the date of grant and the date of transfer of to short term performance the shares on the number of shares that vest.
Long term incentives The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is used for The maximum value that can be The LTIP performance measures for the long term incentive arrangement.
Awards granted in a given year is 220% awards from 2014 are relative total which may be granted as nil cost options or of base salary.
shareholder return TSR performance To motivate and reward conditional share awards vest to the extent that and earnings per share EPS growth longer term performance, Under each measure, threshold performance conditions have been achieved weighted 25% on TSR and 75% on linked to key strategic performance will result in 25% of over a three year measurement period.
The EPS portion will only vest if objectives.
maximum vesting for that element, equivalents are awarded in shares or cash a certain minimum average return rising on a straight line basis to equal to the dividends paid during the period on capital employed ROCE is full vesting.
between the date of grant and the date of achieved.
TSR targets are set with vesting on the number of shares that vest.
threshold being median ranking in the relative TSR versus the largest 150 companies excluding investment trusts by market capitalisation within the FTSE All Share Index: maximum vesting is for upper quartile ranking.
EPS targets are set at the start of each three year measurement period having regard to a number of internal and external reference points.
The ROCE underpin is set above the cost of capital and applies to grants to be made in 2014.
Details of measures for 2014 are included on page 78.
Details of prior year share awards granted to existing executive directors are set out on page 75.
These remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms with performance measures being TSR 33%, EPS 33% and ROCE 33%.
Unvested LTIP awards are subject to clawback see notes to the policy table below.
All employee share plans Under the current all employee share plan Savings limits and the maximum None.
UK based executive directors are entitled to discount for the option price are set participate in the UK tax approved Savings by the UK tax authorities.
The current To encourage voluntary Related Share Option Scheme SAYE.
maximum monthly saving limit is participation in share 250 which will increase to 500 on Participants make monthly contributions from ownership throughout 6April 2014.
The current maximum salary for either three or five years linked to the Group where share discount for the option price is 20% the grant of an option to buy Rexam shares plans are appropriate.
of the market price of a share on the at the end of the savings period at an option invitation date.
price which can be discounted by up to 20% of the market price on the invitation date.
66 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Proposed policy continued notes to the policy table Use of discretion The committee will operate the annual incentive, deferred bonus plan, LTIP and, where relevant, the SAYE scheme, according to their respective rules or relevant documents and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of regards to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include, but are not limited to, the following: selecting participants: reviewing performance measures, their weighting and targets, from year to year: determining the timing of an annual incentive payment or share grant: deciding the amount of annual incentive or share awards, as well as the proportion of an award vesting or paying out, upwards or downwards, within the individual limits specified on page 65: deciding how to treat leavers, depending on their leaving circumstances, as detailed on page 69: deciding the adjustments required in certain major corporate events such as rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends or corporate restructurings: taking the necessary decisions in the event of a change of control as detailed on page 70.
In exercising judgment and discretion, the committee will ensure at all times that any adjustment will be made on a neutral basis, ie the intention of any adjustment will be that the event is not to the benefit or detriment of participants.
Adjustments due to underlying performance may be made in exceptional circumstances to ensure outcomes are fair both to shareholders and participants.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the annual report on remuneration in the following years annual report and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major institutional shareholders.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys SAYE and share incentive plans will be as permitted under HMRC rules and the Listing Rules.
Clawback The Company can reduce the number of unvested deferred bonus shares or LTIP awards in whole or in part in the event that the financial statements or results for the Group are materially restated other than restatement due to a change in accounting policy or to rectify a minor error : or if a participant has made a deliberate misstatement to the management of the Company, the market, or the Companys shareholders regarding the financial performance of the Group: or a participants actions have caused the Group reputational damage: or a participants actions amount to serious misconduct or conduct which causes significant financial loss for the Group.
For the deferred bonus plan, awards may be forfeited if the committee believes that an executive directors restrictive covenants have not been respected.
Remuneration policy for other employees The following differences exist between the policy set out above and the approach to the remuneration of employees generally.
executive directors annual incentive measures are set at Group level: other incentive plan participants are incentivised on a mix of sector and Group level measures.
only executive directors are required to defer 25% of their annual incentive into Rexam shares.
the LTIP as described above applies to executive directors and the executive leadership team currently 10 participants in total.
Similar arrangements apply for all other participants although the performance measure components may vary.
from time to time specific incentives may exist that relate to a specific sector or country, the terms of which are similar to other Group incentives.
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting Measures and weightings for the annual incentive are reviewed and selected by the committee at the start of the year to align with the Companys priorities for the year.
Targets are set by reference to both financial and non financial priorities: related profit and cash flow with threshold and maximum for cash determined by reference to profit and personal performance measures see page 78.
The measures used under the share incentive plans are selected annually and reflect the Groups main key performance indicators for the year see page 78.
The performance measures proposed for 2014 are set out below.
Incentive plans Performance measure Reasons for selection Annual incentive plan Profit before tax or operating Key driver of shareholder value.
profit at business or sector level Captures growth as well as Rexams ability to manage costs.
Cash flow Encourages operational cash discipline and responsible and well timed investments.
Encourages the ability to link to specific strategic annual objectives.
Personal objectives Alignment of behaviours to strategic annual objectives.
Long term incentive Earnings per share Captures long term growth and drives shareholder value creation.
plan Relative total shareholder return Captures creation of shareholder value and rewards management for outperformance.
ROCE underpin for earnings Rexam is committed to maintaining strong capital discipline and balance growth and returns.
per share measure The committee believes that EPS, with the ROCE underpin, and TSR provide strong alignment with shareholder interests and our longer term strategy.
They also strike a good balance between growth and returns, as well as between internal and external perspectives on the Companys performance.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 67 Policy table non executive directors fees Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Non executive directors fees The fees of the chairman, the senior independent An annual fee will be paid monthly to the chairman and director and the other non executive directors are non executive directors which will be set at a sufficient reviewed annually.
Fee levels are benchmarked level to attract, motivate and retain non executive directors To attract and retain non executive against FTSE listed companies of similar size and proportionate to the requirements, time commitment of directors of the highest calibre with complexity and sector comparators.
the role and the contribution that is expected from the broad commercial and other chairman and non executive directors.
An additional The chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee and experience relevant to the fee is paid to the senior independent director and to non executive directors are paid a basic fee, plus an Company.
additional fee to the senior independent director and to the chair of the board committees.
The maximum fee that the non executive directors including the chairman shall be paid by way of If revised, the effective date of any fee change remuneration for their services as directors of the is 1January.
Company is set taking account of the relevant comparator group.
The aggregate fee that can be paid as stated in the Companys articles of association is 1,000,000 pa. Benefits The chairman and the non executive directors may be Set at a level which the committee considers will provide eligible for benefits to assist them to carry out their duties a sufficient level of benefit based on the role and are effectively.
The Company reimburses travel, accommodation comparable with benefits offered by companies of To provide benefits in a cost efficient and meals to the chairman and the non executive directors similar size and complexity.
way to assist non executive directors whilst on Company business and provides secretarial The non executive directors do not participate in the to carry out their duties effectively.
support to the chairman of the Company.
The policy Companys incentive plans or receive retirement allows us to provide any other benefits that are deemed related benefits.
to be a benefit by the relevant tax authority, or in certain circumstances are considered appropriate and reasonable by the committee, such as financial advice.
Approach to remuneration upon the appointment of a new executive director In the cases of hiring or promoting from within Rexam an executive director, the committee will typically align the remuneration package with the stated remuneration policy, as described in the table below.
In determining the appropriate remuneration, the committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both Rexam and its shareholders.
Item Approach Maximum Base salary The base salary will be determined by reference to Set at a level appropriate to attract talent, taking into relevant market data, experience and skills of the account market conditions.
individual, internal relativities and their current basic salary.
Where new appointees have initial base salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years.
Retirement and other As outlined under Retirement and other related benefits in Maximum contributions are as outlined under related benefits the table on page 64.
Externally recruited executives can Retirement and other related benefits in the table opt for a retirement plan pension contribution or an on page 64. equivalent cash supplement.
Benefits Eligible to receive benefits outlined under Benefits in the Benefits should be in line with those offered to other table on page 64 and may include any appropriate executive directors.
Annual incentives The structure described in the policy table on page 65 will The maximum opportunity is 180% of base salary.
apply pro rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Long term incentives Will be granted awards under the LTIP as described in the The maximum award size is 220% of base salary at policy table on page 65 at the next scheduled grant date.
External recruitment The Companys policy is that all executive directors serve under contracts terminable by the Company or the executive director on one years notice.
However, in circumstances which the committee considers exceptional and believes it appropriate to do so, the policy allows for an externally recruited executive director to be offered a contract terminable by the Company on two years notice if, for reasons other than poor performance, the contract is terminated in the first year of appointment.
Thereafter the contract would become terminable on one years notice.
If circumstances are such that it is not possible to make awards under the incentive arrangements in the remuneration policy, the committee may make an award in respect of a new external appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the committee will take account of relevant factors including i any performance conditions attaching to those awards, ii the likelihood of those conditions being met and iii the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
Under exceptional circumstances, the committee may consider it appropriate to grant a buy out award under a structure not included in the policy, exercising the discretion available in the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Awards will not be of a materially greater fair value as assessed by the committee than the fair value of awards that the appointee is giving up.
68 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Proposed policy continued Internal recruitment In cases of appointing a new executive director by way of an internal promotion, the committee will follow the approach in the table on page 67.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to executive director level, the Company may honour these arrangements: however, with the exception of retirement and life assurance benefits, these arrangements would be expected to transition to the arrangements as stated in the table.
Employment contracts for executive directors date of appointment date of notice period notice period Executive director to the board current contract Company director Graham Chipchase 10February 2003 30November 2009 12 months 12 months David Robbie 3October 2005 20October 2010 12 months 12 months External directorships The Companys policy is to permit executive directors to have non executive directorships with other companies, subject to the approval of the chairman of the board.
Any fees payable will be retained by the executive director unless otherwise agreed.
Graham Chipchase has been a non executive director of AstraZeneca PLC since 26April 2012.
His director fees in 2013 which he retained were 95,000 2012: 64,700.
Illustrative pay for performance scenarios 000s 4,500 4,308 40% 4,000 3,500 lLTIP 3,000 lAnnual incentive: shares 2,740 lAnnual incentive: cash 2,601 lOther benefits 32% 2,500 40% lRetirement related benefits 8% lBase salary 2,000 6% 1,653 25% 1,500 32% 8% 19% 1,172 0% 0% 1% 6% 1,000 25% 9% 14% 32% 19% 705 0% 0% 1% 9% 14% 32% 500 18% 29% 67% 18% 29% 67% 0 maximum target minimum maximum target minimum Graham Chipchase, chief executive David Robbie, finance director Assumptions Fixed remuneration base salary 2014 Chief executive 784,380, finance director 473,790 retirement related benefits 48.2% of base salary, including death in service cover and less an offset where applicable other benefits Value of benefits based on those received in 2013: chief executive 10,000: finance director 3,000 Annual incentive maximum target minimum annual incentive: cash 135% of salary 67.5% of salary 0% of salary annual incentive: shares 45% of salary 22.5% of salary 0% of salary Long term incentive maximum target minimum LTIP 220% of salary 110% of salary 0% of salary 100% vesting 50% vesting 0% vesting Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 69 Contracts for services for non executive directors Non executive directors do not have contracts of employment but serve under contracts for services and aregenerally appointed for an initial three year term renewable thereafter, at the discretion of the board, for a maximum of two further three year terms, subject to election or re-election by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
Appointments of non executive directors are terminable without compensation in the event that the director is not elected or re-elected by shareholders, or by either the Company or the non executive director giving one months written notice or, in the case of the chairman of the Company and the senior independent director, by either the Company or the chairman or senior independent director giving three months written notice.
date of original Effective date of current Expiry of non executive director date of appointment letter ofappointment letter of appointment current term Stuart Chambers 1February 2012 15November 2011 1February 2012 31January 2015 John Langston 30October 2008 30October 2008 30October 2011 29October 2014 Leo Oosterveer 1September 2011 10August 2011 1September 2011 31August 2014 Ros Rivaz 12June 2013 12June 2013 12June 2013 11June 2016 Jean-Pierre Rodier 7June 2006 6June 2006 7June 2012 2May 2014 Johanna Waterous 4May 2012 3April 2012 4May 2012 3May 2015 Termination of contracts and exit payment policy The Company has the right to terminate an employment contract immediately, even where termination is without cause.
In such circumstances, the contract provides for a payment in lieu of notice to be made and calculated by reference to base salary, prorated annual incentive to the period on which employment terminates, retirement benefits and other benefits, and there is no entitlement under the employment contract to payment of any annual incentive in respect of the termination notice period.
When considering termination payments, the committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair both to shareholders and participants.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing executive director may have a legal entitlement our policy is to comply with any applicable legal requirements under relevant legislations to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
The committee retains discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably due to the executive, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the executive in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
As part of its policy, the committee also has discretion to meet reasonable relocation costs if the executive director had relocated to perform their duties.
The table below summarises how different elements of remuneration are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the committees discretion which will take into account the executive directors personal performance.
Item Approach Pay in lieu of notice The Company will make any termination payment in monthly instalments over what would have been the notice period until the earlier of the director commencing in a new position or the notice period expiring.
The executive has a duty to mitigate his or her loss of office and actively seek alternative comparable employment at the earliest opportunity, thereby reducing the need for compensation.
The committee may decide to waive the requirement to mitigate in exceptional circumstances, for example compassionate reasons.
Retirement and Retirement and other benefits continue to be provided during the notice period but cease on the termination date.
Executive directors other related who leave in circumstances approved by the committee, for example, incapacity retirement, may have a favourable actuarial benefits reduction applied to their pension or may receive a pension related enhancement under the rules of the Plan.
Benefits May be eligible to receive limited benefits, such as untaken holiday pay, relocation and, for a certain period of time, private health insurance, permanent health insurance, and financial and legal advice.
Annual incentives Annual incentives may be paid on a prorated basis dependent on the circumstances under which the executive is leaving the Company, for example redundancy, retirement, death, injury or ill health, to the extent that financial and individual objectives set at the beginning of the relevant year have been met.
Any resulting bonus will be prorated for time served during the year.
Long term incentives Outstanding share based awards will generally vest at the end of their original measurement period to the extent performance conditions are met on a time prorated basis, in the event of serious ill health, injury or disability and retirement with employer consent and in any other circumstances where the committee would decide, in its sole discretion, to allow the awards to vest.
The committee has discretion to allow the awards to vest immediately on cessation of employment eg in the event of death or other compassionate circumstances and, in very exceptional circumstances, without applying time prorating if it thinks this is appropriate.
More specific provisions relating to change of control are given below.
SAYE Participants in the SAYE schemes who leave because of injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or the sale of a business will have the option to buy a reduced number of Rexam shares with their savings within six months from the date of leaving.
The option to buy shares lapses at the end of six months.
Options held by participants leaving for other reasons will lapse except if the contract has been held for at least three years from the date of grant in which case the option to buy shares continues for six months from the date of leaving employment.
Deferred shares The proportion of the annual incentive paid in deferred shares will vest on the date of termination of employment subject to the executive directors restrictive covenants, and the Companys right to initiate clawback if the participant leaves because of death, ill health, injury, retirement with employer consent, redundancy, sale of business, voluntary resignation, or for any other reason which the committee considers appropriate.
70 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Proposed policy continued Item Approach Takeover In the event of a takeover or other major corporate event but excluding an internal corporate reorganisation of the Company, all outstanding awards granted under the LTIP and the deferred bonus plan would vest and in the case of the LTIP, subject to the achievement of any performance conditions as determined by the committee and taking into account any pro rata reduction to reflect the unexpired part of the performance period.
The committee has discretion to disapply time pro rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation or a takeover, the committee may determine, with the agreement of the acquiring company, that outstanding awards should be exchanged for equivalent awards in another company.
Options granted under the Companys Savings Related Share Option Schemes would become exercisable in accordance with the prescribed legislation.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Company encourages each of its businesses to engage with its employees in the form of team briefings, town hall meetings or through the employee engagement survey to discuss and answer questions, or give feedback, on matters of relevance to them.
However, the Company does not formally consult with employees on remuneration policy or framework.
When making decisions on executive director remuneration, the committee considers pay and conditions across the broader employee base.
Prior to the annual salary review, the committee considers the proposed level of increase for overall employee pay.
An exception to this may be considered where new appointees have initial base salaries set below market, and where there is an intention for any shortfall to be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years or where the role of the executive director has increased substantially due to a change in the scope of the position or organisational change.
Consideration of shareholder views In December 2013 the remuneration committee chairman wrote to the Companys major institutional shareholders to share the proposed changes to the remuneration policy for 2014 and the committees considerations for such changes.
Some shareholders took the opportunity to discuss the measures and targets for the 2014 LTIP award with management and responses were supportive.
