Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy Competitive, performance-related remuneration Remuneration Policy introduction We aim to provide competitive rewards that attract, retain and motivate As foreshadowed in our Remuneration Report last year, the UK Parliament executives of the high calibre required to lead the Group while ensuring rewards approved new legislation setting out the requirements for the reporting of, remain appropriate and proportionate, both when compared to market practice and voting on, directors remuneration by listed companies.
The regulations and to remuneration arrangements for other employees in the Group.
apply from October 2013, and Rio Tinto is required to comply with them in this Remuneration Report.
The majority of remuneration is linked to demanding performance targets over both the short and long term to ensure that executive rewards are The regulations require the board to present to shareholders a policy for the directed at delivering good performance for shareholders.
remuneration of its directors that is subject to a binding vote for the first time at the 2014 AGMs and at least every three years thereafter.
For the purposes of assessing the appropriate level of executive remuneration, the Committee refers to the FTSE30 excluding financial Subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGMs, the Remuneration Policy services companies as the initial comparator group.
The FTSE30 is will, for the purposes of the new UK regulations, become effective in respect considered the most relevant comparator group as it comprises of payments to directors from the date of our Australian AGM.
organisations broadly comparable to the Group in terms of global reach, This Remuneration Policy applies specifically to our executive and nonrevenue, market capitalisation and complexity.
References are also made executive directors and the chairman.
It also explains, in conformance with to other relevant supplementary comparator groups, including a crossAustralian law, the broad policy principles which generally apply to the section of comparable international industrial organisations and other non-director members of the Executive Committee.
The policy applying international mining companies.
to our chairman and non-executive directors is set out at the end of the Typically we aim to position base salaries at the median of these comparator Remuneration Policy on page 78. groups, while our incentive plans are designed with the potential to deliver total remuneration outcomes across the full market range according to This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with applicable business and individual performance.
legislation and corporate governance guidance in the UK and Australia.
Australian legislation requires disclosures in respect of key management Benchmarking is undertaken periodically but not annually, and our intention personnel, being those persons having authority and responsibility for is to apply judgment in evaluating market data.
We will take salary increases planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
The key in the broader employee population into account in determining any change management personnel are, in addition to the directors, the non-director to the base pay of executives.
members of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee comprises We regularly consult with shareholders on the design of our policies the executive directors, product group chief executive officers and Group and programmes, most recently on the subjects of the safety measure executives.
Throughout this Remuneration Report, the members of the component of the STIP, the ceasing of the use of share options as a Executive Committee are collectively referred to as executives.
They are mechanism for long-term reward and in the performance conditions and listed on page 53 and 56, which also shows the positions held during the year the performance period for our new PSP.
Employee share plans provide the opportunity for employees to participate Shareholders should note that this Remuneration Policy is binding only in in the voting on executive remuneration.
Employees who are shareholders so far as it relates to directors.
20 per cent of the workforce are able to vote on the Remuneration Report.
Employees have not been consulted on the Remuneration Policy but are free Our remuneration policies, principles and practices to ask any questions they wish and to offer any opinions they have through our normal employee communications channels.
Our first objective is to spend remuneration resource wisely in pursuit of the implementation of the Groups strategy.
We want our pay policies to be Safety regarded as fair by shareholders and employees alike.
Although we have We have a strong focus on safety in the STIP targets.
appropriate remuneration structures, the Committee retains considerable discretions, enabling it, if it thinks fit, to override inappropriate mechanistic As an organisation, we strive for superior long-term shareholder value outcomes, but always within the confines of the Remuneration Policy.
creation in a healthy, safe and environmentally appropriate way.
These are important elements of our licence to operate.
Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where it competes for a limited Safety key performance indicators determine a significant portion of the pool of talented executives.
High-quality people, who are capable of achieving STIP for executives.
stretching performance targets, are essential to generating superior returns for the Group.
Our compensation strategies aim to provide this support by enabling Any fatality will have a material impact on the STIP score for the relevant the Group to attract and retain people whose contribution will increase executives.
Further details on the approach to fatalities are provided on shareholder value over time.
We aim to engage our people over the long term by fostering diversity, Long term focus providing challenging work and development opportunities, and encouraging Consistent with our strategy of investing in and operating long-life, low-cost, strong delivery by good performance.
This people strategy is underpinned expandable mines and businesses, we seek to provide incentive plans that focus by our values of respect, integrity, accountability and teamwork and our on longer-term performance.
commitment to provide sustainable growth and development for both Rio Tinto and our employees.
Our incentive plans are designed to promote and reward decision-making with a positive long-term impact while avoiding excessive risk.
Our policy is based on the principle of aligning remuneration outcomes with Fifty per cent of the STIP for executives is deferred into shares which vest the successful delivery of strategy.
The remuneration strategy and the policies after three years, through the Bonus Deferral Plan BDP.
which support it, together with a description of how we believe they will help Rio Tinto achieve its vision, are set out below and in the executive remuneration The performance-based options and shares awarded prior to 2013 have structure table on pages 71 to 73.
Complementary remuneration structures are a three and four-year time horizon, respectively.
The time horizon for designed for other employees, drawing on these strategies and policies.
performance shares awarded under the PSP from 2013 has moved out to five years.
As a transitional measure, awards granted in 2013 will potentially vest 50 per cent after four years and 50 per cent after five years.
com reportingcentre2013 DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGIC REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT: Policy Report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy Competitive, performance-related remuneration Options are no longer granted but existing options which vest may be Risk management Remuneration Policy introduction exercised up to ten years after their grant.
We aim to provide competitive rewards that attract, retain and motivate The Committee has authority under the malus provisions of the PSP to As foreshadowed in our Remuneration Report last year, the UK Parliament executives of the high calibre required to lead the Group while ensuring rewards reduce or cancel awards made from 2013 in the event of gross misconduct approved new legislation setting out the requirements for the reporting of, The Committee intends to keep the Groups long-term incentive remain appropriate and proportionate, both when compared to market practice which may have a material effect on the value or reputation of the Group, and voting on, directors remuneration by listed companies.
The regulations arrangements under review.
and to remuneration arrangements for other employees in the Group.
a materially adverse error in the Groups or a product groups financial apply from October 2013, and Rio Tinto is required to comply with them in Shareholder alignment statements, exceptional events that have a materially detrimental impact this Remuneration Report.
The majority of remuneration is linked to demanding performance targets Our share ownership policy requires executives to build up and maintain on the value of any Group company, or for any other reason that the over both the short and long term to ensure that executive rewards are The regulations require the board to present to shareholders a policy for the a meaningful shareholding as described on page 80.
We reward executives Committee decides in a particular case.
directed at delivering good performance for shareholders.
remuneration of its directors that is subject to a binding vote for the first time for delivering shareholder value by using relative TSR as one of the measures The Committee also has authority under the claw back provisions of the at the 2014 AGMs and at least every three years thereafter.
For the purposes of assessing the appropriate level of executive for our LTIP.
PSP to recover the value of any awards made from 2013 in the event of remuneration, the Committee refers to the FTSE30 excluding financial Subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGMs, the Remuneration Policy For awards granted from 2013 under the PSP, a new relative EBIT margin deliberate misconduct by a participant that may have a material impact on services companies as the initial comparator group.
The FTSE30 is will, for the purposes of the new UK regulations, become effective in respect improvement measure complements the relative TSR measures and the value or reputation of a Rio Tinto Group company or for any other reason considered the most relevant comparator group as it comprises of payments to directors from the date of our Australian AGM.
incentivises executives to deliver long-term shareholder value while that the directors decide in a particular case.
organisations broadly comparable to the Group in terms of global reach, maximising operational performance in the medium term.
This comprises This Remuneration Policy applies specifically to our executive and nonrevenue, market capitalisation and complexity.
References are also made The Committee reserves rights to exercise discretions more generally one-third of the total value opportunity under the PSP awards.
executive directors and the chairman.
It also explains, in conformance with to other relevant supplementary comparator groups, including a crossas described on page 75.
Australian law, the broad policy principles which generally apply to the section of comparable international industrial organisations and other The reward opportunity under the remaining portion of the PSP awards Executive remuneration structure policy table non-director members of the Executive Committee.
will be delivered based on relative TSR performance against both the HSBC to our chairman and non-executive directors is set out at the end of the Global Mining Index and the broader market of large global companies as The Committee seeks to achieve a remuneration mix which best reflects the Typically we aim to position base salaries at the median of these comparator Remuneration Policy on page 78. measured through the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI.
long-term nature of the business.
The total remuneration package is therefore groups, while our incentive plans are designed with the potential to deliver designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable The choice of both the HSBC Global Mining Index and MSCI reflects the total remuneration outcomes across the full market range according to This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with applicable components, with an emphasis on long-term variable pay.
The remuneration fact that Rio Tinto competes in a global market for investors as well as within business and individual performance.
structure for executives including the relationship between each element of the mining sector and is consistent with rewarding executives for providing Australian legislation requires disclosures in respect of key management Benchmarking is undertaken periodically but not annually, and our intention remuneration and Group performance is summarised below.
Further details on stable returns over the long-term relative to the broader market and the personnel, being those persons having authority and responsibility for is to apply judgment in evaluating market data.
We will take salary increases the key performance indicators used to assess Group performance are provided mining sector.
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
The key in the broader employee population into account in determining any change on pages 10 and 11.
Shareholders should note that the following remuneration management personnel are, in addition to the directors, the non-director to the base pay of executives.
structure is binding only in so far as it relates to directors.
The Executive Committee comprises We regularly consult with shareholders on the design of our policies the executive directors, product group chief executive officers and Group Any commitment made before this Remuneration Policy takes effect or before and programmes, most recently on the subjects of the safety measure executives.
Throughout this Remuneration Report, the members of the an executive became or becomes a director will be honoured even if it is not component of the STIP, the ceasing of the use of share options as a Executive Committee are collectively referred to as executives.
They are consistent with this Remuneration Policy or any subsequent policy.
mechanism for long-term reward and in the performance conditions and listed on page 53 and 56, which also shows the positions held during the year the performance period for our new PSP.
Employee share plans provide the opportunity for employees to participate Link to Group performance Shareholders should note that this Remuneration Policy is binding only in in the voting on executive remuneration.
Employees who are shareholders Remuneration arrangements Fixed and strategy so far as it relates to directors.
Base salary Base salary provides the main fixed element of the remuneration package.
We pay competitive salaries to Employees have not been consulted on the Remuneration Policy but are free hire, motivate and retain highly Base salaries are reviewed annually, with a maximum increase of nine per cent, or inflation if higher, Our remuneration policies, principles and practices to ask any questions they wish and to offer any opinions they have through competent people.
An increase may be higher than this for executives who are not directors in the our normal employee communications channels.
Our first objective is to spend remuneration resource wisely in pursuit of circumstances described below.
the implementation of the Groups strategy.
We want our pay policies to be Safety Any increase is generally aligned with the average base salary increases applying to the broader regarded as fair by shareholders and employees alike.
employee population unless there were significant changes to an individuals role and or appropriate remuneration structures, the Committee retains considerable responsibilities during the year.
Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Group and discretions, enabling it, if it thinks fit, to override inappropriate mechanistic As an organisation, we strive for superior long-term shareholder value individual performance, global economic conditions, role responsibilities, an assessment against outcomes, but always within the confines of the Remuneration Policy.
These relevant comparator groups and internal relativities.
are important elements of our licence to operate.
Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where it competes for a limited An increase above the maximum noted above for executives who are not directors may be made Safety key performance indicators determine a significant portion of the pool of talented executives.
High-quality people, who are capable of achieving in the event of internal promotion or increase in responsibility or where the executives salary is STIP for executives.
stretching performance targets, are essential to generating superior returns for significantly below market positioning.
Our compensation strategies aim to provide this support by enabling Any fatality will have a material impact on the STIP score for the relevant Benchmarking is undertaken periodically but not annually, and our intention is to apply judgment the Group to attract and retain people whose contribution will increase executives.
Further details on the approach to fatalities are provided on in evaluating market data.
Pension or Employment benefits typically include participation in a pension plan, superannuation fund, We provide locally competitive We aim to engage our people over the long term by fostering diversity, superannuation or a cash allowance to contribute to a personal pension or superannuation fund.
post-employment benefits in a Long term focus providing challenging work and development opportunities, and encouraging cost-efficient manner in order to The maximum level of Company contribution to an individual executive directors schemes annually is Consistent with our strategy of investing in and operating long-life, low-cost, strong delivery by good performance.
This people strategy is underpinned hire and retain.
expandable mines and businesses, we seek to provide incentive plans that focus by our values of respect, integrity, accountability and teamwork and our Other benefits Include private healthcare cover for the executive and their dependants, company car or allowance, We provide competitive other on longer-term performance.
commitment to provide sustainable growth and development for both car parking, life insurance, accident insurance, provision of Company-provided transport chauffeur, benefits in a cost-efficient Rio Tinto and our employees.
Our incentive plans are designed to promote and reward decision-making professional advice, participation in local flexible benefit programmes and certain other minor benefits manner to hire and retain.
with a positive long-term impact while avoiding excessive risk.
including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional spouse travel in support Our policy is based on the principle of aligning remuneration outcomes with Fifty per cent of the STIP for executives is deferred into shares which vest of the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses which are deemed to be taxable where the the successful delivery of strategy.
Company has paid the tax on their behalf.
which support it, together with a description of how we believe they will help Secondment and relocation payments for example, housing, tax equalisation, the payment of school Rio Tinto achieve its vision, are set out below and in the executive remuneration The performance-based options and shares awarded prior to 2013 have fees and periodic visits home for the executive and their family may also be made to and on behalf of structure table on pages 71 to 73.
The time horizon for executives living outside their home country.
Examples of these types of payments in 2013 are set out designed for other employees, drawing on these strategies and policies.
performance shares awarded under the PSP from 2013 has moved out in the Implementation Report.
Other benefits are paid at cost and, given the nature and variety of the items, there is no formal maximum level of Company contribution.
com reportingcentre2013 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Link to Group performance and strategy Short Term The threshold and maximum annual bonus opportunities for commensurate performance under STIP focuses participants on Incentive Plan the STIP for executives are 50 per cent and 200 per cent of base salary respectively.
If target achieving demanding annual STIP performance is achieved, the bonus opportunity is up to 120 per cent of base salary for executive performance goals, which are based directors and up to 100 per cent of base salary for other executives.
These percentages, with the on the Groups KPIs, in pursuit of exception of the maximum percentage, are subject to the exercise of discretion by the Committee.
the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
A scorecard of key performance indicators KPIs is established for each executive at the commencement of the financial year.
The measures and the relative weightings are selected We demand that sustainable by the Committee in order to drive business performance for the current year, including the business practices are adhered to, achievement of financial, safety and other individual business outcomes that are priorities for particularly in the context of safety.
the financial year in question.
When reviewing the outcome of The measures, weightings and targets are reviewed annually and are included either prospectively the awards under the STIP the or retrospectively each year in the Implementation Report.
The Committee retains flexibility to Committee will, when evaluating determine the measures, weightings and targets as appropriate, based on the outcomes of its overall safety, financial, Group and annual review.
individual performance consider the overall fairness against original We expect to disclose the measures, weightings and targets for safety goals at the beginning of each expectations and shareholder year.
In the area of financial and individual goals, we will, at the beginning of each year, disclose the experience.
measures and weightings only, because we regard the targets as commercially sensitive.
However, we intend to disclose targets and outcomes retrospectively.
In the rare instances where this may not Any discretionary adjustments for be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will seek to explain why and give an indication directors will be disclosed in the of when they will be disclosed.
Implementation Report for the financial period.
Threshold, target and outstanding performance levels are established for all STIP measures to help drive high levels of business and individual performance.
The central case or base plan delivers what the board considers to be target performance.
Target performance is intended to be stretching.
Probability factors are then applied, based upon a range of potential operating and cost scenarios, to establish the threshold and outstanding performance levels.
These threshold below target, target, and outstanding above target levels are determined by the Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
The Committee seeks to ensure, in making its year end determination of STIP awards, that actual performance is directly comparable to the targets set at the beginning of the year.
This sometimes results in adjustments to the targets being made by the Committee, in particular to take account of events outside managements control to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
Both upward and downward adjustments can be made, with reference to principles agreed by the Committee, to ensure the outcomes fairly reflect the boards objectives.
Safety KPIs comprise a significant portion of the STIP for executives, and any fatality will have a material impact on the STIP score for the relevant executives.
Bonus Fifty per cent of the STIP is delivered in deferred shares under the BDP, with the remainder The BDP ensures ongoing Deferral Plan delivered in cash.
alignment between executives and BDP shareholders through deferral of The BDP vests in the December of the third year after the end of performance year to which 50 per cent of STIP awards into it relates.
The number of BDP shares which are awarded is increased by reference to the dividends paid in the deferral period before vesting.
BDP shares lapse if the participant resigns or is dismissed for misconduct before vesting but, unless the Committee decides otherwise, vest on leaving for any other reason.
BDP shares vest on a change of control.
com reportingcentre2013 DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGIC REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT: Policy Report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Link to Group performance and strategy Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Link to Group performance and strategy Short Term The threshold and maximum annual bonus opportunities for commensurate performance under STIP focuses participants on Performance A new plan was approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs.
The PSP incorporates a simple Incentive Plan the STIP for executives are 50 per cent and 200 per cent of base salary respectively.
If target achieving demanding annual Share Plan PSP structure to align executive reward Awards under the new PSP have a maximum face value of 438 per cent of base salary STIP performance is achieved, the bonus opportunity is up to 120 per cent of base salary for executive performance goals, which are based with shareholder returns and ignoring dividend equivalents as described below.
directors and up to 100 per cent of base salary for other executives.
These percentages, with the on the Groups KPIs, in pursuit of operational performance over a The awards have been calculated independently by our consultants Towers Watson since exception of the maximum percentage, are subject to the exercise of discretion by the Committee.
the creation of sustainable long-term horizon.
1 August 2013 and Deloitte LLP previously to have an expected value of approximately shareholder value.
A scorecard of key performance indicators KPIs is established for each executive at the Award levels are set to incentivise 50 per cent of face value.
Expected value is face value adjusted for the probability of the commencement of the financial year.
The measures and the relative weightings are selected We demand that sustainable executives to meet the long-term performance target being met.
by the Committee in order to drive business performance for the current year, including the business practices are adhered to, strategic goals of the Group, to This means that the expected value that can be awarded under the PSP is a maximum of achievement of financial, safety and other individual business outcomes that are priorities for particularly in the context of safety.
provide retention for the executive 219 per cent of base salary ie 438 per cent x 50 per cent.
The threshold value is a maximum the financial year in question.
team and to contribute towards the When reviewing the outcome of of 98.6 per cent of base salary ie 438 per cent x 22.5 per cent.
competitiveness of the overall The measures, weightings and targets are reviewed annually and are included either prospectively the awards under the STIP the Actual award levels vary for each executive and are included in the Implementation Report.
or retrospectively each year in the Implementation Report.
The Committee retains flexibility to Committee will, when evaluating Conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions, determine the measures, weightings and targets as appropriate, based on the outcomes of its overall safety, financial, Group and TSR rewards the delivery of superior comparing Rio Tintos performance against: annual review.
individual performance consider returns to shareholders over the One-third: TSR relative to the HSBC Global Mining Index: the overall fairness against original long-term.
We expect to disclose the measures, weightings and targets for safety goals at the beginning of each One-third: TSR relative to the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI : and expectations and shareholder year.
In the area of financial and individual goals, we will, at the beginning of each year, disclose the EBIT margin improvement rewards One-third: improvement in EBIT margin relative to the global mining comparators which will experience.
However, sustained operational performance be listed in the Implementation Report each year.
we intend to disclose targets and outcomes retrospectively.
In the rare instances where this may not Any discretionary adjustments for of our business and the costEach component of the award will be assessed independently.
Details of the TSR and EBIT margin be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will seek to explain why and give an indication directors will be disclosed in the competitive operation of our mining measures targets and vesting schedules will be set out in the Implementation Report each year.
of when they will be disclosed.
Implementation Report for the assets, a core part of our strategy.
Those for 2013 can be found on page 108. financial period.
Threshold, target and outstanding performance levels are established for all STIP measures to help How performance is generated is as With respect to the EBIT margin measure, in order to ensure that outcomes are fair and that drive high levels of business and individual performance.
important as what level of business performance has been appropriately taken into account, the Committee will consider, performance is delivered.
Before The central case or base plan delivers what the board considers to be target performance.
Target on a discretionary basis, any specific, significant, unusual, below the line items eg impairments vesting, the Committee must satisfy performance is intended to be stretching.
Probability factors are then applied, based upon a range reported by Rio Tinto or its peers during the performance period to ensure genuine comparability itself that relative TSR and EBIT of potential operating and cost scenarios, to establish the threshold and outstanding performance when determining any level of vesting indicated by third-party data.
The application of any such margin performances are an levels.
These threshold below target, target, and outstanding above target levels are determined discretion will be disclosed.
appropriate reflection of the by the Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
The outperformance required for maximum vesting under all components of the award is considered underlying performance of the The Committee seeks to ensure, in making its year end determination of STIP awards, that actual by the Committee to be very stretching.
business, and can adjust vesting performance is directly comparable to the targets set at the beginning of the year.
This sometimes If, but only if, vesting is achieved, participants in the PSP shall be entitled to receive a number of accordingly.
results in adjustments to the targets being made by the Committee, in particular to take account additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash amount of dividends that would Awards will normally have a fiveof events outside managements control to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
Both upward and have been received had the shares which have vested at the end of the performance period been year performance period to provide downward adjustments can be made, with reference to principles agreed by the Committee, to held throughout the performance period.
long-term alignment with the ensure the outcomes fairly reflect the boards objectives.
Awards and performance conditions can be adjusted to take account of variations of capital interests of shareholders.
Safety KPIs comprise a significant portion of the STIP for executives, and any fatality will have a and other transactions.
Subject to this policy, performance conditions may be amended in other As a transitional measure, awards material impact on the STIP score for the relevant executives.
circumstances if the Committee considers that a changed performance condition would be a fairer granted in 2013 will vest 50 per Bonus Fifty per cent of the STIP is delivered in deferred shares under the BDP, with the remainder The BDP ensures ongoing measure of performance.
cent after four years and 50 per Deferral Plan delivered in cash.
alignment between executives and If there is a change of control, awards will vest to the extent performance conditions are then cent after five years.
BDP shareholders through deferral of The BDP vests in the December of the third year after the end of performance year to which satisfied.
If the change of control happens during the first 36 months from the date of grant of the 50 per cent of STIP awards into it relates.
award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced pro rata over that 36 months period.
The number of BDP shares which are awarded is increased by reference to the dividends paid The Committee may, alternatively, with agreement of an acquiring company, replace awards with in the deferral period before vesting.
equivalent new awards over shares in the acquiring company.
BDP shares lapse if the participant resigns or is dismissed for misconduct before vesting but, As described under the malus and claw back provisions on page 71, the Committee retains the unless the Committee decides otherwise, vest on leaving for any other reason.
discretion to reduce or cancel awards before they vest malus or to recover the value of awards BDP shares vest on a change of control.
The Committee will seek to ensure that outcomes are fair and that they take account of the overall performance of the Company during the performance period.
The long-term incentive awards made prior to 2013, and under which payments are still intended to be made should the relevant performance conditions be satisfied, can be paid out under this policy.
The details of the awards granted prior to 2013 which have yet to vest, including the details of the performance conditions, are provided in the Implementation Report.
com reportingcentre2013 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued Total remuneration opportunity The following charts provide an indication, based on 2014 remuneration and the upcoming 2014 PSP awards, of what can be achieved under the Remuneration Policy for the executive directors at below threshold A, threshold B, target C and outstanding D performance levels, together with the proportion of the package delivered through fixed and variable remuneration.
The PSP, STIP deferred shares and STIP cash are all performance-related remuneration.
UK legislation requires that these charts are given in relation to the first year in which the Remuneration Policy applies.
Sam Walsh chief executive Chris Lynch chief financial officer Potential value of 2014 remuneration package Potential value of 2014 remuneration package A$000 000 Key Key PSP PSP 18,000 7,000 STIP deferred shares STIP deferred shares 5,989 16,000 15,425 STIP cash STIP cash 6,000 Superannuation Pension 14,000 2,059 2,059 Benefits Benefits Fixed Fixed 5,000 } } 12,000 Base salary Base salary 9,775 4,000 3,693 10,000 1,373 1,373 A Below threshold performance Minimum A Below threshold performance Minimum 8,000 B Threshold performance 3,000 B Threshold performance 6,357 2,299 C Target performance C Target performance 6,000 2,000 D Outstanding performance Maximum D Outstanding performance Maximum 4,000 3,347 1,069 1,000 2,000 0 0 A B C D A B C D Proportion of the 2014 remuneration package value Proportion of the 2014 remuneration package value delivered through fixed and variable remuneration delivered through fixed and variable remuneration % % Key Key PSP PSP 100 100 18 29 42 52 19 31 45 54 STIP deferred shares STIP deferred shares STIP cash STIP cash Superannuation Pension 80 80 24 4 77 Benefits Benefits Fixed Fixed 9 } } 11 Base salary Base salary 60 60 9 58 12 11 13 10 A Below threshold performance Minimum A Below threshold performance Minimum 13 12 9 B Threshold performance 14 B Threshold performance 12 40 40 13 2 C Target performance C Target performance 13 36 6 14 31 D Outstanding performance Maximum D Outstanding performance Maximum 6 8 1 4 20 20 20 22 3 5 1 13 14 0 0 A B C D A B C D The following table provides the basis for the values included in the charts above: Fixed stated in 000 shown as column Base Superannuation Total a b c A above Salary or pension Benefits fixed Sam Walsh A$1,948 A$608 A$791 A$3,347 Chris Lynch 820 204 45 1,069 a Base salary is the latest known salary.
b Superannuation for Sam Walsh is measured on a basis consistent with the single figure superannuation figure as set out on page 82 but assumes that Sams accrued benefit at 31 December 2013 will receive investment earnings at the rate of six per cent.
The final value for 2014 will depend on the actual investment earnings received and may therefore be significantly different.
The pension value for Chris reflects an estimate for the full year.
c Benefits are as measured at the benefits figure in the single figure tables on pages 82 and 85 excluding amounts considered to be one-off in nature.
These one-off items, which related to Sams and Chriss relocations from Australia to London during 2013, were A$206,000 and 896,000 respectively.
Note that this number for Sam includes expatriate benefits which are not capped.
com reportingcentre2013 DIRECTORS REPORT: DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGIC REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY: Policy Report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT: Policy Report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued Performance-related At risk Total remuneration opportunity Discretions a The following charts provide an indication, based on 2014 remuneration and the upcoming 2014 PSP awards, of what can be achieved under the Remuneration Threshold STIP and LTIP A STIP award of 50% of the target The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring that the outcomes Policy for the executive directors at below threshold A, threshold B, target C and outstanding D performance levels, together with the proportion of the package performance shown as STIP opportunity, ie 60% of base salary of the Groups executive pay arrangements described in this Remuneration delivered through fixed and variable remuneration.
UK legislation requires column B above Policy properly reflect the Groups overall performance and the experience Threshold vesting of the PSP award at that these charts are given in relation to the first year in which the Remuneration Policy applies.
of its shareholders and other stakeholders over the performance period.
22.5% of face value, calculated as 94.5% and 90.0% of base salary for Sam Walsh and Chris The Committee undertakes to owners that it will exercise discretion diligently Lynch respectively and in a manner that is aligned with our strategy to create long-term Sam Walsh chief executive Chris Lynch chief financial officer Target STIP and LTIP A STIP award of 100% of the target STIP shareholder value.
Accordingly, when reviewing the operation of short and Potential value of 2014 remuneration package Potential value of 2014 remuneration package performance shown as opportunity, ie 120% of base salary long-term incentive plans and the outcome of awards made under these plans, A$000 000 column C above Expected value of the PSP award of 50% of the Committee will, when evaluating safety, financial, Group and individual face value, calculated as 210% and 200% of performance, consider the overall shareholder experience during the Key Key base salary for Sam Walsh and Chris Lynch performance period in question.
PSP PSP 18,000 7,000 respectively STIP deferred shares STIP deferred shares It is the Committees intention that the mechanistic outcome of performance 5,989 Outstanding STIP and LTIP A maximum STIP award of 200% of 16,000 15,425 STIP cash STIP cash conditions relating to awards made under such plans will routinely be subject 6,000 performance Maximum base salary Superannuation Pension to review to avoid outcomes which could be seen as contrary to shareholders 14,000 shown as column D above 2,059 2,059 Full vesting of the PSP award, calculated as Benefits Benefits Fixed Fixed expectations.
To the extent provided for in the terms of any performance 5,000 } } 12,000 420% and 400% of base salary for Sam Walsh Base salary Base salary condition or in accordance with any relevant amendment power under the plan and Chris Lynch respectively 9,775 4,000 rules, the Committee may adjust and or set different performance measures if 3,693 10,000 1,373 1,373 A Below threshold performance Minimum A Below threshold performance Minimum events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition or divestment, a Long-term incentives consist of share awards only, measured at 2014 face value as 8,000 B Threshold performance 3,000 B Threshold performance disclosed on pages 83 and 86 of this report.
This does not constitute an estimate of the a change in control or unexpected event which cause the Committee to 6,357 2,299 value of awards that may potentially vest with respect to year end 31 December 2014.
C Target performance C Target performance determine that the measures are no longer appropriate or in the best interests 6,000 No assumption has been made for increase in share price or payment of dividends.
2,000 D Outstanding performance Maximum D Outstanding performance Maximum of shareholders and that the amendment is required so that the measures 4,000 3,347 achieve their original purpose.
Committee discretion should not operate as an 1,069 Context for outstanding performance 1,000 automatic override, and it must be exercised judiciously.
2,000 Demanding performance targets are designed to ensure that the level of remuneration is aligned with performance delivered for shareholders.
To the extent that discretion is applied in any year, the Committee undertakes 0 0 A B C D A B C D Outstanding business and individual performance is required to achieve that this will be clearly explained and disclosed to shareholders in the the maximum level of remuneration.
Proportion of the 2014 remuneration package value Proportion of the 2014 remuneration package value outstanding performance against all financial: health and safety and delivered through fixed and variable remuneration delivered through fixed and variable remuneration Recruitment remuneration individual STIP measures: % % Our approach to recruitment remuneration for executives both external TSR outperformance against both the HSBC and MSCI indices by and internal is set out below.
Shareholders are reminded that the following Key Key six per cent per annum over five years: and principles are binding only in so far as they relate to the recruitment of directors.
PSP PSP 100 100 EBIT margin improvement equal to or greater than the second ranked 18 29 42 52 19 31 45 54 STIP deferred shares STIP deferred shares We aim to position base salary at an appropriate level, taking into consideration company in the comparator group over five years.
STIP cash STIP cash a range of factors including an executives current remuneration, experience, Superannuation Pension 80 80 The intention of the Committee is that if these levels of reward are achieved 24 4 internal relativities, an assessment against relevant comparator groups and cost.
77 Benefits Benefits Fixed Fixed by our executives then shareholders will benefit over time from superior share 9 } } 11 Base salary Base salary Other elements of remuneration will be established in line with the price performance.
60 60 9 Remuneration Policy set out in the executive remuneration structure table 58 12 11 13 10 A Below threshold performance Minimum A Below threshold performance Minimum on pages 71 to 73.
As such, annual variable remuneration for new appointees 13 12 9 B Threshold performance 14 B Threshold performance will comprise a maximum award of 200 per cent of base salary under the 12 40 40 13 2 C Target performance C Target performance STIP and a maximum award of 438 per cent of base salary under the PSP.
13 36 6 14 31 D Outstanding performance Maximum D Outstanding performance Maximum 6 8 In the event that an internal appointment is made, existing commitments will 1 4 20 20 20 22 3 be honoured.
5 1 13 14 If the Committee concludes that it is necessary and appropriate to secure an 0 0 appointment, relocation-related support and international mobility benefits may A B C D A B C D also be provided depending on the circumstances.
Examples of recent relocation arrangements are set out on page 86 of the Implementation Report.
Any compensation provided to an executive recruited from outside the Group for The following table provides the basis for the values included in the charts above: the forfeiture of any award under variable remuneration arrangements entered Fixed stated in 000 shown as column Base Superannuation Total a b c into with a previous employer is considered separately to the establishment of A above Salary or pension Benefits fixed forward looking annual remuneration arrangements.
Our policy with respect to Sam Walsh A$1,948 A$608 A$791 A$3,347 such buy-outs is to determine a reasonable level of award, on a like-for-like Chris Lynch 820 204 45 1,069 basis, of primarily equity-based, but also potentially cash or restricted stock, taking into consideration the quantum of forfeited awards, their performance a Base salary is the latest known salary.
The Committee will obtain an independent b Superannuation for Sam Walsh is measured on a basis consistent with the single figure superannuation figure as set out on page 82 but assumes that Sams accrued benefit at external assessment of the value of awards proposed to be bought out and 31 December 2013 will receive investment earnings at the rate of six per cent.
The final value for 2014 will depend on the actual investment earnings received and may therefore be retains discretion, subject to the above, to make such compensation as it deems significantly different.
necessary and appropriate to secure the relevant executives employment.
These one-off items, which related The Committees intention is that buy-out compensation should include, where to Sams and Chriss relocations from Australia to London during 2013, were A$206,000 and 896,000 respectively.
com reportingcentre2013 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued policies on travel and relocation.
For example, Sam Walsh is provided with Executives service contracts and termination expatriation benefits and allowances and on termination of his employment The Committee will seek to honour any commitments made in respect by the Company repatriation expenses would be paid.
of termination of employment in the executive directors service contracts predating this Remuneration Policy which are described in this section.
This On termination, other than for cause, the Company may make a payment in section also sets out Rio Tintos policy on termination payments and notice consideration for entry by the departing executive director into appropriate periods.
Shareholders are reminded that such policy is binding only in so far restrictive covenants to protect Rio Tinto and its shareholders.
The amount of as it relates to directors.
such payment will be determined by the Committee based on the content and duration of the covenant.
For new appointments where the Company terminates by making a payment in lieu of notice, the Committee will for executive directors to the extent Following termination, executive directors may be eligible to exercise longpermitted by relevant law have regard to the executive directors ability to term incentives awards under the conditions described in the sections following.
mitigate his loss in assessing the payment to be made.
They and their dependants may also be eligible for post-retirement benefits such as medical and life insurance.
The Company may also agree to continue The executive directors have service contracts that, save as noted below, can certain other benefits for a period following termination where the arrangements be terminated by either party with 12 months notice in writing, or immediately are provided under term contracts or in accordance with the terms of the service by paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
An initial contract, for example, payment for financial advice, tax advice and preparation notice period of up to 24 months during the first two years of employment, of tax returns for a tax year.
In some cases, they may receive a modest reducing to 12 months thereafter, may sometimes be necessary to secure an retirement gift.
The Company may pay such amount as it determines is reasonable to settle Sam Walshs employment concludes, without the need for either party any claims which in the Committees view are legitimate which the executive to give notice, on 31 December 2015.
The Company may also terminate his director may have in connection with the termination of his employment.
employment for any reason on 31 December 2014, provided it gives notice The Company may also pay reasonable legal and other professional fees of this decision by 31 October 2014.
The Company or Sam may terminate this including outplacement support to or in respect of a director in connection employment at any time by giving written notice of 12 months or such lesser with the termination of his employment.
These may include legal fees incurred period as may exist between the date on which the notice is given and by him in negotiating a settlement agreement with Rio Tinto.
In assessing what 31 December 2014. is reasonable, the Company will take account of prevailing rates for such advice Chris Lynchs employment concludes, without the need for either party to and support and determine appropriate level of contribution based on the give notice, on 28 February 2017.
The Company may terminate Chris Lynchs complexity of the issues.
employment for any reason on 29 February 2016, provided it gives notice of Positions held and date of appointment to position this decision by 31 December 2015.
The Company or Chris may terminate this employment at any time by giving written notice of 12 months or such lesser Date of appointment Name Position s held during 2013 to position period as may exist between the date on which the notice is given and 29 February 2016.
Executive directors a Sam Walsh Chief executive 17 January 2013 Other executives have service contracts which can be terminated by the Company with 12 months notice in writing, and by the employee with six Chief executive, Iron Ore and 5 June 2009 months notice in writing, or immediately by the Company by paying the Australia b base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
Chris Lynch Chief financial officer 18 April 2013 Non-executive director 1 September 2011 Jacynthe Ct is eligible to receive 24 months base salary and target c STIP opportunity which if taken as salary continuance, will include ongoing Tom Albanese Chief executive 1 May 2007 d participation in benefit programmes during that period, inclusive of notice to Guy Elliott Senior executive director 18 April 2013 the extent paid, in line with entitlements under her Alcan Inc. contract which Chief financial officer 19 June 2002 the Company inherited on the acquisition of Alcan Inc. a Mr Walsh held the role of chief executive, Iron Ore and Australia until 16 January 2013.
Executives may be required to undertake garden leave during all or part of their b Mr Lynch was appointed as an executive director on 1 March 2013 and assumed the notice period and may receive their contractual salary, STIP and benefits during role of chief financial officer on 18 April 2013. the notice period or the cash equivalent.
Where applicable, tax equalisation c Mr Albanese held the role of chief executive until 17 January 2013.
He stepped and other expatriate benefits will continue in accordance with the executives down from the Executive Committee on this date and left the Group on 16 July 2013. prevailing terms and conditions.
d Mr Elliott held the role of chief financial officer until 18 April 2013.
He stepped down from the Executive Committee on this date and retired from the Group on In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company can terminate employment 31 December 2013. without notice and without payment of any salary or compensation in lieu of notice.
Deferred bonus shares and outstanding awards under the LTIP may e The details for other executives are provided in the Implementation Report.
be forfeited in these circumstances.
Treatment of STIP and LTIP on termination Accrued but untaken annual leave and any long service leave will be paid out on The STIP and share plan rules govern the entitlements that executive termination, in accordance with the relevant country legislation and applicable participants may have under those plans upon termination of employment.
practice applying to all employees.
For eligible leavers as defined below, Usually there is a discretion for the Remuneration Committee to treat a person in Australia the value of the leave is calculated on the basis of base salary, as an eligible leaver.
target STIP and car allowance.
No STIP is included where the executive is not an eligible leaver.
An eligible leaver is an executive who leaves the Group by reason of ill-health, injury, disability as determined by the executives employer : retirement: If termination is a result of redundancy, the terms of the relevant local policy redundancy: transfer of the undertaking in which the executive works: change may apply in the same way as for other local employees.
of control of the executives employing company: or death.
On termination the Company will pay relocation or expatriation benefits as agreed on the original expatriation and or in accordance with its applicable 76 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 DIRECTORS REPORT: DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGIC REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY: Policy Report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT: Policy Report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued policies on travel and relocation.
For example, Sam Walsh is provided with Short Term Incentive Plan STIP Share Option Plan SOP pre-2013 Executives service contracts and termination expatriation benefits and allowances and on termination of his employment If an eligible leaver leaves the Group during a performance year, the Committee For grants made to eligible leavers before 2013, awards will normally be The Committee will seek to honour any commitments made in respect by the Company repatriation expenses would be paid.
may determine in its absolute discretion to award a pro rata portion of the STIP retained.
If the executive is an eligible leaver, vested awards will lapse one year of termination of employment in the executive directors service contracts based on the amount of the year served and based on actual assessment of from the date the executive leaves the Group and unvested awards will lapse predating this Remuneration Policy which are described in this section.
This On termination, other than for cause, the Company may make a payment in performance against targets.
Any cash payment will be made at the normal one year from the vesting date or such longer period as permitted by the section also sets out Rio Tintos policy on termination payments and notice consideration for entry by the departing executive director into appropriate STIP payment date and no portion of the award will be deferred into shares.
Unvested awards remain subject to the satisfaction of the periods.
The amount of performance conditions.
as it relates to directors.
such payment will be determined by the Committee based on the content and If an executive provides the Company notice of their resignation during duration of the covenant.
the performance year, but will not leave the Group until after the end of the Awards vest in full on death.
For new appointments where the Company terminates by making a payment performance year, the Committee may determine in its absolute discretion in lieu of notice, the Committee will for executive directors to the extent Following termination, executive directors may be eligible to exercise longIf an executive leaves the Group for any other reason, unvested awards and to make an award under the STIP.
In these circumstances, the executive will permitted by relevant law have regard to the executive directors ability to term incentives awards under the conditions described in the sections following.
vested awards that have not been exercised will lapse.
only be eligible to receive the cash portion of the award and will forfeit the mitigate his loss in assessing the payment to be made.
They and their dependants may also be eligible for post-retirement benefits deferred shares portion.
Any cash payment will be made at the normal STIP Management Share Plan MSP such as medical and life insurance.
The Company may also agree to continue The executive directors have service contracts that, save as noted below, can payment date.
certain other benefits for a period following termination where the arrangements Awards under the MSP are only made to executives prior to their appointment be terminated by either party with 12 months notice in writing, or immediately are provided under term contracts or in accordance with the terms of the service as an Executive Committee member.
All retained awards will be reduced pro rata No STIP payment will be made where an executive resigns or is terminated by paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
An initial contract, for example, payment for financial advice, tax advice and preparation to reflect the proportion of the period between the date of grant of the award for cause prior to the end of the performance year.
notice period of up to 24 months during the first two years of employment, of tax returns for a tax year.
In some cases, they may receive a modest and the normal vesting date which has not elapsed at the time employment reducing to 12 months thereafter, may sometimes be necessary to secure an Bonus Deferral Plan BDP 2013 onwards retirement gift.
Any dividend equivalent shares or cash equivalent will be calculated external appointment.
For grants made to executives from and including 2013, awards will normally on the vested shares.
Awards vest on death, subject to the pro rata reduction The Company may pay such amount as it determines is reasonable to settle Sam Walshs employment concludes, without the need for either party be retained and vest at the scheduled vesting date, save where the Committee described above.
any claims which in the Committees view are legitimate which the executive to give notice, on 31 December 2015.
The Company may also terminate his determines otherwise.
There will be no pro rata reduction of awards and any director may have in connection with the termination of his employment.
MSP 2013 onwards employment for any reason on 31 December 2014, provided it gives notice dividend equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares.
The Company may also pay reasonable legal and other professional fees For grants made to executives from and including 2013, awards will normally of this decision by 31 October 2014.
The Company or Sam may terminate this including outplacement support to or in respect of a director in connection If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other reason be retained, and vest, at the Committees discretion, at the scheduled vesting employment at any time by giving written notice of 12 months or such lesser with the termination of his employment.
These may include legal fees incurred that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
date although awards of US taxpayers may vest on leaving.
period as may exist between the date on which the notice is given and by him in negotiating a settlement agreement with Rio Tinto.
If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other reason BDP pre-2013 is reasonable, the Company will take account of prevailing rates for such advice that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
Chris Lynchs employment concludes, without the need for either party to For grants made to eligible leavers before 2013, awards will normally vest at the and support and determine appropriate level of contribution based on the give notice, on 28 February 2017.
The Company may terminate Chris Lynchs scheduled vesting date save where the Committee determines otherwise.
There complexity of the issues.
MSP pre-2013 employment for any reason on 29 February 2016, provided it gives notice of will be no pro rata reduction of awards and any dividend equivalent shares will For grants made to eligible leavers before 2013, awards will normally be retained Positions held and date of appointment to position this decision by 31 December 2015.
The Company or Chris may terminate this be calculated on the vested shares.
by the executive, and vest, at the Committees discretion, at the scheduled employment at any time by giving written notice of 12 months or such lesser Date of appointment vesting date although awards of US taxpayers may vest on leaving.
If an executive leaves the Group for any other reason awards will lapse.
Name Position s held during 2013 to position period as may exist between the date on which the notice is given and If an executive leaves the Group for any other reason awards will lapse.
Executive directors For any BDP award, where required by law or regulation, and the Remuneration a Committee allows, cash may be provided in lieu of shares.
Sam Walsh Chief executive 17 January 2013 Other executives have service contracts which can be terminated by the Company with 12 months notice in writing, and by the employee with six Chief executive, Iron Ore and 5 June 2009 PSP 2013 onwards months notice in writing, or immediately by the Company by paying the Australia For grants made to executives from and including 2013, awards will normally b base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
Chris Lynch Chief financial officer 18 April 2013 be retained, and vest at the scheduled vesting date.
Unvested awards remain subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions.
Any dividend Non-executive director 1 September 2011 Jacynthe Ct is eligible to receive 24 months base salary and target c equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares at vesting.
STIP opportunity which if taken as salary continuance, will include ongoing Tom Albanese Chief executive 1 May 2007 d participation in benefit programmes during that period, inclusive of notice to Guy Elliott Senior executive director 18 April 2013 If the executive leaves the Group during the first 36 months from the date of the extent paid, in line with entitlements under her Alcan Inc. contract which grant of the award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced pro rata Chief financial officer 19 June 2002 the Company inherited on the acquisition of Alcan Inc. over that 36-month period.
a Mr Walsh held the role of chief executive, Iron Ore and Australia until 16 January 2013.
Executives may be required to undertake garden leave during all or part of their Awards will vest immediately on death, but if an executive dies during the first b Mr Lynch was appointed as an executive director on 1 March 2013 and assumed the notice period and may receive their contractual salary, STIP and benefits during 36 months from the date of grant of the award, the number of shares that can role of chief financial officer on 18 April 2013. the notice period or the cash equivalent.
Where applicable, tax equalisation vest will be reduced pro rata over that 36-month period.
c Mr Albanese held the role of chief executive until 17 January 2013.
He stepped and other expatriate benefits will continue in accordance with the executives down from the Executive Committee on this date and left the Group on 16 July 2013.
If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other reason prevailing terms and conditions.
He stepped that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
down from the Executive Committee on this date and retired from the Group on In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company can terminate employment 31 December 2013. without notice and without payment of any salary or compensation in lieu of PSP pre-2013 notice.
For grants made to eligible leavers before 2013, awards will normally be retained be forfeited in these circumstances.
and vest at the scheduled vesting date, although the Committee may determine Treatment of STIP and LTIP on termination that awards should vest early.
Unvested awards remain subject to the Accrued but untaken annual leave and any long service leave will be paid out on The STIP and share plan rules govern the entitlements that executive satisfaction of the performance conditions.
termination, in accordance with the relevant country legislation and applicable participants may have under those plans upon termination of employment.
For eligible leavers as defined below, Awards vest immediately on death.
The number of shares vesting is determined Usually there is a discretion for the Remuneration Committee to treat a person in Australia the value of the leave is calculated on the basis of base salary, on the assumption that performance conditions are met at median level or as an eligible leaver.
No STIP is included where the executive is at the level to which they are actually satisfied at the date of death, if higher.
An eligible leaver is an executive who leaves the Group by reason of ill-health, The number of shares is further reduced as described above.
injury, disability as determined by the executives employer : retirement: If termination is a result of redundancy, the terms of the relevant local policy If an executive leaves the Group for any other reason awards will lapse.
redundancy: transfer of the undertaking in which the executive works: change may apply in the same way as for other local employees.
For any PSP award, where permitted, and the Remuneration Committee allows, On termination the Company will pay relocation or expatriation benefits as awards may be made in cash in lieu of shares.
agreed on the original expatriation and or in accordance with its applicable 77 77 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued The chairmans letter of appointment from the Company stipulates his duties as Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration chairman of the Group.
His appointment may be terminated without liability on Chairman the part of Rio Tinto in accordance with the Groups constitutional documents It is Rio Tintos policy that the chairman should be remunerated on a dealing with retirement, disqualification from office or other vacation from office.
competitive basis and at a level which reflects his contribution to the Group, Otherwise, his appointment may be terminated by giving 12 months notice.
There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of his The Committee determines the terms of service, including remuneration, of appointment, other than if his appointment as chairman is terminated by reason the chairman.
The chairmans fees are set by the Committee.
The chairman of his removal as a director pursuant to a resolution of shareholders in general has no part in the setting of his fees and is not present at any discussion at meeting in which case the Company shall be liable to pay any fees accrued to the Committee about his fees.
the date of any such removal.
The chairman receives a fixed annual fee and does not receive any additional The non-executive directors letters of appointment from the Company stipulate fee or allowance either for committee membership or chairmanship, or for their duties and responsibilities as directors.
Each non-executive director is travel.
The chairman does not participate in the Groups incentive plans.
appointed subject to their election and annual re-election by shareholders.
Non-executive directors appointments may be terminated by giving three The chairman is provided with a car and driver.
Any use for transport between months notice.
There are no provisions for compensation payable on home and the office and other personal travel is a taxable benefit to the termination of their appointment.
The letters of appointment are available for chairman, and the Company pays any tax arising on the chairmans behalf.
inspection at Rio Tinto plcs registered office, and at its annual general meeting.
The chairman pays a fixed annual fee to the Company for the personal travel element.
In accordance with the provisions of the Groups constitutional documents, the maximum aggregate fees payable to the non-executive directors including the Other benefits provided include private healthcare cover, accident insurance chairman in respect of any year, including fees received by the non-executive note this is neither contractual nor a taxable benefit, other minor benefits directors for serving on any committee of the boards, and any travel allowances including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional received by the non-executive directors for attending meetings will not in any spouse travel in support of the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses year exceed 3,000,000.
Non-monetary benefits are not included in this limit.
which are deemed to be taxable where the Company has paid the tax on his behalf.
Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or post-employment benefits to the chairman.
Non-executive directors Fees paid to non-executive directors reflect their respective duties and responsibilities and the time required to be spent by them so as to make a meaningful and effective contribution to the affairs of Rio Tinto.
The non-executive directors fees and other terms are set by the board upon the recommendation of the Chairmans Committee which comprises the chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer.
Non-executive directors receive a fixed annual fee comprising a base fee, committee membership or committee chairmanship fee or senior independent director fee, as applicable, and allowances for attending meetings which involve medium or long-distance air travel.
They do not participate in any of the Groups incentive plans.
Where the payment of statutory minimum superannuation contributions for Australian non-executive directors is required by Australian superannuation law, these contributions are deducted from the directors overall fee entitlements.
Non-executive directors may on occasion receive reimbursement for costs incurred in relation to professional advice.
These payments, if made, are taxable benefits to the non-executive directors and the tax arising is paid by the Company on the directors behalf.
Other benefits provided include accident insurance note this is neither contractual nor a taxable benefit, other minor benefits including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional spouse travel in support of the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses which are deemed to be taxable where the Company has paid the tax on their behalf.
Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or post-employment benefits to non-executive directors.
Appointment The appointment of non-executive directors including the chairman is handled through the Nominations Committee and board processes.
The current fee levels are set out in the Implementation Report on page 88.
Details of each element of remuneration paid to the chairman and nonexecutive directors during 2013 are set out in the Implementation Report in table 1b on page 100.
