Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 55 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Remuneration policy framework remuneration must be capable of attracting and retaining The Group is committed to achieving sustained improvements the individuals necessary for business success: in performance and this depends crucially on the individual remuneration policy must be sufficiently flexible to take contributions made by the executive team and by employees at all account of changes in the Groups business environment and levels.
The Board believes that an effective remuneration strategy market practices: plays an essential part in the future success of the Group.
total remuneration should be based on Group and individual performance, both in the short and long term: Accordingly, the remuneration policy will continue to reflect the the system of remuneration should establish a close identity of following broad principles: interest between senior executives and shareholders through the remuneration of executive directors and other senior measures such as encouraging the senior executives to acquire executives should reflect their responsibilities and contain shares in the Company.
Therefore a significant proportion of incentives to deliver the Groups performance objectives without senior executive remuneration will comprise share-based encouraging excessive risk taking: long-term incentives: and when determining remuneration, the committee will take into account pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Policy report The policy will start on 1 May 2014, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Executive directors remuneration policy Purpose and link Maximum Performance Element tostrategy Operation opportunity measures Salary It is essential that the Salary levels are set using careful Annual salary increases will not None, although individual Company provides judgement, taking into account normally exceed average increases performance is the primary competitive salaries, the scope of the role and for employees in other appropriate consideration in setting salary suitable to attract responsibilities, performance, parts of the Group.
alongside overall Company and retain individuals experience, potential, retention affordability and market On occasion, increases may be of the right calibre to issues and salaries elsewhere in the competitiveness.
larger where the committee develop and execute Group.
Judgement will be informed, considers this to be necessary.
but not led, by reference to Circumstances where this may apply companies of a similar size, include: growth into a role: to complexity and internationality.
reflect a change in scope of role and Salaries are reviewed annually and responsibilities: where market normally fixed for 12 months from conditions indicate a level of under 1March each year.
However, salary competitiveness and the committee increases are not automatic.
judges that there is a risk in relation Exceptionally, salaries may be to attracting or retaining increased on other dates in the year.
Executive directors may be Where the committee exercises its appointed at salaries below the discretion to award increases above target level to enable pay the average for other employees, the progression commensurate with resulting salary will not exceed the growth in the new role.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 56 Directors report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Executive directors remuneration policy Purpose and link Maximum Performance Element tostrategy Operation opportunity measures Benefits To provide marketBenefits provided include a car or Benefits will be market competitive None.
competitive benefits car allowance, contribution to the taking into account the role and the sufficient to recruit cost of fuel, use of a driver, financial local market.
and retain, and to planning assistance, life assurance Benefits excluding any support the and medical insurance.
Other accommodation, relocation and executive to give appropriate benefits may be associated tax costs will not exceed maximum attention provided from time-to-time at the 100,000 per annum.
The value of benefits provided for Certain benefits, such as international and domestic accommodation or use of a driver, relocation and any ongoing are to enable an executive to devote accommodation and travel support maximum time and attention to will be appropriate to the individual their role.
Club membership fees circumstances of the executive and may also be provided.
The Group only expenses that the committee may pay any tax due on these considers necessary and appropriate benefits.
The Group offers relocation for executives to be located within reasonable reach of their place of work.
Where relocation is not practical or a preferred option, or where work is mainly split between two locations, support for accommodation and travel may beprovided.
Relocation support may include items such as transaction and legal fees, removals, disturbance allowance and temporary travel and subsistence costs.
International relocation support may include items such as school fees, tax equalisation and homevisits.
Pension To provide marketNew executives to the Company are The maximum employer None.
competitive offered membership of a defined contribution to defined pensions sufficient contribution pension plan.
Pension contribution pension arrangements to recruit and retain.
contributions are based on base is 38% of base salary.
Groups legacy defined benefit arrangements, the pension due is There are a number of legacy the higher of a pension based on pension arrangements, including the executives final salary, with a defined benefit plans, which were in maximum annual accrual rate of place before 27June 2012 and have 2.5%, or based on career average not changed since.
Commitments salary with a maximum annual to these arrangements will be accrual rate of 3.3%.
pension is limited so that the Executives may opt to receive a cash maximum pension at normal allowance in lieu of pension.
retirement age is two thirds of the executives final remuneration.
The benefits under these arrangements include a lump sum payable on death in service and pensions for surviving spouses, civil partners and certain dependants.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 57 Executive directors remuneration policy Purpose and link Maximum Performance Element tostrategy Operation opportunity measures Pension Executives may opt to receive a cash continued allowance in lieu of pension.
The cash allowance is calculated to be equivalent to the employers defined contribution pension contributions, reduced to allow for the additional National Insurance cost incurred by the employer.
James Guyette participates in qualified and non-qualified defined benefit and defined contribution pension arrangements in the US.
Under these various arrangements combined it is expected that the benefits provided by the Company will be equivalent in value to a pension of two thirds of salary, with post retirement increases similar to those required by statute in the UK.
Annual To incentivise and The committee sets Group financial The current maximum annual The bonus payout level is bonus reward execution of targets and agrees personal bonus, linked to business determined primarily by Group the business strategy, objectives for each executive director performance, is 135% of salary for financial performance but the delivery of financial at the start of the financial year.
the Chief Executive and 125% for committee may introduce performance targets At the end of the year, business other executive directors.
This is non-financial metrics and or and achievement of performance determines the based on achieving the highest adjust the payout level to reflect personal objectives.
Company bonus payout level and the targets set for business performance.
committee considers whether any However, the committee may adjust The final bonus awarded to each Compulsory deferral adjustment to the payout level is the bonus to reflect personal director is also linked to their of part of any bonus appropriate.
Each executive performance as described in the personal performance.
encourages retention directors bonus is also dependent on previous column, giving an overall and provides Any non-financial metrics used the achievement of their personal maximum of 162% and 150% alignment with in the annual bonus plan will be objectives and wider contribution to respectively.
linked to the Groups strategy and the Group.
The committee may apply The committee has the discretion to will not be weighted more than an uplift of up to 20% or a reduction, increase the overall maximum bonus 50% of the whole bonus.
level to 200% of salary for the Chief principle applies that no bonus is A portion of the bonus paid, in a Executive and 175% for other payable unless the base financial range 30% to 50%, is compulsorily executive directors, subject to this targets are achieved and this also deferred into the Companys shares not being above the competitive applies if non-financial measures for a period of two years and is market range.
subject to continued employment with early release in certain Based on the current bonus circumstances.
There are no further opportunity: performance conditions.
Chief Executive: Bonus generated Deferred shares may receive a bonus by business performance is 40% issue of C Shares or equivalent of salary for achieving the base during the deferral period.
level targets and 135% of salary The bonus plan is non-contractual for achieving the highest level of and may be offered on a year-by-year targets.
The committee has the right to adjusted for personal apply the malus provision on an performance in a range 0-120% individual or group basis and amend at committee discretion with or withdraw the bonus before 100% typically applying for good payment.
From 2014, the same right performance and a 20% uplift over deferred shares will apply as will available for outstanding the right to clawback bonuses paid or personal performance.
vested shares on an individual basis Other executive directors: if it can be demonstrated that Bonus generated by business individuals have acted in an performance is 37% of salary for improper manner.
Malus and or achieving the base level targets clawback provisions may apply in and 125% of salary for achieving exceptional cases such as: material the highest level of targets.
misstatement of results: a material Bonus may then be adjusted for failure of risk management: serious personal performance as above.
reputational damage: serious individual wrongdoing such as non-compliance with the Companys Code of Conduct: or gross misconduct.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 58 Directors report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Executive directors remuneration policy Purpose and link Maximum Performance Element tostrategy Operation opportunity measures Per for mance To incentivise and Executive directors are granted The Chief Executive is granted The three corporate performance Share Plan reward development awards over shares annually at the awards each year over shares to the measures are: PSP and execution of the start of a three-year performance value of 120% of salary.
The proportion of the those executive directors are granted Post 2014 The increase in EPS over the over the longer term.
awards that vest is determined at 100% of salary.
Subject to the AGM three-year period must exceed the end of the period according earnings per share EPS condition onwards The plan provides an appropriate index of consumer to a set of Company performance being met, these shares vest at the alignment with prices for the same period.
end of the performance period if shareholder interests condition is not met share vesting the Company has achieved the through the Vesting of awards is subject to is zero.
maximum target set for cash flow performance continued employment until 2.
The number of measures chosen vesting date with the exception The aggregate CPS over the shares vesting can be increased by and a retention of certain leaver circumstances, performance period will 25% for above median TSR ranking element through in which case vesting is subject determine the number of shares rising to 50% increase for upper the plan timescale.
to Company performance and which vest.
Achieving a base quartile TSR ranking.
A shareholding target of CPS will result in 30% of Maximum face values of annual requirement is linked The plan rules contain malus and the shares vesting and achieving awards are therefore 180% of salary to the PSP in order clawback provisions.
The committee a maximum CPS target will cause for the Chief Executive and 150% of to further provide has the right to amend and 100% of the shares to vest.
The salary for other executive directors.
alignment with withdraw share grants before number of shares which may vest shareholders.
vesting for individuals and groups is determined on a straight-line and the right to reclaim vested The link between the basis between the 30% and shares or their proceeds from performance 100%level.
individuals where it has been measures and the 3.
Total Shareholder Return TSR demonstrated that they acted in Companys strategy relative to FTSE 100 or other an improper manner.
Situations is explained in the appropriate index.
The number where the provisions will apply are notes to this table on of shares vesting will be increased as described in the bonus section page 59. by 25% if the Companys TSR is on page 57. ranked above the median of the Executive directors are required to FTSE 100, or other appropriate hold a level of shareholding as index, over the same periods and described on page 66. by 50% if ranked at or above the upper quartile of the same group.
Intermediate TSR ranking will increase the number of shares released on a straight-line basis.
Performance The purpose of the The operation of the 2004 plan is as As above.
Share Plan 2004 share plan is described above with the exception PSP fully consistent with of malus and clawback elements the purpose of the which will apply for 2014 grants.
Legacy 2014 plan described awards above.
2004 plan ShareSave This savings-related Executive directors may participate The maximum savings amount is No performance measures are Plan share option plan on the same terms as other currently 250 per month over a permitted by UK legislation provides all employees.
The option price may be threeor five-year period.
This may applicable to this type of plan.
employees discounted by up to 20%.
be increased in accordance with worldwide an changes to UK legislation.
Accumulated savings may be used interest in the to exercise an option to acquire performance of shares.
Share UK employees may UK-based executive directors may Currently, up to 3,000 of the The award of any bonus Incentive elect to receive part participate on the same terms as all annual cash bonus can be applied will depend on performance Plan SIP of any annual bonus other UK employees.
Shares held in to purchase shares.
conditions see page 57 but no in shares.
the SIP for five years will vest free further conditions apply once the The maximum monthly amount from income tax and National employee elects to participate UK employees may of 125 may be used to purchase Insurance contributions.
elect to make regular shares.
monthly purchases The above limits may be increased of shares from in accordance with changes to UK pre-tax income.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 59 Non-executive directors remuneration policy Purpose and link Maximum Performance Element tostrategy Operation opportunity measures Fees To reward The committee makes The Articles of Association require None individuals for recommendations to the Board on the Company to set a maximum fulfilling the relevant the remuneration of the Chairman.
ceiling on the total remuneration role and to attract The Chairman and the executive payable to non-executive directors individuals of the directors determine the including the non-executive skills and calibre remuneration for the non-executive Chairman.
The level of remuneration this to 1,400,000 will be proposed is set within a limit approved from at the 2014AGM.
Fees are set at a level appropriate for The Chairman is paid a single the role and are reviewed regularly, consolidated fee.
Other nontaking in to account fees payable to executive directors are paid a base non-executive directors of fee covering Board and committee companies of a similar size and membership.
and the Senior Independent Director receive an additional fee.
Benefits To devote maximum The Chairman has occasional The maximum value for chauffeur None time and attention use of chauffeur services.
services will not exceed 25,000 to the requirements per annum.
Travel, hotel and subsistence of the role.
expenses incurred in attending The maximum contribution Board meetings and committee towards tax advice and filing is meetings or otherwise required to 5,000 per annum.
attend the Companys offices are reimbursed by the Company.
The Group may pay any tax due on such benefits.
Where a non-executive director is based outside the UK and has to file a UK tax return, the Company may pay towards tax advice and filing.
Performance measures and targets condition is varied or replaced, the amended performance The annual bonus measures are primarily based on Group financial conditions must, in the opinion of the committee, be fair, reasonable performance but may contain non-financial measures as detailed and materially no more or less difficult than the original condition in the above table.
The committee will set the Group financial targets with reference to Shareholders views the prior year and to the budgets and business plans for the coming This statement of remuneration policy is largely a consolidation of year, ensuring the levels to achieve base, on-target and maximum policies which have enjoyed the support of shareholders for many bonus payout are appropriately challenging.
We have considered the guidance provided by the GC 100 and shareholder advisory groups in preparing this policy and have The PSP performance measures set out in the policy table support followed this insofar as it is appropriate in the context of our the Groups strategy as follows: business.
Prior to finalising the policy, we have shared it with a the EPS growth hurdle ensures any payout is supported by selection of major shareholders.
Looking ahead, we welcome an open soundprofitability: dialogue with shareholders and intend to continue to consult with the aggregate CPS measure incentivises the generation of cash major shareholders before implementing any significant change.
flow in line with the Groups strategy.
This measure is set in line Group employee considerations with the principles described for the annual bonus: and When setting remuneration for executive directors the committee the TSR performance measure aligns interests with shareholders by takes into account contextual information about pay and conditions rewarding TSR out-performance.
The TSR is measured with reference within the Group, including the following: to constituents of an appropriate index such as the FTSE 100. salary increases for the all-employee population: In accordance with the rules of the PSP, the performance condition bonus awards for the all-employee population: and may be replaced or varied if an event occurs or circumstances arise pay ratios between executive directors and other employees.
which cause the committee to determine that the performance conditions have ceased to be appropriate.
If the performance Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 60 Directors report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Rolls-Royce employs over 55,000 people in more than 50 countries.
Service contracts Inevitably remuneration arrangements differ to reflect local UK-based executive directors contracts include the markets, but some common themes apply to employees at all followingprovisions: levelsworldwide: 12 months notice of termination from Rolls-Royce: we aim to offer competitive levels of remuneration, benefits 6 months notice of termination from the executive: and and incentives to attract and retain employees: reimbursement of reasonable business expenses.
all employees participate in bonus arrangements where the bonus The committee recognises that in the case of appointments to is determined by the same financial measures as that applicable the Board from outside the Group, it may be necessary to offer to executive directors: and a longer initial notice period, which would subsequently reduce all employees have the opportunity to participate in a savings to 12 months after that initial period.
The policy on exit payments is set out in the next section.
The At more senior levels, remuneration is increasingly long term and following table summarises the terms of the executive directors larger proportions are dependent on both Group and individual service contracts: performance and paid in the form of shares.
Notice Notice Date of period period Given the scale of the employee population, the committee contract Company individual considered that it would be impractical to consult all employees James Guyette 29 Sep 1997 30 days 30 days when drawing up the policy.
Mark Morris 1 Jan 2012 12 months 6 months John Rishton 10 Mar 2011 12 months 6 months Illustrations of remuneration policy application Colin Smith CBE 1 July 2005 12 months 6 months The bar chart below illustrates projected executive remuneration for 2014 at four different levels of performance showing payments from minimum to maximum.
The table below the chart explains James Guyette has a contract with Rolls-Royce North America Inc. performance levels one to four and the associated remuneration.
drawn up under the laws of the State of Virginia, US.
This provides that, on termination without cause, he is entitled to 12 months 000 James Guyette Mark Morris John Rishton Colin Smith severance pay without mitigation and, in addition, appropriate costs 4,500 incurred in relocating household and personal effects.
The contract 4,000 also provides for the payment of club membership fees and for tax 3,500 and financial planning up to a maximum of US$15,000 per annum and the Group will gross up any amounts to cover any applicable 3,000 39% taxes arising.
2,500 30% All contracts also include the entitlement to paid holidays, sick pay 2,000 30% 30% 16% and other standard employee terms.
Salary values are as at 31 December 2013 Current letter of appointment Salary, plus pension and benefits Appointment date end date Potential value of bonus depending on the performance scenario Potential value of PSP depending on the performance scenario Dame Helen Alexander 1 Sep 2007 31 Aug 2016 Lewis Booth CBE 25 May 2011 24 May 2014 Sir Frank Chapman 10 Nov 2011 9 Nov 2014 Remuneration achieved for key levels of performance are: Iain Conn 20 Jan 2005 19 Jan 2015 1.
Base level Bonus and PSP resulting from base level of business Warren East CBE 1 Jan 2014 31 Dec 2016 performance.
Bonus at 30% of maximum payment Lee Hsien Yang 1 Jan 2014 31 Dec 2016 assuming no adjustment for personal performance.
John McAdam 19 Jan 2008 18 Feb 2017 PSP vesting at 30% of maximum from achieving John Neill CBE 13 Nov 2008 12 Nov 2014 base CPS target with no TSR multiplier.
On-target Bonus and PSP resulting from performance in line with Company expectations.
Bonus at 60% of maximum assuming no adjustment for personal performance.
PSP vesting mid-way between base and maximum levels with 25% TSR multiplier.
Maximum Maximum annual bonus based on achieving the highest targets set for business performance and outstanding individual performance: PSP vesting from achieving maximum CPS target and with maximum 50% TSR multiplier.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 61 Policy on exit payments Policy on new appointments The notice period the Company is required to give to executive The committee will normally award newly appointed executive directors under their contracts of employment is 12 months.
directors with a remuneration package which is consistent with the Payment in lieu of notice will not exceed the value of 12 months policy and principles as set out in this report.
Base salary may be set salary, benefits and pension contributions.
Both mitigation and at a level higher or lower than previous incumbents and in certain the staggering of payments through the notice period will be circumstances, to facilitate the recruitment of individuals of the considered by the committee where appropriate, as will the funding required calibre, the committee may use its discretion to make of reasonable outplacement and other professional fees.
Should individual additional incentive awards up to a maximum of additional compensation matters arise, such as a settlement or 100percent of annual salary.
Incentive levels may also be increased compromise agreement, the committee will exercise judgement by up to 30percent of salary per annum for incentives commencing and will take into account the specific commercial circumstances.
within two years of joining.
This level of discretion is considered appropriate given the current conservative market positioning of Pension benefits on early retirement should be payable in Rolls-Royce and our potential need to recruit from other market accordance with the normal rules of the relevant pension plan.
sectors or countries outside of the UK.
Under legacy UK defined benefit pension arrangements, accrued pension is reduced to reflect early receipt in accordance with factors In addition, remuneration forfeited on resignation from a previous set by the trustees from time-to-time and is limited to a maximum employer may be compensated.
The form of this compensation pension of two thirds of the executives final remuneration, would be considered on a case-by-case basis and may comprise pro-rated by actual service to potential service.
Generally: The committee has the discretion to preserve incentive awards if such remuneration was in the form of shares, compensation pro-rated to service and to release deferred shares.
In exercising this will be in the Companys shares: discretion, the committee will have regard to performance and the if remuneration was subject to achievement of performance circumstances of leaving.
For deferred shares these are usually conditions, compensation will be subject to Rolls-Royce released in cases such as retirement, death, injury, ill-health and performance conditions: and redundancy.
the timing of any compensation will, where practicable, match the vesting schedule of the remuneration forfeited.
For PSP, the rules state that unvested awards may be preserved at the committees discretion according to the circumstances.
In such A newly appointed executive director may be provided with cases vesting will be at the normal date, subject to the established reasonable relocation support as set out in the policy table.
performance conditions, and pro rata to employment in the Internal appointments would receive a remuneration package performance period.
In cases such as death and terminal illness, the that is consistent with the remuneration policy.
Legacy terms and committee also has the discretion to vest the awards immediately conditions would be honoured, including pension entitlements using an estimate of future out-turn.
and any outstanding incentive awards.
The treatment of leavers in the Companys ShareSave and SIP plans If an executive director is appointed following a merger or an is governed by the plan rules.
The UK rules are HMRC approved.
acquisition of a company by Rolls-Royce, of which the executive An executive director who has ShareSave options who retires or who director was employed, legacy terms and conditions may be leaves the Company through ill-health, disability or redundancy will honoured.
be entitled to exercise their options, pro rata to the savings made, Legacy commitments within six months of leaving the Company.
An executive director Contractual commitments made before 27 June 2012 and before the who leaves in any other manner such as dismissal would only be policy comes into effect will be honoured.
This will include grants entitled to have their savings returned to them.
Participants in made under the old PSP arrangement which will vest, subject to the the SIP who leave the Company for the same reasons listed above performance criteria being achieved after the adoption of this policy, will have their shares released to them free of tax and National as well as previous contractual provisions relating to the defined Insurance contributions.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, PSP awards will The committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out vest based on the extent to which the committee determines the above for regulatory, exchange control, tax, administrative purposes performance conditions have been or would have been met.
or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining Pro-rating for service in the performance period will apply.
Deferred shareholder approval for that amendment.
shares earned under APRA would vest in full.
ShareSave options would immediately be exercisable pro rata to savings made.
Consideration The remuneration policy report was approved by the Board on received as shares would be held in the SIP, if possible, otherwise the 12 February 2014 and signed on its behalf.
consideration would be treated as a disposal from the SIP.
Dame Helen Alexander If awards are made on recruitment such as buy-outs the treatment Chairman of the remuneration committee on leaving would be determined at the time at the committees discretion.
