Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 53 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT We believe that our remuneration policy is aligned with our strategy to enhance long-term value for our stakeholders.
Dame Helen Alexander Chairman of the remuneration committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our directors Committee members and attendance remuneration report that has been prepared in accordance The remuneration committee consists exclusively of independent with the new reporting regulations which became effective non-executive directors and met five times in 2013. on 1October 2013.
Attendance in 2013 Dame Helen Alexander 5 5 The report is divided into two sections.
A policy report which sets Sir Frank Chapman 4 5 out the approach to remuneration, and a remuneration report John McAdam 5 5 which details what has been paid to the directors during 2013.
Each report will be proposed as a separate resolution at the AGM.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Director Human The vote on the policy report is a binding vote.
Resources, the HR Director Reward & Pensions, the Company Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer are also invited to The remuneration policy must be approved at least every three years attend meetings.
None of these executives were present during if it remains unchanged, or sooner in the event the policy needs any discussion of their own remuneration packages.
The policy will become effective on 1 May 2014 subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
We have a clearly defined strategy to win in competitive markets Key objective: through our focus on the customer, innovation and profitable to develop a remuneration policy capable of attracting and growth.
Our remuneration policy supports the delivery of this retaining individuals necessary for business success.
strategy and aligns the interests of our directors with that of our shareholders.
This is achieved by short-term and long-term incentive Responsibilities: plans which focus on delivering business objectives, profitable to consider and make recommendations to the Board on the growth and strong shareholder returns.
Annual incentives are also policy for the remuneration of the executive directors, based on personal performance which will include the progress members of the Executive Leadership Team and other direct made on longer-term strategic objectives.
An important principle reportees to the Chief Executive collectively the Senior of the annual bonus plan is that no bonus can be paid unless the Executives and the Chairman: entire Group has achieved a base level of business performance.
to determine the whole remuneration package for Senior Executives and recommend to the Board the whole For the first time, the bonus and PSP targets we set in 2014 will remuneration package for the Chairman: include both profit and cash contributions from Rolls-Royce Power Systems.
We believe this is appropriate now that Rolls-Royce Power to determine the terms and conditions of service contracts for Systems is being integrated into the Rolls-Royce business.
Senior Executives: to determine the design, conditions and coverage of any annual Our overall remuneration policy remains relatively conservative and long-term incentive schemes for Senior Executives and to which has served us well in recent years.
There will be no increase in approve total and individual payments under these schemes: basic pay for most of the senior leadership team in 2014.
We remain to determine targets for any annual and long-term incentive satisfied that the existing remuneration arrangements continue to schemes: align with the Groups strategy and there are no plans to change the to determine the issue and terms of all share-based plans current arrangements significantly.
The committee will continue to available to all employees: monitor our market competitiveness in order to ensure we are able to determine compensation if any in the event of termination to attract and retain the best talent.
of service contracts of any of the Senior Executives: and Annual bonus to approve the appointment of former executive directors by For executive directors and all senior managers, a proportion of any the Company as consultants.
annual bonus is made in deferred shares.
The committee has agreed to allow flexibility to allot new shares to satisfy awards and this provision will be part of the new Rolls-Royce plc Deferred Share Bonus Plan which will be proposed at this years AGM.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 54 Directors report REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Performance Share Plan Summary of activity during 2013 The current Performance Share Plan PSP, approved by shareholders During 2013, amongst other things, the committee: ten years ago, expires in 2014.
A new PSP will be put forward for endorsed the out-turn of the 2012 annual bonus and 2010 PSP: approval at the AGM.
This will be broadly unchanged with the reviewed executive directors base salary levels: following two exceptions which we believe increase the link to set 2013 annual bonus targets and performance targets for the shareholder interests: PSP 2013 2015: the new plan will contain malus and clawback provisions to enable recommended the approval of the 2012 remuneration report the withdrawal or amendment of share grants before vesting and to the Board: the right to reclaim awards that have vested or their proceeds in approved PSP grants to certain senior management: the case of serious non-compliance with the Groups Global Code considered the structure of the annual bonus for 2014: of Conduct, reputational damage or gross misconduct: and considered the new BIS regulations in respect of drafting the the directors will be obliged to retain half of all PSP shares released remuneration report: to them until a multiple of salary is reached.
The shareholding considered the projected out-turns for the 2013 annual bonus, requirement has been increased to 250percent of salary for the All-Employee Bonus Scheme and the 2011 PSP: Chief Executive and 200percent of salary for the other executive considered a benchmarking report for the executive salary review directors.
The share retention policy is explained on page 66. in 2014: and reviewed its own terms of reference.
Annual bonus outcome This years bonus reflects on-target performance.
Group underlying We believe our current remuneration practices are in line with profit was 1,500million which met the base level performance, the new reporting regulations and we welcome the structure and and there was a net cash inflow of 312million which resulted in an transparency introduced by the new requirements.
Overall, we annual bonus outcome of 60percent.
The targets and results exclude believe that our remuneration policy is aligned with our strategy Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG previously named Tognum AG.
to enhance long-term value for our stakeholders.
PSP outcome Dame Helen Alexander Over the three-year performance period for the 2011 PSP grant, Chairman of the remuneration committee earnings per share growth was 60percent, which exceeded the OECD index of consumer prices of sixpercent, and cash flow per share was 86p.
This resulted in 100percent of the shares conditionally granted being released.
The Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance was ninth in the FTSE 100 over the three-year performance period which resulted in a 50percent increase in the number of shares released to executive directors.
