Strategic Report 01-41 57 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 remUneration report The Companys first policy report is presented to shareholders by the Board at the AGM for approval, along with the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The auditor is required to report on the information concerning the single figure of remuneration, total pension entitlements, scheme interests awarded during the financial year, payments made to past directors if any, payments for loss of office if any and the statement of directors shareholdings and share interests shown within the Annual Report on Remuneration.
poliCy report This report sets out the policy of the Company on the remuneration of the directors.
This policy will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM of the Company to be held on 25 April 2014 and will take effect from that date.
Role of the Remuneration Committee The principal role of the Committee is to determine the framework and policy for remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman, ensuring that remuneration levels are sufficient but not excessive in order to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the Company.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website at: www.
com en investors index committees.
Key responsibilities include: Within the approved policy, determining individual remuneration packages for the Chairman and executive directors, including the terms of any discretionary share schemes in which executive directors may be invited to participate, taking account of the level of remuneration for other Rotork Management Board members and being aware of remuneration conditions throughout the Group: Agreeing the terms and conditions to be included in service agreements for executive directors, including termination payments: and Selecting, appointing and setting terms of reference with any remuneration consultants who may advise the Committee.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company The Committee is sensitive to employee remuneration conditions in the Company and in determining remuneration takes account of remuneration conditions throughout the Company.
While the Committee does not consult with employees on remuneration, it does invite the Group Human Resources Director to its meetings to provide, amongst other things, details of employee remuneration conditions and metrics such as pay rises awarded to employees.
Consideration of shareholder views In formulating the Remuneration Policy, the Committee takes into account guidance issued by shareholder trade associations, including the Association of British Insurers, the NAPF and ISS RREV.
The Committee also takes into consideration any views expressed by shareholders during the year including at the AGM and encourages an open dialogue with its largest shareholders.
Major shareholders would be consulted in advance about changes to the approved Remuneration Policy or any significant changes to the way in which it is implemented.
