Management & Governance Remuneration Committee Report Annual Statement I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees report for 2013.
As shareholders will be aware this is the first year in which it has been necessary to report in accordance with the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The report and accompanying notes therefore fully reflects the requirements of the Regulations and consists of my Annual Statement as well as a Policy Report and an Annual Report both of which are for approval by shareholders.
The major decision relating to Executive remuneration during the year related to the introduction of the RPS Group Plc Bonus Plan the Bonus Plan which, as shareholders will know, was approved at our Annual General Meeting in May following a consultation process with our larger shareholders.
The RPS Group Plc Bonus Banking Plan which had operated in the three preceding years had, in the Committees view, operated well in aligning executives and shareholders interests.
Whilst the Bonus Plan differs in a number of detailed respects it has built upon the success of this previous plan.
The detail of the Bonus Plan was set out for shareholders at the time of its approval and some of this detail is repeated in the report that follows.
The Committee also determined the profit thresholds to apply in the first year of operation of the Plan as well as the separate targets relating to the conversion of profit into cash.
The Committee has set salaries, benefits and pensions at a level which when taken with on target bonus under the Bonus Plan, can provide up to median level comparative total reward.
To ensure alignment with Groups key performance indicators and strategy the Bonus Plans main performance condition is profit based with a smaller part of the bonus based upon the conversion of profits into cash.
Part of the bonus is deferred in shares and at risk of forfeiture if minimum profit targets are not met in future years.
It is the Committees view that a material deferral of earned shares with a risk of forfeiture effectively aligns executive with shareholder interest and provides focus on long-term value creation.
During the year under review the Groups PBTA grew to 63m which resulted in a total contribution to the Bonus Plan of 887,000.
The target relating to conversion of profit into cash was not met and no contribution was made in respect of this element.
The Committee met on five occasions during the year and in addition to the above, considered levels of basic salary and benefits as well as pension contributions and supplements.
There were no major changes in any of these areas.
The Committee also had to consider a number of practical matters regarding the operation of the incentive plans mentioned above as well a number of issues relating to remuneration in the wider Group.
Detailed consideration was also, of course, given to the Regulations in respect of which we are now reporting.
The Committee received professional advice from  where appropriate.
I would like to thank my colleagues on the Remuneration Committee for their support and counsel during the year.
Tracey Graham Chair of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2014 Policy Report The Committee focuses on trends and best practices amongst listed companies of similar size in the Support Services sector when determining remuneration.
However the Committee recognises that a number of the Groups main competitors and therefore comparators for the purpose of remuneration are not publicly listed companies and needs to take account of this in its deliberations.
The overall policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate individuals by providing the opportunity to earn competitive levels of compensation provided performance is delivered, whilst remaining within the range of compensation offered by similar companies and offering up to medium level comparative total reward.
Directors remuneration is the subject of annual review in accordance with this policy.
Additionally, it focuses on the contribution to the continued long-term growth and success of the Company and seeks to align Directors interests with those of the Company, employees and shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee also believes that the most effective remuneration policy is simple and transparent.
In particular the use of the Bonus Plan as the sole incentive plan for Executive Directors provides a simple and transparent mechanism which supports the nature of the Companys business and its key strategic objectives.
The detailed information that is required under the Regulations as the policy that shareholders are asked to approve has been included in the notes 1 to 13 on pages 77 to 85 and which form part of this report.
This policy has been operated during the year ended 31 December 2013 and for the purposes of the Regulations will apply from the date of the Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting for a three year period.
com 25 Annual Report Audited Information The following table sets out the total of the remuneration received by each of the Directors during the year under review.
000s Total Remuneration PBTA Remuneration received as % of PBTA 2012 3,982 60,099 6.6 2013 2,198 63,000 3.5 The additional information that is required under the Regulations which form part of the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013 has been included in notes 1 to 14 on pages 86 to 90.
This additional information is unaudited with the exception of notes 1 to 7.
