Notes to the Remuneration Committee Report Policy Statement 1.
Element of Remuneration: Salary How it supports the Companys Short and LongTerm Strategic Objectives The Committees overall policy is to set total on target reward at up to median level compared with the Companys comparator groups.
Salaries are set as part of this policy and to achieve this objective.
The Company is required to provide a basic salary at this level in order to be competitive and to maintain its ability to recruit and retain executive directors.
For the purpose of benchmarking salaries and other remuneration the principal grouping used by the Company consists of companies within the FTSE 250 with a range of capitalisations such that the company sits within the middle of that grouping.
The Committee wishes to ensure that fixed costs are minimised and that total actual payments to executives will only exceed the median level within the companys comparator groups through the operation of the performance related element of the package.
As described below the performance elements of total reward are directly linked to the achievement of the Companys strategy.
Operation An Executive Directors basic salary is considered by the Committee on appointment and normally reviewed once a year or when there is a significant change to role or responsibility.
When making a determination as to the appropriate remuneration, the Committee where it is relevant, benchmarks the remuneration against the Companys comparator groups.
The results of benchmarking will, however only be one of a number factors taken into account by the Remuneration Committee and which will include: n the individual performance and experience of the Executive Director: n pay and conditions for employees across the Group: n the general performance of the Company: and n the economic environment.
Opportunity The Remuneration Committee policy in relation to salary is: n up to median salary on appointment depending on the experience and background of the new Executive Director: n on promotion up to the median salary for the new role.
The salaries for the Executive Directors are: 2014 2013 Review Date Alan Hearne 482,370 459,400 1 January Phil Williams 364,210 350,200 1 January Gary Young 245,860 238,700 1 January The Committee is satisfied that the salaries conform to its strategy, whilst remaining competitive against similar roles within the relevant comparator groups Performance Metrics There are no performance conditions attached to the payment of salary although there are a number of performance based factors both at the individual and Company level that influence the level of salaries provided to Executive Directors.
com 77 Notes to the Remuneration Committee Report Policy Statement continued 2.
Element of Remuneration: NonExecutive Director Fees How it supports the Companys Short and LongTerm Strategic Objectives The Companys policy is to set fees at up to median level and at a level necessary to attract and retain experienced and skilled Non Executive Directors with the necessary experience and expertise to advise and assist in establishing and monitoring the strategic objectives of the Company.
Fees also reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of the roles.
An additional fee is paid for Chairmanship of a Board Committee and to the Senior Independent Director.
Operation NonExecutive Directors have specific terms of engagement provided in formal letters of appointment.
Their remuneration is determined by the Board within the limits set by the Articles of Association and based on equivalent roles in FTSE 250 companies and the comparator groups used for Executive Directors.
The fees for NonExecutive Directors are considered each year.
The NonExecutive Directors are appointed for a three year term, subject to annual reelection by the shareholders, at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
NonExecutive Directors do not receive any bonus, do not participate in awards under the Companys share plans, and are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme Opportunity The Companys policy is to set fees at up to median on appointment depending on the experience and background of the new NonExecutive Director.
The fees payable to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are as detailed below.
In each case the fees paid take account of responsibilities in acting as Chairman of a Board Committee or as Senior Independent Director.
2014 2013 Review Date Brook Land 116,460 113,400 1 January John Bennett 52,950 51,550 1 January Louise Charlton 37,075 36,100 1 January Robert MillerBakewell 43,400 42,250 1 January Tracey Graham 45,550 44,350 1 January The fees for the NonExecutive Directors were reviewed on 1 January 2014 and the decision taken to increase these fees by 2.7 %.
The Committee is satisfied that the level of fees conform to its strategy, whilst remaining competitive against similar roles within the relevant peer groups.
Performance Metrics There are no performance conditions attached to the payment of fees Report and Accounts 2013 78 3.
Element of Remuneration: Benefits How it supports the Companys Short and LongTerm Strategic Objectives The Committees policy is to provide a benefits package with a value up to median level within the comparator group and in line with market practice.
The Company is required to provide this benefits package in order to be competitive and to maintain its ability to recruit and retain Executive Directors.
Operation The Executive Directors receive the following benefits: n healthcare: n life assurance and dependents pensions: n disability schemes: and n company car or car allowance.
In addition they participate in the allemployee HMRC Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP gives employees the opportunity to purchase up to 1,500 of shares a year with the Company providing one additional matching share for every employee purchased share.
Opportunity This is the cost of providing those benefits detailed above which in 2013 was as follows: Name Benefits Cost Alan Hearne 20,000 Phil Williams 17,000 Gary Young 17,000 Performance Metrics There are no performance conditions attached to the payment of benefits.
Element of Remuneration: Pension How it supports the Companys Short and LongTerm Strategic Objectives It is the Committees policy to provide pension benefits in line with market practice.
The Company is required to provide pension benefits in order to be competitive and to ensure its ability to recruit and retain Executive Directors.
Operation The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in defined contribution pension schemes, or receive a salary supplement or a combination of the two.
Other than basic salary, no element of the Directors remuneration is pensionable.
Salary supplements are not included in base salary to calculate other benefits and incentive opportunities.
Opportunity The maximum employer contribution either to a pension scheme or provided as a salary supplement where the amount exceeds the annual effective tax contribution is 25% of basic salary.
The contribution for each director in 2014 is set out below.
Name Contribution % Alan Hearne 25 Phil Williams 17.5 Gary Young 15 Performance Metrics None.
com 79 Notes to the Remuneration Committee Report Policy Statement continued 5.
Element of Remuneration: The RPS Group plc Bonus Plan the Bonus Plan How it supports the Companys Short and LongTerm Strategic Objectives The Committees policy is to provide a level of bonus as part of a target total reward of up to median level.
The Bonus Plan, which was approved by shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting, supports the Companys strategic objectives in a number of ways as detailed below.
n It provides a direct link between the level of profit and cash generated by the Company and the total incentive cost.
n It supports a positive relationship between the changes to profits, dividends and Executive Director pay by linking two of the elements directly profit and Executive Director pay through the Bonus Plan : in particular: n the Bonus Plan provides a direct link between the level of profit generated by the Company and the total incentive cost: n there will be no Company contribution unless a minimum threshold profit is achieved: n there is a risk adjustment mechanism built in to the operation of the Plan with a claw back of contributions if the minimum threshold profit is not met for any financial year during the Plan period.
This adjustment mechanism ensures that: n profit performance must be maintained over the Plan period: and n if there is a material deterioration in performance there is a claw back of part or all of the unvested but earned deferred elements Element B Awards.
n It directly supports the achievement of two of the key financial KPIs of the Company, PBTA and cash generation.
n There is an alignment of participants interests with shareholders: n shareholders receive a minimum level of profit prior to any incentive payments to participants: n participants are encouraged to maximise consistent levels of profit or lose through the risk adjustment mechanism as they have a linear interest in every additional pound of profit generated: and n there is a long term alignment with the interests of shareholders as a substantial proportion of bonus earned is in the form of deferred equity Element B Awards.
n It allows a close tailoring by the Remuneration Committee of the performance condition to the budget and performance of the Company for each Plan Year.
This allows the Remuneration Committee to recognise when setting targets that a large element of the Companys business is cyclical and therefore at certain points in the cycle maintaining profits and revenues or minimising their decline is a legitimate outcome.
However, while providing this flexibility the design of the Plan should give shareholders comfort that the participants are focused on longer term sustainable risk adjusted performance because of: n the annual risk of partial forfeiture of earned deferred elements unvested Element B Awards if the annually set forfeiture threshold is not met and: n the fact that deferred elements are in shares allows part of the bonus earned for a given financial year to reflect whether the performance delivered flows through to longer term shareholder value.
n The use of the Bonus Plan as the sole incentive plan for Executive Directors provides a simple and transparent mechanism which supports the nature of the Companys business and its key strategic objectives.
Operation Key features of the Plan n The Maximum Annual Contribution by the Company for a Participant in respect of a Plan Year is 200% of salary p. a. n No Company contribution is made to a Participants Plan Account unless the terms and conditions set by the Company for a contribution are met.
The main terms and conditions are described below.
n Primary performance conditions must be satisfied before any contribution is made to the plan and in respect of which the Remuneration Committee sets profit thresholds for each year.
If these are met they will result in a percentage of the profit being conditionally allocated to the Plan, with the maximum percentage of profit capable of being allocated set at 3%.
The Remuneration Committee also sets a minimum threshold profit for each Plan Year.
If this minimum is not met the cumulative value of Participants unvested deferred share awards Element B as shown below is reduced by 15% of the difference between the actual profit for the Plan Year and the minimum threshold profit.
Any adjustment will be in proportion to the Participants Maximum Annual Contribution payable as proportion of the aggregate of all Participants Maximum Annual Contributions.
Report and Accounts 2013 80 Key features of the Plan continued n The Remuneration Committee is also able to set Secondary Performance Conditions to determine how much of the profit conditionally allocated to the Plan in accordance with a above is actually allocated.
For the 2013 operation of the Bonus Plan the Committee determined to include condition relating to the conversion of profit to cash.
n The Company contribution is split into two elements for each Plan Year and for the purposes of illustration it has been assumed that the Company contribution is the Maximum Annual Contribution.
n Element A which is 50% of the Maximum Annual Contribution i. e. 100% of salary is paid at the end of that Plan Year 1. n Element B which is the other 50% of the Maximum Annual Contribution i. e. 100% of salary is deferred for two years and paid in Shares at the end of Plan Year 3.
The vesting of Element B is subject to i continued employment of the Participant by a Group Company to the end of Plan Year 3 other than where cessation is prior to the end of this period and the participant is a good leaver and ii risk adjustment through forfeiture of part or all of subsisting unvested Element B Awards if the Threshold Profit set for Plan Year 2 and or Plan Year 3 is not met.
The table below shows the profile of payments over a four year period.
Plan Year 1 Plan Year 2 Plan Year 3 Plan Year 4 Plan Years %age of Salary %age of Salary %age of Salary %age of Salary Plan Year 1 100% Element A 100% Element B Plan Year 2 100% Element A 100% Element B Plan Year 3 100% Element A Plan Year 4 100% Element A TOTAL 100% 100% 200% 200% The above explanation of the payment of the two elements relates to the ongoing operation of the Bonus Plan.
As detailed below for the first two years of the Bonus Plans operation the split between Element A and Element B will be 2 3 and 1 3.
Forfeiture Threshold The forfeiture condition for each year of deferral of Element B is based on the bonus targets set for the relevant financial year and will be disclosed in full retrospectively with the associated bonus targets and their level of satisfaction for the year under review.
Transitional Operation of the Plan The Remuneration Committee considered the transition between the 2012 operation of the old Bonus Plan and the changes to the payment profile under the new Bonus Plan operating in 2013.
Under the operation of the old Bonus Plan the annual bonus payment which could be earned was 50% of the cumulative balance in a Participants Plan Account over a fixed three year period with the final balance being paid at the end of 2012.
However, the payment profile for the new Bonus Plan is on a rolling basis with 50% of the bonus earned in respect of the year paid and 50% deferred in shares for an additional two years and at risk of forfeiture.
A straightforward change between the payment profile under the old Bonus Plan and the payment profile under the new Bonus Plan would result in the annual bonus paid in 2013 and 2014 dropping by up to 50%.
This anomaly corrects itself in 2015 when the first deferred elements in shares are capable of vesting.
The Committee was concerned about this timing issue and the impact it may have on the incentive effect for Executives in 2013 and 2014.
When seeking shareholder approval for the Plan, the Committee therefore, did so on the basis that for 2013 and 2014 only the balance between Element A immediate and Element B deferred would change from 50:50 to 2 3rds Element A and 1 3rd Element B.
Opportunity The maximum annual contribution that may at the discretion of the Committee be paid to any director under the Bonus Plan is 200% of salary.
The maximum contribution that may be payable to each director for 2014 is as set out below.
The Company intends to seek shareholder approval to increase the maximum opportunity under the Bonus Plan.
Name Maximum Contribution Alan Hearne 200% Phil Williams 175% Gary Young 150% rpsgroup.
com 81 Notes to the Remuneration Committee Report Policy Statement continued Performance Metrics PBTA Up to 3% of the total PBTA for the financial year may be contributed to the Bonus Plan for the Executive Directors provided that the threshold profit is met or exceeded.
The Remuneration Committee considers a 3% maximum contribution to be appropriate based on the historical incentives costs of the Executive Directors of the Company and their counterparts in the other constituents of their comparator groups.
The contribution paid to the Bonus Plan for 2013 was 887,000 which is 1.41% of PBTA for that year.
If the actual PBTA for the financial year is less than the threshold profit, 15% of the difference will be deducted from the deferred value held in the Plan provided that this value cannot be less than zero.
Cash Collection There is a secondary performance condition based on the conversion of profit into cash where additional contributions to the Plan can be earned subject to the overall Maximum Annual Contribution.
In the Committees view advance and detailed disclosure of the Bonus Plans performance targets for future financial years is commercially sensitive.
The targets are based on profit projections for the year ahead which are price sensitive and would provide the Companys competitors with a potential commercial advantage.
The Committee, will, however provide full retrospective disclosure of the performance conditions and targets at the end of each financial year.
Employment Conditions elsewhere in the Company In considering changes to the Remuneration of the Executive Directors the Committee is mindful of pay and conditions in the wider Group.
The general salary increase for employees for 2013 is shown in the table at note 10 on page 89.
Whilst the Group operates a range of bonus plans appropriate to its various businesses the main drivers of these plans is, in common with the Bonus Plan, are profit and growth in profit.
The Committee has not expressly sought the views of employees and no remuneration comparison measurements were used when drawing up the Directors remuneration policy.
Through the Board, however, the Committee is updated as to employees views on remuneration generally.
In the event that an employee is promoted to the Board that individual would be allowed to retain any pre-existing incentive entitlement that had not vested at that time.
Employee Share Schemes The Company operates a range of share schemes including for all employees in the United Kingdom an HMRC Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP gives employees the opportunity to purchase up to 1,500 of shares a year with the Company providing one additional matching share for every employee share purchased.
Similar arrangements are in place in respect of the Groups overseas employees.
Dilution Limits The Company operates its share plans within the dilution limits issued by the Association of British Insurers.
Recruitment policy The following table sets out the Companys policy on recruitment of new Executive Directors for each element of the remuneration package.
Remuneration Policy on Recruitment element Base Salary The Remuneration Committee will offer salaries up to a level necessary to provide a median target total reward for comparative roles in line with its policy for existing Executive Directors.
Benefits The Remuneration Committee will offer the Companys standard benefit package.
Pension Maximum contribution will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors.
Bonus Plan The maximum annual contribution will be set in line with the Companys policy for Executive Directors and cannot exceed 200% of salary p. a.
Maximum In the year of recruitment the maximum variable pay is 200% of salary.
Variable Pay Buy Outs The Remuneration Committees does not have an automatic policy to buy out subsisting incentives granted by an Executives previous employer which would be forfeited on cessation.
Should, however, the Committee determine that is appropriate to do so it will apply the following approach.
n The fair value of these incentives will be calculated taking into account the following: n the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of an Executives cessation of employment: n the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and n any other terms and condition having a material effect on their value.
n The Remuneration Committee may then grant up to the same fair value where possible under the Companys incentive plans subject to the annual limits under these plans.
The Committee, however, retains the discretion to provide the fair value under specific arrangements in relation to the recruitment of the particular individual.
Service Contracts Details of the Executive Directors service agreements are shown below.
Term Alan Hearne Phil Williams Gary Young Date of Contract February 1997 November 2005 September 2000 Notice Period in Months 12 12 12 The only event on the occurrence of which the Company is liable to make a payment to any of the Executive Directors is cessation of employment.
None of the Directors contracts provide for extended notice periods or compensation in the event of a change of control.
None of the Directors contracts provide for liquidated damages.
The Companys policy in respect of payment for loss office is described below.
The Companys general policy is to provide contracts to Executive Directors with no greater than 12 months notice.
Details of the terms of appointment of the NonExecutives are shown below.
Term Brook Land John Bennett Louise Charlton Robert MillerBakewell Tracey Graham Initial Date of Contract September 1997 June 2006 May 2008 May 2010 August 2011 Unexpired Term Annual Review 19 months 5 months 31 months 8 months as at 31.12.13 The service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
All Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
com 83 Notes to the Remuneration Committee Report Policy Statement continued 11.
Application of Remuneration Policy The composition and value of the Executive Directors remuneration packages for 2014 at, threshold, target and maximum scenarios are set out in the charts below.
1,600 1,400 20% 1,200 18% 1,000 20% 41% 36% 17% 800 600 18% 35% 39% 16% 400 32% 37% 100% 46% 39% 200 100% 48% 41% 100% 52% 45% 0 Minimum In line with Maximum Minimum In line with Maximum Minimum In line with Maximum expectations expectations expectations Alan Hearne Gary Young Phil Williams Long term variable remuneration Annual variable remuneration Fixed remuneration As explained in detail in the Remuneration Policy statement the Committee seeks to ensure that a significant proportion of the Executive Directors remuneration is performance related and that performance targets are aligned with the Groups business objectives.
The minimum remuneration shown for each Executive Director in the above table consists of basic salary, benefits and pension contribution or allowance.
These elements of remuneration are fixed and are therefore the same in the three scenarios shown.
The scenarios showing payments in line with expectations for each Executive Director consist of these fixed elements plus achievement of target under the Bonus Plan which, in respect of 2014 as a transitional year, is equal to 75% of the maximum contribution.
The scenarios showing payments at maximum for each Executive Director consist of the fixed elements plus achievement of the Maximum Annual Contribution for each Executive Director.
As explained above 2 3 of contributions under the Bonus Plan are immediately payable in cash and this part is shown as annual variable remuneration.
The remaining 1 3 of contributions are deferred for two years and are accordingly shown as long term variable remuneration.
Payment for Loss of Office Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
In determining any compensation it will take into account the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code as well as published guidance from recognised institutional investor bodies.
It will also take legal advice on the Companys liability to pay compensation and the quantum of any such compensation.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Directors, or employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid On loss of office occurring salary, benefits and pension contributions would normally be paid over the notice period, although the Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination equal to the value of these elements of remuneration.
In all cases and in accordance with the above policy the Company will seek to apply mitigation to any payments due.
Payments under the Bonus Plan would be in accordance with the rules of that plan.
In the case of a good leaver and in respect of the year of cessation a participant would receive an immediate award in cash based upon the level of satisfaction of the performance conditions set and pro rated to the amount of the year that has been completed.
In addition all outstanding Element B awards would vest to good leaver.
A bad leaver would have no entitlement to receive any payment in respect of the year of cessation and outstanding Element B awards would be forfeited.
For the purposes of the Bonus Plan a participant will be a good leaver if his cessation of employment is the result of certain specified events such as injury, disability, ill health, retirement, redundancy, death or where the Committee so determines.
An explanation of any discretion exercised would be provided to shareholders.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where they are made in good faith in discharge of an existing obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
Consideration of Shareholder Views During the year under review the Remuneration Committee consulted extensively with 15 of the Companys main shareholders who accounted for over 50% of the Companys issued share capital, as well as the main shareholder representative bodies the ABI and ISS on the renewal of Bonus Plan and the associated remuneration policy.
The shareholder consultation process consisted of briefing letters, discussions and in a number of cases meetings with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The comments and views received were taken into account in finalising the design of the Bonus Plan Shareholders confirmed their support for the Companys approach at the end of the consultation process and the Bonus Plan was approved by shareholders at the Companys last Annual General Meeting at which over 93% of votes cast were in favour.
This report further describes the main features of the Bonus Plan and explains how it has operated during its first year.
The Remuneration Committee therefore believes that the Report and its contents should have shareholder support.
