Directors remuneration report The Committee believes that the purpose set of financial results.
Highlights of Shires ofits remuneration policy is to support the financial performance during 2013 include: Companys strategy to grow the business product sales from continuing operations and deliver value to stakeholders by in 2013 were up 12% to $4,757 million focusing on significant unmet patient need and including DERMAGRAFT product inspecialist areas and providing more sales were up 10% to $4,847 million: innovative treatments to more patients.
1 Theremuneration policy therefore has a non GAAP operating income increased strong focus on strategic alignment and by 23% to $1,860 million in 2013: and both corporate and individual performance- 1 non GAAP Adjusted ROIC grew by 180 based remuneration, in particular basis points in 2013 over 2012 to 15.6%.
remuneration delivered in shares and vesting over the longer term.
It also recognizes that In addition, our non financial we compete internationally and in particular accomplishments include the successful in the US labor market, for limited talent in completion of four acquisitions, notably Anne Minto the biotechnology and pharmaceutical ourmost recent acquisition, ViroPharma, Chairman of the Remuneration sectors.
which is the highest value deal in Shires Committee history: further geographical expansion, We have sought to ensure that the particularly into Asia: and other Remuneration Report sets out clearly achievements which further expanded ourremuneration policy and how it was ourIn-line product portfolio and Dear Shareholder implemented in 2013.
Ahead of the detail, development Pipeline, as described in Iwould like to take this opportunity to outline As Chairman of the theKey Performance Indicators section the Committees key decisions overthe past Remuneration Committee, earlier in this report.
year and summarize the performance and I am pleased to present our other context for thesedecisions.
Key Committee decisions remuneration report for the The Committee is satisfied that there is Context to the Committees decisions strong alignment between Company financial year ended December Following the appointment of a new Chief performance and the remuneration of the Executive Officer CEO in 2013, we have 31, 2013 which has been Executive Directors.
The key decisions undertaken significant changes at Shire: prepared in compliance made by the Committee include: we refined our strategy: enhanced and withthenew UK reporting reprioritized our portfolio to focus even a salary increase of approximately 8% for more on rare diseases and late stage requirements.
the CEO, reflecting both his performance assets: created a simpler, more in role and bringing his salary in line with streamlined and effective organization, the median for comparable roles as set One Shire: implemented a new out in last years Remuneration Report governance model to ensure enterpriseand in line with our remuneration policy.
wide decision making and resource This is consistent with the pattern of allocation: and reset our cost base.
increases across the organization where Shareholders have responded well to strong performers are given above these wide-ranging changes and share average increases to achieve appropriate price performance has been strong with market positioning.
an Ordinary Share price increase of 51% incentive awards for the CEO subject to and an American Depositary Share ADS stretching performance conditions and price increase of 53% in 2013. above target level, reflecting Shires As well as implementing this major strong corporate performance in 2013 transformation which has made us even aswell ashis individual contribution to the stronger, more flexible and focused, we Companys continued success.
have continued to deliver on short term performance as demonstrated by a strong 1 Refer to page 160 for details of this Non GAAP measure 2 Excluding results for DERMAGRAFT operations 64 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information the maximum vesting of the 2011 and other stakeholders.
With the revised Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Portfolio Share Plan PSP award to the strategy and organizational structure Committee members for their extensive Chief Financial Officer CFO reflecting coming into place, a review of our contributions as well as both the internal our excellent financial performance over remuneration policy and arrangements and external teams that have supported the performance period on the basis of willtake place in 2014 to ensure they the Committee over the past year.
aCompound Annual Growth Rate remain appropriate.
This review will take On behalf of the Board CAGR of 18.2% in Non GAAP EBITDA into account a variety of considerations and a 220 basis point increase in Non including strategic alignment, linkages 2 GAAP Adjusted ROIC over the last toperformance, market practice and threeyears.
We will, of course, engage with shareholders at the in addition, the Committee carefully Anne Minto appropriate time to discuss the findings.
considered the remuneration decisions in Chairman of the Remuneration Committee relation to the CFOs departure, including February 24, 2014 no salary increase or long term incentive award to be made in 2014 in the light of his scheduled leave date.
In line with the Committees policy of transparency with shareholders, further detail is set out later in this report.
Index to the Directors remuneration report Given the strategic and organizational This report has been prepared in compliance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized changes through 2013 as well as the Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended during the course of strong level of support from shareholders 2013 the Schedule 8 Regulations, aswell as the Companies Act 2006 and other related for our remuneration policy and decisions regulations.
This report is set out in the following key sections: in recent years, the Committee decided Part 1 Annual statement not to make any significant changes to ouroverall remuneration approach.
Part 2 Directors remuneration policy a Executive Director remuneration policy 66 However, a large amount of time was b Chairman and Non-Executive Director remuneration policy 69 spent considering the new UK reporting requirements and associated guidance as c Recruitment remuneration policy 69 well as meeting with our major shareholders d Service contracts and termination arrangements 70 and key shareholder advisory bodies to e Remuneration scenarios 72 ensure the Remuneration Report was f Shareholder engagement 73 compliant, clear and met our shareholders g Remuneration of other employees 73 expectations as far as possible.
In the light Part 3 Annual Report on remuneration of these shareholder discussions, the a Implementation of Directors remuneration policy in 2014 75 Committee made two important decisions.
Firstly, pending a wider remuneration b 2013 single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors subjectto audit 78 review in 2014, to seek shareholder c 2013 single total figure of remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors subject to audit 82 approval for a long term incentive grant policy limited to existing target ranges d Executive Directors interests under long term incentives awarded during 2013 subject to audit 83 rather than the higher plan rule grant e Retirement arrangements for Angus Russell subject to audit 84 maxima.
And secondly, to further enhancethe transparency of its annual f Payments to past Directors subject to audit 85 incentive award disclosure compared g Directors shareholdings and scheme interests subject to audit 85 toprevious years.
h TSR performance graph 87 i Percentage change in CEO remuneration 88 Looking forward j Relative importance of spend on pay 88 2013 was an important year in Shires k Remuneration Committee 89 continued development as we laid foundations to grow the value of Shire for The Directors remuneration policy Part 2 will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 the benefit of our patients, shareholders Annual General Meeting AGM to obtain approval for a period of no more than 12 months effective from January 1, 2015.
A strategic remuneration review is scheduled for 2014 and it is anticipated that a new remuneration policy will be presented to shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
The remainder of this report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 65 Directors remuneration report continued Part 2 Directors remuneration policy a Executive Director remuneration policy Purpose & link to strategy Operation & performance assessment Opportunity Overall remuneration To recruit and retain high caliber The overall remuneration package for the Executive Directors is In terms of total remuneration, the Companys executives and encourage them designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and policy is to target at around median of the relevant to enhance the Companys variable, performance-related components, with a significant element market and to allow for higher pay levels to performance, responsibly, in line of long term variable pay given the long term nature of the business.
with the Companys strategy and Overall remuneration is positioned in line with a Mid-Atlantic peer group shareholder interests.
which comprises a blend of US and UK companies, taking into account scale and international complexity.
UK market data is based on other companies within the FTSE 100 index excluding financial services, utilities and mining companies.
The greater number of comparable US companies allows further refinement of US market data to only include companies in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and related sectors.
The Committee is satisfied that the composition and structure of the remuneration package is appropriate and does not incentivize undue risk taking.
Fixed elements base salary To recognize the market value Base salary is paid in cash and is pensionable.
Base salary is targeted at around median of the ofthe role, an individuals skills, Mid-Atlantic peer group.
The exact positioning Individual and corporate performance are factors considered during the experience and performance, depends on a variety of factors such as individual annual base salary review process.
Any increases typically take effect aswell as their contribution experience and performance, total remuneration on January 1 each year.
toleadership and increases across the Company and shareholder Companystrategy.
Any significant salary increases, such as in cases where Executive Directors are relatively new in role, changes in responsibilities or Where appropriate, annual increases are made in significant variance to the market, will be appropriately explained.
line with the average of employees salary increases, unless the Committee determines otherwise based on the factors listed above.
The annual base salaries for the Executive Directors are set out in Part 3 a of this report.
66 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Purpose & link to strategy Operation & performance assessment Opportunity Fixed elements retirement and other benefits To ensure that benefits are Dr. Ornskov participates in the 401 k Plan and the Supplemental Dr. Ornskov receives a total fixed contribution of competitive in the markets in Executive Retirement Plan SERP in the US.
The SERP is an unfunded 30% of annual salary and Mr. Hetherington which the Company operates.
defined contribution scheme: the benefits are payable as lump sums on receives a total fixed contribution of 25% of annual leaving the Companys employment or in the event of death or disability.
salary by way of retirement benefit provision.
Mr. Hetheringtons retirement benefits are provided through a The cost to the Company of providing other combination, at his election, of cash allowance and participation in a benefits may vary depending on, for example, UK HMRC registered defined contribution plan, which the Company market practice and the cost of insuring certain operates for UK employees.
The Company provides a range of other benefits which may include acar allowance, long term disability and life cover, private medical insurance and financial and tax advisory support.
Other benefits may be offered if considered appropriate by the Committee.
The Company may also meet certain mobility costs, such as relocation support, expatriate allowances, temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for senior executives.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in any all-employee shareplans operated by the Company, such as the Sharesave scheme in the UK and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP in the US and other countries.
Short term incentives Executive Annual Incentive Plan EAIP To reward individuals with an In determining EAIP awards for the Executive Directors, the Committee 90% and 80% of base salary is payable for target award based on achievement of considers performance against each of the key performance measures performance for the CEO and CFO respectively pre-defined, Committee approved within the corporate scorecard, taking into account the impact on the and up to 180% and 160% for maximum corporate objectives the Companys performance of strategic actions, as well as the Companys performance, although actual payouts can range corporate scorecard and the response to external opportunities and events that could not have been from 0% threshold performance upwards.
individuals contributions toward predicted at the beginning of the year, together with performance Each year the Committee determines the achieving those objectives.
In addition, the Committee may amend the measures and weightings for the corporate performance measures or targets in exceptional circumstances where Key performance measures are scorecard within the following parameters: it considers that they are no longer appropriate.
set by the Committee both in the at least 75% of the corporate scorecard will context of annual performance The cash element 75% of any award is paid in the first quarter of the bebased on financial performance.
as well as to ensure progress year following the performance year, and the deferred shares element towards our strategy to grow 25% of any award is deferred and released after a period of three other corporate scorecard measures will our business and deliver value to years, subject to the participants employment not being terminated comprise other strategic priorities such as: our stakeholders by focusing on forcause.
The release of deferred shares includes dividend shares strengthening the commercial portfolio: significant unmet patient need in representing accumulated dividends.
specialist areas and providing expanding the development pipeline: and Clawback arrangements are in place for awards to cover situations more innovative treatments to where results are materially misstated or in the event of serious more patients.
The precise allocation between financial and non financial measures as well as the weightings within these measures, will depend on the strategic focus of the Company in any given year.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 67 Directors remuneration report continued Purpose & link to strategy Operation & performance assessment Opportunity Long term incentives Portfolio Share Plan To incentivize individuals to PSP grants for the Executive Directors comprise two types of award: The Committee has established the following achieve sustained growth target levels of award in face value terms: SAR awards.
A Stock Appreciation Right SAR is the right to through superior long term receive Ordinary Shares or ADSs linked to the increase in value of For the CEO: performance and create Ordinary Shares or ADSs from grant to exercise.
400% of base salary for SAR awards: and PSA awards.
A Performance Share Award PSA is the right to The performance measures for 300% of base salary for PSA awards.
receive a specified number of Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
the PSP awards are Non GAAP 1 For the CFO: EBITDA and Non GAAP SAR and PSA awards granted to Executive Directors vest three years 2 Adjusted ROIC.
These from the date of grant, subject to the satisfaction of performance 300% of base salary for SAR awards: and measures were selected by the conditions and are governed by the PSP rules.
SAR awards can be Committee as it believes that 220% of base salary for PSA awards.
exercised up to the seventh anniversary of the date of grant.
These two they represent meaningful and types of award are made to ensure a balance between the emphasis The Committees policy is that each year, awards relevant measurements of our on share price growth that the SAR awards provide and the retentive will be made to Executive Directors of between performance and are an properties of the PSA awards.
80% and 120% of these target levels, depending important measure of our ability on performance and consideration of appropriate Vesting of awards requires the achievement of Non GAAP EBITDA and to meet our strategic objective to benchmarks.
In doing so, the Committee gives Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC targets within a performance matrix.
The grow our business and deliver consideration to the expected value of the award, Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the matrix to value to our stakeholders.
which enables comparison to other Shire reflect significant one off items which occur during the vesting period The Committee reviews annually employees whose long term incentives are Significant Adjustment Events SAEs.
Potential SAEs are reviewed whether the performance matrix 3 determined in expected value terms as well by the Committee against pre-existing guidelines.
The Committee will structure and metrics remain astothe external market.
make full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments in the Directors appropriate and challenging Remuneration Report DRR, together with the Non GAAP Adjusted Threshold vesting under the performance matrix is taking into account the ROIC performance, at the end of the performance period.
equal to 25% of any award made, with maximum Companys strategic objectives vesting being equal to 100% of any award made.
In addition, awards only vest if the Committee determines that the and shareholder interests.
underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of the award.
Performance targets are set by the Committee to ensure alignment with the Companys current long range plans and strategy, the Companys weighted average cost of capital and recent broker forecasts.
Clawback arrangements are in place for awards to cover situations where results are materially misstated or in the event of serious misconduct.
1 Non GAAP EBITDA growth is defined as the CAGR of Non GAAP EBITDA, as derived from the Groups Non GAAP financial results included in its full year earnings releases, over the three year vesting period.
2 Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC reflects the definition used by the Company in its corporate scorecard.
This definition aims to measure true underlying economic performance of the Company, by making a number of adjustments to ROIC as derived from the Companys Non GAAP financial results including: adding back to Non GAAP operating income all R&D expenses and operating lease costs incurred in the period: capitalizing on the Groups balance sheet historical, cumulative R&D, in process R&D and intangible asset impairment charges and operating lease costs which previously have been expensed: deducting from Non GAAP operating income an amortization charge for the above capitalized costs based on the estimated commercial lives of the relevant products: excluding the income statement and balance sheet impact of non operating assets such as surplus cash and non strategic investments : and taxing the resulting adjusted operating income at the underlying Non GAAP tax rate.
3 The Significant Adjustment Events pre-existing guidelines consist of the following: the event results from a strategic action that has a short term impact on Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC or Non GAAP EBITDA growth, but is in the long term interest of shareholders or the event was external and results in a significant change to the Companys operating environment: the event is a one off as opposed to recurring in nature: the event is significant which is defined by reference to its impact on Non GAAP EBITDA relative to a materiality threshold: and the event was not taken into account when the performance matrix was set.
Legacy matters in relation to Executive Director remuneration The Committee will honor remuneration and related commitments to current and former Directors including the exercise of any discretions available to the Committee in relation to such commitments where the terms were agreed prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed inthis report.
68 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information b Chairman and Non-Executive Director remuneration policy Purpose & link to strategy Operation & performance assessment Opportunity Overall remuneration To attract and retain high caliber The Chairman is paid a single fee for all of his her responsibilities.
Fees are determined by the Executive Directors individuals by offering market TheNon-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee.
The members and and the Chairman, with the exception of the competitive fee levels.
chairmen of the main Board committees and the Senior Independent Chairmans fee which is determined by the Director are paid a committee fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
They are benchmarked against a blend of US and UK companies, similar to those The Non-Executive Directors receive 25% of their total fees in the form used for benchmarking the Executive Directors of shares.
Given his significant shareholding in Shire, the current remuneration the Mid-Atlantic peer group.
In Chairman receives his fee in the form of cash only.
addition, the fees for the Chairman also take into account the anticipated time commitment for the The Company reimburses reasonably incurred expenses and role and experience of the incumbent.
Non-Executive Directors are also paid an additional fee in respect of each transatlantic trip made for Board meetings.
Benchmarking of Non-Executive Directors fees takes place on an annual basis.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are not performance-related.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group share plans, pension plans or other employee benefit schemes with the exception of the current Chairman only who is provided with private family medical coverage to which both he and the Company contribute.
c Recruitment remuneration policy The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Committee in respect of each component.
The Committee will review this policy as part of the planned 2014 remuneration review, in particular it will reflect further on whether some additional flexibility would be prudent to facilitate the recruitment of a new Executive Director.
Any changes envisaged as a result of the 2014 review will be discussed with shareholders and will be included in the recruitment remuneration policy that will be put to shareholders for a binding vote at the 2015 AGM.
Area Policy and operation Overall The Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of a member of the Board from an external party is to take account of the Executive Directors remuneration package in their prior role, the market positioning of the remuneration package, and to not pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment of the individual in question.
Fixed elements The salary level will be consistent with the Companys Mid-Atlantic peer group.
Base salary, retirement and The Executive Director shall be eligible to participate in Shires employee benefit plans, including coverage under all other benefits executive and employee pension and benefit programs in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plans, as may be amended by the Company in its sole discretion from time to time.
The Company may meet certain mobility costs, including relocation support, expatriate allowances, temporary living and transportation expenses in line with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for senior executives.
Short term incentives The appointed Executive Director will be eligible to earn a discretionary annual incentive award in accordance with the rules and terms of Shires Executive Annual Incentive Plan or successor bonus plan.
The level of opportunity will be consistent with that stated in Part 2 a of this report.
Long term incentives The Executive Director will be eligible for performance-based equity awards in accordance with the rules and terms of Shires Portfolio Share Plan or successor long term incentive plan.
The quantum will be consistent with that stated in Part 2 a of this report and the Committee reserves the right to exceed target ranges in exceptional circumstances within the limits set out in the plan rules.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 69 Directors remuneration report continued Area Policy and operation Replacement awards The Committee will consider what replacement awards if any are reasonably necessary to facilitate the recruitment of a new hire Executive Director in all circumstances.
This includes an assessment of the awards and any other compensation or benefits item that would be forfeited on leaving their current employer.
The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards such that overall they are not significantly more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will seek to provide broadly equivalent value and replicate, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of remuneration foregone.
The Committee will seek to ensure that a meaningful proportion of the replacement awards which are not attributable to long term incentives foregone will be delivered in Shire deferred shares, released at a later date and subject to continued employment.
If the Executive Directors prior employer pays any portion of the remuneration that was deemed foregone, the replacement payments shall be reduced by an equivalent amount.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys existing long term incentive plan to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of this plan if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding awards made in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to their original terms.
If promotion is part way through the year, an additional top-up award may be made to bring the Executive Directors opportunity to a level that is appropriate in the circumstances.
d Service contracts and termination arrangements Executive Directors The Committees policy on service contracts and termination arrangements for Executive Directors is set out below.
As an overriding principle, it is the Committees policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, performance, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules.
Notice period The Committees policy is that Executive Directors service contracts should provide for a notice period of 12 months from the Company and the Executive Director.
The Committee believes this policy provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals for the benefit of the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
The contracts for Flemming Ornskov and Graham Hetherington do not have a fixed term but provide for a notice period of 12 months in line with this policy.
Their contracts are dated October 24, 2012 and July 2, 2008 respectively.
Contractual payments Executive Directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination by way of payment in lieu of notice, at the Companys discretion.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
Payments in lieu of notice could potentially include up to 12 months base salary and the cash equivalent of 12 months pension contributions, car allowance and other contractual benefits.
There is no contractual entitlement to annual incentive payments in respect of the notice period any award is at the Committees absolute discretion, performance-related and capped at the contractual target level.
Payment in lieu of notice would be made where circumstances dictate that the Executive Directors services are not required for the full 12 months of their notice period.
Contracts also allow for phased payments on termination, which allow for further reduction in payments if the individual finds alternative employment outside of the Company during the notice period.
70 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Retirement benefits Normal treatment to apply as governed by the rules of the relevant pension plan: no enhancement for leavers will be made.
Short term incentives Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the executive will remain eligible for an annual incentive award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a prorata annual incentive award for the period worked in that performance year may be payable subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
The Committees policy is not to award an annual incentive for any portion of the notice period not served.
The relevant plan rules provide that any outstanding deferred shares will vest in accordance with the regular vesting period, except for where an Executive Directors employment is terminated for cause.
Long term incentives The treatment of unvested long term incentive awards is governed by the rules of the relevant incentive plan, as approved by shareholders.
Where an individuals employment terminates, the current PSP rules provide for unvested long term incentive awards to lapse except as set out below.
Under the current PSP rules, where an individual is determined to be a good leaver, unvested long term incentive awards vest upon termination subject to performance against applicable performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, pro rating for time.
Any Committee determination will take into account a number of considerations, in particular the individuals performance and other circumstances relating to their termination of employment.
Good leaver reasons include retirement in accordance with the Companys retirement policy, ill-health, injury or disability, and redundancy or in other circumstances that the Committee determines.
Pro rating for time will be calculated on the basis of the number of complete weeks in the relevant period during which the executive was employed or would have been employed had the executive remained in employment throughout the notice period as a proportion of the number of complete weeks in the relevant period.
Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated or an Executive Director is under notice of termination for any reason at the date of award of any long term incentive awards, no long term incentive awards will be made.
Change in control In relation to unvested long term incentive awards, the current PSP rules provide that unvested awards will normally only vest on a change in control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied, unless the Committee determines otherwise, and would be reduced where less than two years have elapsed from the relevant grant date.
The Committees policy is that contracts of employment should not provide additional compensation on severance as a result of change in control.
External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold external non-executive directorships, subject to prior approval by the Board.
Any fees received from such appointments are retained by the Executive Director.
Dr. Ornskov resigned from his position as Non-Executive Chairman of Evotec AG in June 2013.
For his services as Non-Executive Chairman from January 1, 2013 to the date of resignation, he was paid fees of 35,048.
Mr. Russell is a Non-Executive Director of Intermune, Inc.
In respect of this position he was paid fees of $20,000, in respect of such service whilst serving as Chief Executive Officer of Shire plc.
Dr. Ornskov and Mr. Russell both retained the fees paid in respect to their external appointments.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment and are appointed by the Board ordinarily for a term of two years.
Their initial appointment and any subsequent re-appointment are subject to election, and thereafter annual re-election by shareholders.
NonExecutive Directors are not entitled to compensation for loss of office.
Details of the letters of appointment and length of service for each Non-Executive Director are as follows: Date of current letter of 1 Director appointment Expiry of current term Matthew Emmens June 18, 2012 June 17, 2014 David Kappler April 5, 2012 April 4, 2014 William Burns March 15, 2012 March 14, 2014 Steven Gillis October 1, 2012 September 30, 2014 David Ginsburg June 16, 2012 June 15, 2014 Susan Kilsby September 1, 2013 August 31, 2015 Anne Minto June 16, 2012 June 15, 2014 David Stout October 31, 2013 October 30, 2015 Dominic Blakemore January 1, 2014 December 31, 2015 1 All Non-Executive Directors are subject to a three month notice period.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 71 Directors remuneration report continued e Remuneration scenarios The composition and value of the Executive Directors remuneration packages in three performance scenarios are set out in the charts below.
These show that the proportion of the package delivered through long term incentives supports the long term nature of the business and changes significantly across the performance scenarios.
The level of remuneration is in accordance with the Executive Director remuneration policy set out in Part 2 a of this report.
CEO Flemming Ornskov CFO Graham Hetherington Fixed elements: Base salary, retirement benets and other benets Fixed elements: Base salary, retirement benets and other benets Short term incentives: Executive Annual Incentive Plan Short term incentives: Executive Annual Incentive Plan Long term incentives: Portfolio Share Plan Long term incentives: Portfolio Share Plan Fixed only Fixed only 100% 100% $1,736 626 On-target performance On-target performance 45% 39% 33% 22% 38% 23% $5,311 1,664 Maximum performance Maximum performance 20% 26% 54% 23% 28% 49% $8,886 2,702 0 2 4 6 8 $10,000 0 1 2 3,000 Value of package $000 Value of package 000 The scenarios are defined as follows: Fixed only On-target performance Maximum performance Fixed elements Fixed elements do not vary with performance and comprise: 2014 annualised base salary: benefits included in the summary of 2013 remuneration table on page 78 excluding any one off items : and retirement benefits is the cash value of the total Company contributions to the Company plans by way of a contribution and or by way of a cash allowance.
This represents 30% of base salary for the CEO and 25% of base salary for the CFO.
These definitions are consistent with the Schedule 8 Regulations.
Short term incentives 0% 50% 100% EAIP % of maximum opportunity 2 Long term incentives 0% 50% vesting 100% vesting 1 PSP % of maximum vesting 1 In accordance with the Schedule 8 Regulations, no allowance has been made for share price appreciation.
SAR awards are valued with the same Black-Scholes model that is used to determine the share based compensation cost included in the Companys consolidated statements of income.
Any dividend shares receivable have been ignored.
2 A level of 50% vesting for on-target performance reflects the midpoint of the performance range under the PSP performance matrix, which the Committee believes to be a fair assumption for on-target performance.
The Executive Directors remuneration package promotes the achievement of superior long term performance and aligns the interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
72 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information f Shareholder engagement The Committee takes the views of shareholders very seriously and is committed to ongoing dialogue with the Companys shareholder base, which has a significant transatlantic element.
This can take a variety of forms including meetings with major shareholders to consider significant potential changes to policy or specific issues of interest to particular shareholder groups, other dialogue to update shareholders and receive their feedback on planned refinements to arrangements, and annual voting on the DRR.
In light of the new Schedule 8 Regulations and the first binding vote on remuneration policy scheduled for the 2014 AGM, the Committee carried out a shareholder consultation exercise in late 2013 early 2014 which included meetings with many of the Companys largest shareholders as well as key shareholder advisory bodies.
Key topics discussed included: application of the binding policy from January 1, 2015: approach to key new disclosures such as the recruitment remuneration policy and service contracts and termination arrangements: and disclosure of prospective and retrospective annual incentive award targets.
These discussions have informed the disclosures in this report, in particular the disclosure of 2013 EAIP outcomes.
The Committee isalso aware of shareholder views on a number of other issues including holding periods in relation to long term incentives.
TheCommittee will take these views as well as market practice into account during the planned 2014 remuneration review.
g Remuneration of other employees The Committee recognizes that remuneration has an important role to play in supporting the implementation and achievement oftheCompanys strategy and ongoing performance.
When making remuneration decisions in respect of the Executive Directors, theCommittee is sensitive to pay and employment conditions across the Company, in particular in relation to base salary decisions where the Committee considers the broader employee salary increase budget.
The Committee approves the overall annual bonus funding for the Company each year and has oversight over the grant of all PSP awards across the Company.
In addition, annual performance for the Executive Directors is measured against the backdrop of the same corporate scorecard that is appropriately cascaded across the organization.
Given Shires diverse employee base, employing over 5,000 people in 30 locations, the Committee does not consider it appropriate to consult with employees over the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
However, many of the Companys employees are shareholders through the Companys all-employee share plans, and are therefore able to express their views on Director remuneration at each general meeting.
The Company also periodically carries out an employee engagement survey which provides employees the opportunity to feedback their views on a variety of employment-related matters, including remuneration.
The diagram set out on the following page illustrates how our remuneration policy and arrangements reinforce the achievement ofShires success and ensures that executives and employees are focused on delivering the same core objectives.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 73 Directors remuneration report continued The Shire Remuneration Policy 1 2 3 4 5 Simple and Competitive Strategically and Performance oriented Valued by employees understandable culturally aligned Packages enable the Plans allow for differentiation Each element of the Employees Company to attract based on individual package is valued by Arrangements are understand their and retain employees performance employees and cost designed to support impact on business with the ability to effective shareholder value Plans are linked to performance performance and how deliver the strategy creationby the delivery of at the corporate, business and they will be rewarded for the benefit of sustainable performance individual level, as appropriate accordingly shareholders and consistent with the Remuneration arrangements other key stakeholders strategy and appropriate Arrangements are provide for an appropriate including patients risk management practical and easily balance between short and communicated Overall remuneration Behavior consistent with long term performance isboth cost-effective the Companys BRAVE The exercise of informed and appropriate culture is expected discretion plays an important role in remuneration decisions to help avoid perverse outcomes These act as a framework for remuneration decisions across the Company Overall remuneration The structure and quantum of individual remuneration packages varies by geography, role and level of responsibility.
In general, the proportion of variable remuneration in the total remuneration package increases with the level of responsibility within the Company.
Fixed elements Short term incentives Long term incentives base salary and benefits For Executive Directors short term Discretionary long term equity awards are incentives, assessment is made against a made on an annual basis dependent on Employees base salaries are benchmarked corporate scorecard of key performance an employees level of responsibility within against the relevant market taking into measures built around Shires key financial the Company and individual performance.
account the companies with whom we goals and other strategic priorities for the compete for talent, geography and, where For Executive Directors, Executive relevant year.
Committee members and EVPs, all awards This same scorecard is cascaded to each vest at the end of a three year period.
For example, market data for the most business and corporate function to ensure senior leadership roles, in particular the For the rest of the employee population, alignment with corporate goals, and also Executive Committee, reflects both the phased vesting of awards occurs over funds short term incentives across the geographies in which we operate with a period of three years with the majority Company.
around two thirds of employees as well as vesting at the end of the three year period.
the majority of senior management based in Scorecard targets are further cascaded to the US and companies of a comparable each employee through their performance size in the pharmaceutical and objectives, with annual incentive awards biotechnology sectors.
payable in cash, strongly differentiated based on individual performance through Base salary increases across the company linkages with the performance management are determined in light of similar factors system.
as described for the Executive Directors.
Retirement and other benefit arrangements are provided to employees with appropriate consideration of market practice and geographical differences.
74 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Part 3 Annual Report on remuneration a Implementation of Directors remuneration policy in 2014 In 2014, the Executive Director and Non-Executive Director remuneration policies will be implemented as follows: Executive Director remuneration policy Fixed elements base salary Following the year end review, the Committee made the following 2014 base salary decisions effective January 1, 2014 which are in line with the disclosed policy in Part 2 a of this report: 2013 salary 2014 salary % change 1 Flemming Ornskov $1,200,000 $1,300,000 8.3% Graham Hetherington 480,000 480,000 0% 1 Upon appointment to CEO effective April 30, 2013 Flemming Ornskov: in light of strong corporate performance and excellent leadership, the Committee decided to award Dr. Ornskov a base salary increase of 8.3% to $1,300,000.
In accordance with our remuneration policy and the recruitment arrangements disclosed in last years DRR, this brings his base salary in line with the median for comparable roles.
It is also consistent with the pattern of increases across the organization where strong performers are given above-average increases toachieve appropriate market positioning.
Graham Hetherington: the Committee decided that no increase would be applied to Mr. Hetheringtons base salary this year, given his announced departure from the Company on March 1, 2014 see Graham Hetherington departure arrangements sectionbelow for further details.
Fixed elements retirement and other benefits The implementation of policy in relation to pension and benefits is unchanged and in line with the disclosed policy in Part 2 a of thisreport.
Short term incentives EAIP There is no change to the level of EAIP award opportunity for Executive Directors.
The 2014 EAIP will continue to use a scorecard approach and will be comprised of 75% financial and 25% non financial performance measures.
This weighting recognizes the critical importance of financial results to our shareholders, bonus affordability and the important role that non financial performance plays in the success and growth of the Company.
These measures are aligned with and support the budget and strategic focus for 2014 approved by the Board.
In particular, for 2014, there is considerable activity related to the One Shire transformation, which is reflected in both the financial and non financial measures below.
The targets themselves are considered to be commercially sensitive on the grounds that disclosure could damage the Companys commercial interests.
However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in next years DRR to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Financial and non financial targets are set at the start of the performance year and are approved by the Committee, which believes the targets are suitably stretching, relevant and measurable.
The 2014 corporate scorecard is set out below: Strategic priorities Weighting Financial KPIs 1 Financial 75% Net product sales Non GAAP EBITA Non GAAP ROIC Cost management Strategic priorities Weighting Examples of Non Financial KPIs Pipeline 15% KPIs built around the strategic priority of developing our future assets which will enable us to deliver innovation and value for the future.
These include clinical milestones, regulatory filings and other critical pipeline expansion and advancement targets that will support our continued growth and future financial performance Organizational effectiveness 10% Execute against priority actions identified in relation to supporting a high performance culture Execute against key financial and non financial success factors in relation to the integration of ViroPharma Complete new organization structure 1 Financial targets are underpinned by a series of KPIs relating to our In-line product WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 75 Directors remuneration report continued Long term incentives PSP Following the year end review, the Committee made the following 2014 PSP award decisions which are in line with the disclosed policy in Part 2 a of this report: Face value of base Face value of total Face value of total award threshold vesting award maximum vesting award maximum vesting Award % of 2014 salary % of 2014 salary 000s type 1.0x vesting under performance matrix 4.0x vesting under performance matrix 4.0x vesting under performance matrix SAR 111% 443% $5,761 Flemming Ornskov PSA 83% 332% $4,320 The face value allocation between SARs and PSAs is estimated as it is determined on an expected value basis upon grant.
Given his announced departure from the Company on March 1, 2014, the Committee determined that no 2014 PSP award would be made to Graham Hetherington see Graham Hetherington departure arrangements section for further details.
The base award is one quarter of the total award made 1.0x vesting under the matrix and is payable for threshold performance.
There is nil vesting below this performance level.
Up to four times the base award 4.0x vesting under the matrix is payable for maximum performance, which would result in the total award vesting, with straight line vesting within this performance range.
In all cases, awards will only vest if the Committee determines that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of the award.
The Committee reviewed the performance matrix and determined that the structure and performance measures will be retained in their current form for 2014.
The performance targets have been adjusted to maintain appropriate alignment with the Companys current long range plans and strategy, the Companys weighted average cost of capital and recent broker forecasts.
The 2014 performance matrix is set out below: 2014 performance matrix Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC Non GAAP EBITDA growth CAGR 2013-2016 Change in bp p. a.
A compound annual growth rate of Non GAAP EBITDA is then calculated.
For Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC, the Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC in the final performance year is compared to the Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC in the reference year.
The change in these two numbers is then divided by three and expressed in basis points one hundredth of a percentage point to give an average per annum change in Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC basis points.
The acquisition of ViroPharma in January 2014 will add approximately $4 billion to the denominator used to calculate Shires Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC.
As a result, in the short term, including over the measurement period for the 2014 PSP awards, Non GAAP 1 Adjusted ROIC is expected to decline from the 15.6% achieved in 2013.
The performance matrix reflects this, by awarding higher vesting for lower declines in Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC.
1 Including results from DERMAGRAFT operations 76 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Graham Hetherington departure arrangements Mr. Hetherington has agreed with the Board that he will be stepping down from Shires Board of Directors and his role as CFO on March 1, 2014.
In line with the Committees policy, the Committee considered the overall circumstances of the departure as well as performance, contractual obligations and plan rules.
In particular, the Committee considered Mr. Hetheringtons sustained performance and contribution to the Company over a period of almost six years, the excellent 2013 financial results and confident outlook for 2014.
TheCommittees determinations, which are consistent with the Committees termination policy, are set out below.
Mr. Hetherington will not receive any payment in respect of salary or benefits or compensation in lieu in respect of any period after March 1, 2014 or receive any compensation for loss of office.
As set out above, the Committee determined that no 2014 base salary increase or 2014 PSP grant would be appropriate given Mr. Hetheringtons scheduled departure date.
In addition, he will not receive any 2014 short term incentive in respect of his period of employment to, or in respect of any period after, March 1, 2014.
Those elements of Mr. Hetheringtons EAIP awards from previous years that were compulsorily deferred into shares under the EAIP will vest in accordance with the plan rules at the end of the relevant three year vesting periods see table below.
The Committee determined that the 2012 PSP award will vest on the departure date in line with the terms of the plan rules taking into account the applicable performance conditions and the proportion of the performance period approximately two thirds during which Mr. Hetherington remained in employment see table below.
The 2013 PSP awards will lapse on the departure date.
Number of shares under Number of Illustrative Vesting release 1 1 2 Award original award shares vesting Share Price Estimated value date 3 2012 PSP SAR element 55,554 27,915 33.68 319,906 March 1, 2014 3 2012 PSP PSA element 40,740 20,471 33.68 689,463 March 1, 2014 2011 deferral 2010 EAIP award 6,504 6,504 33.68 219,055 March 31, 2014 2012 deferral 2011 EAIP award 4,552 4,552 33.68 153,311 March 30, 2015 2013 deferral 2012 EAIP award 4,504 4,504 33.68 151,695 March 31, 2016 2014 deferral 2013 EAIP award Shares to the value of 106,250 will be purchased on March 31, 2014 March 31, 2017 The release of PSA awards and deferred shares under the EAIP will include dividend shares representing any accrued dividends, in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
1 Awards are over Ordinary Shares.
2 Closing share price as at February 21, 2014.
3 The figures above represent the number of shares vesting taking into account the applicable performance conditions resulting in the vesting of 75% of the shares under the original award and, in addition, the proportion of the performance period approximately two thirds in which Mr. Hetherington remained in employment.
Vested SAR awards will, in accordance with the terms of the PSP, remain exercisable for a period of 12 months after the departure date, and if not exercised will lapse.
All other unvested equity awards, namely the 2013 PSP award and 2013 Sharesave, will lapse when Mr. Hetherington ceases to be employed.
Mr. Hetherington was employed throughout performance period for the 2013 EAIP and 2011 PSP, therefore payments under the 2013 EAIP and vesting of the 2011 PSP will be made as normal.
The Committee determined that it would be appropriate to continue the same level of medical cover under the Companys private medical scheme until December 31, 2014, and to pay his reasonable legal costs incurred in connection with his departure arrangements.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director remuneration policy Details of fee levels for 2014 compared to 2013 are set out below.
Taking into account market positioning and the need to be able to attract high quality, appropriately qualified individuals, it was agreed to increase the basic fee payable to Non-Executive Directors to 93,000.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors will continue to receive 25% of their total fees in the form of shares.
Given his significant shareholding in Shire, the current Chairman will continue to receive his fee in the form of cash only.
Basic fees effective January 1, 2014 2014 2013 1 Chairman inclusive of all committees 390,000 390,000 Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director inclusive of Non-Executive Director fee 98,000 98,000 Non-Executive Director 93,000 86,400 1 Given that the current Chairman Matthew Emmens will retire from the Board at the Companys AGM on April 29, 2014, no increase will be made to the Chairmans fee for 2014.
The Chairman designate Susan Kilsby who will resume the role of Chairman after the conclusion of the AGM, will be paid an annualised Chairman fee of365,000 effective April 29, 2014 to reflect that she is new in role.
In addition to the basic Non-Executive Director fee, a committee fee will be paid to the members and Chairman of the following Committees: Chairman Member Committee fees effective January 1, 2014 2014 2013 2014 2013 Audit, Compliance & Risk 20,000 20,000 10,000 10,000 Remuneration 18,000 18,000 9,000 9,000 Science & Technology 15,000 15,000 7,500 7,500 Nomination 12,500 12,500 5,750 5,750 Non-Executive Directors will also continue to receive an additional fee of 5,000 for each transatlantic trip made for Board meetings.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 77 Directors remuneration report continued b 2013 single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors subject to audit The summary table of 2013 remuneration for the Executive Directors comprises a number of key components which are set out in further detail in the relevant sections that follow.
In both 2012 and 2013, the totals were significantly impacted by share price growth between the PSP grant and vesting dates.
This alignment with shareholders and the significant role that long term variable remuneration plays in the overall remuneration package is consistent with our remuneration policy and the long term nature of our business.
In relation to 2013, stock price growth on the 2011 PSP awards from 17.23 to 27.00 the average Ordinary Share price over the last quarter of 2013 accounts for 40% of the total remuneration figure for Mr. Hetherington.
Average exchange rates for the year to December 31, 2013 were $1.56:1.00.
1 Actual vesting value of $10,539,158 is calculated using the closing share price at the date of vesting of $96.29 March 1, 2013.
Estimated vesting value as disclosed in the Companys 2012 DRR of $9,032,545 was calculated using the average share price over the last quarter of 2012 in line with the methodology prescribed in the Schedule 8 Regulations.
2 The 2013 vesting value is calculated using the average share price over the last quarter of 2013 of 27.00.
3 Actual vesting value of 2,933,841 is calculated using the closing share price at the date of vesting of 20.75 March 1, 2013.
Estimated vesting value as disclosed in the Companys 2012 DRR of 2,341,017 was calculated using the average share price over the last quarter of 2012 in line with the methodology prescribed in the Schedule 8 Regulations.
Base salary Corresponds to the amounts received during the year Dr. Ornskovs base salary comprises his CEO designate salary of $900,000 received from January 2, 2013 to April 29, 2013 and his CEO salary of $1,200,000 received upon appointment to CEO from April 30, 2013.
Mr. Russells base salary comprises his annual salary of $1,290,000 pro rated for his worked notice period January 1, 2013 to April 30, 2013.
Mr. Hetheringtons base salary reflects his annual salary of 480,000.
Retirement benefits Represents the cash value of the total Company contributions towards retirement benefit provision Dr. Ornskov received a contribution at a rate of 30% of his base salary through a combination of contributions to the Companys 401 k Plan and credits to his SERP account.
In accordance with the terms of the SERP, he received credits on the basis of his CEO designate base salary for the three calendar quarters in 2013 for which he was eligible.
Mr. Russell received a similar contribution of 30% of base salary into Company plans in respect of his worked notice period.
As part of Mr. Russells retirement arrangements, he received a distribution of his SERP account balance, and was eligible to withdraw funds from his deferred UK pension due to his early retirement.
These actions were in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan without any form of enhancement being made.
The distribution of his SERP account balance has not been included in the retirement benefits figure above as it reflects remuneration paid and disclosed in prior years.
However, it has been included in the disclosure in Part 3 e of this report.
Mr. Hetherington received a contribution of 25% of base salary by way of a cash allowance.
78 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Other benefits Corresponds to the taxable value of all other benefits paid in respect of the year.
The 2013 figures for Executive Directors principally include car allowance, financial and tax advisory support, long term disability and life cover and private medical cover For Dr. Ornskov, the 2013 figure also includes $28,519 principally in relation to immigration support and temporary living expenses, inaccordance with the Companys mobility policy and the recruitment arrangements disclosed in last years DRR.
For Mr. Russell, the 2013 figure includes $58,550 for advice in relation to US and UK tax return preparation and related tax advice, asprovided for in his contract.
For both Mr. Russell and Mr. Hetherington, the 2012 and 2013 figures include a reimbursement reflecting a lower level of Company paid private medical cover and dental cover in the case of Mr. Russell in prior years than provided for in their contracts.
Short term incentives Corresponds to the annual incentive award earned under the EAIP in respect of 2013 performance and comprises a cash element 75% and a deferred share element 25% 2013 corporate scorecard for Executive Directors The 2013 EAIP continued to use a scorecard approach with key corporate performance measures supporting Shires strategic goals as set out below.
The non financial targets are considered by the Company to be commercially sensitive on the grounds that the disclosure of these targets could damage the Companys commercial interests.
1 1 1 Financial goals: Net product sales $4.9B Non GAAP operating income $1.6B Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC 14.9% Actual: $4.847B Actual: $1.755B Actual: 15.6% Other strategic priorities: Strengthening the commercial portfolio Expanding the development pipeline Enhancing organizational effectiveness Performance outcomes Performance against financial goals: 1 Net product sales Strong revenues from net product sales in 2013 being up 10% to $4.8 billion: and Six of our products delivered double digit growth year-on-year, with further detail set out in the Review of our business section earlier in this report.
1 Non GAAP operating income Non GAAP operating income was up 19% to $1.755 billion 2012: $1.474 billion, demonstrating the progress made against our strategy to grow our business in an efficient manner, delivering value to stakeholders and also giving us the ability to provide more innovative treatments to more patients.
1 Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC grew by 180 basis points in 2013 over 2012 as higher product sales up 10% and continued operating leverage led to an increase in margins.
Performance against other strategic priorities: Strengthening the commercial portfolio Strategic priority: Drive optimum performance from our currently marketed products to optimize revenue growth and cash generation.
Achievements against this objective in 2013 include: Acquisition of ViroPharma adding CINRYZE, prophylactic treatment of Hereditary Angioedema : Geographic expansion in Asia office opened in Japan and presence established in South Korea and China : Launch of ELVANSE marketed as VYVANSE in the US in a further four European countries: and Positive opinion received on the VPRIV Summary of Product Characteristics from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency.
Expanding the development pipeline Strategic priority: Build our future assets through both R&D and Business Development to deliver innovation and value for the future.
Achievements against the 2013 objective include: Prioritization of the pipeline to focus on the development of innovative specialist medicines that have the best chance of clinical and commercial success together with early stage research in rare diseases: Positive top-line results evaluating the efficacy and safety of LDX versus placebo in adults with BED: Top-line data results announced from OPUS-2 study for lifitegrast: Acquisition of SARcode Bioscience Inc. Dry Eye Disease : Premacure AB Retinopathy of Prematurity and Lotus Tissue Repair, Inc. Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa : and Enrolment of the first patient in its Phase 2 clinical program for VASCUGEL.
1 Net product sales Non GAAP operating income Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC include results from DERMAGRAFT operations WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 79 Directors remuneration report continued Enhancing organizational effectiveness Achievements against the 2013 objective include: Implementation of our revised governance model In-line and Pipeline Committees to ensure enterprise-wide decision making and resource allocation that is overseen by the Executive Committee: and Simplification of our business model which has reset our cost base and generated the capacity to invest in future growth.
2013 EAIP award decisions In determining 2013 EAIP awards for the Executive Directors, the Committee considered performance against the key corporate performance measures, including the achievements set out above, as well as performance against personal objectives.
The Committee approved the awards set out in the following table.
Executive Director Award % of 2013 base salary % of target opportunity % of maximum opportunity 1 Flemming Ornskov $1,600,000 145% 162% 81% 2 Angus Russell $200,000 44% 52% 26% Graham Hetherington 425,000 89% 111% 55% EAIP award figures are rounded to the nearest whole percentage.
75% of the award is payable in cash non-pensionable and 25% is deferred into shares and released after a period of 3 years subject to the participants employment not being terminated for cause.
The release of deferred shares will include dividend shares representing any accrued dividends.
1 Dr. Ornskovs EAIP opportunity was based on his prevailing salary for periods in the CEO designate and CEO role during 2013.
2 The Committee had previously determined that Mr. Russell should receive no EAIP award relating to the portion of his contractual notice period not served.
The EAIP award therefore reflects time proration and an assessment of performance to the date of his retirement.
The figures in the table above are expressed as percentages of actual 2013 base salary the value included in the 2013 summary remuneration table and the EAIP opportunity actually available taking into account the portion of his contractual notice period served in 2013.
This EAIP award is also set out in Part 3 e in the context of Angus Russells retirements arrangements.
Long term incentives The value represents the market value of the 2011 PSP awards for Graham Hetherington vesting in February 2014 and the market value of the 2011 and 2012 PSP awards for Angus Russell that vested following his retirement In accordance with the Schedule 8 Regulations, the summary of 2013 remuneration figure includes the value of the 2011 PSP awards performance period 2010 2013, which vest in February 2014.
For Angus Russell, the 2013 remuneration figure includes both the value of his 2011 and 2012 PSP awards, which vested on June 5, 2013, following an assessment of performance to his retirement date by the Committee in accordance with the PSP plan rules.
As previously disclosed, the Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the performance conditions to reflect significant one off items which occur during the performance period.
In respect of the 2011 PSP awards, the Committee carried out a comprehensive review of potential adjusting events SAEs against pre-existing guidelines.
Consistent with the adjustments made in respect of the 2010 PSP awards as disclosed in last years DRR, the Committee determined that the same two 2012 SAE adjustments would be appropriate for the 2011 PSP awards: 1. to exclude the impact of the acquisition of Advanced BioHealing which had a short term negative impact on Non GAAP EBITDA and Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC performance in 2013.
This acquisition was completed in June 2011 after the 2011 performance matrix had been set and led to the creation of a new Regenerative Medicine business unit centered around the DERMAGRAFT product.
In line with our refined strategy to prioritize investments that have the greatest clinical and commercial value, the Company subsequently announced on January 17, 2014 that it had sold its DERMAGRAFT assets.
Without DERMAGRAFT and its assets, Regenerative Medicine will no longer be one of the Companys Business Units: and 2. to exclude the impact of the Japanese tsunami on Fosrenol sales in that market which benefited Shires Non GAAP EBITDA and Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC performance in 2012: the Companys royalty and licensing revenue for Fosrenol benefited from increased sales made by the Companys partner in Japan, following the tsunami which disrupted a key competitors supply chain.
The Committee noted that these adjustments did not in fact result in a change in the vesting outcome under the performance conditions applicable to the 2011 PSP awards either individually or taken together.
80 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Graham Hetherington vesting of 2011 PSP awards The table below sets out a summary of the performance outcome and the resulting gross estimated vesting value for the 2011 PSP awards for Mr. Hetherington.
This estimate is on the basis of an average share price over the last quarter of 2013 of 27.00, given that the 2011 PSP awards 2011 2014 performance period vest following the date of this report.
There is no scheduled vesting of PSP awards for Dr. Ornskov until 2016 when his 2013 PSP awards 2013 2016 performance period vest subject to the achievement of applicable performance conditions.
Performance conditions 2011 performance matrix Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC Non GAAP EBITDA growth CAGR 2010-2013 Increase bp p. a.
Performance outcome 1 1 18.2% CAGR in Non GAAP EBITDA: and 220 bp p. a. increase in Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC, between 2010 and 2013.
Resulting in a vesting multiplier of 4.0x.
100% of the total award made Resulting estimated vesting 2,475,272 value included in 2013 summary remuneration table Angus Russell vesting of 2011 and 2012 PSP awards Under the PSP rules approved by shareholders in respect of a retiree, unvested share awards vest on retirement on a pro rata basis and subject to the early assessment of performance against the relevant performance conditions, which were measured as at the date of retirement.
This treatment was applied to Mr. Russells outstanding 2011 and 2012 PSP grants.
Performance outcome For the 2011 and 2012 PSP awards, performance was assessed over the period from the grant date up until April 30, 2013 being the date of retirement with the awards vesting on June 5, 2013.
In respect of the 2011 PSP awards, the Committee concluded that the same two 2012 SAE adjustments would be appropriate for Mr. Russell.
These SAEs were not relevant to Mr. Russells 2012 PSP awards as the events were known at the time of setting targets for the 2012 PSP awards.
Taking into account performance against the performance matrices as well as an overall assessment of the underlying performance of the Company, the Committee determined that, in respect of the 2011 and 2012 PSP awards, an aggregate number of shares with a value on the date of vesting of $4,928,432 would vest.
Other payments Represents the value of any other payments received during the year Dr. Ornskov received a cash award of $450,000 to replace cash payments foregone from his former employment.
This award forms part of his recruitment arrangements previously disclosed.
1 Excluding results for DERMAGRAFT operations WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 81 Directors remuneration report continued c 2013 single total figure of remuneration for the Chairman and  subject to audit Details of the total fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors during 2013 are set out in the table below.
2 Mr. Emmens 2012 and 2013 fees include private medical insurance.
3 Ms. Kilsby succeeded Mr. Kappler as Chair of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee on May 2, 2013.
Mr. Kappler remains a member of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
4 Mr. Burns was appointed as a member of the Science & Technology Committee on February 8, 2012.
5 Dr. Gillis was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and as a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Science & Technology Committee on October 1, 2012.
His 2013 fees include an amount in relation to adjusting taxes paid on historical fees.
6 Dr. Ginsburg was appointed Chair of the Science & Technology Committee on May 2, 2013.
7 Ms. Minto was appointed as a member of the Nomination Committee on February 8, 2012.
82 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information d Executive Directors interests under long term incentives awarded during 2013 subject to audit The following tables set out details of the PSA and SAR awards granted to Executive Directors under the PSP during 2013.
Vesting of the 2013 PSP awards will be determined by the Committee in Q1 2016 taking into account performance against the 2013 performance matrix and any SAEs that are relevant, as well as an overall assessment of the underlying performance of the Company.
2013 PSP awards Face value of Face value of base award total award Face value of Share price on threshold maximum total award grant exercise vesting % of vesting % of maximum 2013 PSP awards Award type price 2013 salary 2013 salary vesting 000 2 SAR 90% 361% $4,334 1 $95.04 Flemming Ornskov 2 PSA 68% 271% $3,250 SAR 73% 290% 1,393 Graham Hetherington 20.88 PSA 53% 213% 1,021 2013 performance matrix Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC Non GAAP EBITDA growth CAGR 2012-2015 Increase bp p. a.
The number of SARs and PSAs as well as the exercise price for SAR awards is calculated using an approach based on the average three day closing mid-market share price at the time of grant.
1 Based on Dr. Ornskovs 2013 annualised CEO base salary.
2 Denotes an award over ADS.
One ADS is equal to three Ordinary Shares.
All other awards are over Ordinary Shares.
The same definitions and measurement approach apply for the following performance matrices as set out in the earlier policy section of this report.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 83 Directors remuneration report continued e Retirement arrangements for Angus Russell subject to audit As disclosed in last years DRR, the following tables set out the payments received by Angus Russell in respect of his retirement arrangements.
All payments have been made in accordance with the Companys policy on termination arrangements as set out in Part 2 d of this report.
Details of the performance conditions for the EAIP and PSP awards and performance against these conditions are contained in the relevant sections above.
Where relevant, the amounts have been included in the 2013 summary of remuneration table.
Remuneration in respect ofqualifyingservices Amount Description Short term incentives EAIP 1 EAIP payment in respect of 2013 performance $200,000 Reflects a time pro rated award for January to April 2013 the worked notice period.
This is comprised of a cash element 75% of the award and a deferred share element 25% of the award which is deferred into shares in the normal way.
Further details of the performance outcome are set out on pages 79 and 80.
Those elements of Mr. Russells EAIP awards from previous years that were compulsorily deferred into shares under the EAIP will vest in accordance with the plan rules at the end of the relevant three year vesting periods.
Long term incentives PSP 1 2011 PSP award & 2012 PSP award $4,928,432 Awards pro rated through the end of the unworked notice period in accordance with theplan rules.
The value is based on the final level of vesting set out on page 81 as determined by the Committee and has been calculated using the share price on the date of vesting June 5, 2013.
In determining the vesting level of these awards, the Committee took account of performance against the performance matrices as well as an overall assessment of the underlying performance of the Company.
The plan rule provisions relating to retirement have been applied in respect of all unexercised SAR awards previously granted to Mr. Russell under the PSP.
These require the SARs to be exercised within 12 months of retirement.
Other payments Amount Description Payment in lieu of notice Contractual payment in lieu of the remainder of the $866,686 Payment represents six months salary $645,000, SERP contribution 30% of base for contractual notice period relevant period $193,500, car allowance $14,580 and other contractual benefits $13,606.
Retirement benefits SERP balance $1,410,207 Reflects remuneration paid and disclosed in prior years.
Specifically, this amount represents a distribution of his SERP account balance in accordance with the rules ofthe plan.
1 Value included in 2013 summary remuneration table.
84 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information f Payments to past Directors subject to audit No payments other the payments made to Angus Russell set out on the previous page have been made to past Directors for the relevant financial year for the purposes of the Schedule 8 Regulations.
g Directors shareholdings and scheme interests subject to audit Employee share ownership is an important means to support alignment of employee interests with those of shareholders The Committee believes that employee share ownership is an important means to support long term commitment to the Company and the alignment of employee interests with those of shareholders.
The interests of the Executive Directors and other senior executives are closely aligned with those of other shareholders in this regard through the operation of the Companys long term incentive plan and, for the Executive Committee, the deferral of one quarter of any EAIP award into shares for a period of three years.
These remuneration elements constitute a significant proportion of their individual remuneration packages.
The CEO, CFO and other members of the Executive Committee are encouraged to own shares in the Company equivalent to 200%, 150% and 100% of base salary, respectively, within a five year period following their appointment.
All shares beneficially owned by an executive or deferred under the EAIP count towards achieving these guidelines.
The Committee reviews share ownership levels annually for this group.
Current shareholding levels for Directors are set out in the table below.
Summary of Directors shareholdings and scheme interests 2 Scheme interests as at Dec 31, 2013 Total shares held which count towards Total SARs the shareholding Shareholding Total SARs options vested guidelines Security asat Dec 31, Total deferred Total PSAs options but Total scheme as a % of 1 2 3 4 5 6 type 2013 shares unvested unvested unexercised interests 2013 salary ADS 15,286 44,482 64,585 124,353 69% Flemming Ornskov Ord Shares 22,000 ADS 45,936 10,024 83,240 110,987 105,616 309,867 1,237% 7 Angus Russell Ord Shares 261,991 Graham Hetherington Ord Shares 92,089 15,560 150,428 205,602 134,814 506,404 514% ADS 6,289 Matthew Emmens Ord Shares 92,874 David Kappler Ord Shares 11,016 Anne Minto Ord Shares 3,206 William Burns Ord Shares 975 Steven Gillis ADS 309 David Ginsburg ADS 297 Susan Kilsby ADS 289 David Stout ADS 307 1 One ADS is equal to three Ordinary Shares.
2 With the exception of Mr. Emmens and Mr. Hetherington selling 36,100 and 40,000 Ordinary Shares respectively, there were no changes in shareholdings in the period from December 31, 2013 to February 24, 2014.
3 This represents unvested shares deferred under the EAIP plan which are forfeited in the case of termination for cause and, in the case of Dr. Ornskov, deferred shares granted to him which are subject to continued service.
4 This represents unvested PSAs which are subject to the achievement of performance conditions, adjusted at the date of vesting.
5 This represents unvested SARs which are subject to the achievement of performance conditions, adjusted at the date of vesting and options granted under the Shire Sharesave Scheme.
6 This represents vested SARs which are no longer subject to the achievement of performance conditions, but are unexercised as at December 31, 2013.
7 All information is presented as at April 30, 2013 being the date of Mr. Russells retirement.
The Company also operates broad-based share plans a Sharesave scheme in the UK and an ESPP in the US and other countries toencourage wider share ownership among the Companys employees.
Awards under the Companys long term incentive plans and broad-based share plans are satisfied either by market purchased shares which are held in an employee benefit trust or the issue of new shares within the limits agreed by shareholders when the planswere approved.
These limits comply with the Association of British Insurers guidelines which require that no more than 10% ofa companys issued share capital may be used for employee share plans in any ten year period.
Within the 10% limit, up to 5% maybe used for discretionary employee share plans under these guidelines.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 85 Directors remuneration report continued Directors scheme interests Details of Directors interests under share based plans which were outstanding, awarded, lapsed or exercised during the year are set out in the audited table below.
The market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares at December 31, 2013 was 28.52 and the range during the year was 18.53 to 29.39.
The market price of the Companys ADSs at December 31, 2013 was $141.29 and the range during the year was $86.01 to $141.29.
The number of PSA and SAR awards granted in 2010 was calculated using an approach based on the average closing mid-market share price over the prior twelve month period.
1 Awards are over Ordinary Shares, except where the award type is marked as an ADS award.
2 The maximum SAR and PSA awards are granted and, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, adjusted at the date of vesting.
3 Performance conditions attached to SAR and PSA awards granted from 2010 onwards are Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP EBITDA.
Further information on the 2011 and 2013 performance matrices can be found on pages 81 and 83 respectively.
For reference, the performance matrices for the 2010 and 2012 awards are set out on the following page.
4 In accordance with the plan rules, the vested PSA awards have been increased to reflect the dividends paid by Shire in the period from the grant date to the vesting date.
5 The exercise price for SAR awards granted in 2011 and subsequently is equal to the three day average up to and including the date of award, of the closing mid-market share price.
The exercise price for SAR awards granted in 2010 is the closing mid-market share price on the date of award.
The grant price for all PSA awards is the closing mid-market share price on the date of award.
6 On November 1, 2013, Dr. Ornskov was granted an option over ADSs pursuant to the Shire ESPP.
Dr. Ornskov elected to save $480.76 per fortnight.
In accordance with the plan rules the option price is the lower of 85% of the fair market value of an ADS on November 1, 2013, and 85% of the fair market value of an ADS on the exercise date, October 31, 2014.
The 2011 and 2012 PSP awards vested on June 5, 2013 following Mr. Russells retirement.
The vesting outcome is set out on page 81 of this report.
86 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 2010 performance matrix Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC Non GAAP EBITDA growth CAGR 2009-2012 Increase bp p. a.
TSR is calculated as the change indexed between the fourth quarter TSR in the relevant year and the base year.
The FTSE 100 Index reflects the 100 largest quoted companies by market capitalisation in the United Kingdom and has been chosen because the FTSE 100 represents the broad market Index within which the Companys shares are traded.
Total Shareholder Return change in value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years Rebased to 100 GBP 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Shire FTSE 100 The historical total remuneration for the person undertaking the role of CEO is set out in the table below.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Dr. Ornskov Mr. Russell Short term incentive % of maximum 70% 65% 50% 48% 81% 26% Long term incentive % of maximum 84% 88% 100% 100% 50% Total remuneration $000 $4,781 $9,634 $17,506 $13,430 $3,402 $5,759 These calculations are based on the methodology prescribed in the Schedule 8 Regulations.
In particular, the long term incentive figures relate to any awards that vest following the end of each financial year.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 87 Directors remuneration report continued i Percentage change in CEO remuneration The following table shows the percentage change in the base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus of the CEO between the current and previous financial year compared to the average percentage change for all other employees.
Percentage change between 2012 to 2013 Short term Salary and fees Taxable benefits incentives 1 CEO -17% -16% 42% 2 All other employees 6% 0% 45% Overall spend on pay $m 1 Reflects the 2012 remuneration for Angus Russell and 2013 remuneration for Flemming Ornskov as reported in the single total figure of remuneration table.
2 2012 955 Reflects the average change in remuneration for all other employees globally that were annual bonus eligible.
To help minimise distortions in the underlying data, certain adjustments have been made, in particular the figures have been prepared on the basis of permanent employees who have been employed with the Company 990 2013 for the two preceding calendar years.
4% j Relative importance of spend on pay The Company considers employee remuneration costs in the context of the general financial performance and position of the Company, including when determining the annual salary increase budget, the annual equity grant budget and annual bonus funding Overall spend on pay $m Shareholder distributions $m for the organization.
2012 955 2012 193 The following graphs set out for 2012 and 2013 the overall spend on pay, shareholder distributions dividends and share buy-backs 990 2013 290 2013 and for further context, Non GAAP EBITDA from continuing operations.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information k Remuneration Committee Terms of reference The Committee is responsible for agreeing the broad remuneration policy for the organization and the individual packages for the Chairman, Executive Directors, and certain other senior leadership roles.
Within the agreed policy, the Committee determines the terms and conditions to be included in service agreements, including termination payments and compensation commitments, where applicable.
The Committee also determines performance targets applicable to the Companys annual bonus and long term incentive plans and has oversight of the Companys share incentive schemes.
In October 2013, the Committee reviewed its terms of reference and a number of minor changes were made to reflect various governance developments.
The revised terms of reference were approved by the Board in December 2013 and are available in full on the Companys website www.
Membership and attendance The Board considers all members of the Committee to be independent.
The Directors in the table below served as members of the Committee during the period within which remuneration for the relevant financial year was under consideration.
1 Committee member Meeting attendance Anne Minto Chairman 7 7 William Burns 7 7 Steven Gillis 7 7 David Stout 7 7 The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that Committee members were eligible to attend.
1 There were five scheduled and two ad hoc Committee meetings held during 2013.
The Chairman and the CEO attend meetings of the Committee by invitation, but neither is present in any discussions relating to their own remuneration.
Remuneration Committee activities in 2013 In 2013, the Committee discussed the key agenda items set out in the following table: Key agenda items Overall remuneration Approval of 2012 performance and remuneration decisions for the CEO, CEO designate, CFO and the Executive Committee Approval of final retirement arrangements for the former CEO Review of the 2013 year end compensation process and budgets for all employees Preliminary discussion of 2013 performance and remuneration decisions for the CEO, CFO and the Executive Committee Short term incentives Assessment of Company performance against the 2012 annual bonus funding scorecard Approval of the 2013 corporate scorecard Preliminary review of the 2014 corporate scorecard Long term incentives Determination of the vesting percentage of the 2010 PSP awards granted under the PSP for Executive Directors Approval of the 2013 performance matrix for PSP awards to Executive Directors Approval of annual offerings of Sharesave and ESPP awards Approval of the vesting outcome for Angus Russells 2011 and 2012 PSP awards Preliminary review of the 2014 performance matrix for PSP awards to Executive Directors Consideration of potential SAEs in relation to outstanding PSP performance cycles Governance and other Approval of the 2012 DRR matters Consideration of trends in executive remuneration and corporate governance developments Preparation of preliminary 2013 DRR including consideration of the Schedule 8 Regulations and review of shareholder and proxy advisory firm feedback on the 2012 DRR Approval of approach to Autumn shareholder consultation exercise and review of shareholder and proxy advisory firm feedback Review of the Committees term of reference Review of the CEO, CFO and the Executive Committees shareholdings WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 89 Directors Remuneration Report continued Shareholder context for the Committees activities The table below shows how shareholders voted on the advisory vote in relation to the 2012 DRR at the AGM on April 30, 2013.
This endorsement of the current remuneration approach informed the Committees activities and decision making in 2013.
Votes cast as a % of relevant 1 For including discretionary votes % Against % shares in issue Withheld 361,222,372 96.26% 14,042,536 3.74% 67.56% 12,225,569 1 Votes withheld are not a vote in law and are not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes validly cast.
Advisors In discharging its responsibilities in 2013, the Committee was materially assisted by those employees performing the roles of Human Resources Director and Vice President, Total Rewards.
In addition,  LLP PwC, appointed by the Committee, continued to serve as independent external advisor to the Committee, following a competitive tendering process in early 2012.
PwC also provided global consultancy services to the Company in 2013, primarily in respect of tax matters.
Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee totalled 201,200 in 2013 and were determined based on the scope and nature of the projects undertaken for the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received by PwC in relation to executive remuneration matters during the year was independent.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against any potential conflicts.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group which operates a code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Approval This report was approved by the Board on February 24, 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Anne Minto Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 90 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
