D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 62 REMUNERATION REPORT Annual statement by the Remuneration Remuneration policy CommitteeChairman Role of the committee in relation to remuneration policy Associated British Foods is a group of businesses that trade all The Remuneration committee is responsible to the board for over the world, both in international and domestic markets.
That determining the remuneration policy for executive directors, diversity extends to size, margin, growth rates and returns, as together with the specific terms and conditions of employment well as to products.
Businesses are expected to grow in the of each individual director, and for reviewing the overall policy long term, but are subject to short-term pressures which for executive remuneration.
prevent this from time to time.
Recent years have seen strong The Remuneration committee has reviewed its remuneration overall growth from the group and the remuneration achieved practices and reporting in light of the governments new by directors and many managers has reflected that.
Given the remuneration reporting reforms.
These reforms come into diversity of the group, growth does not occur uniformly across operation for financial years ending on or after 30September all businesses in every year and we know that one of our bigger 2013 and so will not become effective for the group until 2014. businesses, European Sugar, will come under pressure in In the meantime the committee has decided to make a number coming years.
However, to achieve its strategic objectives of substantial changes to the 2013 Remuneration report in order ABF is always willing to invest for the long term, where to provide shareholders with additional information about the necessary at the expense of annual results.
remuneration of directors and rewards for Company performance.
The committees approach to remuneration is that it should In summary, the remit of the Remuneration committee is to: be kept as simple as possible.
Our practice is to ensure that remuneration directly reflects individual accountabilities for determine and agree the framework or broad policy for the business results.
We seek to reward at the median of the remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman relevant market, and we believe that pay should be managed of the Company in his absence : fairly, given the importance of long-term profit development determine the framework or broad policy for the remuneration over short-term results.
Our framework for executive for the first line and second line reports to the Chief Executive remuneration is based on a set of guiding principles, such as a and approve individual remuneration decisions when belief in line of sight and doing the right thing.
This framework proposed arrangements fall outside the broad policy for has been largely unchanged for a number of years.
The two remuneration: executive directors are an integral part of a flat pyramid of management whose remuneration is dealt with in a consistent ensure that the executive directors and first line and second manner.
The only change to be made in the new financial year line executives are provided with appropriate, stretching will be the replacement, if approved, of the current share plan incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, which comes to the end of its ten-year term in December.
in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their contributions to the long-term success of the Company: One of ABFs strategic objectives is to deliver long-term growth in earnings which makes earnings per share the natural measure review the remuneration trends across the Company of performance over the long term.
The committee debates or group when determining the remuneration policy for each year the appropriate range of growth which should executive directors: properly incentivise and reward directors and management in consider and determine all elements of the remuneration the long term and also whether, and to what extent, targets of the executive directors, receiving advisory information should be flexed to accommodate unexpected events which on the same in relation to the remuneration of the first disrupt short-term plans and alter longer-term outcomes.
These lineexecutives: debates are rarely easy to resolve but are usually determined by reference to the individuals accountability for the business, approve the design and monitor the operation of any whether the event was beyond the individuals control and Company share plans: and whether actions taken were in the long-term interests of the consider and determine other provisions of the service business.
As a matter of fact, discretion on fairness issues is agreements of the executive directors and ensure that often debated but only used in limited circumstances.
contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, As chairman of the committee, I invite the larger institutional are fair to the individual and the Company and that failure shareholders each year to discuss their views on the groups is not rewarded and loss is mitigated.
remuneration, along with strategy and governance.
Those who The committee will apply discretion, where necessary have taken up the invitation over the past year have expressed and by exception, to ensure that there are no unintended confidence with the way in which the group has managed consequences from the operation of the remuneration policy.
remuneration, and discussion has been characterised by informed The committee exercised discretion in 2012 for the first time enquiry and open debate.
Remuneration is one of those subjects in many years, when it determined that as a result of an on which every shareholder has a point of view.
I hope that our exceptional asset impairment charge it would be appropriate principles of clarity, relative simplicity, accountability and fairness to reduce the vesting under the Executive Share Incentive help to explain what the committee does and enable Plan.
This year, the committee has again exercised discretion shareholders to support the committees work.
in order to reflect the underperformance of investments in a particularsector.
Charles Sinclair Remuneration Committee Chairman Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 63 In setting the remuneration policy, the committee seeks to act the Remuneration committee taking into account group in the best interests of the Company.
The committee chairman performance, individual performance and competitive market engages with a number of our largest shareholders to understand practice as well as the pay and conditions of the groups UK any concerns they may have about the approach to remuneration.
The total annual remuneration of executive directors Whilst the views of employees are not explicitly sought, employees comprises base salary, a cash bonus, shares granted under are able to feed back their opinions through employee opinion a long-term incentive scheme, pension provisions and surveys or directly to the Companysmanagement.
Executive directors The Remuneration committee continues to believe that a The overall remuneration policy of the Company aims to: substantial element of compensation should be at risk in order to drive and reward performance and to align better provide alignment between remuneration and the Companys the interests of executives with those of shareholders.
The business objectives: proportion of variable pay in the form of annual performance align executive rewards with shareholder value: bonus and long-term incentives compared to base salary for executive directors is around 1.8 to 1 for on target performance attract and retain high-calibre executive directors: and 3.5 to 1 for maximum performance.
No increase in incentive motivate executive directors to achieve challenging awards is proposed for 2013 14. performance levels and reward them for so doing: For 2012 13, the composition of the executive directors recognise both individual and group achievement: and remuneration packages for fixed, threshold, on target and maximum performance is set out below: reflect the diversity of the groups interests.
2 Annual variable element bonus is calculated on base salary at end of financial year.
3 Long term incentive value is calculated on base salary at the date of allocation, and excludes subsequent share price movements.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 64 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Summary of remuneration policy for executive directors Changes effective for 201314 Element and purpose Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity Base salary To provide core Base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis or following Annual review of reward for the role.
base salary with increase in line Salaries are reviewed in relation to median market data for comparable with other UK companies in terms of size, market sector and complexity.
The executives across committee also receives an annual update from the Group HR Director the group.
concerning the level of increases awarded to UK employees across thegroup.
The committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the total remuneration package.
Annual performance bonus To encourage and Group financial performance is assessed against adjusted operating 150% of base salary, None.
reward the attainment profit and average working capital as a percentage of sales.
of which 130% is of challenging based on financial These metrics have been chosen because they are prime financial financial targets and results and 20% on measures used across the whole group on a day-to-day basis to drive the achievement of personal performance.
personal performance On target financial objectives over a Targets are set at the start of each financial year.
Budgeted adjusted performance will yield one-year period.
operating profit is positioned as the on target performance level, and a bonus of half the the Remuneration committee determines the range of operating profit maximum financial at which minimum and maximum incentive payouts will be made.
payout and two-thirds Similarly, the target and range for average working capital as a of the potential percentage of sales is determined at the start of the financial year.
personal performance This metric is used as a multiplier to the bonus achieved for adjusted element will be operating profit, whereby that bonus can be enhanced or reduced by deemed on target up to 20%.
giving a total on target of 78.3%.
In the event of unusual or unforeseen circumstances occurring after budgets have been set, the Remuneration committee retains discretion to make adjustments, up or down, to respond to events and to encourage executives to make the right business decisions regardless of timing or the effect on incentives.
Individual personal objectives are also set each year.
These may be specific short-term goals or milestones towards medium or long-term objectives, but are closely aligned to the overall strategy of the group.
Following the end of the financial year, the Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief Executive against these objectives and makes a recommendation to the Remuneration committee about the appropriate level of payout for the personal element.
Similarly, the Chief Executive makes a recommendation to the Remuneration committee regarding the Finance Director following an assessment of his performance.
The structure and value of the overall annual bonus is as follows: Modification to Payout based payout based Overall on operating on average financial Personal Total profit only working capital payout element bonus Maximum 108.3% x1.2 130% 20.0% 150.0% On target 65.0% x1.0 65% 13.3% 78.3% Threshold 15.0% x0.8 12% 0.0% 12.0% The committee has not introduced malus or clawback to the plan rules as it is a discretionary scheme and the committee retains the discretion to reduce or cancel payments.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 65 Summary of remuneration policy for executive directors Changes effective for 201314 Element and purpose Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity Long-term incentives To reward long-term Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Associated 200% of base salary New plan to business growth, British Foods Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003 the Share at allocation be put to promote executive Incentive Plan.
The plan provides for annual allocations of shareholders Award as % of base retention and align conditional shares, which vest over a three-year period, subject at 2013 AGM.
salary the interests of to agreed performance targets being satisfied.
Max 200% executives and On target 100% Under the terms of the current Share Incentive Plan, an allocation shareholders.
Min 20% of conditional shares will be made on or after 25 November 2013 for the new performance period September 2013 to September 2016.
Measures Group performance is measured against an absolute range of compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per share eps.
This measure was chosen because it: reflects the groups objective of sustained long-term earnings growth: is a measure which is well understood both by participants andshareholders: is a published figure with limited adjustments: and encompasses the diverse nature of the group.
An absolute, rather than a relative measure is used, as the group is a global business for which UK inflation factors are of limited impact.
Other financial measures have been considered, but found to be unhelpful or inappropriate.
Measures which require testing against a group of companies, for example, relative TSR, are difficult to use given the problem of finding appropriate comparator companies.
Cash flow or return measures have been considered, but these are to some extent already encompassed within the earnings per share measure, are likely to require many adjustments over a three-year period, and may reward volatility and thus detract from a direct growth measure.
Targets Targets are set by the committee at the beginning of each three-year performance period, taking into account the state of the markets in which the group operates as well as the scale of investments made in the pursuit of long-term growth.
The Share Incentive Plan was designed to pay out an average of around 50% of the maximum long-term incentive plan opportunity each year over time.
In determining a fair but stretching target, the committee also considers the results of the long-term incentive scheme to date, market expectations and internal forecasts for the next few years.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 66 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Summary of remuneration policy for executive directors Changes effective for 201314 Element and purpose Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity Long-term incentives continued New plan The Associated British Foods Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003 is a ten-year-plan which expires in December 2013, so a new Associated British Foods Long Term Incentive Plan will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2013 annual general meeting.
If approved, any share allocations made after 6 December 2013 will be made under the terms of the new plan.
Conditional shares already allocated for the three-year performance periods 201013, 201114, 201215 and 2013-16 will vest under the terms of the Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003.
Shareholding requirement To demonstrate Executive directors are required to build and maintain a shareholding Expectation commitment to the in the Company to a value at least equal to their pre-tax base salary.
In to build Company by aligning order to achieve this target, from the beginning of the 2013 14 financial shareholding.
personal interests to year executives will be required to retain at least 50% of any post-tax the success of the shares vesting each year, until such time as the appropriate level of group and its shareholding has been reached and then to manage their shareholding shareholders.
in such a way as to continue to meet the requirement.
Pension To provide a The Company provides a final salary, defined benefit arrangement Company contribution None.
competitive for executives who were employed before the scheme was closed for senior executives retirement benefit in to new entrants in October 2002.
The scheme is designed to provide under the ABF DC line with best practice retirement benefits of around two-thirds of final pensionable salary at scheme is a standards adopted by normal retirement age.
John Bason has a two-thirds promise at age 62. maximum of 25% major companies in Executives employed after October 2002 benefit from a defined of base salary.
the United Kingdom contribution arrangement, with a Company contribution of 25% and continental of basesalary.
Both pension schemes are HM Revenue & Customs approved.
Following governmental changes regarding the taxation of pensions and the potential impact that any proposals would have on high earners, the Company introduced flexible accrual and contribution options to enable executives to mitigate their tax liabilities.
Where a UK-based pension arrangement is not possible, or is not tax efficient, a cash supplement equivalent to the normal company pension contribution may be paid in lieu.
The current executive directors were both members of the defined benefit scheme, but opted out of this scheme on 5 April 2006, and since then have earned benefits in the Employer Financed Retirement Benefit Scheme EFRBS.
The EFRBS is unregistered, but is designed to broadly mirror the provisions of the final salary defined benefit arrangements.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 67 Summary of remuneration policy for executive directors Changes effective for 201314 Element and purpose Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity Benefits To provide a The benefits provided include, but are not limited to, death in service None.
competitive and payment, permanent health insurance, company car plus private fuel, cost-effective family healthcare and, where relevant, fees to maintain professional benefits package memberships.
Executives are also provided with the technology appropriate to that they require to efficiently and effectively carry out their roles.
In addition to the above, if a new executive director were to relocate from another country, additional support would be provided.
The nature of this potential ongoing support is detailed in the recruitment and promotion arrangements section below.
As for other employees, we reimburse executives for expenses necessarily incurred in the normal course of business.
Recruitment and promotion arrangements To secure the Salary appointment or Starting salary will be based on a combination of market information, promotion of internal relativities and individual experience.
Thereafter, salary high-calibre progression will depend on the initial agreed base salary and the executive directors.
Variable pay i For external appointments The Company may offer additional cash and or share-based elements Maximum level of when it considers these to be in the best interest of the Company.
Such ongoing variable pay payments would take account of the remuneration relinquished when will be in line with leaving a former employer and would reflect the nature, time horizons normal policy.
and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Where existing incentive or other arrangements are being bought out, this will be done wherever possible by tying in any new arrangement to achievement against group targets in either both the annual performance bonus and long-term incentives.
Annual performance bonus If appropriate, some level of bonus, particularly during the first year in post, may be guaranteed in order to encourage the executive to move.
This underpinning may be used as part of a buyout of existing arrangements.
Long-term incentives As shares under the normal long-term incentive scheme will not be released for up to three years, some cash-based interim long-term arrangement may be provided, but the level will not be more than would otherwise have been paid.
This may be used as part of the buyout of existing arrangements.
ii For internal appointments Any variable pay elements awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to the terms of the scheme, adjusted as relevant to take account of the new appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment maycontinue.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 68 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Summary of remuneration policy for executive directors Changes effective for 201314 Element and purpose Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity Recruitment and promotion arrangements continued Relocation It is expected that a new recruit will establish a home base near the corporate head office.
Where required, the Company will pay: actual relocation costs and other reasonable expenses relating to moving house: and disturbance allowance of up to 5% of base salary, of which 8,000 will be tax-free for qualifying expenditure: And either reasonable legal and estate agent fees and stamp duty for buying and or selling a family home: and appropriate rental costs for up to six months to facilitate a new recruit joining quickly and smoothly.
Or reasonable ongoing rental costs for recruits whose family home remains overseas.
In this case, where possible, recruits will be expected to rent out their family home to offset the additional cost of providing accommodation.
School fees The Company will consider paying school fees for dependent children of an executive director in cases where there are cultural or language requirements.
Flights home Where an executive is recruited from outside the UK the Company will pay for one business class return fare per annum each for the executive, his her partner and dependent children in order to maintain family or other links with his her home country.
Retention arrangements To allow the Company The Remuneration committee seeks to reward executives within to retain top executive its agreed remuneration framework or broad policy.
exceptional circumstances the committee may agree an additional ad hoc cash payment in order to respond to the potential loss of executive talent.
Executive directors serving as non-executive directors To encourage The Remuneration committee has determined that, with the consent self-development of the Chairman, executive directors may serve as non-executive and allow for the directors of other companies in an individual capacity and will retain introduction of any fees earned.
Comparison of remuneration policy for executive directors and executives below the board Whilst the Company is not required to disclose how the pay of executive directors compares with that of those below the board, we believe that it is helpful to set their pay in a wider context.
First line reports to the Chief Executive and other senior executives are rewarded broadly within the same overall remuneration policy as executive directors, in order to ensure fairness and common purpose across the group.
Other executives therefore participate in incentive arrangements similar to those of the executive directors, but with lower levels of potential payout.
The proportion of variable pay to base salary for first line executives is around 1.2 to 1 for on-target performance and 2.25 to 1 for maximum performance.
Annual bonus The group comprises a very diverse set of businesses which are required to deliver financial progress over both the short and long term.
Financial targets for all executives are set on a business-by-business basis reflecting our line of sight principle, i. e. what can be directly influenced and the area of work for which each executive is accountable.
Adjusted operating profit and working capital are used as the prime financial measures across all businesses as they are common metrics which are used across the whole group on a day-to-day basis to drive and monitor business performance.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 69 The Remuneration committee regularly reviews the annual performance bonus plans for other groups of senior executives below board level to ensure that remuneration packages remain at a level sufficient to attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
Long-term incentives Senior executives below board level are also eligible to receive conditional share allocations under the Share Incentive Plan.
Executives with divisional responsibility are largely measured against adjusted operating profit and working capital targets, rather than group adjusted earnings per share, and individual business performance targets are set at the beginning of each three-year cycle by reference to the specific business for which each executive is directly responsible.
Again this reflects our line of sight principle.
The actual level of long-term share awards received by divisional executives therefore depends on the level of performance achieved in each business.
In unusual circumstances, where realistic three-year targets cannot be set for example where there is exceptional business discontinuity or in a business recovery situation, an alternative mechanism may be used to calculate long-term achievement or consistent progress against shorter-term goals.
This alternative process, the Accumulator, determines the appropriate level of share award to be paid over the normal performance period by averaging the actual financial performance achieved in each of the three years of the LTIP period.
The Accumulator is used very selectively and its use is agreed on a year-by-year basis.
Shareholding requirement The Remuneration committee believes that all those executives who most closely influence the sustained long-term growth of the Company should be required to demonstrate their commitment to the Company by aligning their personal interests to the success of the group and its shareholders.
Consequently, from 2013 all first line reports to the Chief Executive are expected to build and maintain a shareholding in the Company to a value at least equal to their pre-tax base salary.
Other executives participating in the Share Incentive Plan are also encouraged to build up a beneficial interest in the Company, but are not required to do so.
No further changes are planned at the present time.
Summary of remuneration policy for non-executive directors The board reviews non-executive directors fees periodically in the light of fees payable in comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high-calibre individuals as non-executive directors.
Fees are paid on a per annum basis and are not varied for the number of days worked.
Non-executive directors receive no other benefits and take no part in any discussion or decision concerning their own fees.
The Remuneration committee under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director reviews the Chairmans fees.
In addition to his fee, the Chairman also receives private medical insurance for himself and his spouse.
Fees for both the Chairman and other non-executive directors were last increased on 1 December 2012.
Element Purpose Operation Chairman Fees To attract and retain a high-calibre The Chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities.
chairman by providing a competitive The level of this fee is reviewed every other year by the committee in the core reward for the role.
absence of the Chairman and the executive directors.
Fees are paid in cash on a monthly basis.
Benefits To provide market competitive Private medical insurance for Chairman and spouse.
Non-executive directors Fees To attract and retain high-calibre Fees are paid on a per annum basis and are not varied for the number of non-executive directors by offering days worked.
The Chairman and executive directors review non-executive directors fees periodically in the light of fees payable in comparable companies.
The Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Audit committee are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
Fees are paid in cash on a quarterly basis.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 70 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors service agreements It is the Companys policy that all executive directors have rolling contracts with 12-month notice periods and that all non-executive directors have rolling contracts with six-month notice periods.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors retire from office if they have not retired at either of the preceding two annual general meetings.
In any event, at this years annual general meeting, all directors are standing for re-election in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Contracts are available for inspection at the Companys offices.
Contracts and service agreements are not reissued when base salaries or fees are changed.
Pension arrangements for both the current executive directors have also been amended, as described in the policy table, without reissuing their contracts.
Executive directors service contracts and provisions relating to their termination Notice periods Executive directors have rolling contracts with 12-month notice periods.
The Remuneration committee takes the view that this arrangement is in line with the practice of many comparable companies.
Pay in lieu Executive directors service contracts also provide for payment in lieu of notice at the Companys discretion.
Appointments may be terminated with immediate effect and except in the case of gross misconduct, in lieu of the unexpired notice period, payments may be made in monthly instalments or as a lump sum as appropriate.
Pension and benefits The Company may also make a series of monthly payments in respect of benefits and pension provision or at the Companys discretion, a lump sum.
Any monthly payments would be reduced to take account of amounts received from alternative employment in line with the mitigation provisions.
Annual bonus There is no automatic entitlement to accrued bonus on termination.
If an executive director ceases to be employed before, or is under notice when, the results for the financial year are published, then no award will be made unless the committee determines otherwise.
It is not our intention to make any payments in circumstances that amount to payment for failure, but in cases of redundancy, ill health, permanent disability, death in service or retirement with the agreement of the Company, the committee will consider making a payment for the financial year in which the termination took place.
Any agreed payment will be made in the December following the year end.
Long-term incentive If an executive director leaves the Company due to dismissal or resignation prior to the date when shares are due to vest, all conditional share awards will be cancelled and no shares granted for any of the long-term incentive plans in operation.
There will be no contractual right to these shares or any cash equivalent.
If the executive leaves the Company due to retirement with the agreement of the Company, redundancy, permanent disability or death in service, consideration will be given to releasing shares at the normal release date for any LTIP which is due to mature during that year.
In such cases, grants will be subject to normal performance calculations at year end and will be prorated for length of service in completed months during the three-year period of the LTIP.
Such consideration will be at the discretion of the Remuneration committee.
All LTIPs which are not due to mature during the year will lapse.
Repatriation Except in a case of gross misconduct, where an executive has been recruited from overseas and has been relocated to the UK at the start of his her employment, the Company will pay for his her repatriation.
Mitigation The Remuneration committees aim is always to deal fairly with cases of termination whilst taking a robust line in minimising any compensation and ensuring that failure is not rewarded.
The Remuneration committee has given due consideration to the recommendations contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code regarding inclusion of explicit provisions in directors service contracts for compensation commitments in the event of early termination.
The Remuneration committee will continue to keep under review its current practice, which is not to include such provisions in order to enable it to respond appropriately to particular circumstances.
In such situations, the Remuneration committee will consider the appropriate use of mitigation.
Annual report on remuneration Remuneration committee members The Remuneration committee currently comprises five non-executive directors.
The members of the committee who held office during the year and at the date of this report were: Charles Sinclair Chairman Tim Clarke Senior Independent Director Peter Smith Chairman of Audit committee Lord Jay Javier Ferrn The committee met on six occasions during the year and all members were present at each of the meetings.
Remuneration committee advisors and fees Following a competitive tender in 2003, Towers Watson then Towers Perrin was selected to provide independent market information and remuneration advice to the Remuneration committee.
The committee has retained Towers Watson in this role because it values continuity of advice over the long term and the robust data provided.
The committee remains satisfied that the advice from Towers Watson is independent, thoughtful and challenging.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 71 Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code in relation to executive remuneration consulting.
Towers Watson does not provide any other consulting services to the Company.
The fees paid to Towers Watson for committee assistance over the past financial year totalled 82,970.
In addition to Towers Watson, the following people provided material advice or services to the committee during the year: George Weston Group Chief Executive Des Pullen Group HR Director No director including the Group Chief Executive or Chairman participates in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
Statement on shareholder voting At the last AGM in December 2012 the voting results on the remuneration resolution To receive and approve the directors Remuneration report for the year ended 15 September 2012 were as follows: i the total number of votes cast in relation to the resolution was 652,929,365 644,285,996 for and 8,643,369 against ii the percentage for was 98.68% and the percentage against was 1.32% iii the number of abstentions was 3,685,613 TSR performance and Chief Executives pay The performance graph below illustrates the performance of the Company over the past five years from September 2008 to September 2013, in terms of total shareholder return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index.
This index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
In addition, the graph provides a five-year summary of the total remuneration of the Group Chief Executive over the same period showing a breakdown of each of the elements of variable pay within the total remuneration figure.
For the purpose of calculating the value of the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive, data has been collated on a basis consistent with the single figure methodology as defined by the Department for Business Innovation & Skills.
During the previous 12months, the market value ranged from 1284p to 2031p.
Comparison of the Group Chief Executives remuneration with the remuneration of other employees and other Company measures Associated British Foods is very geographically dispersed and therefore subject to very different pay markets, so it is difficult to make sensible comparisons with all employees across the group.
As indicated previously, the salaries of executive directors are reviewed in line with UK executives and in December 2012, when the target salary increase for all executives was between 2.5% and 3.0%, the Chief Executive received a salary increase of 2.84%.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 72 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In order to drive and reward performance, and to align better the interests of executives and shareholders, the executive directors have a greater proportion of their total reward package at risk than other employees.
This means that in years of very good performance, the Chief Executives package increases more than that of most other employees.
However it should be noted that the LTIP portion of the Chief Executives 2012 13 total remuneration reflects a 75% share price appreciation over the past three-year period, a benefit shared by other shareholders.
A year-on-year comparison of the relative importance of pay and significant income distributions to shareholders and others is shown below: 2013 2012 Year-on-year Expenditure m m difference Pay spend for the group 1,943 1,760 10% Dividends relating to the period 253 225 12% Income taxes paid 252 191 32% Directors service contracts Details of the service contracts of directors who served during the year ended 14 September 2013 are set out below: Effective date Notice Notice Unexpired Date of of current period from period from portion of appointment contract Company director service contract Executive directors George Weston 19.04.99 01.06.05 12 months 12 months Rolling contract John Bason 04.05.99 16.03.99 12 months 12 months Rolling contract Non-executive directors Charles Sinclair 01.10.08 21.04.09 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Tim Clarke 03.11.04 03.11.04 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Lord Jay 01.11.06 01.11.06 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Javier Ferrn 01.11.06 01.11.06 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Peter Smith 28.02.07 28.02.07 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Emma Adamo 09.12.11 09.12.11 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Directors remuneration in 2013 Base salary and fees Executive directors salaries were reviewed on 1 December 2012 in accordance with normal policy and were increased in line with average increases for UK executives across the group.
Dec 2012 Dec 2011 Increase George Weston 977,000 950,000 2.84% John Bason 643,000 625,000 2.88% Executive directors salaries are next subject to review on 1 December 2013.
The fees of the Chairman and non-executive directors, which were last reviewed on 1 December 2010, were reviewed on 1December 2012 and increases made as follows: Dec 2012 Dec 2010 Charles Sinclair 350,000 335,000 Chairman Tim Clarke 82,500 72,500 Senior Independent Director Peter Smith 82,500 72,500 Chairman, Audit committee Javier Ferrn 65,000 60,000 Lord Jay 65,000 60,000 1 Emma Adamo 65,000 60,000 1 From date of appointment, 9 December 2011 Non-executive directors fees are next subject to review on 1 December 2014.
Annual bonus In December 2013 there will be a payout of 112.23% of salary to executive directors in respect of the financial element of the annual bonus for the 2012 13 financial year.
This reflects the very strong performance of the group with adjusted operating profit above expectations and working capital as a percentage of sales also ahead of target: Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 73 Below Worse Better bonus than than 1 Actual threshold target Target target Maximum Group operating profit 1,185m Group average working capital as a percentage of sales 13.82% 1 No discretion was applied in relation to the incentive outcomes detailed above.
Following a review of individual performance against specific objectives for the 2012 13 financial year in accordance with the normal policy, the Remuneration committee has determined that George Weston will receive 12.5% and John Bason 13.5% of base salary for the personal element of the annual bonus.
Individual objectives set for each of the executive directors were closely aligned to the overall strategy of the group and will not be disclosed because of the commercial sensitivity.
These percentage awards both represent good overall performance with major objectives or milestones having been attained, although some minor objectives were not achieved.
Long-term incentives For the three-year performance period ended September 2012, the compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per share was 14.76%, against a target range of 5% to 11%.
The Remuneration committee determined that as a result of an exceptional asset impairment charge it would be appropriate for them to apply their discretion under the Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003 to reduce the vesting proportion from 100% to 97.42%.
Therefore, executive directors received 97.42% of the conditional shares allocated in 2009.
For the three-year performance period ended September 2013, the compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per share was 11.06%, against a target range of 5% to 11%.
However, the committee has again decided to exercise its discretion under the Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003 and has reduced the share vesting from 100% to 85% in order to reflect the underperformance of investments in the Ingredients businesses.
In November 2013 executive directors will therefore receive 85% of the conditional shares allocated in 2010 George Weston will receive 137,928 shares and John Bason 92,584 shares.
In setting this target, the Remuneration committee has taken into account the volatility present in many of the markets in which the group operates, as well as the scale of investments made in the pursuit of long-term growth.
The committee believes that the 5% to 11% compound annual growth range remains achievable but stretching over the next three-year period.
As far as other participants are concerned, long-term incentives for executives with divisional responsibility are largely measured against adjusted operating profit and working capital targets, set by reference to the business for which each executive is directly responsible in accordance with our line of sight principle.
The level of share awards for these executives therefore depends on the level of performance achieved in each business.
In November 2012, 55 senior executives, excluding the executive directors 77.5% of all eligible participants, received a release ofshares.
This year, 58 senior executives, excluding the executive directors, 80.6% of all eligible participants will receive a release of shares in November 2013.
Shareholding requirement The requirement for executive directors and all first line reports to the Chief Executive to build up a shareholding in the Company to a value at least equal to their pre-tax base salary will come into force in 2013.
At the date of this report, both George Weston and John Bason are already fully compliant with this requirement.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 74 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Total directors interests in shares The directors of the Company as at 14 September 2013 had the following interests in the shares of the Company notifiable under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Total as at Total as at 14 September 15 September Non-executive directors Conditional Beneficial 2013 2012 Charles Sinclair 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 12,760 12,760 12,760 Tim Clarke 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 4,000 4,000 4,000 Lord Jay 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 1,000 1,000 500 Javier Ferrn 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 2,400 2,400 2,400 Peter Smith 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 2,000 2,000 2,000 3 Emma Adamo 1,322 1,322 1,322 Wittington Investments Limited, ordinary shares of 50p 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 466,234 466,234 466,234 Executive directors 3 George Weston Wittington Investments Limited, ordinary shares of 50p 2,446 2,446 23,681 15 1 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 461,426 3,384,482 3,845,908 3,782,217 John Bason 15 2 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 305,741 81,718 387,459 365,481 1 Total of 3,324,369 shares in 2012 Remuneration report restated to include conditional allocations as at 15 September 2012.
2 Total of 60,337 shares in 2012 Remuneration report restated to include conditional allocations as at 15 September 2012.
3 George Weston and Emma Adamo are directors of Wittington Investments Limited.
Wittington Investments Limited together with its subsidiary, HowardInvestments Limited, held 431,515,108 ordinary shares in Associated British Foods plc as at 14 September 2013.
The interests above remained the same at 5 November 2013.
Pensions The table below shows the defined benefit pension entitlements from the ABF Scheme and EFRBS where appropriate, of executive directors of Associated British Foods plc who were members of the ABF Scheme during the year ended 14 September 2013.
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the year: Increase Total Value of Value of Value of Increase in accrued accrued Directors net increase accrued accrued Total change in accrued pension net pension at contributions in accrual pension at pension at in value pension of inflation 15.09.12 during period over period 14.09.13 15.09.12 during period 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 000 000 A B C D E F G H George Weston 36 27 442 21 281 5,653 5,105 527 John Bason 25 20 257 21 335 5,024 4,493 510 Notes: 1.
Pension accruals A and C are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, or earlier retirement.
The pension values E, F and G are transfer values calculated in accordance with Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 2008.
The increase in accrued pension net of inflation B uses a CPI based inflation figure.
The value of net increase in pension E represents the incremental value to the director of his pension benefits during the year, resulting from additional service and increases in salary.
It is based on the increase in accrued pension net of inflation B after deducting the directors contribution during the year D. 5.
The change in the transfer value H includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and directors, such as stock market movements.
The directors contributions during the year are excluded from this value.
Both directors opted out of the ABF Scheme on 5 April 2006, and since then have earned benefits in the Employer Financed Retirement Benefit Scheme EFRBS.
The figures shown represent the aggregate of benefits in the ABF Scheme and the EFRBS.
Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
Pension benefits include a 50% spouses pension.
Pensions are guaranteed to increase in line with RPI limited each year to 5% 2.5% for benefits accrued post 1 January 2008.
Additional discretionary increases to pensions in payment have been granted in the past.
As in previous years the directors contributions during the period D recognises the amount of salary sacrifice made by the directors in lieu of paying contributions.
Both directors contribute 15% of the scheme-specific salary cap so the amount is the same for both 21k.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Remuneration report 75 Benefits The taxable value of a fully expensed company car, private medical insurance, life assurance, annual medical check-up, home and mobile telephone costs and the reimbursement of reasonable business expenses is included in the table of directors remunerationbelow.
Summary of directors remuneration single figure table The remuneration paid to all directors for the year to 14 September 2013 was as follows: 2013 2012 Salary Annual Long-term 2013 2012 total total 4 5 6 6 7 7 or fees Benefits Pensions bonus incentive Single figure Single figure remuneration remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-executive directors 1 Charles Sinclair 346 1 347 333 347 333 Tim Clarke 81 81 72 81 72 Lord Jay 64 64 60 64 60 Javier Ferrn 64 64 60 64 60 Peter Smith 81 81 72 81 72 Emma Adamo 64 64 46 64 46 Executive directors 2 George Weston 948 14 520 1,219 2,550 5,251 3,861 2,181 1,796 3 John Bason 617 16 377 808 1,712 3,530 2,633 1,441 1,193 1 The value of Charles Sinclairs benefits comprised 1,000 taxed as benefits-in-kind.
2 The value of George Westons benefits comprised 13,000 taken in cash and 1,000 taxed as benefits-in-kind.
3 The value of John Basons benefits comprised 13,000 taken in cash and 3,000 taxed as benefits-in-kind.
4 The annual bonus will be paid in December 2013 for the financial year 2012 13.
Performance targets and weightings were as detailed on pages 72 and 73.
None of the incentive was subject to deferral.
5 The award under the long-term incentive plan has been estimated using the average mid-market closing price over the last quarter of the 2012 13 financial year 17June to 13 September 2013 of 1849p.
The award will be made on 25 November 2013 and a figure recalculated for the actual share price will be presented in the 2014 remuneration report.
Information relating to performance targets, weightings and outcomes can be found on page 73.
6 The single figure, as defined by the Department for Business Innovation & Skills, includes the elements previously included in total directors remuneration salary or fees, benefits and annual bonus as well as an amount for accrued pension benefits and long-term incentives.
This is presented for both years for the first time.
7 Total remuneration on the basis previously presented in the Remuneration report.
Executive directors serving as non-executive directors During the year, George Weston served as a non-executive director of Wittington Investments Limited, for which he received no compensation.
John Bason is a non-executive director and chairman of the Audit committee of Compass Group PLC, for which he received a total fee of 103,000 in the 2012 13 financial year.
He also served as a trustee of Voluntary Service Overseas and as deputy chairman of the charity FareShare, but received no compensation in respect of either of these roles.
Compliance statement The Remuneration committee has made major changes to the structure and content of the 2013 Remuneration report in recognition of the governments new reporting requirements set out in the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2013.
The requirements under these Regulations will be implemented in full in the 2014 report, with the Policy section first subject to a binding vote at the 2014 annual general meeting of the Company.
The current report sets out the policy and disclosures on directors remuneration as required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 issued under the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
In accordance with the Act, a resolution to approve the 2013 report will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company.
The vote will have advisory status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
KPMG Audit Plc has audited the report to the extent required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, being the sections in the Remuneration report for 2012 13 above entitled Total directors interests in shares, Long-term incentives, Pensions and Summary of directors remuneration.
By order of the board Paul Lister Company Secretary 5 November 2013 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013
