SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report Our aim is to devise remuneration packages that drive performance Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present the first Directors remuneration report prepared in accordance with the new regulations.
Our remuneration arrangements have essentially remained unchanged from last year, but are now presented in a new format.
We have discussed this format with a number of our major Shareholders and are very grateful for their suggestions helping us to improve the clarity of the new remuneration policy table and the remuneration policy report itself.
We made a number of decisions during the year, as follows: Agreed to introduce a third performance measure relating to growth in Emerging & International Markets, into our Performance Share Programme.
Determined the incentive plan outcomes for long-term awards made in 2010 and the Annual Incentive Plan 2012, and set the targets and measures for the awards and plans in 2013.
Redesigned the Directors Remuneration Report in line with the new regulations.
Compliance statement We have prepared this Directors Remuneration Report the Report in accordance with TheEnterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2012-2013 clauses 81-84 and The Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 theRegulations.
The Report also meets the relevant requirements ofthe Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules.
As required by the regulations, the first part of the Report pages 64 to 72 is the Directors Remuneration Policy Report the Policy Report.
The Policy Report will be put to Shareholders for approval as a binding vote at the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2014.
The policy report describes our remuneration policy as it relates to the Directors of the Company.
Once the policy report has been approved by Shareholders, all payments we make to any Director of the Company will be in accordance with this remuneration policy.
We intend that this remuneration policy will remain in place unchanged for at least the next three years and will next be put to Shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2017.
We will bring the policy report back toShareholders earlier in the event that we make any material change to the remuneration policy or Shareholders do not approve the annual report on remuneration.
The second part of the Report pages 73 to 85 is the annual report on remuneration the Implementation Report.
The Implementation Report will be put to Shareholders for approvalas an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2014.
The Implementation Report explains how the remuneration policy was implemented during2013and also how it is currently being implemented in 2014.
Pages 74, 79 to 82 have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
