St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement from Antnio Monteiro the Remuneration Remuneration Committee Chairman Committee Chairman D ear Shareholders Annual bonus In light of exceptional Company and individual performance, the maximum amount 100% of salary has been On behalf of the Board, we are pleased to present the Directors awarded for performance in 2013.
Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
This report has been prepared in accordance with section 421 of Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP 66% of the potential maximum has Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized vested in respect of LTIP awards made in December 2010.
This Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as reflects total shareholder return TSR performance against the amended and is set out in two parts: comparator group of between median and upper quartile in the three year period to December 2013.
The Directors Policy Report which sets out details of our Directors remuneration policy.
It is intended that this will apply for the next three Key Decisions Around Remuneration for 2014 years and will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 The Committee believes that a uniquely quali ed and motivated executive Annual General Meeting AGM.
team is vital to the effective management of the Companys international portfolio and the successful execution of the Companys stated strategy The Annual Report on Remuneration which provides details on how for building shareholder value.
It is the Committees objective to be able to Directors were paid in 2013 and the link between remuneration and attract, motivate and retain high calibre executives through market SOCOs performance.
This section of the report also outlines how we competitive remuneration that is appropriate to those individuals intend to implement the remuneration policy in 2014.
This section of positions, experience and value to the Company.
the report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
Given that our last full review of total compensation positioning was undertaken in 2009, and that no changes have been made to incentive Performance of the Group opportunities for over ten years, the Committee determined that it was In 2012, we noted this as the most important period in the Groups appropriate to re-consider the remuneration framework ahead of history, with the Te Giac Trang TGT eld set to provide signi cant shareholder approval of the policy at the 2014 AGM.
future cash generation from stable production capacity.
We have delivered on that outlook in 2013, reporting over $600 million in The outcome of this review showed that we had fallen behind market turnover and over $300 million in operating cash ow for the second competitive levels of variable remuneration.
Therefore, after taking account straight year.
Importantly, the TGT well drilled in 2013 was a of best practice and following a shareholder consultation process, we are spectacular success, one of the highest ow rate wells ever in Vietnam, proposing, in our remuneration policy, to introduce a deferred annual bonus exceeding all pre-test expectations, and owing at a combined average opportunity of 50% of salary.
This is intended to increase our total bonus maximum production from the three zones tested at over 27,600 opportunity from 100% of salary to 150% of salary from 2014.
Any bonus barrels of oil equivalent per day.
A fast track development on this earned above 100% of salary will be deferred into SOCO shares which will portion of the eld should further increase stable production capacity vest after two years.
Malus will apply to the shares in certain circumstances by next year.
Even more importantly, in October 2013, SOCO as explained in more detail later in this report.
completed a return of 133 million to shareholders, and has committed to a policy of meaningful annual cash returns whilst retaining gearing to No other change is being made to the remuneration framework growth through a focused exploration programme.
Accordingly, SOCO and there is no increase being proposed to Executive Directors remains well set to continue its strategic goal of building and salaries for 2014. recognising value for shareholders.
We take an active interest in shareholder views and the voting on the How this Performance was Re ected in the Pay of our remuneration report.
We look forward to receiving your support at the Executive Directors upcoming AGM.
Full details on incentive payments for performance achieved to December 2013 are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration, however in Antnio Monteiro summary they are as follows: Remuneration Committee Chairman SOCO International plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Policy Report Unaudited This remuneration policy will be effective from 12 June 2014 subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
The policy is intended to apply for three years.
However, the Committee monitors the remuneration policy on a continuing basis including consideration of evolving market practice and relevant guidance: shareholder views and results of previous voting: policies applied to the wider employee base: and with due regard to the current economic climate.
Should the Committee resolve that the remuneration policy should be revised: such revisions will be subject to a binding shareholder vote.
Policy Table for Executive Directors The table below summarises our policy for each component of Executive Directors Remuneration: Fixed pay Base salary Purpose and link Core element of remuneration set at a suf cient level to attract and retain people of the to strategy: necessary calibre to shape and execute the Companys strategy.
Operation Maximum Contractual fixed cash amount paid monthly.
Although the Committee do not consider it appropriate to set a maximum salary level, any salary adjustments will normally be in line with those of the wider workforce.
Particular care is given in fixing the appropriate salary level considering that incentive pay is generally set at a fraction or multiple of base salary.
The Committee retains discretion to award higher increases in certain circumstances such as increased scope and responsibility of the role, or in the case of new Executive The Committee takes into account a number of factors when setting salaries, including Directors who are positioned on a lower salary initially, as they gain experience over time.
but not limited to : Size and scope of individuals responsibilities Skills and experience of the individual Performance of the Company and the individual Appropriate market data Pay and conditions elsewhere in SOCO.
Base salaries are normally reviewed annually.
Results of benchmarking exercises are monitored for indications of potential unwarranted upward ratcheting.
Bene ts Purpose and link To provide Executive Directors with market competitive to strategy: bene ts consistent with the role.
Operation Maximum Executive Directors receive benefits which may include but are not limited to medical Although the Committee do not consider it appropriate to set a maximum benefits level, care and insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance cover, critical illness benefits are positioned at an appropriate market level for the nature and location of the cover, travel benefits, expatriate benefits, car benefits and relocation expenses.
Pension Purpose and link To provide retirement bene ts consistent with the role.
to strategy: Operation Maximum Pension benefits are delivered through contributions to SOCOs money purchase 20% of base salary per annum.
plan up to relevant plan limits and or a cash supplement.
SOCO International plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information Variable pay Annual bonus Purpose and link Incentivises and rewards for the delivery of the to strategy: strategic plan on an annual basis.
Operation Maximum Performance framework Payments are based on performance in the relevant 150% of base salary per annum, including cash and The annual bonus is based on individual and corporate financial year.
At the beginning of the year, the Committee sets Corporate goals are set annually and may include objectives which it considers are critical to the delivery monitored measures for particular projects: portfolio of the business strategy.
objectives: corporate strategic goals: safety, social and environmental measures: financial measures and other Performance against these key strategic objectives is measures as may be deemed appropriate and relevant assessed by the Committee at the end of the year.
to the period for delivery of the business strategy.
The Committee retains the discretion to amend the If the Committee determines that a minimum level of bonus payout negatively or positively to ensure it performance has not been achieved, no bonus will be reflects the performance of either the individual or payable.
Thereafter the bonus will begin paying out, up the Company.
to the maximum of 150% of salary.
Payments up to 100% of salary are normally made The Committee determines the appropriate weighting of in cash.
Any bonus above 100% of salary will normally be deferred into awards of SOCO shares which vest after at least two years.
LTIP Purpose and link Incentivises and rewards for the Companys to strategy: strategic plan of building shareholder value.
Operation Maximum Performance framework Typically a contingent award of shares is made annually Usually 200% of base salary per annum.
Awards vest based on performance against financial, in December, in the course of the annual review cycle.
operational and or share price measures, as set by the In circumstances which the Committee determines to Committee, which are aligned with the long term Vesting of the awards is dependent on the achievement be exceptional, annual awards of up to 400% of base strategic objectives of SOCO.
of performance targets, which are typically measured salary per annum may be made.
over a three year performance period.
No less than 50% of the award will be based on share The maximum limit set out above applies to the total price measures.
The remainder will be based on grants made each year under both the LTIP and share financial, operational or share price measures.
If an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that a waiver of, or amendment to, the performance conditions would be a fairer measure of performance and there has been a sustained improvement in financial performance, the performance conditions may be waived or amended.
For threshold levels of performance, 25% of the award vests.
100% of the award will vest for maximum performance.
Pro-rating applies between these points and between ranking positions.
Share option plan Purpose and link Incentivises and rewards for the Companys to strategy: strategic plan of building shareholder value.
Operation Maximum Performance framework If determined appropriate, awards may be made in lieu Although Executive Directors are not currently granted Awards vest based on performance against of awards under the LTIP.
market value options under the plan, flexibility is being performance conditions as the Committee determine to maintained to do so if determined appropriate.
The maximum limit set out in the LTIP section above be appropriate at that time.
applies to the total grants made under both the LTIP Operation of the plan for Executive Directors would Taking into account the interests of shareholders, the and share option plan per annum.
generally be consistent with the principles for operation Committee may vary the performance conditions in of the LTIP set out above.
certain circumstances following the grant of an award so as to achieve their original purpose, but not to make Options may be exercised between three and ten years their achievement any more or less difficult to satisfy.
following grant, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions.
SOCO International plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Other Policy Shareholding guidelines Purpose and link Further increases alignment between to strategy: Executive Directors and shareholders.
Operation The Board has a policy requiring Executive Directors to build a minimum shareholding in SOCO shares equivalent to 100% of salary.
Notes to the Policy Table For outstanding LTIP and share option awards, on a takeover or other equivalent corporate event, generally the performance period will end on Discretion the date of the event.
The Committee will determine the extent to which The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments performance conditions have been achieved at this point, taking into and payments for loss of of ce including exercising any discretions account relevant factors as appropriate.
Unless the Committee determines available to it in connection with such payments that are not in line with otherwise, awards will generally vest on a time pro-rata basis taking into the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: account the shortened performance period.
Before the policy came into effect: or Alternatively, outstanding LTIP and share option awards may be subject to rollover, with the agreement of the acquiring company.
At a time when the relevant individual was not an Executive Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was Minor Changes not in consideration for the individual becoming an Executive Director The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out in this of the Company.
report for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder For these purposes, i payments includes the Committee satisfying approval for the amendment.
awards of variable remuneration and ii an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
Performance Measures and Target Setting The Committee will operate the deferred bonus, LTIP and share option plan in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
The Committee retains The policy table for Executive Directors above describes the policy for discretion on the operation and administration of these plans, including as setting performance measures used for the annual bonus, which are follows: intended to ensure that executives are appropriately focused on the successful delivery of the strategic plan over the following 12 months.
Dividend equivalents may be paid on awards up to the point of vesting.
During this process, the Committee take into account a number of internal and external reference points that are linked to SOCOs strategic priorities, Awards may be subject to malus and therefore may be reduced at the as well as the economic environment.
discretion of the Committee where an individual has engaged in an activity amounting to serious misconduct, fraud or leading to a Given the competitive nature of the oil and gas exploration and production misstatement of the Companys financial results as determined by the sector, the detailed annual bonus targets are considered commercially Committee.
sensitive and likely to remain so and are accordingly not disclosed in detail.
However, the level of achievement against each measure in respect of the The Committee may settle an award in cash.
financial year ended 31 December 2013 is discussed on page 68.
The Committee will aim to provide a consistent level of disclosure in In the event of a variation of share capital or any other exceptional future years.
event which, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee requires an adjustment, the Committee may adjust the number of shares or the SOCOs overarching objective is to build shareholder value and therefore exercise price.
the relative TSR measure chosen for our December 2013 LTIP awards ensures alignment between shareholders and executives for the three year Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in performance period of 2014 to 2016.
Targets for the LTIP are set with the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the reference to wider market practice and are positioned at a level which the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Committee considers to be stretching.
Takeover or other Equivalent Corporate Event On a takeover or other equivalent corporate event, outstanding deferred bonus awards will vest in full as soon as practicable after the date of the event, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
SOCO International plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information Fixed pay Annual bonus Illustrations of Remuneration Policy Long-term incentive The charts below illustrate the application of the Remuneration Policy set out in the Policy Table for the Executive Directors.
Ed Story Roger Cagle Cynthia Cagle $million $million $million 4.4 42% 3.4 41% 31% 20% 2.4 2.3 41% 31% 29% 1.8 19% 29% 31% 19% 1.3 1.2 100% 51% 27% 28% 0.9 100% 52% 28% 0.7 100% 53% 28% Minimum In-line with Maximum Minimum In-line with Maximum Minimum In-line with Maximum expectations expectations expectations The assumptions used for the above charts are as follows: Levels of performance Assumptions Fixed pay All scenarios Total fixed pay comprises base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary effective as at 1 January 2014.
Benefits amount received by each Executive Director in 2013 as per single figure table on page 64.
1 Pension 15% base salary pension contributions.
Variable pay Minimum performance No payout under the annual bonus.
No vesting under the LTIP.
Performance in line with 50% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus i. e. 75% of salary.
expectations 25% vesting under the LTIP i. e. 50% of salary.
Maximum performance 100% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus i. e. 150% of salary.
100% vesting under the LTIP i. e. 200% of salary.
1 The charts illustrate pension contributions at 15% of salary, being the actual bene t set for all current Executive Directors.
By policy, the pension contribution bene t can be set up to a maximum of 20%.
LTIP awards have been shown at face value with no dividend, share price growth or discount rate assumptions.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive All employees have an opportunity to share in the success of the Directors Compared with Other Employees Company through participation in the share option plan which, for this purpose, is operated similarly to an all employee share scheme.
As for our Executive Directors, it is intended that a meaningful amount of Individuals with the greatest ability to directly in uence SOCOs employee pay is weighted towards variable remuneration.
All employees Group-wide results also receive additional discretionary awards under the participate in the annual bonus plan, with the emphasis between plan.
Currently, the Executive Directors do not receive awards under the corporate and individual goals dependent on the role and its level of direct Share option plan.
in uence on SOCOs Group-wide results.
SOCO International plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Policy Table for Non-Executive Directors Component SOCOs approach Chairman fees Comprises an all-inclusive fee for all Board and Committee responsibilities.
Determined by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
Non-Executive Director fees Comprises a basic fee in respect of their Board duties.
Further fees may be paid in respect of additional Board or Committee duties.
Recommended by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO and approved by the Board.
No Director plays a role in determining their own remuneration.
The However, at recruitment, the Committee would retain the discretion to Committee consults with the CEO in determining the Chairmans fee.
Fees flex the balance between annual and long-term incentives and the for all Non-Executive Directors re ect the time commitment and measures used to assess performance for these elements, with the responsibilities of the role, and are set at a level suf cient to attract and intention that a significant portion would be delivered in shares.
In retain individuals with the required skills, experience and knowledge to addition, at recruitment, variable pay could, in exceptional allow the Board to carry out its duties.
The fees set out above are the sole circumstances, be delivered via alternative structures, again with the element of Non-Executive Director remuneration.
They are not eligible for intention that a significant portion would be share-based, but in all participation in the Companys incentive or pension plans.
circumstances subject to an over-riding cap at the maximum limits set out in the Policy Table.
The fees have been set within the aggregate limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association and approved by shareholders.
In the remuneration report following appointment, the Committee will explain the rationale for any such relevant arrangements.
Approach to Remuneration on Recruitment The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to meet the individual Principles circumstances of recruitment when: On the appointment of a new Executive Director, we seek to apply the following principles when determining the remuneration arrangements: An interim appointment is made to ll an Executive Director role on a short term basis.
The package should be competitive to facilitate the recruitment of individuals of the calibre needed to shape and execute SOCOs Exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a strategy and build shareholder value.
Non-Executive Director takes on an executive function on a short term basis.
The Committee will consider all relevant factors as appropriate.
This may include, but is not limited to, the calibre of the individual, market Buy-outs practice and the current remuneration policy.
The Committee will be To facilitate recruitment, the Committee may make compensatory mindful that any arrangements must be structured in the interests of payments and or awards for any remuneration arrangements subject to SOCOs shareholders without paying more than is necessary.
forfeit on leaving a previous employer.
Such payments or awards could include cash as well as performance and non-performance related share Typically, a new appointment will have or be transitioned onto the awards, and would be in such form as the Committee considers same framework that applies to other Executive Directors as set out in appropriate taking into account all relevant factors such as the form, the policy table above.
Salaries would reflect the skills and experience expected value, anticipated vesting and timing of the forfeited of the individual, and may be set at a level to allow future salary remuneration.
There is not a speci ed limit on the value of such awards, progression to reflect performance in the role.
but the Committees intention is that the estimated value awarded would be equivalent to the value forfeited.
An Executive Director may initially be hired on a contract requiring up to 24 months notice which then reduces pro-rata over the course of Recruitment of Non-Executive Directors the first year of the contract, to requiring not more than 12 months On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, notice.
remuneration arrangements will be consistent with the policy set out in this report.
It would be expected that the structure and quantum of the variable pay elements would reflect those set out in the Policy Table above.
SOCO International plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information Policy on Payment for Loss of Of ce Where an Executive Director leaves employment, the Committees approach to determining any payment for loss of of ce will normally be based on the following principles: The Committees objective is to find an outcome which is in the best interests of both SOCO and its shareholders while taking into account the specific circumstances of cessation of employment.
The Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations agreed with the Executive Director.
This is dependent on the contractual obligations i not being in contradiction with the policy set out in this report, or ii if so, not having been entered into on a date later than 27 June 2012, in accordance with the relevant legislation.
The Committee may make an annual bonus payment for the year of cessation depending on the reason for leaving.
Typically, the Committee will take into consideration the period served during the year and the individuals performance up to cessation.
Any such payment is at the discretion of the Committee.
The treatment of outstanding share awards will be governed by the relevant plan rules as set out in the table below: Treatment for all other Plan Automatic Good Leaver categories Treatment for Good Leavers reasons for leaving Deferred Death Awards will usually vest on the normal vesting date.
Awards will normally lapse in full bonus unless otherwise determined by Ill-health, injury or disability The Committee retains the discretion to accelerate the Committee.
vesting so that awards vest as soon as practicable Redundancy following cessation.
Retirement with agreement by employer Any other reason as determined at the discretion of the Committee LTIP and share Death The Committee will determine the proportion of the For grants under the share option option plan award that will vest, normally taking into account the plan, vested options will remain Ill-health, injury or disability achievement of the relevant performance conditions at exercisable for six months.
Redundancy the vesting date and the time elapsed between the date All other awards will normally lapse Retirement with agreement by employer of grant and cessation of employment.
in full unless otherwise Any other reason as determined at the discretion The vesting date for such awards will normally be the determined by the Committee.
of the Committee original vesting date, although the Committee has the flexibility to determine that awards can vest upon cessation of employment.
Where options are granted, vested options will be exercisable within a period of six months, or twelve months in the event of death, commencing on the date on which such options vest being either the date of cessation or the original vesting date as determined by the Committee as per above.
The Committee has the discretion to vary the period in which vested options are exercisable.
Consideration of Pay and Employment Conditions Service Contracts Elsewhere in SOCO Executive Directors contracts are for an inde nite period and are terminable by either party on giving one years notice, which may be The Committee monitors the remuneration of senior management and satis ed with a payment in lieu of notice.
The contracts do not contain makes recommendations as deemed appropriate.
Pay and employment speci c termination provisions.
conditions elsewhere in the Company are taken into account to ensure the relationship between the pay of the Executive Directors and its employees The Committee has a duty to prevent the requirement to make payments is consistent throughout the Company.
Similar benchmarking techniques that are not strictly merited, and endorses the principle of mitigation of are applied to non-Board employees using relevant market data and the damages on early termination of a service contract.
Any payment on early Committee monitors staff remuneration packages during the review of termination will be assessed on the basis of the particular circumstances, Executive Directors remuneration packages.
but in any event will not be in respect of any period beyond the notice period speci ed by the contract.
The Committee does not consult with employees when formulating the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors appointments are terminable at the will of the parties but are envisaged to establish an initial term of three years after Consideration of Shareholder Views which they will be reviewed annually.
The Executive Directors service contracts and the Non-Executive The Committee takes an active interest in shareholder views and these Directors letters of appointment are available at the Companys help shape the structure of the Directors remuneration arrangements at registered of ce.
As a signi cant shareholder, Mr Rui fide Sousa SOCOs Chairman and Mr Ettore Contini Non-Executive Director would generally be invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings to provide valuable insight into likely shareholder concerns around executive remuneration.
The Committee also monitors published shareholder guidelines and will incorporate further requirements and best practice features as appropriate.
SOCO International plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Audited Single Total Figure of Remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration in respect of qualifying services for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the financial year 2013.
2 The annual average exchange rate to 31 December 2013 of 1.56 has been used to convert share price from GB pounds to US dollars.
Note that the same exchange rate has been used for both 2013 and 2012 to ensure consistency.
3 Ms C Cagle was appointed to the Board on 5 December 2012.
Therefore her remuneration in respect of qualifying services set out for 2012 and for LTIPs vesting in 2013 re ects the period from the date of appointment to 31 December 2012 and to the end of the LTIP performance period, respectively.
4 Non-Executive Directors fees are set in GB pounds and are reported in US dollars at the annual average exchange rate.
5 Fees paid to Ms M Daryabegui, Mr R Gray and Mr M Johns are in proportion to their dates of service.
Notes to the Single Figure Table and the actual contribution of these towards furthering the Companys strategic plan.
Performance against each of these areas is described Annual Bonus below, in order of the weighting applied in determining the amount of The table below sets out the annual bonuses paid to Executive Directors in bonus paid out.
respect of performance in 2013: Progressing the Vietnam Development Drilling 2013 Annual Bonus % of and Exploitation Programmes $000s Maximum Drilling of the high potential step-out well on the TGT eld H5 fault block was moved to top priority in the 2013 programme, an important E Story 924 100% achievement to accelerate the potential value enhancement of a discovery R Cagle 693 100% and increased production capacity.
The well was a spectacular success, C Cagle 473 100% one of the largest discovery wells ever in Vietnam, exceeding all pre-test expectations, and owing at a combined average maximum production from the three zones tested at over 27,600 barrels of oil equivalent per In the 2012 Annual Report, the Committee set out speci c areas of day.
Activity was initiated to fast-track the project to bring H5 on-stream in emphasis in setting performance measures for 2013, noting each goal is 2015.
Successful signing of the TGT Associated Gas Gathering and Sales ranked against a scale of expectations.
It was stated that the amount of Agreement had a positive impact on resource assessment, and the bonus paid out would consider the relative importance of the achievements negotiated rates were realised for gas production recorded from inception.
SOCO International plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information A Focus on Future Implementation of the Corporate Strategy Congo, providing a relatively near term and high potential drilling In 2012, we stated our intent to put in place a strategy for sustainable opportunity.
While we have additionally progressed potential opportunities return of value to shareholders.
In October 2013, SOCO completed a with a continued focus on organic growth, further details are considered return of 133 million, structured to give shareholders a choice between commercially sensitive.
receiving cash in the form of income or in the form of capital.
This was stated to be the first of a sustainable annual payout to shareholders with Stewardship of the Companys Resources Appropriate to the subsequent returns targeting 50% of annual free cash ow.
This execution Current Economic Environment of the Companys strategy has positioned SOCO to make meaningful cash The Group ended the year with cash, cash equivalents and liquid returns to shareholders whilst retaining gearing to growth through a investments of $210.0 million, dropping only $48 million despite the large focused exploration programme.
return to shareholders and the retirement of the convertible bonds.
At year end 2013, SOCO was completely debt free.
Progressing the Portfolio During 2013, the portfolio has been progressed to provide opportunities Safety and Environmental that can deliver on this strategy to retain gearing to growth through drilling.
We are pleased to report another year free of any loss time incidents.
As The cornerstone is the evaluation and planning undertaken for continued the Company expects only the highest standards of performance against development and appraisal of the TGT eld to realise its full value.
In safety and environmental measures, their weighting in determining bonus Africa, the 2013 Lideka East Marine 1 discovery well is under evaluation to payout is not proportionate to the importance placed on achieving them.
provide a potential follow-up appraisal opportunity.
A technical evaluation has been progressed towards drilling the potential extension of the Against the above measures the Committee recommended, and the Board Litchendjili oil and gas discovery onto SOCOs Marine XI Block.
We farmed approved, Executive Director bonuses at 100% of salary.
into a 60% interest as operator of Mer Profonde Sud, offshore Republic of LTIP Awards Vesting in Respect of 2013 The LTIP value shown in the single gure table relates to the LTIP award granted in December 2010, which vested subject to SOCOs relative TSR performance for the three year period ended 10 December 2013 against a group of comparator companies set out in the TSR comparator group table below.
The table below sets out an overview of SOCOs relative TSR performance over the relevant performance period and the level of vesting achieved in 2013 as a result: Performance Against Comparator Group Vesting schedule 25% vesting Median 50th percentile 100% vesting Upper 16th 84th percentile Actual vesting 66% 66th percentile LTIP Awards Granted in 2013 LTIP awards in the form of conditional share awards made during the year to Executive Directors are summarised in the table below.
Further details are given in the outstanding share awards table on page 67.
End of 1 1 Date of Number of Face Value Face Value Threshold Vesting Performance Grant Shares Granted 000s % of Salary % of Face Value Period E Story 06.12.13 273,000 1,074 181% 25% 06.12.16 R Cagle 06.12.13 205,000 806 181% 25% 06.12.16 C Cagle 06.12.13 140,000 551 181% 25% 06.12.16 1 Face Value is calculated using the last closing share price of 3.933 preceding the date of grant.
The annual average exchange rate to 31 December 2013 has been used to convert salaries from US dollar to GB pound.
These awards will be subject to SOCOs relative TSR performance over a three year period against a group of comparator companies set out in the table below.
25% of the awards will vest for median performance, with full vesting for performance in the upper 16th percentile.
TSR Comparator Group Afren Coastal Gulfsands JKX New eld Oil Regal Santos Tullow Oil 1 Energy Petroleum Petroleum Exploration Search Petroleum 3 Bowleven DNO Hardy Oil Lundin Nexen Ophir ROC Oil Sterling 1 Until delisting International & Gas Petroleum Energy Energy in 2013 2 2 Cairn Enquest Heritage Oil Maurel Niko Premier Salamander Talisman From 2011 3 Until delisting Energy & Prom Resources Oil Energy Energy in 2012 SOCO International plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Interests as at 31 December 2013 The Board has a policy requiring Executive Directors to build a minimum shareholding equivalent to their annual salary.
This is intended to emphasise a commitment to the alignment of Executive Directors with shareholders and a focus on long term stewardship.
The current Executive Directors have held, and continue to build, a meaningful shareholding since founding the Company in 1997.
The table below sets out the Directors interests as at 31 December 2013: Options subject Options vested Bene cially to performance but not Shareholding requirement owned shares conditions exercised Achieved % of salary Yes No Executive 1 E Story 100% Yes 13,073,866 989,225 202,007 2,4 R Cagle 100% Yes 5,083,299 742,168 151,505 3,4 C Cagle 100% Yes 2,914,962 506,381 103,332 NonExecutive 5 R fide Sousa 9,058,820 O Barbaroux 88,000 R Cathery 450,000 6 E Contini 27,664,381 M Daryabegui R Gray A Monteiro 7 J Norton 460,000 8 M Watts 89,473 1 11,398,866 Shares are held personally by Mr E Story.
1,675,000 Shares are held through The Story Family Trust, a connected person to Mr E Story.
2 162,714 Shares are held personally by Mr R Cagle.
4,920,585 Shares are held through C Minor Ltd, a connected person to Mr R Cagle.
3 110,923 Shares are held personally by Ms C Cagle.
2,804,039 Shares are held through C Major Ltd, a connected person to Ms C Cagle.
4 Mr R Cagle and Ms C Cagle are connected persons to each other, and are jointly interested in their combined total holdings.
5 350,000 Shares are held personally by Mr fide Sousa.
8,708,820 Shares are held through Palamos Ltd, a connected person to Mr fide Sousa.
6 220,000 Shares are held personally by Mr E Contini.
27,444,381 Shares are held through Liquid Business Ltd, a connected person to Mr Contini.
7 400,000 Shares are held personally by Mr J Norton.
60,000 Shares are held by his spouse.
8 Subsequent to 31 December 2013, Dr M Watts bought 1,413 Shares in the open market, subject to a trading plan that was entered into on 26 March 2013.
While the Executive Directors, as potential bene ciaries, are technically deemed to have an interest in all ordinary shares held by the SOCO Employee Bene t Trust Trust, the table above only includes those ordinary shares held by the Trust which are potentially transferable to the Directors and their families pursuant to Options which have been granted to them under the Companys incentive schemes.
Details of the Trust and its holdings are set out in Note27 to the financial statements.
There have been no changes to the Directors interests subsequent to 31 December 2013 other than as described in the notes to the table above.
2 The outstanding LTIP awards potentially exercisable from a future date will vest subject to SOCOs relative TSR performance against a group of comparator companies as set out in the table above.
Historical TSR Performance and CEO Outcomes CEO Outcomes The table below shows the total remuneration paid to the CEO over the Historical TSR Performance same five year period.
In addition, the annual bonus and LTIP payouts are The chart below illustrates SOCOs five year TSR performance against the set out in respect of each year as a percentage of the maximum: FTSE Oil & Gas Index being a broad market index which is sector speci c. Note that this does not represent either the comparator group or time 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 period against which performance is assessed under the LTIP.
CEO single gure of remuneration $000s 3,392 3,206 2,478 1,521 2,055 Total Shareholder Return Annual bonus payout % of maximum 100% 100% 100% 25% 50% 60 LTIP vesting % of maximum 66% 71% 53% 34% 59% 50 40 Percentage Change in Remuneration of the CEO The table below illustrates the percentage change in salary, bene ts and 30 annual bonus for the CEO and all other employees.
20 % Change in % Change in % Change in Base Salary Bene ts Annual Bonus 1 2 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 10 CEO 5% -18% 0% 0 All other employees 8% 14% 6% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 There have been no changes to the Companys bene ts packages during the year.
Year End Variances re ect other factors, including employee demographics and the level to which available allowances are taken up in a given year.
2 The CEOs bonus is awarded in respect of the calendar year.
Bonuses awarded to all SOCO Cumulative change other employees include a combination of awards in respect of the calendar year and in respect of the scal year ending 31 March 2013.
FTSE Oil & Gas Index Cumulative change SOCO International plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Relative Importance of Spend on Pay Annual Bonus As we consider the next phase of SOCOs development, it is important that The chart below illustrates the year on year change in total remuneration we are able to attract and motivate high calibre executives who can as per Note10 to the financial statements compared to the change in successfully manage the Companys international portfolio and execute shareholder returns, which would include capital returns, dividends and our stated strategy of building shareholder value.
Remuneration is an share buybacks.
Since we have not made any changes to the annual bonus or LTIP opportunities for over ten years, there was some concern Total Remuneration that SOCO have fallen behind market competitive levels in the oil & gas Spend on Pay Shareholder Distributions sector.
The Committee determined that it was appropriate to reconsider $million the remuneration framework ahead of shareholder approval of the remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM.
The Committee therefore reviewed total compensation positioning of our 213.3 Executive Directors, the first full review since 2009.
The outcome of this review showed that we had fallen behind market competitive levels of variable remuneration.
Therefore, after taking account of best practice and following a shareholder consultation process, we are proposing to make a change to our variable pay framework.
We are proposing in our remuneration policy to increase our total bonus opportunity from 100% of salary to 150% of salary from 2014.
The Committee believes that this will help to address the issue of SOCOs positioning against market competitive levels and will also enhance our ability to recruit the calibre of individuals required for the purposes of succession planning.
To provide alignment with best practice and the performance of SOCO over the longer term, any bonus earned over 100% of salary will be deferred into SOCO shares to be held for two years.
32.9 Normally, delivering these shares will be contingent on continued employment, although good leaver provisions will apply as explained on 10.8 8.7 page 63.
13 12 In line with best practice, a malus provision will apply to the deferred shares so that they may be reduced in certain circumstances, such as where an individual has engaged in an activity amounting to serious External Appointments misconduct, fraud or misstatement, as determined by the Committee.
With prior approval of the Board, Executive Directors are allowed to accept No other change is being made to the remuneration framework and there non-executive appointments on other boards and to retain the associated is no increase being proposed to Executive Directors salaries for 2014. directors fees.
Under this policy Mr Ed Story serves on the board of Cairn India Limited for which he retained associated fees for 2013 in the amount Annual bonus payments will continue to be dependent on individual and of $35,000 2012 $1,000.
corporate targets linked to SOCOs strategic plan.
Due to commercial sensitivity, we are not disclosing bonus targets prospectively but, in line with our current practice, we will provide retrospective disclosure on Implementation for 2014 achievement against measures following year end.
However we can broadly indicate that performance measures for 2014 will emphasise goals Base salary associated with progressing the Vietnam development and appraisal Executive Directors salaries have not been increased for 2014. programmes, progressing the portfolio, delivering the corporate strategy, and stewardship of the Companys resources and an attention to safety, social and environmental matters.
2014 2013 Base Salary Base Salary % Increase The Committee retains discretion over the amount of bonus paid out to $000s $000s from 2013 ensure that appropriate consideration is given to the relative importance of E Story 924 924 0% the achievements in the year and the actual contribution of these towards R Cagle 693 693 0% furthering the Companys strategic plan.
C Cagle 473 473 0% LTIP It is intended that grants will be made to Executive Directors in December Bene ts 2014 in line with the policy set out above.
The Committees selection of For 2014, bene ts available to Executive Directors will be consistent with performance criteria is kept under review to ensure the long term those set out in the policy and provided in 2013 as described above.
measures used remain appropriate to SOCOs circumstances and strategy, SOCO International plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information and most effectively support the delivery of value creation over time.
For value of services to the Group is under continuous review to ensure it is not awards to be made in 2014, not less than 50% of the award will be material to the assessment of independence.
Advice is developed with use dependent on a share price based measure, with the remainder of established methodologies and the advisors are not involved in the dependent on either a share price based or financial measure.
Advisory partners and staff have no involvement in audit, and are not involved in the preparation of audited information.
The Pension Committee is satis ed that the remuneration advice it receives from For 2014, a pension bene t at 15% of salary will be provided through Deloitte is independent.
Total fees for advice provided to the Committee contributions to SOCOs money purchase plan up to plan limits and a cash during the year were 21,000. supplement.
When setting the policy for Executive Directors remuneration, the Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee takes into account pay conditions elsewhere in the Company During the year, Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed to ensure that and, as appropriate, any external market reference points.
they continued to accurately re ect the time commitment involved for the relevant roles.
As a consequence of that review, there has been an The Committee reviews all aspects of remuneration on an annual basis increase to the Chairmans fee and basic Non-Executive Director fee as and with respect to individual and corporate performance during the year.
In addition, we have introduced an additional fee for chairing Benchmarking is generally conducted on a three year cycle or upon an the Audit and Risk Committee and theRemuneration Committee to re ect indication of a change in market ranges.
During this exercise, the Groups the time commitment that is required for these responsibilities.
size and complexity and relative positioning within those ranges are taken into account in the context of the Executive Directors critical value to the Fee from Fee from Company and demonstrated performance over time.
1 January 2014 1 January 2013 Chairman of the Company 190,000 180,000 Results of benchmarking exercises are monitored for indications of potential unwarranted upward ratcheting.
Prior to 2013, the last Non-Executive Director 50,000 45,000 benchmarking exercise took place in 2009.
Additional fee: for Senior Independent Director 10,000 10,000 Additional fee: Chairman of Shareholder Voting Audit and RiskCommittee 5,000 At the last AGM held on 13 June 2013, the Directors Remuneration Additional fee: Chairman of Report received the following votes from shareholders: Remuneration Committee 5,000 Votes % Votes in favour 113,948,068 95.4% The fees have been set within the aggregate limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association and approved by shareholders.
Votes against 5,459,097 4.6% Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for participation in the Total votes cast 119,407,165 100% Companys incentive or pension schemes.
Consideration of Matters Relating to Executive Directors Remuneration Shareholder Dilution The Directors who were members of the Remuneration Committee when SOCO monitors the number of shares issued under employee share plans matters relating to Directors remuneration for the year were being and their impact on dilution limits.
These will not exceed the limits set by considered included Mr Michael Johns, Ambassador Antnio Monteiro and the Association of British Insurers in respect of all share plans 10% in any Dr Mike Watts.
rolling ten year period and executive share plans 5% in any rolling ten year period.
The Committee received assistance from Mr Ed Story CEO and Ms Cynthia Cagle Company Secretary, except when matters relating to their An employee bene t trust currently holds suf cient SOCO shares to satisfy own remuneration were being discussed.
all shares conditionally awarded under the current and previous LTIP, as more fully described in Note 27 to the financial statements.
Decisions Deloitte LLP, who has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration governing acquisitions of shares into the trust are considered and Consultants Code of Conduct, were originally retained independently by approved by the full Board.
the Committee as advisors following a tender process.
In the year they provided advice on executive remuneration in terms of relevant current Approval market practice and developments in best practice, and on the testing and This Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2014 and setting of performance criteria for incentive plans.
Deloitte also provide signed on its behalf by: audit services to the Group, as set out in Note9 to the financial statements.
The advisors terms of reference restrict the provision of Cynthia Cagle certain services in order to maintain auditor independence: the scope and Company Secretary SOCO International plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
