55 Directors Remuneration Report Letter from Russell King, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Dear Shareholder, Russell King I am pleased to present to you the 2013 Directors Remuneration Chairman of the Report.
As you may be aware, this is the first report to be prepared Remuneration Committee under the reporting regime introduced this year by the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills.
Last year, we sought to anticipate these requirements but the final regime, of necessity, requires a number of further changes to the layout of this report.
I hope that you will agree that we have made a complex part of the Annual Report as clear and useful as possible.
In particular, I have sought to highlight all of the key aspects in this covering letter to the more formal report.
Format of report Over the following pages we have set out: the Companys forward-looking Directors remuneration policy which, for the first time, is subject to a separate vote by shareholders at our 2014 AGM and, it is anticipated, every third year thereafter: and details of the implementation of our reward policy in 2013 including: the governance surrounding pay decisions in 2013, members of the Committee and advisers to the Committee in 2013: and details of what was paid, vested or awarded conditional upon the application of performance tests to Executive Directors in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
While various best practice guidelines recognise that companies may wish to build sufficient flexibility into any policy to anticipate future inflationary pressures, the Committee wishes to maintain its previous approach of only reviewing its remuneration framework every three years other than the annual salary reviews and, going forward, will align that review to the three-year life of the approved policy.
On this basis, the Company will not reserve discretion to increase annual bonus or performance share plan PSP award levels over the life of this policy.
In addition, I personally also wish to assure you that your Committee is satisfied that the new arrangements proposed for 2014 and onwards as explained later in this letter are appropriate and that there is no intent, assuming no further material growth in the Companys FTSE ranking, to increase the Executive Directors salaries over the life of this policy by more than average UK wage inflation.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report continued General approach to remuneration strategy Approach from 2014 onwards Our policy of linking total reward closely to the performance of Your Committee is committed to maintaining a conservative Spectris continues to underpin your Committees consideration of approach to senior executive remuneration and, therefore, no executive remuneration.
We aim to ensure that: change to the current policy stance of maintaining moderately below median overall pay is proposed.
However, having looked the Company can attract, motivate and retain high calibre at comparative data, we consider it necessary to make material management capable of delivering the best possible performance increases to remuneration packages in order to achieve even this for shareholders, commensurate with appropriate risk policy.
We believe that the best way of retaining and motivating the considerations: Executive team, and thereby to deliver upon our growth strategy, is the cost to shareholders is no more than is necessary: and to make a modest improvement to the annual bonus plan, move to the arrangements are suitably aligned to the delivery of that success higher levels of award under the PSP, and introduce a third, Economic with a significant part of the Executive Directors overall potential Profit based, performance condition to awards under that plan.
package being conditional upon the attainment of demanding performance conditions focused upon the delivery of sustainable Following consultation with all major shareholders, it is therefore profit growth and aligned with the Groups strategic objectives.
proposed that each Executive Directors annual bonus opportunity should be increased to 125% of base salary from 100% and that While your Committee wishes to maintain a generally conservative future PSP awards for each Executive Director should be set at a limit approach to executive pay levels, as I explained in my letter last of 200% of base salary from 125%.
A resolution will accordingly be year, it has been aware for some years that the overall quantum has put to the 2014 AGM to extend the life of the PSP for a further ten fallen too far below the equivalent amounts available elsewhere and years, with an increase in the individual limit to the new level.
Should has considered this alongside a broader review of the applicable approval be given for the PSP to be extended in this way, the current performance conditions.
200% of base salary share ownership guideline will be increased to300%.
Over recent years, despite the global recessionary environment, the Company has continued to perform well, with strong organic growth and value-enhancing acquisitions resulting in superior levels of return to shareholders.
Whilst trading has been more difficult in 2013, the Board is committed to continuing that trend.
Our remuneration strategy has been consciously conservative and has remained consistent for a number of years whilst the Companys success has led to it rising up the FTSE rankings from 187 five years ago to 113 at the end of the 2013 financial year, achieving a 447% total shareholder return TSR for our shareholders over that period.
This has resulted in remuneration levels now being significantly behind the market.
For example, the median level of total variable remuneration for chief executive officers of similar sized companies, as evidenced by a recent benchmarking study carried out by FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP, the Committees remuneration advisers, was 325% of salary compared to our present level of 225%of salary.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 56 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Going forward, therefore, PSP awards will be split as follows: Earnings Per Share EPS Total Shareholder Return TSR Economic Profit EP Proportion of award 1 3 1 3 1 3 Purpose To reward the delivery of absolute To reward the delivery of superior To reward the consistent delivery growth in EPS over the three relative growth in TSR over the of absolute growth in profits financial years commencing in the three years from grant.
after reflecting the cost of capital year of grant.
invested in generating those profits over the three financial years commencing in the year of grant.
Measure Growth in EPS in the final year of Measurement of the Companys Meeting a targeted aggregate level the performance period compared TSR share price plus reinvested of EP over the performance period.
with the year prior to grant.
dividends relative to the EP is defined as adjusted operating EPS is defined as normalised EPS constituents of the FTSE 250 profit being pre-tax and interest less of the Company as disclosed in its excluding investment trusts over capital employed x the Companys full-year Financial Statements.
weighted average cost of capital WACC.
The WACC charge for the initial grant will be set at 12.5%, except that lower transitional rates will be applied for subsequent acquisitions.
To protect shareholders, any impairment of goodwill over a performance period will be added back to capital employed.
100% vesting up Upper quintile 100% vesting 260 million 20% vesting from CPI 12% p. a. previously 340 million 100% vesting Discretion Consistent with market practice, This element is also subject to Recognising that the measure this measure is assessed on a an underpin that requires the is new for the Company, the formulaic basis.
Committee to be satisfied that Committee will monitor outcomes TSR is reflective of the underlying to ensure that they achieve the financial performance of the original objectives and may Company.
Any exercise of discretion will be justified in the next Directors Remuneration Report.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report continued The EP targets will be set by the Committee for each award after 2013 out-turn considering a range of inputs, including internal business plans and The Spectris Executive team has produced creditable results for 2013 consensus forecasts.
It is intended that the targets should be at least in uncertain macro-economic conditions with shareholders receiving as challenging to achieve as the TSR and EPS performance condition a TSR over the year of some 27%.
However, adjusted profit before ranges.
This new performance condition will enhance focus on tax fell during the year, albeit in part as a result of the Fusion UV capital efficiency in the normal control of working capital and disposal, and there was therefore only a very modest payment of capital expenditure and also, particularly, the effective pricing and 1.5% under the 75% of the annual bonus plan assessed by reference integration of acquisitions, thereby generating shareholder value.
Good progress was achieved against the personal measures set in respect of 2013, reflecting significant progress on To ensure that the Executive team is paid close to market levels but strategic milestones and, accordingly, an average bonus for Executive in no case as high as median, it has been determined that the Chief Directors of 14.2% out of the 25% of total potential assessed against Executives and Group Finance Directors salaries should increase such measures was paid.
The salary for the Business Group Director will increase by 3.2%.
The salaries for the Executive Directors The Company has enjoyed good absolute and relative growth over the will therefore be as follows: years 2011 to 2013, with adjusted EPS increasing by 53%, the share price by 92%, and the annual dividend per share by 53% over that Director 2014 base salary period.
Consequently, the PSP awards maturing on 11 April 2014 are expected to show vesting toward the upper half of both the EPS and J E OHiggins Chief Executive 559,500 C G Watson Group Finance Director 355,400 TSR ranges.
J C Webster Business Group Director 292,000 Whilst only a snapshot in time, at the end of 2013, the PSP grants which reduced to 146,000 from 1February2014.
maturing in 2015 were on track for above median TSR vesting, although are unlikely to vest on the EPS performance condition due Mr S Blair, Business Group Director, resigned from the Board to the high 2011 base year EPS out-turn.
The grants made in February effective 25 February 2014 and was not considered for a salary 2013 are too early in their three-year performance period to make review at 1January 2014.
Mr J C Webster will retire from the Board reliable predictions as to outcome.
at, or before, 30 June 2014 after over 20 years service and was awarded a normal increase.
In the period from 1 February 2014 to The overall pay of the Executive Directors is set out on page 68 of his retirement, MrJCWebster has agreed to a halving of his salary to this report.
As a result of the significantly reduced bonus out-turn, reflect his reduced time commitment over this period to retirement.
the overall result is a reduction of the Chief Executives total pay of some22%.
Following these one-off adjustments, and as referred to above, Ianticipate that increases over the next two years will be confined I hope that you will agree that your Committee has taken appropriate to UK wage inflation generally.
steps on your behalf to set an appropriate remuneration strategy for the Company linked to the experience of our shareholders and that The anticipated reward mix after the above changes for the Chief you will support the various resolutions on remuneration-related Executive, Group Finance Director and Business Group Director will matters being put to you at the Annual General Meeting.
be as shown in the chart below.
This assumes Performance Share Plan awards with a value on grant equal to 200% of the Directors Yours faithfully base salary leading to an expected vesting of 55% of the award 110% of base salary and an annual bonus on-target expectation of 60% of salary.
% Russell King Base pay 34 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Pension 9 27 February 2014 Annual bonus 20 Performance Share Plan 37 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 58 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report The Directors present their Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT was appointed in August Remuneration Committee 2011 to advise the Committee on various aspects of the Chairmans The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board and Executive Directors remuneration.
FITs Mr J Lee provides such the policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Chief advice to the Committee.
Neither FIT nor Mr Lee provides any other Executive, theExecutive Directors and the Company Secretary.
New Bridge Street NBS separately Theremuneration of Non-executive Directors is reserved to the provides services to the Company in compiling IFRS 2 Share Based Chairman and ExecutiveDirectors.
Payment reporting on the Companys share plans and Total The Remuneration Committee comprises Russell King chairman, Shareholder Return TSR performance calculations in relation to Peter Chambr, John Warren and Martha Wyrsch, being the Nonthe Companys Performance Share Plan.
NBS does not provide any executive Directors all of whom are independent.
No member of other services to the Company.
FIT was paid 58,909 in respect of the Committee is a serving executive at another UK listed company.
NBS was paid 28,298 The Chairman and Chief Executive may be in attendance by invitation in respect of services undertaken in 2013 2012: 33,847.
These fees and the Committee takes into consideration their recommendations were charged on the basis of each firms standard terms of business.
regarding the remuneration of their executive colleagues.
Neither are Both FIT and NBS are members of the Remuneration Consultants involved in discussions concerning their own remuneration.
Group and adhere to its Code of Conduct.
The firms were appointed by the Committee following appropriate consideration of their Within the terms of the policy agreed by the Board, the Committee experience and their knowledge of the Companys business.
determines: TheCommittee is therefore satisfied that the advice which it received, and continues to receive, is objective and independent.
total individual remuneration packages, including bonuses and share-based incentives for the Executive Directors: Remuneration policy implementation statement targets for any performance-related incentives: The Board, in considering the recommendations of the Remuneration the scope of any pension arrangements: Committee, complied throughout the year with the provisions contractual terms of engagement and any payments to be made of the UK Corporate Governance Code including the principles on termination for the Executive Directors: and for performance-related remuneration set out in Section D. The the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the Chairman Directors remuneration policy, if approved by shareholders at the and Chief Executive.
2014 AGM, will be implemented in the 2014 financial year and seeks to ensure that the high calibre individuals required at board The Committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration level are a fairly and competitively remunerated and b incentivised for all other members of the Executive Committee and business unit in a manner which aligns with and drives the Groups strategic Presidents or Managing Directors.
objectives in a manner compatible with its risk policies and internal The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee can be controlsystems.
found on the Companys website and are available on request.
The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the balance between fixed and variable pay and the performance conditions attaching to short and long-term incentives.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy The Company intends that, subject to shareholder approval, the following Directors remuneration policy will take effect from 25April2014, being the date of the AGM.
The table below describes each component of the remuneration package applicable to the Executive Directors: Element of Relevance to the Operation Maximum potential Performance metrics Implementation of remuneration Companys short value policy package and long-term strategic objectives Base salary Competitive fixed Reviewed annually.
The current intent is to Reflects both the role Increased the Chief remuneration that Benchmarked triennially limit any increases for and the Directors Executives salary to enables Spectris to against relevant Executive Directors to skills, performance and 559,500, the Group attract and retain key comparators.
the average increase for experience, referenced Finance Directors executives.
general UK wage inflation, to a level at or modestly to 355,400 and although the Committee below the comparator the Business Group reserves the right to award groups median.
Directors to 292,000 increases in excess of this with effect from should it consider that to be 1January 2014 with appropriate.
the latter then reduced on 1 February 2014 to The general policy is to limit 146,000. salaries to the median for the roles.
However, as a formal cap is required, no increase will be made if it would take an Executive Directors salary above or, if already above, further above 110% of the median level of the salaries of executives with that role within a comparator group of companies which, when or shortly prior to when the increase is proposed, are ranked by market capitalisation within plus or minus 20 companies of Spectris.
Annual bonus Drives short-term Bonus potential is set at a Increased to 125% of salary The performance The following bonus profit performance.
from 2014 previously measures to be applied levels were achieved 100%.
will be assessed on 2013 performance: Incentivises Executive Bonus payments in excess of annually and may Chief Executive: 20.0%: Directors to achieve 60% of salary must be used be financial or nonGroup Finance specific preto acquire shares in Spectris financial and corporate, Director: 16.0%: determined stretching until the minimum holding divisional or individual Business Group objectives relevant of three times base salary is and in such proportions Directors: 17.6% and to Spectris and the achieved.
Performance measures Once set, performance for 2014s annual Clawback provisions enable measures will generally bonus are determined variable remuneration to be remain unchanged by reference to reclaimed under exceptional for the year, except to adjusted profit before circumstances, were there reflect events such as tax 80% of potential to be any miscalculation of corporate acquisitions and personal targets entitlement, misstatement or other major 20% of potential as of accounts, or incidence of transactions.
the notes following A minimum threshold this table.
This level of performance increases the previous will result in a 1% of weighting on financial salary bonus.
At target measures from 75% of this is 60% of salary bonus potential.
and at maximum, this will be 125% of salary.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 60 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Element of Relevance to the Operation Maximum potential Performance metrics Implementation of remuneration Companys short value policy package and long-term strategic objectives The Spectris Drives the delivery of Awards made annually, Subject to shareholder The Committee may 2013 awards were Performance sustained compound with a three-year vesting approval, to increase to set such performance made to Executive Share Plan annual growth in duration.
The Committee 200% of salary from 2014 conditions on PSP Directors over shares PSP Earnings Per Share may modify the terms for currently 125%.
awards as it considers equal to 125% of the EPS, relative outfuture awards provided they appropriate whether Directors base salary Notional reinvestment of performance in Total are not, in the view of the financial or nonand subject to the EPS dividends will apply from Shareholder Return Committee, overall more financial and whether and TSR performance date of grant to date of TSR, and increased favourable to participants.
Subject to similar clawback 2010 awards maturing provisions as described Once set, the in the year vested in above for annual bonus.
conditions will Awards may be made Details of the generally remain in the standard form of proposed performance unaltered, except that awards to receive shares measures and the Committee will for nil or nominal cost with performance targets have a standard ability the shares either being for PSP awards to to vary the terms of delivered automatically at be made in 2014 existing performance vesting or being delivered are described in conditions to take at a time following vesting the Committee account of technical at the individuals choice, chairmans letter.
changes, for example forfeitable awards of shares Aminimum level of changes in accounting or in the form of cash-based performance against standards or the conditional awards.
each performance takeover of a company measure will result in in the TSR comparator The Company also has scope 20% of that portion group, or if an event to satisfy the above awards of the award vesting, occurs that causes using an HMRC approved with maximum the Committee to Executive Share Option performance consider that the Scheme which permits delivering 100% performance condition market value share options vesting.
Pro-rata can no longer achieve to be awarded subject to the straight line vesting its original purpose.
HMRCs limit of, currently, operates between However, the amended 30,000. these percentages.
performance condition will have to be, in the The Company will honour Committees view, no the vesting of all awards less challenging as a granted under previous result of the change.
policies in accordance with Specifically for the the terms of such awards.
proposed Economic Profit performance measure for PSP awards in 2014 and potentially future years, recognising that the measure is new for the Company, the Committee will monitor outcomes to ensure that the performance condition achieves the original objectives and may adjust the vesting accordingly.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of Relevance to the Operation Maximum potential Performance metrics Implementation of remuneration Companys short value policy package and long-term strategic objectives Pension and Market competitive Benefits in kind include 25% of salary company Not applicable to this No changes were benefits in defined contribution company cars or allowances, pension contribution and or element.
made to these kind pension and benefits private fuel and medical taxable allowance in lieu.
remuneration in kind, enabling expenses, life and disability elements within the It is not possible to prescribe Spectris to attract and insurance.
the likely change in the retain key executives.
Pension and benefits in cost of insured benefits kind are benchmarked or the cost of some of the periodically.
other reported benefits and so a monetary limit of 30,000 p. a. post tax per Executive Director has been set for the duration of this policy although, clearly, the Committee will monitor the costs in practice and ensure that the overall costs do not increase by more than the Committee considers to be appropriate in all the circumstances.
Where the requirements of the business involve a Director relocating, the Company may make a payment towards related expenses of up to 60,000.
While not practice to date, the Committee may award additional expatriate allowances if such a relocation is to outside the UK of up to a further 30,000 p. a.
A departing gift may be provided up to a value of 2,500 per Director.
All-employee The Spectris Savings Individuals may save up to Executive Directors are Consistent with Grants of options are share plans Related Share Option a maximum of 250 per able to participate in allnormal practice, ordinarily made to Scheme is operated month or such other level employee share plans on the such awards are not Group employees on to encourage share as permitted by the relevant same terms as other Group subject to performance an annual basis.
ownership by legislation this is due to employees.
employees, thereby increase to 500 per month allowing them to from April 2014 for a fixed share in the longperiod of three years.
At the term success of the end of the savings period, Group and align their individuals may use their interests with those of savings to buy ordinary shareholders.
There is flexibility to set an exercise price at a discount currently capped at 20% to the market price set at the launch of each scheme although Spectris does not currently offer such a discount.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 62 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Element of Relevance to the Operation Maximum potential Performance metrics Implementation of remuneration Companys short value policy package and long-term strategic objectives Share To encourage share Executive Directors are Each Executive Director Not applicable to this ownership ownership by the required to apply the postis, subject to personal element.
guidelines Executive Directors tax benefit of any vested circumstances, required and ensure their PSP awards or any bonus to build a retained interests are aligned payments exceeding 60% of shareholding in Spectris with shareholders.
base salary to the acquisition plc of at least two times of shares until the required base salary in value level of shareholding is within a five-year period achieved.
If the amendments to the PSP proposed at the 2014 AGM are approved, this guideline will be increased to three times base salary.
This column does not technically form part of the policy but assists with understanding.
Rationale for performance measures chosen.
A nnual bonus The performance conditions used to determine bonus achievement are selected by the Committee with the emphasis on driving growth in annual adjusted profit before tax and aspiring to meet or exceed stretching targets, to the benefit of shareholders.
The remaining bonus component aims to reward the achievement of significant and demanding personal performance objectives.
b. PSP the rationale for the EPS, TSR and EP performance measures that will apply to PSP awards to be made in 2014 is set out in detail in the letter from the chairman of the Remuneration Committee at the start of this report.
Differences between the policy on remuneration for Directors from the policy on remuneration of other employees.
Where the Companys pay policy for the Executive Directors differs to its pay policies for groups of employees, this reflects the appropriate market rate position for the relevantroles.
While the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the normal usage of that term, it has been advised that corporate hospitality whether paid for by Spectris or another and business travel for Directors may technically come within the applicable rules and so the Committee expressly reserves the right for the Committee to authorise such activities within its agreedpolicies.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report continued The table below describes the remuneration policy applicable to the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors: Element of Relevance to the Operation Maximum potential Performance Implementation remuneration Companys short and value metrics ofpolicy package long-term strategic objectives Fees Competitive fees Reviewed biennially and The aggregate fees Not applicable to The Chairmans fee and the that enable Spectris determined by reference to of the Chairman this element.
Non-executive Directors to attract able and market practice.
and Non-executive fees were increased from experienced directors.
Directors will not 1January 2013 and will next Base fee is supplemented by exceed the limit from be reviewed with effect from allowances for chairmanship time to time prescribed 1January 2015.
Theircurrent of the Audit and Risk and within theArticles.
fees are: Remuneration Committees, travel allowance and Chairman: 180,000 chairmanship of the Pension inclusive of all Committee Scheme Trustee board.
fees The Board reserves the right Base fee: 50,000 to vary the basis for setting Chair of each of Audit and fees such as introducing Risk and Remuneration Committee membership Committees: 8,000 fees should it consider Travel supplement for that to be appropriate, and should it choose to establish US-based Director: a Senior Independent 7,500 M B Wyrsch Director role in the future, Additional fee for chairing an additional fee may be the Spectris Pension payable to the Director Trustees Limited board fulfilling that position.
There is no participation The aggregate fees of in bonus, share plan, or the Chairman and Nonpension arrangements.
executive Directors will not The Company reserves exceed the limit from time to the ability to provide the time prescribed within the Company Chairman with Articles currently 500,000 certain benefits in kind and p. a. including where this or a contribution towards the limit is extended in the policy provision of office facilities period by amendments to where appropriate, although the Articles approved by the the current Chairman Companys shareholders in does not presently receive suchbenefits.
It is not the policy of the Company to provide benefits to the Chairman or the Non-executive Directors.
However, while the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the normal usage of that term, it has been advised that corporate hospitality whether paid for by Spectris or another and business travel for Directors may technically come within the applicable rules and so the Committee expressly reserves the right for the Committee to authorise such activities within its agreed policies.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 64 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Recruitment remuneration For the avoidance of doubt, such buy-out awards to compensate The Companys recruitment remuneration policy aims to give the for awards forfeited are not subject to a formal cap and may be Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and made under Listing Rule 9.4.
The Committee has not placed promotion of high-calibre executives to strengthen the management a maximum limit on any such awards which it may be necessary team and secure the skill sets to deliver the Companys strategic aims.
to make as it is not considered to be in shareholders interests to set any expectations for prospective candidates regarding such In terms of the principles for setting a package for a new Executive awards.
Any recruitment-related awards which do not replace Director, the starting point for the Committee will be to look to awards with a previous employer will be subject to the limits for the general policy for Executive Directors as set out above and incentive pay as stated in the generalpolicy.
structure a package in accordance with that policy.
Consistent with the new regulations, the caps contained within the general A new Chairman or Non-executive Director would be recruited on policy for fixed pay technically do not apply to a recruit, although terms consistent with the main policy for such Directors.
the Committee would not envisage exceeding such caps Termination arrangements inpractice.
It is the practice of the Committee to consider the treatment on Ignoring any special recruitment arrangements which may prove termination having regard to the relevant facts and circumstances.
to be necessary, the annual bonus and long-term incentive The contracts permit the Committee to make payment on a arrangements will operate including the maximum award levels monthly basis with payments reducing or ceasing if the individual as detailed in the general policy in relation to any newly appointed finds another position during the notice period and termination Executive Director.
arrangements will normally follow this approach.
However, the For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in Committee reserves the power to negotiate a single lump-sum respect of the prior role may either continue on its original terms payment on termination if it considers that to be in the interests of or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment as appropriate.
the Company and will have full regard to the duty to mitigate if it For external and internal appointments, the Committee may does so.
agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses as it considers appropriate.
Ordinarily, no bonus payments would be made and all share awards Where it is necessary to make a recruitment-related pay award to would lapse following termination.
Under certain circumstances, an external candidate, the Company will not pay more than is in however e. g. good leaver provisions covering retirement and illthe view of the Committee necessary.
Details of any recruitmenthealth, bonus entitlements may be payable, calculated to the date related awards will be appropriately disclosed.
Additionally, awards made under the PSP will All awards for external appointments, whether under the annual remain exercisable subject to time pro-rating and the application of bonus, PSP or otherwise, to compensate for awards forfeited on the performance conditions at the measurement date which will not leaving their previous employer, will be capped at the commercial be brought forward except on a change of control.
The Committee value of the amount forfeited and will take account of the nature, also retains a standard ability to vary the application of time protime-horizons and performance requirements of those awards.
rating for PSP awards where it considers it fair and reasonable to In particular, the Committees starting point will be to ensure that doso.
any awards being forfeited which remain subject to outstanding performance requirements other than where substantially In addition, and consistent with market practice, in the event complete are bought out with replacement requirements and of termination of an Executive Director, the Company may pay any awards with service requirements are bought out with a contribution towards the individuals legal fees and fees for similar terms.
However, exceptionally, the Committee may relax outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement.
Any those obligations where it considers it to be in the interests of such fees would be disclosed as part of the detail of termination shareholders and those factors are, in the view of the Committee, arrangements.
Should it become necessary to make additional equally reflected in some other way, for example through a payments in respect of such professional fees that were not significant discount to the face value of the awards forfeited.
ascertained at the time of reporting, the Company may do so up to Itwill only include guaranteed or non-pro-rated amounts under a level of a further 10,000.
For the avoidance of doubt, the policy the annual bonus where the Committee considers that it is does not include an explicit cap on the cost of termination payments.
necessary to secure the recruitment.
All such awards for external The Committee may also, after taking appropriate legal advice, appointments will take account of the nature, time-horizons and sanction the payment of additional sums in settlement of potential performance requirements for any remuneration relinquished by legal claims.
the individual when leaving a previous employer, and will only include guaranteed sums where the Committee considers that it is necessary to secure therecruitment.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Service contracts of such change.
Termination payments in other circumstances would All Executive Directors have rolling contracts subject to 12 months be a matter for negotiation and remain, at the discretion of the notice of termination by either party, or to summary notice in the Committee, subject to mitigation and or reduction for accelerated event by the Director of serious breach of obligations, dishonesty, payment.
Following the year end, it was announced that serious misconduct or other conduct bringing the Company Mr Webster will retire from the Board in the first half of 2014. intodisrepute.
As this is a retirement after over 20 years service, he will not receive any compensation payments and will simply receive his salary and Mr OHiggins and Mr Watsons contracts of employment also fixed benefits to the time of retirement.
He will be eligible for a contain an option, at the sole discretion of the Board, for the contract pro-rated for both time and the reduction in his salary bonus for to be terminated by way of payments in lieu of notice equivalent to the period of employment in 2014 at the on-target level provided 1.4 times monthly base salary for the outstanding months of the he continues to perform at a good level and fulfils the various tasks notice period.
This was reduced, in 2011, from the previous level set by the Board, including assisting with the transition to the new of 1.65 times to exclude any element of compensation for loss of management structure.
Hewill also retain all outstanding PSP bonus and is in full and final settlement of all employment-related awards which remain subject to performance conditions and will claims.
In such circumstances, the Director also becomes subject be pro-rated fortime.
to a contractual best endeavours obligation to seek alternative employment and in this event full mitigation applies reflective of any Mr Blair ceased to be a Director on 25 February 2014, having served earnings from a new position reducing the payments otherwise notice in October 2013.
Again, no compensation payments will be due from the Company during the notice period.
This phased made and he will simply receive his salary and fixed benefits to the payment provision, subject to reduction as explained above, applies time of cessation.
He will not be considered for a bonus for 2014 and in lieu of all remuneration and benefits otherwise payable during all outstanding PSP awards have lapsed.
He was considered for a the notice period.
The 0.4 uplift on monthly salary accounts for the bonus for 2013 on the normal basis.
25% employer pension contribution: company car, insurance and The Committee is aware of the best practice expectations set out fuel benefits: mobile telephone provision: life, disability and medical in the 2008 ABI NAPF joint statement on executive contracts and expenses insurances: and settlement of any statutory employment severance and has noted the subsequent updates to the NAPF policy.
claims that may arise from termination.
Whether the Board elects to This guidance, and any future revisions, will be taken into account apply this payment in lieu option will depend on the circumstances before agreeing any future service contracts.
The Committee is underlying termination and its assessment of the best interests of committed to continuous review of its policies in the best interests shareholders at the time.
Any bonus payment to a good leaver will be ofshareholders.
calculated to the date of termination only.
The following table sets out a summary of the Directors service Mr Websters contract, concluded in 1998, does not contain this contracts or terms of appointment.
Executive Directors service option but does provide, on a change in control of the Group, for a contracts provide, subject to statutory rights, for automatic predetermined compensation payment in lieu of notice equivalent termination on the Director reaching the age of 65. to total remuneration salary, bonus and benefits for the notice period in the event of termination by the employer within 12 months Date of contract Expiry date Notice period Length of service at 27 February 2014 Executive Directors J E OHiggins 1.1.
15 12 months 20 years 4 months Non-executive Directors P A Chambr 1.8.
06 renewable at each AGM 6 months 7 years 6 months J L M Hughes 1.6.
07 renewable at each AGM 6 months 6 years 8 months R J King 12.10.10 renewable at each AGM 6 months 3 years 4 months J A Warren 7.3.
06 renewable at each AGM 6 months 7 years 11 months M B Wyrsch 1.6.
12 renewable at each AGM 6 months 1 year 8 months Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 66 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Non-executive Directors Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group All Non-executive Directors conditions of appointment provide The Committee is sensitive to the need to set Directors remuneration for a six-month period of notice and are renewable at each Annual having regard to pay and employment conditions in the Group as General Meeting, subject to review prior to proposal for re-election.
a whole and is satisfied that the approach taken by the Company There is a presumption that appointments will not continue is fair and reasonable in light of current market practice and the beyond nine years in office, at which time Non-executive Directors best interests of shareholders.
The levels of remuneration and cease to be regarded as independent under the UK Corporate annual increase awarded to the Presidents of each of the Groups GovernanceCode.
operating businesses are taken into consideration, notwithstanding that these reflect such businesses particular trading position and Range of remuneration expectations the geographical and technical employment markets in which The following graphs show the remuneration each of the Executive theyoperate.
Directors is expected to receive if their performance fails to meet threshold basic, attains target or achieves maximum under the revised Remuneration for Presidents of the Groups trading companies proposals for variable remuneration to be approved at the 2014 AGM.
is set at competitive levels to reflect the size, complexity and geographic locations of these businesses.
Base salaries fall within a range between 148,000 and 330,000.
Additionally, the Groups Chief Executives remuneration Presidents participate in share awards under the PSP typically over 000 60% of base salary and in profit-related bonus arrangements linked to base salary and payable according to their businesss achievement Basic 100% of annual operating profit after exchange, plus or minus a financing Target 62%28% 10% charge credit arising from changes in working capital over the year.
Maximu m 28% 28%44% On plan performance delivers approximately 30% bonus, with the 0500 1,000 1,5002,000 2,5003,000 upper limit of the profit range delivering 100% of base salary.
Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP Below this level, a range of different incentive arrangements apply asappropriate to the business, geography and level.
Group Finance Directors remuneration The Company did not consult with employees in drawing up this report and no remuneration comparison measures were used.
000 Basic 100% Target 62%28% 10% Maximu m 29% 27%44% 05 2501 00 7501, 000, 250 1,500 1,750 Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP Business Group Directors remuneration 000 Basic 100% Target 62%28% 10% Maximu m 29% 27%44% 0200 400600 8001,000 1,2001,400 Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP Notes Fixed pay includes: base salary, pension, pension salary supplement, all-employee share plan participation, benefits in kind and taxable expenses.
Annual bonus is based on a percentage of base salary: at target level this is 60%: at maximum level this is 125%.
PSP is based on a percentage of base salary: at target level this is 20%: at maximum level this is 200%: all percentages being based upon share price at date of grant and exclude the impact of dividend re-investment.
Each bar shows the percentage of the total comprised by each of the parts.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 68 Directors Remuneration Report continued Consideration of shareholders views The revised proposals for the Executive Directors remuneration were the subject of consultation with all shareholders having a holding in excess of 2% of the issued share capital and with NAPF, ABI and ISS RREV.
The 2012 Directors Remuneration Report was supported by 89% of those registering votes by proxy in advance of the 2013 AGM as can be seen from the table below: For Against Abstain No.
% To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 73,871,078 89% 6,989,858 8% 2,242,234 3% Implementation of remuneration policy Directors remuneration and interests KPMG Audit plc, the Companys external auditor, is required to report if certain information disclosed below has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The information subject to audit is clearly identified below.
Single total figure of remuneration subject to audit The single figure for the remuneration of each Director who served during the year is as follows: 000 J E OHiggins C G Watson J C Webster S Blair J L M Hughes P A Chambr R J King J A Warren M B Wyrsch 2013 528 335 283 270 180 50 58 76 58 A.
Annual bonus was achievable up to 100% of base salary, based The profitability bonus range established by the Committee for 2013 on profit before tax 75% potential and personal 25% potential reflected the disposal of Fusion UV and was as follows: targets.
Bonuses achieved in respect of 2013 performance, based on the targets set at the start of the financial year, were as follows as a Bonus level 0% 37.5% 75% percentage of salary at 31 December 2013 : Adjusted profit before tax 205m 220m 235m J E OHiggins 20.0% The personal objectives covered a range of areas for each Director.
C G Watson 16.0% The Chief Executives objectives focused upon strategy execution, J C Webster 17.6% acquisition activity, deployment of Group values, operational S Blair 9.3% excellence, investor relations, and working capital control.
The Group Finance Directors objectives included working capital, financing facilities, audit risk reviews, organisational changes within the finance Within the above bonus payments for Mr OHiggins, Mr Watson, function and tax optimisation.
The Business Group Directors objectives MrWebster and Mr Blair, 1.5% related to the profitability target and included working capital and business segment strategic development.
the balance to achievement of personal objectives.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 68 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report No amount of bonus was deferred.
% of award that vests expressed as a Company TSR performance relative to the percentage of one-half of the total FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts number of shares subject to an award Similar targets have been set for 2014 and the Committee will report Upper quintile or above 100% those targets in next years report considering the financial targets to be commercially sensitive prior to the end of the financial year.
Between upper quintile Pro-rata straight line and median between 25% and 100% Taxable benefits are company cars, private fuel, allowances paid in Median 25% lieu of company cars and private fuel, medical expenses insurance Below median 0% and travel allowance.
PSP values for 2013 represent: As referred to in the letter from the Committee chairman, for awards made in 2014, the minimum level of performance achievement will The actual value at vesting of those shares subject to a TSR result in 20% of the award vesting.
performance condition date of vesting in 2013: 8 March for the 2010 PSP grant: and The 2010 award maturing in March 2013 vested in full against both The number of shares expected to vest in respect of the portion of the EPS and TSR targets.
The TSR performance condition is measured the 2011 PSP award subject to an EPS growth condition measured independently by New Bridge Street.
The EPS outcome is verified to 31 December 2013 and anticipated to vest in 2014, multiplied by the Companys auditor and the calculation of achievement by the three-month average share price to 31 December 2013 against the growth condition is presented to and approved by 2336p.
The targets for the EPS growth condition were as shown theCommittee.
An outcome equivalent to EPS growth at CPI, plus 3.3% compound p. a. was achieved, giving 100%vesting.
The TSR condition is also subject to an underpin that the Committee must satisfy itself that the Companys relative TSR performance is PSP values for 2012 represent: reflective of its underlying financial performance.
The Committee was so satisfied in relation to the 2010 award which vested in 2013.
The actual value at vesting of those shares subject to a TSR performance condition date of vesting in 2012: 25 February for The proposed Economic Profit performance condition for awards the 2009 PSP grant: and post the 2014 AGM would have the following vesting range: The number of shares vested on 8 March 2013 in respect of the portion of the 2010 PSP award subject to an EPS growth condition Aggregate Economic Profit % of award subject to the measured to 31 December 2012, multiplied by the share price on over the performance period Economic Profit condition vesting 8March 2013 2374p.
Less than 260 million Nil 260 million 20% Mr S Blair, who was appointed a Director on 7 January 2013, had 46,750 shares under option under the PSP.
These lapsed on the Between 260 million Between 20% and 100% announcement of his resignation from Spectris in November 2013. and 340 million on a straight line basis Of these, 14,020 shares under option were granted subsequent to 340 million or more 100% his appointment as a Director: as the granting and lapsing occurred in the same year, no remuneration or clawback is included in the Pension entitlements subject to audit abovetable.
The Executive Directors have contractual entitlement to a defined contribution pension contribution of 25% of base salary.
In light Performance Share Plan Awards to date to Executive Directors are currently structured so that of the reduced pension lifetime allowance of 1.25 million and the introduction of a maximum pension contribution allowance of half of the award is subject to an adjusted Earnings Per Share EPS target and half subject to a Total Shareholder Return TSR target.
40,000 p. a. both from April 2014, the Executive Directors are entitled, at their option, to a taxable salary supplement in lieu of Each condition operates over a fixed three-year period with no opportunity for retesting.
These performance criteria are summarised some or all of such pension contributions.
Directors shareholdings subject to audit Each Executive Director is, subject to personal circumstances, % of award that vests expressed as a percentage of one-half of the total required to build a retained shareholding in Spectris plc of at Company EPS performance number of shares subject to an award least two times base salary in value within a five-year period from Consumer Prices Index CPI 12% appointment.
Executive Directors are required to apply the post-tax compound per annum c. p. a.
100% benefit of any vested PSP awards or any bonus payments exceeding Pro-rata straight line 60% of base salary to the acquisition of shares until this required Between CPI 5% and 12% c. p. a. between 25% and 100% level of shareholding is achieved.
There is no requirement for NonCPI 5% c. p. a.
25% executive Directors to own shares in the Company.
0% Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Should the proposed changes to the PSP be approved at the 2014 AGM, The below graph shows TSR on a holding of shares with 100 value the share retention requirement will increase to three times base salary.
over the previous five years compared with that of the FTSE 250 as awhole.
The table below shows the Executive Directors current shareholding: 600 Share ownership Current Shareholding 500 guideline level shareholding level level as % Name % of salary % of salary of guideline 400 J E OHiggins 200% 1,128% 564% 300 C G Watson 200% 807% 404% 200 J C Webster 200% 1,896% 948% 100 0 The following Directors or their families had beneficial interests in the 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ordinary shares of the Company: Spectris plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Shareholdings Source: Thomson Reuters 2013 2013 31 Dec 1 Jan or date of Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive appointment The base salary and taxable benefits of the Chief Executive increased J L M Hughes 8,000 8,000 by 4.3% and 0%, respectively, in 2013.
The 2013 bonus of the J E OHiggins 256,574 132,574 Chief Executive paid in March 2014 reduced by 70.5% compared S Blair 393 to 2012.
This compares to a 2.5% base salary increase awarded on P A Chambr 5,694 5,584 average to Presidents of the Groups trading companies, an increase R J King 3,000 3,000 in their taxable benefits of 19.8% and a reduction in their bonuses J A Warren 3,000 3,000 of 62.6%, in 2013.
Your Committee considers this group to be the C G Watson 116,602 54,000 J C Webster 112,570 135,000 most appropriate comparator as they are the immediate tier of M B Wyrsch 3,000 management below Board level.
Relative importance of spend on pay There were no changes to the above interests between the year end The following graph shows the percentage change in profit, and the date of this report.
dividends and overall expenditure on Group pay in the reporting period, compared to the prior financial year.
External appointments Executive Directors may retain any payments received in respect of 110 external non-executive appointments.
Such appointments are limited to one per Director at any time and are subject to the approval of the 105 Board.
Mr OHiggins is a Non-executive Director of NASDAQ-listed 100 Exide Technologies and was paid a fee of US$99,500 during 2013.
Mr Watson is a Non-executive Director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering 95 plc and was paid a fee of 53,000 during 2013.
No other external directorships are held by the Executive Directors.
90 2012 2013 Performance graph and table profit before tax Dividends Staff costs The table below shows the total remuneration of the Chief Executive over a five-year period, as well as the bonus award and Performance As the Companys principal measure of profitability, adjusted profit Share Plan vesting rates against maximum opportunity for thatperiod.
before tax was chosen by the Directors as a comparator to the spend on pay.
Adjusted profit before tax is calculated by taking the statutory Bonus award rates PSP vesting rates Single figure of total against maximum against maximum profit before tax and adjusting it for certain non-operational items remuneration opportunity opportunity J E OHiggins 000 % % defined by the Company.
Under the terms of the PSP, notional dividends of the Company are applied over award shares during the performance period and exercise period to date of exercise which will reduce to date of vesting for 2014 grants onwards, thereby increasing the number of award shares granted.
These additional award shares are subject to application of the performance criteria attaching to the award.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 72 Directors Remuneration Report continued Mr Blair, appointed a Director on 7 January 2013, had 46,750 shares Mr Watson retained 23,102 shares arising from the exercise of his under option under the PSP.
These lapsed upon the announcement 2010 award on 30 May 2013 and sold 23,500 shares.
The gain on of his resignation from Spectris in November 2013. exercise was 966,991.
The above awards were made as conditional rights to acquire shares Mr Webster sold all 41,800 shares arising from the exercise of his structured as nominal cost options and the number of shares 2010 award on 20 May 2013.
The gain on exercise was 888,811. awarded was based on the average of the mid-market closing price The aggregate gains on exercise for all Directors under the of the Companys shares over the five business days prior to the Companys share plans were thus 7,521,325 2012: 1,156,120. date of grant, which was 2,410p for the 2013 awards.
Foreach of MrOHiggins, Mr Watson, Mr Webster and Mr Blair, the value Loss of office payments of the 2013 award was equivalent to 125% of their base salaries.
No compensation payments on termination of employment were Detailsof the performance measures applicable to 2013 PSP awards made to Directors during the year.
are set out in the earlier section describing the PSP.
The face value is the maximum number of shares that would vest multiplied by the Interest in contracts share price at the date of grant.
If the base targets are not achieved, No Director had during the year or at the end of the year any material no shares vest.
interest in any contract of significance to the Groups business.
The awards granted to Mr OHiggins, Mr Watson and Mr Webster Share price in 2010 of 65,400, 42,800 and 38,900 shares, respectively, became At 31 December 2013, the middle market closing share price on the exercisable during the year and were exercised in full.
The awards London Stock Exchange was 2,561p.
The highest share price in the had two performance conditions attaching to them.
The TSR target year was 2,561p and the lowest was 1,834p.
was met in full 50% of the award and the EPS target was met in Loans to Directors full 50% of the award.
In determining the level of vesting against During the year there were no outstanding loans to any Director.
the TSR target, the Committee took into account the Companys underlying financial performance.
The awards were satisfied from By order of the Board the Companys Treasury shares.
The PSP operates within the dilution limits laid down by the Association of British Insurers.
3.8% of the 5% limit has been utilised.
Mr OHiggins exercised and retained all 29,709 shares arising from Russell King the second part of his 2008 award on 19 April 2013.
The gain on Chairman of the Remuneration Committee exercise was 565,213.
27 February 2014 Mr OHiggins retained 33,140 shares arising from the part exercise of Company No.
Mr OHiggins retained 61,151 shares arising from the exercise of the second part of his 2010 award 7,526 shares and the exercise of his 2009 award 108,388 shares on 22 May 2013 and sold 54,763 shares.
Mr Watson retained 41,000 shares arising from the exercise of his 2009 award on 19 April 2013 and sold 29,912 shares.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 72 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
