Remuneration Report The aim of our remuneration policy is to attract, develop and retain high-quality leaders who are focused and adequately incentivised to deliver outstanding business results.
I am very pleased to be able to again take this opportunity in my capacity as Chairman of the In 2013 the Committee has: Remuneration Committee to summarise the Companys remuneration strategy and the way it has been implemented during 2013.
Supported delivery of the Companys strategy through a remuneration policy As always, the Committee remains mindful of the interest in executive remuneration and has sought which links a significant proportion of to ensure that the remuneration policies and practices at Taylor Wimpey drive behaviour that is in executive reward to the achievement of the long term interests of the Company and its shareholders.
defined and stretching strategic goals.
Although we very substantially complied with the proposed changes to reporting on remuneration in Reflected the new legal requirements in last years Remuneration Report, this is Taylor Wimpeys first report under the Governments the Companys remuneration reporting.
Business, Innovation and Skills Departments BIS new regulations on the reporting of remuneration by public limited companies.
The Committee welcomed the new regulations which will help to Engaged with shareholder bodies ensure that shareholders are better informed as a result of clearer information.
With regard to and taken into account their views this years Report, the most obvious change for shareholders to note, is that it has been divided into in framing the Remuneration Policy two reports, the first dealing with the Companys strategy and framework for future years which will be proposed to shareholders on executive pay entitled Remuneration Policy Report, and the second dealing with the at the 2014 AGM.
implementation of the current remuneration strategy during the reporting year entitled Annual Renewed the Companys all-employee Report on Remuneration.
We hope that this new way of reporting will enable us to be as share plans, following shareholder transparent as possible whilst displaying information including a single table for remuneration approval at the 2013 AGM.
in a way that will be more helpful to our shareholders.
Achieved employee participation, as either At our forthcoming AGM shareholders will be invited to vote on each separate Report with the vote shareholders or participants in all-employee on the Remuneration Policy Report being a binding vote requiring a simple majority.
Shareholders share plans, in excess of 50%.
will then be able to track the Companys compliance with its policy in future years via the Annual Report on Remuneration where there will again be an advisory vote.
The Committee has continued Priorities and actions for 2014: its much valued practice of engaging with key institutional investors and shareholder representative bodies with regard to Director level remuneration.
As in previous years, the Committee has taken To carefully monitor Company performance into account the feedback which it has received and is, as ever, most sincerely, very grateful for the in relation to the achievement of its strategic constructive engagement and feedback.
goals, and to ensure executive reward is With regard to salaries, the general increase throughout the Company to take effect from closely linked to those achievements.
This will also apply to the Executive Directors.
With regard to incentive To amend the terms of the Companys payments to Executive Directors, one third of the short term incentive cash bonus will be deferred all-employee share plans to reflect the into shares for three years without matching 2012: 25% deferral.
Governments recently announced I am pleased to confirm that the August 2010 PSP award partially vested during the year and that increases in participation limits.
the Return on Capital Employed and Operating Margin portions of the 2011 PSP will vest in part for To further align employees and participants.
The level of vesting under these plans reflects the significant improvement in the shareholders interests through further Groups performance including Return on Capital Employed and Operating Margin from 5.3% to increasing participation in all-employee 16.8% and 5.7% to 13.6%, respectively, between 2010 and 2013 achieved as a result of share plans and the percentage of managements focus on these key measures.
This improvement in financial performance has employee shareholders.
contributed to a circa 254% increase in Taylor Wimpeys share price over the same period from 31.5p on 31 December 2010 to 111.5p on 31 December 2013, resulting in a significant increase in value for our shareholders and is reflected in the value of the awards that vest.
Vested shares are subject to the enhanced shareholding guidelines which we put in place for our Executive Directors last year and details of each Directors shareholding are set out on page 74.
I should also point out that due to the timing of the granting and performance periods of the August 2010 and the 2011 awards, vesting from both of these awards took place in 2013 and this is therefore reflected in the tables on page 68.
The recent vesting of the Companys long-term incentive plans over the past two years follows several years of no vesting as illustrated by the table on page 71.
The remaining portion of the 2011 PSP is dependent on the measurement of the Companys total shareholder return performance for the three years to 1 April 2014 and the level of 60 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 vesting which is expected to be towards the higher end due to the new regulations covering remuneration reporting the BIS Regulations, Companys share price performance during the period will be reported and has also been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK next year.
Further details on the vesting of the August 2010 PSP together Corporate Governance Code the Code and the UKLA Listing Rules.
with an update on the 2011 PSP award are set out on page 69.
The BIS Regulations require that the Companys auditors report to The Committee has reviewed the achievement of targets for both shareholders on certain parts of this Report and state whether in their short-term and long-term incentive plans in respect of 2013, taking into opinion those parts of it have been properly prepared in accordance with account the impact of Government support schemes upon volumes, the BIS Regulations.
The Remuneration Policy Report, which describes selling prices, cost of sales, cash flow and carrying value of inventory, and the Committees remuneration policy for Executive Directors for the year is satisfied that there has been no significant distortion of incentive target commencing 1 January 2014 and future years, contains unaudited performance based on these factors in 2013.
The levels of achievement information.
Elements of the Annual Report on Remuneration, which under both plans therefore reflect the Companys excellent underlying describes how the Committee has implemented its existing policy in performance described elsewhere in this Annual Report, including the 2013, contains audited information.
Chairmans Statement on page 8 and the Chief Executives Review on Separate resolutions to approve the Remuneration Policy Report page 10.
In setting incentive targets for 2014, the Committee has also and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the factored in the potential impact of such support schemes, and the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 17 April 2014 AGM.
Committee will keep this under review in 2014 and beyond.
Details of the resolutions and their status as an advisory or binding Executive Directors interests continue to be sufficiently aligned with vote are set out in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting on page 135. those of the Companys shareholders through the increased shareholding This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee on requirements introduced in 2013, and described on page 73, and also behalf of the Board.
via the previously mentioned increased bonus deferral into shares requirement described in more detail on page 63.
This is being further Remuneration Committee enhanced for PSP awards made in 2014 by the introduction of a The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined terms of reference requirement to hold net after tax shares resulting from any vesting for at which are available on the Companys website www.
least one year post vesting and rising to two years for awards made in The key remit of the Committee is to recommend to the Board the 2015 and beyond.
remuneration strategy and framework for Executive Directors and senior management in line with the Code and related investor guidance.
The Committee continues to believe that the remuneration policy set Within this framework the Committees main responsibilities are to: out in the Remuneration Policy Report will both support and motivate our senior team whilst aligning them both to the Companys strategic establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures for objectives and to achieving long term growth for our shareholders.
We developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the also believe that the remuneration of executives and the whole team remuneration packages of individual Directors, and to monitor during 2013 and the incentives for further improving performance that and report on them: have been awarded during the year, support the Companys strategy determine the remuneration, including pension arrangements, to deliver enhanced returns to shareholders, and that the short term of the Executive Directors: incentive payments and the proportionate vesting of awards under the monitor and make recommendations in respect of remuneration for the Companys Performance Share Plan reflect our success to date in the tier of senior management one level below that of the Board: delivery of that strategy.
approve annual and long term incentive arrangements together with I do hope that you will feel able to support both the level of remuneration their targets and levels of awards: paid during 2013 and the Committees policy for the future, at this years determine the level of fees for the Chairman of the Board: and Annual General Meeting.
select and appoint the external advisers to the Committee.
As mentioned elsewhere, having completed nine years as an independent Remuneration Policy Report: Unaudited information Non Executive Director, which includes chairing the Remuneration Committee since mid-2007, in line with best practice, I will be standing This part of the Report has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 down from the Board upon the conclusion of the AGM.
I would therefore of the revised Schedule 8 set out in The Large and Medium-sized very much like to take this opportunity to thank shareholders for their very Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment strong support and guidance during my Chairmanship.
I hand over to the Regulations 2013. very capable hands of Margaret Ford, who I am sure will continue to enjoy Policy Overview the same level of support.
A key part of the Committees role is to ensure that the remuneration Yours sincerely of Executive Directors and senior management is aligned to the Companys strategic objectives.
It is, of course, key that the Company is able to attract and retain leaders who are focused and also appropriately incentivised to deliver the Companys strategic objectives within a framework which is aligned with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
This alignment is achieved through a combination of deferral Tony Reading into shares of a percentage of the short term incentive arrangements and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also via share ownership guidelines which require executives to build up holdings of Taylor Wimpey Shares by retaining vested share awards.
Introduction These guidelines were increased in 2012 so as to require Executive The role of the Remuneration Committee the Committee is to Directors to put in place a plan to accumulate a holding in the Company recommend to the Board a strategy and framework for remuneration of twice their basic salary within the specified period.
for Executive Directors and senior management in order to attract The Committees remuneration policy ensures that a significant and retain leaders who are focused and incentivised to deliver the percentage of the overall package of Executive Directors and senior Companys strategic business priorities within a remuneration management remains at risk.
With all packages substantially geared framework which is aligned with the interests of our shareholders.
towards share incentive schemes and performance, the Committee This Report has been prepared to comply with the provisions of the believes that the pay and benefits of its Executive Directors and senior Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation, including the management adequately takes account of reward versus risk.
In line with Taylor Wimpey plc www.
co. uk 61 Remuneration Report continued the ABIs Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Remuneration Committee ensures that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior management will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, the Committee under its terms of reference may, where it considers appropriate, take ESG matters into account when considering the overall remuneration structure.
The Committee considers that no element of the remuneration arrangements, which are all very carefully considered, will encourage inappropriate risk taking or behaviour by any executive.
The table below summarises the Committees policy for the Remuneration of Executive Directors which, if approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, will become effective from the conclusion of the 2014 AGM and be binding until the AGM in 2017.
It also summarises the remuneration position of the Chairman and Non Executive Directors and all-employee share schemes.
Element Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Salary To recruit and reward Salaries are normally reviewed annually to ensure that The maximum annual salary increase will not Company and individual executives of a suitable calibre salaries remain competitive with external market normally exceed the average increase which performance are factors for the role and practices and are competitive when measured against applies across the wider workforce.
However, considered when duties required.
FTSE peers other non-financial companies of a similar larger increases may be awarded in certain reviewing salaries size in terms of market capitalisation and other large circumstances including but not limited to: UK housebuilders.
There is no automatic entitlement to increase in scope or responsibilities of the role: an increase each year.
to apply salary progression for a newly Takes into account the following: appointed director: and where the directors salary has fallen the performance, role and responsibility of significantly below the market positioning.
each individual Director: the economic climate, general market conditions and the performance of the Company: the level of pay awards across the rest of the business: and salary levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Chairman The Chairmans and Fees consists of a single consolidated fee for Aggregate annual limit of 1 million imposed by N A and NonNon-Executive Director the Chairman plus the payment of a cash amount the Articles of Association.
1 Executive fees should be in line with to cover his office expenses, an annual fee for Director recognised best practice the other Non-Executives and additional fees fees.
and be sufficient to attract for the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the and retain high-calibre Remuneration Committee.
An additional fee is non-executives.
also paid to the Senior Independent Director in recognition of the responsibilities of that role.
Set by reference to the responsibilities undertaken by the non-executive, taking into account that each Non Executive Director is expected to be a member of the Nomination Committee and or the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Reviewed periodically but generally annually and at least every other year.
Takes into account levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Fees are paid monthly in cash.
Non Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive, share scheme, benefits-in-kind or pension arrangements.
The Chairman is entitled to participate in the Companys private medical insurance scheme.
Other Provides a competitive The main benefits offered include: Life assurance of up to four times basic salary N A benefits, package of benefits to and a pension of up to two-thirds of the members company-provided car or a cash including assist with recruitment entitlement for a spouse on death in service, or in allowance in lieu: benefitsand retention of staff.
retirement, are provided, together with a childrens in-kind.
provision of a fuel card: allowance of up to 100% of the dependants life assurance: pension for three or more eligible children.
The private medical insurance: cost of these benefits is not predetermined.
a 5% discount on the price of a new or part The value of a company-provided car or a cash exchange home acquired from the Group in allowance in lieu is of a level appropriate to the the UK or Spain: and individuals role and is subject to review from time to time.
The fuel card covers the cost of Benefits-in-kind are not pensionable.
all fuel, for both business and personal use.
For home purchases, the price discount is calculated at the plot release price less the average discount to third party buyers for that house type, less a further 5%.
The Company makes a contribution to the Chairman s office-related and other expenses, as reported on page 68.
T aylor Wimpey Share Option Plan Awards made under this plan may include Income Tax-approved awards made up to HMRCs aggregate limit of 30,000.
Awards normally vest after three years from the start of the performance measurement period four years for awards made during 2009 provided that the performance condition has then been achieved.
No awards have been made under this plan since 2009 and no further awards are intended.
T aylor Wimpey Pension Schemes The Group has two principal UK pension schemes: Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan: Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS : The latter was created on 7 March 2013 and all members of the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme and the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension & Life Assurance Fund, the two legacy defined benefit schemes, were transferred into the TWPS on 1 October 2013.
Two Directors are members of the TWPS, which is closed to future accrual.
T aylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan PCP The PCP was introduced on 1 April 2002.
It is a defined contribution stakeholder pension scheme, which all new eligible UK employees are invited to join.
All active members of the two legacy defined benefit arrangements were invited to join the PCP when those arrangements closed to future accrual.
TWPS Pete Redfer n and James Jordan are members of the Executive section of the TWPS.
They have a Normal Retirement Age under the TWPS of 62.
Until the 200% target is achieved, an Executive Dir ector will be required to retain in shares at least 50% of the net of taxes gain arising from any shares vesting or acquired pursuant to the LTIP.
62 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Element Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Short term Rewards the achievement Bonus awards are determined by the Committee after The maximum STIA opportunity for Executive The STIA measures are incentive of stretching objectives that the year end, based on annual performance against Directors is set at 150% of base salary.
Target based on a scorecard of key arrangement support the Companys targets set at the beginning of each year.
is set at 75% of salary and threshold at 0%.
annual financial, operational STIA annual and strategic goals.
and environmental measures One-third of any bonus payable is deferred into shares and the measures for 2014 Compulsory deferral in shares for three years.
No further performance conditions are described in the Annual with no matching is designed apply.
to further align the interests of Dividends or other distributions will accrue in Directors with shareholders.
The Committee may vary favour of participants during the three year deferral the metrics and weightings period and will be received with any shares that vest from year to year according after the applicable deferral period.
to strategy and the market, A clawback mechanism applies to all participants however financial measures in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups will normally have the most accounts and also for other defined reasons.
period of the clawback is three years from the date of payment.
No element of any STIA is pensionable.
Long term Annual grants of share-based Executive Directors and other designated The maximum award currently in performance Measures currently incentive long term incentives assist senior executives can receive annual awards shares is normally over shares with a face based on: 2 plan LTIP with retention and help to of performance shares or share options, value of 200% of base salary.
In exceptional ROCE RONA : incentivise senior executives although it is the Companys normal policy circumstances this can be increased up to 300%.
Relative Total Shareholder to achieve returns for to grant performance shares only.
If share options were to be granted in addition to Return TSR measured shareholders through the Awards of performance shares provide alignment with or instead of performance shares then the limits against the FTSE 250 and inclusion of relative TSR as a shareholders as they deliver subject to meeting would be doubled to reflect the relative fair value TSR measured against an measure, driving further UK performance conditions the full value of options to performance shares.
unweighted industry peer operating margin progression of the shares, which can increase and decrease over group: and and improving return on net the three year performance period.
operating assets through the cycle.
The use of shares Dividends or other distributions will accrue The Committee may vary and the introduction in 2014 for Directors during the performance period the measures that are of a post-vesting share and will be received with any shares that vest included in the plan and the holding period, helps align in favour of participants after the applicable weightings between the the interests of senior performance period.
measures from year to year.
executives with those of the Any changes to the metrics For awards made in 2014 there will be a requirement to Companys shareholders.
would be subject to the prior hold net after tax shares consultation with the resulting from any vesting for at least one Companys major year post-vesting, rising to two years for shareholders.
awards made in 2015 and beyond.
Vesting of awards is also Performance measures are currently subject to the achievement measured over three financial years.
The targets and weightings for 2014 are described in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension N A The Company aims to provide Pension benefits for Executive Directors are provided Pete Redfern: cash allowances of 20% of competitive retirement benefits through one or more of the following arrangements: salary up to a scheme specific cap and 25% 4 that represent an appropriate Personal Choice Plan : of salary above the cap.
5 level of cost and risk for the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme : or as James Jordan: cash allowances of 20% of 3 Groups shareholders.
salary up to a scheme specific cap and 28% of salary above the cap.
Ryan Mangold: cash allowance of 15.6% of salary.
Company contributions to any pension scheme in respect of the recruitment an new Executive Director will not exceed 30% of base salary per annum.
A Flexible Pension Arrangement is available, allowing the sacrifice of a portion of salary, to be paid into a pension scheme as a Company contribution.
All-employee N A All employees including The Sharesave plan and SIP have standard terms Sharesave: Employees can elect for a savings share Executive Directors are under which all UK employees with at least three contract of either three or five years, with a schemes encouraged to become months service can participate.
maximum monthly saving set by legislation or shareholders through the by HMRC.
Options can be exercised during the operation of all-employee six months following the end of the contract.
share plans such as the SIP: Employees can elect to contribute an HMRC approved Sharesave amount per month or per tax year by one plan and a Share Incentive or more lump sums.
The maximum saving or contribution level is set by legislation or government from time to time and the Committee reserves the right to increase contribution levels to reflect any approved Government legislative changes.
Shareholding Encourages greater levels Executive Directors and senior executives are Executive Directors 200% of salary 100% N A guidelines of shareholding and aligns expected to achieve and maintain a holding within five years of appointment and balance 6 employees interests with of the Companys shares at least equal to a significant by agreement with the Chairman.
proportion of their respective salary.
co. uk 63 Remuneration Report continued The chart below illustrates the level and mix of remuneration based on the current policy, depending on the achievement of threshold, target and maximum for the Executive Directors.
Salary is 772,669, 355,744, 358,739 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively and with effect from 1 April 2014.
Benefits are 30,000, 13,000, 35,000 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively.
Pension is 184,804, 70,713, 88,338 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively.
For the annual Short Term Incentive Arrangement the target and maximum award is 75% and 150% of salary respectively.
For performance shar e awards under the long term incentive plan PSP the target assumed for these purposes to be at threshold performance and maximum vesting is 40% and 200% of salary respectively.
Committee discretion How shareholder views are taken into account The Committee fully recognises that the exercise of discretion must The Remuneration Committee considers very seriously all shareholder be undertaken in a very careful and considered way and that it is feedback received in relation to remuneration each year and guidance an area that will quite rightly come under scrutiny from shareholders from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
It is however important for the Committee to views are key inputs when shaping the remuneration policy and the retain some discretion to make payments outside of its Remuneration Remuneration Committee welcomes any comment or feedback on Policy in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee confirms that any any aspects of remuneration and will always consider and respond.
exercise of discretion in such circumstances would be within the The Committee regularly engages with its largest shareholders available discretions set out in this report and the maximum levels regarding the ongoing remuneration policy and will take into available set out in any plans would not be exceeded.
account any feedback when determining any changes that might apply.
The last such consultation took place in early 2014 and included With regard to the STIA and LTIP, the Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the performance targets and weightings of the LTIP and STIA, salary proposals and the accrual of dividends for participants during the the operation and administration of these plans but in all cases within the rules.
These include but are not limited to the following albeit performance and deferral periods respectively, in respect of any shares that ultimately vest.
The Committee also confirmed that it would be with the level of award restricted as set out in the policy table on pages 62 and 63 : amending the shareholding guidelines so as to exclude deferred shares until they formally vest after the applicable three year period.
who participates in the plans: The Committee follows the principles of good governance relating to the timing of grant of award and or payment: Directors remuneration as set out in the Main Principles, Supporting the size of an award and or a payment, subject to the limits Principles and Code Provisions of the Code.
The Committee reviews of the rules: and takes into account any governance related developments and discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event guidance that arise, on an ongoing basis.
of a change of control or reconstruction: determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories How performance measures were chosen for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the The performance metrics that are used for each of the short and appropriate treatment chosen: long-term incentive plans have been selected to reflect the Groups key strategic goals and are designed to align the Directors interests discretion to disapply time pro-rating in the event of a change with those of the Companys shareholders.
of control or good leaver circumstances: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, acquisition, divestment, change of control, special dividend or a change in prevailing market conditions : and the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events so that they can still fulfill their original purpose.
64 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 The STIA performance metrics include a mix of financial and personal Remuneration policy on recruitment or promotion metrics reflecting the key annual priorities of the Group.
The financial Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the current remuneration metrics determine at least 50% of the bonus and include profit before policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual.
tax as this reflects the Companys strategic objective to increase profit.
Where appropriate, the Company may offer a below market salary The other metrics, selected on an annual basis, will be measurable initially with a view to making above market and workforce increases and will ensure that executives are motivated to deliver across a over a number of years to reach the desired salary positioning, subject scorecard of key objectives.
to individual and Company performance.
Benefits and pension will be provided in line with those offered to other Executive Directors, The performance conditions applicable to the LTIPs were selected by with relocation expenses arrangements provided for if necessary.
the Remuneration Committee as they are consistent with the overall Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely longer term success of the Company.
TSR provides an external affected by taxation due to their employment with the Company.
assessment of the Companys performance against its competitors Legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual may also be paid via an unweighted industry peer group and relative TSR measured by the Company, if considered appropriate and reasonable to do so.
It also aligns the rewards received by executives with the returns received by shareholders.
The Margin and ROCE The variable pay elements that may be offered will be subject to the targets ensure that returns to shareholders are the result of long-term maximum levels described in the policy table above.
The Company sustainable financial performance.
may also apply different performance measures if it feels these appropriately meet the strategic objectives and aims of the The Committee will review the choice of performance measures and Company whilst incentivising the new incumbent.
the appropriateness of the performance targets each year.
Targets are set based on a sliding scale that takes account of internal planning and The above policy applies to both an internal promotion to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board or an external hire.
external market expectations for the Company.
Only modest rewards are available for delivering threshold performance levels with maximum In the case of an external hire, the Company may choose to buy-out rewards requiring substantial out-performance of our challenging plans any incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on approved at the start of each year.
This will only occur where the Company External non executive director positions feels that it is a necessary requirement to aid the recruitment.
The Subject to Board approval and provided that such appointments fall replacement value would be provided for, taking into account the within the general requirements of the Code and do not give rise to form cash or shares and timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of any conflict issues which cannot be managed by the Board and the meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being Executive Director, Executive Directors are permitted to take on forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using non-executive positions with other companies.
Executive Directors Taylor Wimpeys existing share plans wherever and to the extent are permitted to retain their fees in respect of such positions.
Currently, possible, although in exceptional circumstances awards may also be none of the Executive Directors holds an external directorship of a granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under disclosable nature.
Any such appointments would be the subject of the Listing Rules.
a public announcement to the London Stock Exchange.
In the case of an internal hire including a promotion, the Company Remuneration policy for the wider workforce will honour any commitments entered into prior to their appointment When setting the policy for Executive Directors, the Committee is to the Board even where it is not consistent with the policy prevailing made fully aware of pay structures across the workforce.
In addition, at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
the Committee will conduct a formal review of remuneration across Directors contracts the Group and for all levels of employee every three years.
It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have Virtually all of the Companys employees participate in incentive contracts of employment providing for a maximum of one years notice either way.
Service contracts for all Executive Directors and arrangements and many employees can elect to take their performance related payment in shares rather than cash further letters of appointment for all Non Executive Directors are available for inspection as described in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
enhancing the link and alignment between shareholder value and employee reward throughout the Company, which both the Company Each of the Executive Directors service contracts provides for: and the Committee remain keen to promote.
In addition, the Company operates a long-term incentive arrangement the Land Value Plan the payment of a base salary details of which are set out LVP for senior divisional and functional roles with payouts in shares.
on page 62: The LVP is open to designated senior executives below Executive an expensed Company-provided car or a cash allowance in lieu: Director level and is designed to reward participants for managing a fuel allowance: life assurance: and private medical insurance the landbank in a way which adds value, through a combination of details of which are set out on page 62 : managing and adding value to the existing land portfolio and buying employers contribution to a pension scheme details of which land and adding value over and above the base case for each are set out on page 63 : acquisition.
Performance is measured over a three year period and a notice period by either side of 12 months: and awards to senior participants are in shares which are required to a provision requiring a Director to mitigate losses on termination.
then be retained for 12 months.
In time, the Committee may consider linking part of the long-term incentive awards to the Executive Directors The service contract for each of Pete Redfern and James Jordan to similar measures.
This would, however, be subject to a prior and additionally provides for a pension allowance.
comprehensive shareholder consultation before any implementation Each service contract contains the following performance-related takes place.
The Company also offers both Sharesave and provisions: SIP schemes to all eligible UK employees with more than three months service.
participation in the STIA: and participation in one or more LTIP.
co. uk 65 Remuneration Report continued In respect of pay in lieu of notice PILON, it is the Companys Legacy arrangements policy that liquidated damages should not automatically apply on Any commitment made which is consistent with the approved the termination of an Executive Directors contract.
Such contracts remuneration policy in force at the time that commitment was do provide for PILON to be paid, with the amount determined having made will be honoured, even where it is not consistent with the regard to normal legal practices.
In accordance with this approach, policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
payment for early termination of contract without cause by the Annual Report on Remuneration Company is to be determined, in the case of each Executive Director, having regard to normal legal principles which require mitigation of This part of the Report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of liability on a case-by-case basis.
Any such payment would typically the revised Schedule 8 set out in the Large and Medium-sized be determined by reference to the main elements of a Directors Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment remuneration, namely: salary, STIA entitlement subject to Committee Regulations 2013, and 9.8.
The Annual discretion as appropriate, benefits-in-kind and pension entitlements.
Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the Phased payments will be considered by the Company where 2014 AGM.
The information in the Implementation of the Remuneration appropriate.
There are no change of control provisions that Policy During 2013 section on pages 67 to 75 has been audited.
apply in relation to the service contract of any Executive Director.
The Committee currently comprises three Independent Non Executive Other than in certain good leaver circumstances including, but not Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
Tony Reading is the limited to, redundancy, ill-health or retirement, no STIA would usually Committee Chairman and he chaired the Committee throughout be payable unless the individual remains employed and is not under the year.
The other members of the Committee are Kevin Beeston, notice at the payment date.
Any STIA paid to a good leaver Margaret Ford and Rob Rowley.
On 25 April 2013 Margaret Ford joined would be based on an assessment of their and the Companys the Committee following the retirement of Brenda Dean.
Membership performance over the applicable period and pro-rated for the of the Committee is, and was throughout 2013, in line with the proportion of the STIA year worked.
As announced, Kate Barker will become a member Where an Executive Director is considered by the Remuneration of the Committee with effect from 17 April 2014.
Committee to be a good leaver, deferred bonus awards shares Details of attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings held would vest.
In other circumstances, awards would lapse.
during 2013 are set out in the table on page 53.
With regard to long term incentive awards, the LTIP rules provide that No Director or other executive is involved in any decisions about other than in certain good leaver circumstances, awards lapse on his her own specific remuneration.
Where an individual is a good leaver, the Committees normal policy is for the award to vest on cessation of Advice to the Committee employment following the application of performance targets no later The Committee keeps itself fully informed on developments and than the normal vesting date of the award and a pro-rata reduction to best practice in the field of remuneration and it seeks advice from take account of the proportion of the applicable performance period external advisers when appropriate.
The Committee has discretion to deem The Committee appoints its own independent remuneration advisers an individual to be a good leaver.
In doing so, it will take account of the and during the year it continued to retain the services of New Bridge reason for the departure and the performance of the individual through Street an Aon Hewitt company.
New Bridge Streets ultimate parent to the time of departure.
In situations where an Executive Director is dismissed, the Committee New Bridge Street is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such Group Code of Conduct.
It provides no other services to the Company.
payments are made in good faith: Although the wider Aon PLC group of companies provide insurance in discharge of an exisiting legal obligation or by way of damages broking and pension administration support services to the Company, for breach of such an obligation : or the Committee is satisfied that the provision of such services does not by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in create any conflicts of interest.
New Bridge Street was appointed in connection with the termination of Directors office or employment.
February 2009 following a comprehensive tendering process.
The Committee reviews the performance and independence of its advisers The terms of engagement of the Chairman and the Non Executive on an annual basis.
Directors are regulated by letters of appointment over a term of three years, which are reviewed annually.
Both the Company and the The Committee also receives legal advice from Slaughter and May aforementioned Directors have a notice period of six months and the as and when necessary.
This relates to technical advice on share Directors are not entitled to compensation on termination other than schemes and also with regard to any senior appointments and for the normal notice period if not worked out.
Service contracts and letters of appointment may be inspected at the Companys Registered Office during normal business hours.
Chairman and Non Executive Directors The terms of engagement of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are regulated by letters of appointment as follows: Notice period by Notice period by Name Date of appointment as a Director Date of initial letter of appointment Term of appointment Company months Director months Kevin Beeston 1 July 2010 13 May 2010 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Kate Barker 21 April 2011 7 February 2011 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Margaret Ford 25 April 2013 19 March 2013 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Mike Hussey 1 July 2011 30 June 2011 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Tony Reading 3 July 2007 21 November 2007 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Rob Rowley 1 January 2010 1 December 2009 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 66 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 The fees paid to the Committees advisers in 2013 were: New Bridge profit, divided by the average of the opening and closing net operating Street 95,788 2012: 43,000 representing a full years appointment.
assets, which is defined as capital employed plus intangibles less tax The increase in fees was due to additional work advising the Committee balances.
The Housebuilders index is an unweighted index comprised on, and preparing for, the BIS Regulations described earlier in this report.
of Barratt Developments, Bellway, Berkeley Homes, Bovis Homes Group, Crest Nicholson newly-added for 2014 awards, Galliford Try, Pete Redfern, the Chief Executive: James Jordan, the Group Legal Persimmon and Redrow.
Director and Company Secretary: and Maria Pilfold, the Group Human Resources Director: each attend Committee meetings by An underlying requirement for any vesting under the current shareinvitation only but are not present for any discussions that relate based incentive plans is that at the time of approving the vesting, directly to their own remuneration.
the Committee must be satisfied with the overall financial performance of the Group.
How the Remuneration Policy will be applied in 2014 Base Salary With regard to Margin performance measure, the Committee will retain The Committee reviewed the Executive Directors salaries in February the right as part of its overall discretion to reduce the vesting of this 2014 and has decided to award increases of 2.5% for Pete Redfern, part of the award if it considers that volumes i. e. the number of homes Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, with effect from 1 April 2014, in line sold have not been satisfactory during the relevant performance period.
with the equivalent general increase made to all employees subject to A further change to the terms of the LTIP awards with effect from a very small number of exceptions.
the 2014 award is that dividends and other distributions will accrue on The salaries of the Executive Directors effective from 1 April 2014 will all awards during the performance period and be released in cash be as follows: when, and to the extent that, the relevant awards vest.
Salary at Salary at Name 1 April 2013 1 April 2014 Increase Non Executive Directors and Chairmans fees Fees of Non Executive Directors are determined by the Board in their Pete Redfern 753,823 772,669 2.5% absence taking into account the research carried out by independent James Jordan 349,989 358,739 2.5% remuneration consultants of fees paid to Non Executive Directors.
Ryan Mangold 347,067 355,744 2.5% The fees of the Chairman whose fees are determined by the Remuneration Committee in his absence and the Non-Executive Short term incentive arrangements STIA Directors were reviewed in May 2013 and increased with effect from The STIA performance metrics and their weightings for 2014 are shown 1 July 2013 as summarised in the table below: in the table below.
The targets themselves, as they relate to the current Fees at 1 Fees at 1 financial year, are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, April 2013 April 2014 detailed, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against Chairman 250,000 256,250 them will be provided in next years Remuneration Report.
Basic Non Executive Director fee 50,000 55,000 Measure Strategic objective Weighting Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 10,000 Group EBIT To increase profit 40% Audit Committee Chairman 10,000 15,000 Cash generated Growing net assets by 10% before land spend per annum on average 25% Remuneration Committee Chairman 10,000 15,000 Delivering an average 15% return on Prior to the increases in 2013, the Non Executive Directors fees were ROCE net operating assets through the cycle 10% last increased in 2007 and the Chairmans fees have remained the same Driving further UK operating since his appointment in 2010.
Margin margin progression 10% All Directors, with the exception of Tony Reading, will submit themselves Customer Service Caring about our customers 10% for re-election or election at the AGM in accordance with the Code.
Energy Reduction To help create a more sustainable business 5% Implementation of the Remuneration Policy During 2013: The above metrics and weightings have been reviewed from previous Audited information years to reflect the Companys move to a new phase of its strategy, Performance graph with the removal of the previous Order Book metric, on the basis that This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2013, of 100 invested in the planned strategic level for that metric has been reached, although Taylor Wimpey plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of it will of course remain a key priority for the Company.
100 invested in the average of the housebuilder index introduced for the 2012 TWPSP awards onwards excluding Crest Nicholson.
The Long Term Incentive Plans other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Taylor Wimpey Performance Share Plan TWPSP The annual awards granted to Executive Directors in 2014 will be Total shareholder return subject to the following performance conditions: Source: Thomson Reuters Weighting Below Maximum 1200 % of total Threshold Threshold 100% award 0% vesting 20% vesting vesting 1000 TSR v Direct Peer Below Equal to Index Group Index 30% Index Index 8% p. a.
The ROCE targets are based on the absolute ROCE in 2016, defined as operating Taylor Wimpey plc Housebuilders Index excluding Crest Nicholson Taylor Wimpey plc www.
co. uk 67 Remuneration Report continued The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the same five year period.
The total remuneration figure includes the STIA and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The STIA and LTIP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
Due to the timing of the of the grant of the 2009 and 2010 awards the performance periods for the August 2010 and 2011 PSP awards both ended during 2013 and they are therefore included in the 2013 single figure.
Details of the percentage of each award vesting are summarised in the table at the top of page 69.
b The Company also paid 25,000 2012: 25,000 at the rate of 2,109.33 2012: 2,083.33 per month as a contribution towar ds the Chairmans annual office and related administration costs incurred in carrying out his role.
c R yan Mangold is a member of the salary exchange scheme operated by the Company and the amount exchanged during the year was 34,000 2012: 32,000.
The Flexible Pension Arrangement is a voluntary arrangement, the effect of which is to allow members and the Company to benefit from savings in National Insurance contributions through the sacrifice of a portion of salary, which would then be paid into a pension scheme as a Company contribution, prior to NIC being calculated.
The Scheme therefore reduces the effective salary of the individual.
d This includes 52,000 2012: 51,000 company contribution to R yan Mangolds non-Group pension arrangement, including bonus sacrificed during the year by Ryan Mangold in favour of its treatment instead as additional employer pension contribution.
e This column shows the vesting during 2012 and 2013 of L TIPs as set out in the table at the top of page 69. f Ryan Mangolds 2012 Pension figure includes the employers contribution to his pension arrangements included in the Other column for 2012 reporting.
g The 2013 L TIP figure includes the value of the August 2010 PSP awards and the ROCE and Margin elements of the 2011 PSP awards.
68 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 LTIP awards included in 2012 single figure Date of End of % Vesting max Performance Share Price LTIP Award Performance Target Weighting 100% Period Date of Vesting at Vesting 2009 PSP TSR FTSE 50% 0% 06 08 2012 01 03 2013 83.65 TSR Peer Group 50% 25% 06 08 2012 01 03 2013 83.65 2009 SOP ROCE 100% 51.63% 31 12 2012 01 03 2013 83.65 2010 PSP tranche 1 ROCE 40% 48.40% 31 12 2012 22 03 2013 89.25 LTIP awards included in 2013 single figure Date of End of % Vesting max Performance Share Price LTIP Award Performance Target Weighting 100% Period Date of Vesting at Vesting 2010 PSP tranche 1 TSR FTSE 30% 100% 22 03 2013 22 03 2013 89.25 TSR Peer Group 30% 69.23% 22 03 2013 22 03 2013 89.25 2010 PSP tranche 2 TSR FTSE 30% 100% 06 08 2013 06 08 2013 112.8 TSR Peer Group 30% 100% 06 08 2013 06 08 2013 112.8 ROCE 40% 54.40% 30 06 2013 06 08 2013 112.8 a b 2011 PSP ROCE 30% 74.40% 31 12 2013 01 04 2014 107.8 b Margin 30% 100% 31 12 2013 01 04 2014 107.8 a The r emaining performance test for this award, relating to TSR, will be calculated at the end of the TSR performance period in April 2014 and reported in next years Remuneration Report.
b The shar e price shown is the average of the share prices for the dealing days in the last three months October to December 2013 ending on the vesting date of 31 December 2013.
Note: For 2014 awards and going forward, all performance periods for all performance targets will be aligned to end on 31 December of the final year of the applicable performance period.
Short term incentive arrangements STIA in respect of 2013 For 2013, the Committee measured performance against each individual performance target, which is directly linked to the achievement of the Companys strategy, as follows: % of salary Summary % of % of salary deferred in Measure Strategic Objective Weighting of targets Result maximum paid in cash shares PBIT To increase profit 40% Entry 250m 312.9m 40 26.67 13.33 Target 281.4m Stretch 300m 25% Entry 11.1% 16.8% 25 16.67 8.33 ROCE RONA Delivering an average 15% on net operating assets Target 12.1% through the cycle Stretch 13.6% Cash generated Growing net assets by 15% Entry 850m 1,111.7m 15 10 5 before land spend 10% per annum on average Target 920.7m Stretch 1,010m Order Book Driving further UK operating 10% Entry 650m 954.2m 10 6.66 3.34 margin progression Target 700m Stretch 725.5m Energy Reduction Seeking to reduce the use of 5% Entry 93.3% of CRC usage data 69% 0 0 0 energy in building our homes Target as Entry plus data sheets Stretch as Target plus 90% of water use data Customer service Caring about our customers 5% Entry 89% 88% 0 0 0 Target 90% Stretch 91% Total 100% 90 60 30 Taylor Wimpey plc www.
co. uk 69 Remuneration Report continued The amounts paid to Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan in respect of 2013 are set out in the remuneration table on page 68.
Vesting of long-term incentive awards in 2013 The BIS regulations require the value of long-term incentives vesting, by reference to performance period ending in the financial year being reported on, to be included in the single figure.
This applies to the TSR elements of the March 2010 TWPSP awards, all of the August 2010 TWPSP awards and the ROCE element of the April 2011 TWPSP award.
Due to the timing of the 2009 awards, which were made during the second part of the year, the 2010 awards were made in two equal tranches, after the full-year and half-year announcements.
This was to reduce the potential overlap of the vesting of the 2009 and 2010 awards in 2013 due to the fact that the 2009 awards were effectively based on four year performance periods.
Performance testing for the first tranche of the 2010 awards, which were made in March of that year, was undertaken in two stages.
The performance of the ROCE element of the award 40% of the overall award was tested at the conclusion of the performance period 31 December 2012 and was reported in the 2012 Remuneration Report.
The TSR measures making up the remaining 60% of the awards were tested on 22 March 2013 at the end of the applicable three year performance period relating to those measures.
With regard to the second tranche of the 2010 awards, made in August 2010, performance testing was undertaken at the conclusion of the performance period, on 30 June 2013 for the ROCE element of the award and 5 August 2013 for the TSR elements of the award.
The performance period for the ROCE element of the 2011 award ended on 31 December 2013 and the final measurement was undertaken at this date.
The TSR elements will be tested at the conclusion of their three year performance period on 1 April 2014 and reported in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
For 2013 LTIP awards and onwards, testing of all performance targets will be based on the position as at 31 December of the final performance year.
The outcomes were as follows: Performance % of this award Award Measure Weighting Vesting Scale achieved vesting 1 20 March 2010 TSR v Peer Group 30% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 100% vests at 5th out of 13 20.77% upper quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile 2 TSR v FTSE 250 30% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 100% vests at 50th out of 204 30% upper quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile 1 6 August 2010 TSR v Peer Group 30% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 100% vests at 3rd out of 13 30% upper quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile 2 TSR v FTSE 250 30% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 100% vests at 9th out of 207 30% upper quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile 3 ROCE 40% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 100% vests at 14.3% 21.76% upper quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile 4 1 April 2011 ROCE 30% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 100% vests at 16.8% 22.32% upper quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile 4 Margin 30% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 100% vests at 13.8% 30% upper quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile 1.
As at third anniversary of date of award, there were 13 companies, including Taylor Wimpey plc, in the peer group.
As at thir d anniversary of date of award, there were 20 March 2010 award: 204 companies: 6 August 2010 award: 207 companies, including Taylor Wimpey plc, left of the original FTSE 250 used for this award.
In deciding whether, and to what extent, any vesting of awards should take place under any LTIP, the Committee also considers the overall financial performance of the Company during the period.
The Committee has determined that the overall financial performance of the Company has been very strong in respect of the performance periods of the above LTIPs.
70 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Level of vesting of LTIPs since July 2007 The Committee aims to set stretching targets to be achieved in order for LTIP awards to vest.
This is demonstrated by the table below and the fact that no LTIP awards vested during the market downturn.
However, following the adoption of the Companys current strategy and the Companys improved performance in the current market, vesting commenced during 2012 for the first time since the merger in 2007 and is forecast to do so again during 2014: Year % Vested 2008 0 2009 0 2010 0 2011 0 2012 40 a 2013 85 a Due to the performance period for the 2009 awar ds being four years, the vesting of both the 2009 and 2010 awards took place during 2013.
The 2009 awards vested at 51.67% the SOP and at 12.5% the PSP.
Tranche 1 of the 2010 award vested at 70.13% and tranche 2 at 81.76%.
The figure shown for the relevant year is the average of the appropriate performance target vesting figures.
Change in Company performance relative to change in remuneration 2013 2012 Change % Profit before tax & exceptional items 312.9m 226.1m 38.4 Dividends paid per ordinary share 0.69p 0.62p 11.3 interim 2012 interim 2013 0.19p 0.22p final 2012 final 2013 0.43p 0.47p Employee pay in aggregate see note 7 to the financial statements 168.6m 154m 9.5 Employee pay average per employee see note 7 to the financial statements 45,568 43,663 4.4 Change in Chief Executive pay compared to that for Taylor Wimpey employees The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between 2012 and 2013 for the Chief Executive compared to the average Taylor Wimpey employee during the year.
Salary Benefits STIA Pete Redfern 2.5% 11.11% 12.70% Typical Taylor Wimpey employee 2.5% 18.27% 51.04% Directors share-based rewards and options Performance awards were made in the year under the TWPSP scheme as summarised below: % vesting at Number of Face value threshold Award Type shares % of salary Performance conditions Performance period performance Pete Redfern TWPSP Nil cost 1,784,608 1,470,874 30% on ROCE: 30% on 01 01 2013 31 12 2015 20% options 200% Group operating margin: or later Preliminary 20% on TSR v FTSE250: Announcement 20% 20% on TSR v Peer Group index of results for 2015 20% Ryan Mangold TWPSP Nil cost 769,123 633,912 As above As above As above options 200% James Jordan TWPSP Nil cost 828,568 682,906 As above As above As above options 200% Taylor Wimpey plc www.
b Market value per shar e on date of grant 6 March 2013 was 83.4 pence.
c Market value per shar e on date of grant 8 October 2013 was 98.7 pence.
d Or later publication of the pr eliminary full-year or half-year results announcement on which the associated performance condition will be calculated.
e Due to the timing of the 2009 awar ds, the 2010 awards were made in two equal tranches, after the full-year and half-year announcements.
f V esting will be 20% for the 2013 award 2012 and 2011 award for both tranches 20% for threshold performance 50th percentile for TSR: 10% ROCE: 11.5% margin and 100% 2012 and 2011 award for both tranches for upper quartile performance 75th percentile for TSR: 20% ROCE: 16% margin with straight line vesting between these two thresholds.
g Vesting is not dependent on any performance conditions.
h Vesting is subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for outstanding share awards during the financial year.
The market price of the ordinary shares on 31 December 2013 was 111.5 pence and the range during the year was 68.1 pence to 114.5 pence.
Details of any share awards made to Executive Directors during 2014 will be included in the 2014 Remuneration Report.
Directors interests in shares of the Company Share ownership guidelines These guidelines are designed to encourage greater levels of shareholding by employees at all levels within the Company for the purpose of alignment with the Companys shareholders which the Committee strongly believes is very important.
The guidelines cover the Board and a number of executives who participate in long term incentive plans, namely the TWPSP, TWSOP and the LVP, with all participating executives required to build up shareholdings through the retention of shares vesting under the Companys share plans.
The level of shareholding for Executive Directors to attain under the current guidelines is two times base salary.
Executive Directors are expected to achieve a holding equivalent to one times base salary within five years of their appointment and although there will be no set time limit for achieving a two times salary holding, each Executive Director is required to agree a personal plan with the Chairman on the target to be achieved within an agreed time frame.
Executive Directors are also required to retain at least 50% of their net of taxes gain arising from any shares vesting or acquired pursuant to the Companys long term incentive share plans, until such time as the guidelines have been met.
Following shareholder consultation, shares held on trust by way of deferral under the STIA will no longer continue to count towards the target shareholding for each Executive Director unless or until they actually vest.
Members of the Group Management Team and other designated executives are expected to maintain a shareholding of equivalent to 50% and 20% of their base salaries respectively, and will accordingly also be required to retain at least 50% of shares vesting or acquired pursuant to the Companys long term incentive plans until such guidelines are met.
co. uk 73 Remuneration Report continued The Committee will keep the guidelines under regular review.
The Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are also encouraged to hold shares in the Company in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Directors interests in 1p ordinary shares held fully paid ordinary shares : Beneficially owned Outstanding interests in share plans Share interests expressed as a percentage of salary Value of shares Value of shares at 1 1 13 including any SIP shares including any SIP shares ordinary at 31 12 13 as at 31 12 13: salary as at 24 2 14: a b c d Director shares ordinary shares STIA TWPSP TWSOP Sharesave as at 31 12 13 salary as at 1 4 14 Excluding STIA Excluding STIA shares v the Including STIA shares v the Including STIA shareholding shares for shareholding shares for e e guidelines information only guidelines information only Kevin Beeston 1,155,562 1,155,562 Pete Redfern 897,196 2,014,404 560,773 6,431,958 63,331 298% 381% 341% 437% Ryan Mangold 154,410 433,770 152,634 3,371,304 10,623 139% 188% 160% 216% James Jordan 259,310 945,032 260,358 3,795,968 63,331 301% 384% 345% 440% Kate Barker 40,000 40,000 Margaret Ford 39,940 84,940 Mike Hussey 125,000 125,000 Tony Reading 400,000 400,000 Rob Rowley 200,000 200,000 a Or date of appointment.
b Deferr ed shares held on trust under the STIA do not count towards the achievement of share ownership guidelines targets described on page 73.
In addition, only the net amount of shares has been included in this column and in the percentages set out in the eighth and tenth columns.
c This is the per centage of shareholding achieved at 31 December 2013 towards the targets described on page 73 calculated on 2013 salary and at 31 December 2013 share price.
Salaries as at 31 December 2013 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan were 753,823, 347,067 and 349,989 respectively.
d This is the percentage of shareholding achieved at 31 December 2013 towards the targets described on page 73 calculated on 1 April 2014 salary and at 24 February 2014 share price.
Salaries as at 1 April 2014 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan will be 772,669, 355,744 and 358,739 respectively.
e Including partnership and matching shar es held under the Share Purchase Plan SIP described on page 63.
Note: The share price on 31 December 2013 and used in the above calculation was 111.5 pence per share and on 24 February 2014 was 131 pence per share.
Note: The above table does not include the deferral into shares of 33% of the 2013 STIA for any Executive Director.
There was no change to the Directors interests as set out above during the period between 31 December 2013 and 25 February 2014.
Directors pension entitlements Defined benefit schemes The Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme Pete Redfern and James Jordan are members of the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS.
The following table sets out the transfer value of their accrued benefits under the TWPS calculated in a manner consistent with The Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 2008.
Increase in Transfer value Transfer value transfer value Increase in Transfer value of Increase in gross of gross of from 31 12 12 transfer value accrued pension Normal Accrued accrued pension Accrued Directors Directors to 31 12 13 from 31 12 11 increase retirement pension as at from 31 12 12 pension as at contributions at contributions at less Directors to 31 12 12 less less Directors a b b c Director Age 31 12 12 to 31 12 13 31 12 13 31 12 13 31 12 12 contributions inflation contributions Pete Redfern 62 28,547 660 29,207 370,948 366,650 4,298 James Jordan 62 25,348 574 25,922 437,490 430,500 6,990 a The George W impey Staff Pension Scheme GWSPS closed to future accrual on 31 August 2010 so pension accrual ceased on that date.
Members of the GWSPS were transferred into the TWPS on 1 October 2013 and there was no change to members benefit entitlement.
Pension accrual shown above is the amount which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to 31 August 2010.
Pension benefits include a two thirds spouses pension.
Pensions accrued up to 5 April 2006 are guaranteed to increase in payment in line with inflation limited each year to 5%.
Pensions accrued after 5 April 2006 are guaranteed to increase in payment in line with inflation limited each year to 2.5%.
Pensions accrued up to 5 April 2009 will revalue in deferment in line with inflation subject to an overall cap of 5% per annum.
Pensions accrued after 5 April 2009 will revalue in deferment in line with inflation subject to an overall cap of 2.5% per annum.
We have only taken into account defined benefits accrued over the period to 31 August 2010 and have not included any Defined Contribution pension benefits accrued after this date.
b T ransfer values have been calculated in accordance with the Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Value Regulations 2008. c The incr ease in the transfer value includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as financial market movements.
Note: The GWSPS closed to future accrual on 31 August 2010 and so no contributions were made after 31 August 2010.
74 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 There was no change to benefits during the year and consequently no difference between the changes to any Directors pension benefits in comparison with those of other employees.
Non-Group pension arrangements Ryan Mangold has non-Group pension arrangements, to which contributions were paid by the Company as set out below: 2013 2012 Ryan Mangold 36,000 51,000 a R yan Mangold also received a pension allowance of 52,000 in 2013 2012: 43,000 in lieu of Company pension contributions over the Annual Allowance limit introduced in April 2011 of 50,000. b R yan Mangold elected to have 20,000 2012: 30,000 of the non-deferred portion of his STIA cash bonus, earned for 2012 performance and paid in 2013, paid as additional pension contribution.
Statement of shareholder voting At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, the result of shareholders vote on the Companys Remuneration Report for 2012 was: For: 1.7 billion votes 84% 2012: 1.9 billion 93% : Against: 331 million votes 16% 2012: 141 million 7% : Withheld: 102 million votes 2012: 5 million.
As stated earlier, the Remuneration Committee has consulted further with our shareholders on remuneration matters during the year.
We hope that shareholders will, again, support the Remuneration Report at the AGM on 17 April 2014.
Approval This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by the Remuneration Committee Chairman: Tony Reading 25 February 2014 Taylor Wimpey plc www.
