44 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors remuneration report Dear Shareholder In an important year for Tesco, the Remuneration Committee has sought to ensure that the Companys remuneration arrangements continue to support the strategic direction of the business, and that the remuneration decisions we have made are fair and comprehensible to the outside world.
This report sets out in full how we have approached this and the specific decisions we have reached.
I would like to highlight two areas: Firstly, the year just ended was a challenging one.
A number of important decisions were taken during the year, such as reinvesting profits back into the UK business to improve the shopping experience for customers, and deciding to exit the US and write down the value of the Fresh & Easy business.
These decisions have had financial consequences this year but were necessary to set the business on the right track to deliver realistic, sustainable and attractive returns over the long term.
We also faced external challenges which impacted our performance, most notably the regulatory restrictions on opening hours in South Korea and the difficult economic conditions in Central Europe.
As a consequence, our financial performance fell short of where we wanted it to be, which in turn resulted in no annual bonus being paid to the senior management team for 2012 13.
The long-term incentives Stuart Chambers Chairman of the Remuneration Committee that were due to vest this year also lapsed as performance targets were not met.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this demonstrates that our remuneration policy is effective in aligning This report sets out the remuneration policy for the Executive and pay with performance.
Non-executive Directors of Tesco PLC and describes the individual Secondly, as set out in more detail in this report and at the time remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 23 February 2013. of our Preliminary Results announcement, we have clearly articulated our business priorities for the foreseeable future and the financial In this section performance that shareholders can expect us to deliver in the 44 Introduction from Stuart Chambers, Chairman of the Remuneration current economic environment.
We have consequently amended Committee the management incentives for 2013 14 to align them with the new strategic priorities and financial parameters.
Remuneration strategy The changes for 2013 14 are summarised below: 45 Linking executive pay with strategy Annual bonus 45 Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group The annual bonus will be less heavily weighted towards short-term Remuneration policy profits but linked to a more balanced scorecard of financial, strategic and operational measures.
However, bonuses will only be paid if 46 Remuneration framework profits have grown.
47 Remuneration policy for Executive Directors for 2013 14 The profit measure used will be based on Trading Profit rather than 48 Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios Underlying Profit.
Trading Profit does not include property profits, which 48 Share ownership guidelines reflects our fundamentally different approach to space going forward.
49 Service contracts and leaver provisions We have replaced UK ROCE with Group Working Capital.
The Committee feels that ROCE is an important capital efficiency measure How remuneration policy will be applied in 2013 14 but is better suited to long-term incentives.
Management have more 50 Fixed remuneration for 2013 14 line-of-sight and control of Working Capital over the short term.
50 Performance related remuneration for 2013 14 The measures for customer service and colleague engagement will reflect overall Group performance rather than just the UK as used in Remuneration outcomes for Executive Directors in 2012 13 previous years.
52 Salaries for 2012 13 Long Term Performance Share Plan 53 Performance related remuneration for 2012 13 We have amended the performance targets on the long-term 55 Aligning pay with performance Performance Share Plan to align with the new financial parameters described in this report and at our Preliminary Results announcement.
Other information To reflect the lower performance threshold at which awards may 56 Leaving arrangements for Executive Directors vest, we have also lowered the amount of the award that vests.
This ensures incentives remain aligned with the strategy while striking 56 Outside appointments a balance between creating long-term value for shareholders and Non-executive Directors rewarding management fairly.
56 Non-executive Director responsibilities The calculation of underlying Earnings Per Share used to assess performance will exclude property profits to reflect our different 57 Non-executive Director fees approach to space.
57 Chairman fees Whilst it has been a difficult year, we are making progress against our Corporate governance plan to Build a Better Tesco.
The Remuneration Committee is confident that the changes above will better support the business strategy leaving 57 Governance including the role, membership and advisors the management team to get on with the job at hand and make what to the Committee matters better, together.
Audited information I hope you find this report informative.
60 Data tables Stuart Chambers Chairman of the Remuneration Committee OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS S r r r i i i i m a a a F F F p l e Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 45 Remuneration strategy Tescos most important asset is its people.
Business success depends on the performance and contribution of each individual colleague but outstanding performance comes from teamwork.
Therefore, our approach to remuneration throughout Tesco is guided by a framework of common objectives and principles which are outlined in the table below.
Reward objectives Reward principles Attract Competitive Fair Enable Tesco to recruit the We assess competitiveness on Policies are transparent, and right people a total reward basis including applied consistently and financial and non-financial equitably Motivate rewards Reward decisions are trusted Incentivise colleagues to Reward reflects an individuals and properly governed deliver our business goals role, experience, performance Reward is legal and compliant together and contribution Reward is set with reference to Recognise external market practice and Acknowledge individual internal relativity contribution and performance Total Reward Align Simple Sustainable Create shareholder value by Reward is simple, clear, and Reward is aligned to the focusing colleagues on making easy to understand business strategy, reflects our what matters better We avoid unnecessary performance, and is affordable Retain complexity Our reward framework is Foster loyalty and pride in Reward is delivered accurately flexible to meet the changing Tesco so that colleagues want needs of the business to stay with us and strive to do We reward in a responsible way their best Linking executive pay with strategy Executive remuneration has been designed to support our strategy The world has changed from a culture of more is better to better is within the framework above.
The key features are: better.
This is why we have changed our Core Purpose this year.
We cant Alignment with strategy The majority of our reward is linked solve the worlds problems but we want to always do the right thing to to the delivery of stretching performance over the short and long earn trust and loyalty from all our stakeholders.
Our new Core Purpose term and is delivered in shares.
Our medium-term strategic focus is a statement of what we do and what we stand for We make what is to build a stronger business that is sustainable and equipped to matters better, together.
The minor changes made to remuneration Our Values help us to understand how to put our Core Purpose into arrangements this year reflect our Vision, new Core Purpose, Values practice.
Our Values are: No one tries harder for customers, We treat and Strategy.
everyone how we like to be treated and We use our scale for good.
Our short-term performance is measured in relation to profit growth Our Vision has five elements each of them describes the sort of and the delivery of other strategic financial and non-financial objectives.
company Tesco aspires to be: Our long-term performance is measured by assessing the growth in our earnings per share and the level of our return on capital.
These Wanted and needed around the world metrics are a key measure of the success of the delivery of our longA growing business, full of opportunities term strategy.
Modern, innovative and full of ideas Winners locally whilst applying our skills globally Simple, collegiate approach to remuneration Our remuneration Inspiring, earning trust and loyalty from customers, our colleagues arrangements are designed to be simple to provide clarity to both and communities our Executives and to shareholders.
Executive Directors and other management participate in a common incentive framework to ensure Our seven-part long-term strategy outlined below aims to broaden the teamwork in delivering our key strategic goals.
scope of the business to enable it to deliver strong, sustainable long-term growth for all stakeholders.
Creating alignment with shareholders by building a shareholding in our business We believe that it is important that our colleagues 1.
To grow the UK core are shareholders in the business to create alignment with our other shareholders.
The CEO is required to hold shares with a value of four 2.
To be an outstanding international retailer in stores and online times salary, the CFO is required to hold shares with a value of three 3.
To be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food times salary and other senior managers are required to hold shares with a value of one times salary.
To grow retail services in all our markets Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group 5.
To put our responsibilities to the communities we serve Tesco is one of the largest public company employers in the world.
at the heart of what we do Our colleagues come from diverse backgrounds reflecting the countries 6.
To be a creator of highly valued brands we operate in and the range of skills we need to run our various businesses from stores to banking to telecoms.
To build our team so that we create more value Reward packages therefore differ taking into account appropriate factors Further details of this strategy are set out on page 13. but they are all built around the common reward objectives and principles outlined above.
Remuneration is one of our key tools to support the delivery of our Vision, Core Purpose, Strategy and long-term value creation.
Annual bonus Annual bonuses throughout the Group are linked to local business performance and Group success in a structure that is consistent with the Executive Directors annual bonus with a focus on profit growth, strategic financial and strategic non-financial measures.
e S v u i s t i t t a e i p n a m b o l e C 46 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Share incentives Our 5,000 strong management team across Remuneration policy for new hires the Group participates in the Performance Share Plan based on Tesco has a strong history of succession planning and developing internal similar performance conditions to those for the Executive Directors Executive talent.
In the event that the Company recruited a new Executive PSP.
This management team also receives some of their bonus in Director, the Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration Tesco shares deferred for a period of two or three years.
package offered with our broader remuneration policy.
Colleagues as shareholders It is an important part of the Tesco In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements, the Committee Values that all colleagues, not just management, have the opportunity will take into consideration all relevant factors including but not limited to become Tesco shareholders.
Over 200,000 of our colleagues to quantum, the type of remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction participate in our all-employee schemes and hold over 125 million the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in shares in our Share Incentive Plan and over 140 million options over the best interests of both Tesco and its shareholders without paying shares in our Save As You Earn scheme.
more than is necessary to recruit an Executive of the required calibre.
When determining Executive Director remuneration arrangements The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to the Committee takes into account pay conditions throughout the buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous Group to ensure that the structure and quantum of Executive pay employer.
In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant remains appropriate in this context.
When considering salary increases factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, for the Executive Directors the Committee considers the general level the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the time of salary increase across the Group.
Over the last four years Executive over which they would have vested.
Generally buy-out awards will be Director salary increases have been at a similar level to the general made on a comparable basis to those forfeited.
increase for colleagues across the Group.
Risk management The remuneration arrangements for the Executive Committee fall within Risk management is an important part of business process.
The the Remuneration Committees remit ensuring a common approach to Committee considers that Tescos processes in this area provide the the design of reward and determining reward outcomes for the most necessary controls to prevent inappropriate risk taking.
When reviewing senior people within the organisation.
remuneration structures the Committee considered whether any aspect of these might encourage behaviours that are incompatible with our Tesco Values and the long-term interests of shareholders.
If necessary, Remuneration policy the Committee would take appropriate steps to address this.
In light of our new Strategy, the Committee reviewed our remuneration policy and concluded that it was broadly fit for purpose.
In the year Consulting with shareholders The Committee believes that it is very important to maintain open there has been very little change to our policy beyond adjusting certain performance measures for the annual bonus and the performance dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters.
targets on the Long Term Performance Share Plan to reflect the new During the year under review the Committee consulted with strategic priorities for the Company.
shareholders regarding some potential changes to remuneration Remuneration framework arrangements and the views of shareholders have been instrumental The following chart and accompanying table on page 47, provide a in shaping the changes discussed in this report.
summary of the different elements of pay, their purpose and linkage Going forward the Committee will continue to liaise with shareholders to our strategy, and the key features of each component.
regarding remuneration matters more generally and Tesco arrangements Fixed pay as appropriate.
It is the Committees intention to consult with shareholders in advance of making any material changes to remuneration arrangements.
Base salary Benefits Pension c. 20% of total reward opportunity Performance related pay Short-term performance Long-term performance Share bonus Performance Cash deferred for Share Plan bonus 3 years 3 years Financial 76% profitability 50%, strategic financial Matrix of EPS growth and ROCE measures 26% and strategic non-financial measures 24% c. 80% of total reward opportunity OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 47 Remuneration policy for Executive Directors for 2013 14 At a glance Operation and opportunity Changes to the policy Element Link to strategy CEO CFO Performance measures for 2013 14 Base salary Fixed pay The role of base salary 1,122,000 869,040 n a No changes to the policy.
is to support the recruitment When determining pay the Committee and retention of Executive examines salary levels at the leading Directors of the calibre FTSE companies, other major retailers required to deliver the and gives consideration to appropriate strategy.
For the last four years the base salary increases have been similar to the increase awarded to other colleagues across the Group.
Pension To provide a market-leading Current pension provision of n a No changes to the policy.
retirement benefit that will defined benefit pension of up to Cash in foster loyalty and retain two-thirds of base salary at retirement retirement experienced Executives, with a 10% employee contribution.
which supports our culture of This is provided through registered developing talent internally.
arrangements up to approved HMRC limits, with the remainder provided A key incentive and retention through secured unfunded tool throughout the arrangements.
Benefits To provide a marketCore benefits Benefits include n a No changes to the policy.
competitive level of benefits car allowance, life assurance, disability for our Executive Directors.
and health insurance, club membership and staff discount.
All-employee share plans Executives are eligible to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes on the same terms as UK colleagues.
Annual bonus Performance The role of the annual bonus Maximum Maximum 76% of bonus based on In April 2012, we set out related pay is to incentivise Executives to opportunity of opportunity of financial performance: detailed plans to Build a One-year deliver our annual financial, 250% of base 200% of base Better Tesco, which included 50% of bonus based performance strategic and operational salary.
investing in the UK business on Trading Profit goals.
to improve the shopping Cash and performance.
experience for customers and shares The performance measures 26% based on 50% in shares which are deferred for some fundamental changes have been selected as they strategic financial three years.
to our approach to capital are considered to be closely performance Clawback applies to deferred shares allocation focusing on aligned to the delivery of our measures.
to allow the Committee to scale back improving returns through seven-point strategy, building reducing space growth, deferred share awards prior to vesting 24% of bonus based on a stronger underlying business improving the performance of in the event that results are materially performance against and long-term shareholder misstated.
key strategic nonexisting stores, and investing value creation.
financial performance more in the digital revolution that is shaping the future of the measures focused on retailing industry.
customer, colleague and community objectives.
To ensure that our incentives are aligned to our plans, the All objectives are Committee has decided to specific and measurable.
expand the success factors against which annual performance is assessed to create a better balance between incentive payouts, financial results, and the strategic drivers of sustainable shareholder value.
Performance The role of the PSP is to Maximum Maximum award Based on a matrix of In light of our business priorities Share Plan reward Executive Directors for award of 275% of 225% of base ROCE EPS growth for the foreseeable future and achieving Tescos long-term of base salary.
the financial performance that Three-year strategy and creating shareholders can expect us to performance Clawback provisions apply to awards, sustainable shareholder value.
deliver in the current economic allowing the Committee to scale back environment, we have Shares To enhance shareholder value awards prior to vesting in the event amended the performance by motivating Executives to that results are materially misstated.
targets for the 2013 PSP grow earnings over the long award.
The calculation of term while maintaining a earnings growth performance sustainable level of return will also exclude property on capital.
profits to reflect our To align the economic fundamentally different interests of Executives and approach to space growth shareholders.
The revised To act as a retention tool.
targets are set out on page 52.
48 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios Policy for calculating shareholding Tesco remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure Shares included Shares held in plans which are not subject to that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of forfeiture will be included on a net basis for the purposes of short-term and long-term goals that are aligned with our short-term calculating Executive Directors shareholdings, as will shares held and long-term strategic objectives and the creation of shareholder value.
Vested but unexercised market value The Committee considers the level of remuneration that may payout share options are not included in the calculation.
in different performance scenarios to ensure that this is considered Five years for new appointees to build shareholdings New appropriate in the context of the performance delivered and the appointees will be expected to achieve this minimum level of value added for shareholders.
shareholding within five years of appointment.
The charts below show hypothetical values of the remuneration package PSP participation may be subject to maintaining holding Full for Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios: participation in the long-term Performance Share Plan will generally be conditional upon maintaining the minimum shareholding.
Below target No bonus payout performance No vesting under the Performance Share Plan Holding of 50% of vesting awards until requirement met Where an Executive Director does not meet the shareholding requirement they On target 50% annual bonus payout will be required to hold, and not dispose of, at least 50% of the net performance 50% vesting under the Performance Share Plan number of shares which vest under incentive arrangements until they Maximum 100% annual bonus payout meet this requirement.
performance 100% Performance Share Plan vesting Given the importance of owning shares, the Executive Committee and over 100 other senior managers are also required to build a holding of For the purposes of these illustrations, no share price growth is assumed, Tesco shares.
dividends are not included and pension and benefits are not included.
Shares held by Executive Directors at 23 February 2013 The chart below illustrates the value of Executive Directors shareholdings, CEO million CFO million based on the three-month average share price to 23 February 2013 of 348p per share compared to the shareholding guideline.
8 8 7.0m 7 7 The shareholding guideline has been shown based on the full requirement of four times salary for the CEO and three times salary 6 6 for the CFO.
When the shareholding guidelines were increased in 2011, 5 5 4.6m Executives were given a period of five years to meet this enhanced 4.1m 44% 4 requirement and therefore should meet the requirement by June 2016.
4 3 3 2.7m 43% 38% 2 36% 2 1.1m 34% 40% 32% 38% 0.9m 1 1 Laurie McIIwee 100% 28% 16% 100% 32% 19% 0 0 Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum Philip Clarke Base salary Annual bonus PSP 0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 million Share ownership guidelines Ordinary shares EIP shares Shareholding requirement At a glance Four times base salary for the CEO Share dealing policy Three times base salary for the CFO Tesco has a share dealing policy in place for Executive Directors and The purpose is to create alignment with the interests of shareholders for members of the Executive Committee.
This policy prevents Executive This requirement is at the upper end of typical market practice for Directors and Executive Committee members and their connected similar sized companies persons dealing in shares at times when this would be prohibited by the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules.
At all times, Executive Directors The Remuneration Committee believes that a significant shareholding and Executive Committee members must seek advance clearance by Executive Directors aligns their interests with shareholders and before dealing in shares on their own behalf or in respect of their demonstrates their ongoing commitment to the business.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 49 Service contracts At a glance Provision Current service contracts Notice period 12 months notice by the Company and six months notice by the Executive.
For new appointments the Committee reserves the right to vary this period to 24 months for the initial period of appointment and for the notice period to then revert to 12 months.
No Executive currently has a notice period of greater than 12 months.
Expiry date Philip Clarke and Laurie McIlwee entered into service agreements with Tesco PLC on 31 May 2011 and 27 January 2009 respectively.
Termination payments CEO Termination payments in lieu of notice based on base salary and benefits only.
Does not apply if notice CFO Termination payments in lieu of notice based on base salary, benefits and the average annual bonus paid is provided, as per the for the last two years.
service agreement, or for Our policy for new appointments is that termination payments in lieu of notice will be based on base salary and termination by reason of benefits only.
resignation or unacceptable No account will be taken of pension.
performance or conduct Termination payments will be subject to mitigation and normally paid in instalments to facilitate this other than for long-serving Executives.
If the termination occurs within one year of retirement, the termination payment will be reduced accordingly.
Other information The Committee may determine that an Executive Director may receive a pro rata bonus in respect of the period they remained in employment in respect of the financial year in which they ceased employment.
Where an Executive leaves by reason of death, disability or ill-heath they are entitled to a pro rata bonus for the year of cessation.
In the event that an Executive Director retires from the Company they shall be entitled to retain their private medical cover in retirement.
New Executive Directors will not be entitled to this benefit going forward.
The service agreements are available to shareholders to view on request from the Company Secretary.
Share plan rules leaver provisions The treatment of outstanding share awards in the event that an Executive Director leaves is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises leaver provisions under the executive share plans.
In specific circumstances the Committee may exercise its discretion to modify the policy outlined if the rules of the share plan allow such discretion.
Good leavers as determined by the Committee Leavers in other circumstances other than gross misconduct Executive Incentive Plan Unvested awards vest at cessation.
Unvested awards vest at the normal vesting date.
12 months to exercise if options.
Performance Share Plan Awards granted in the 12 months prior to leaving lapse.
Other unvested awards continue until the normal vesting date and remain subject to performance.
Share Option Plan Awards granted in the 12 months prior to leaving lapse.
Other unvested awards continue until the normal 12 months from leaving to exercise vested awards.
vesting date and remain subject to performance.
Three years from leaving to exercise.
All-employee share plans Leaver provisions under all-employee share plans are determined in accordance with HMRC approved provisions.
50 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors remuneration report continued How remuneration policy will be applied in 2013 14 Salary Policy Base salary is designed to attract and retain talented individuals.
It is set to reflect individual capability, responsibilities and market-competitive positioning.
Benchmarking The Committee reviews salary levels at the leading FTSE companies, other major retailers and ensures consideration is also group given to appropriate international competitors.
Relationship to The Committee also takes into account pay conditions throughout the Group in deciding executive annual salary increases.
all-employee pay The average increase for established Executive Directors last year was 2%.
This was the same as the 2% average increase for other colleagues.
Pay levels for all Group colleagues are determined with consideration to a number of factors, including the prevailing economic environment, discussions with employee representative groups, and current market practice.
Review date Base salaries are typically reviewed with effect from 1 July each year.
The next salary review will be 1 July 2013 and salaries following this review will be disclosed in next years report.
Pension Policy Pension provision is central to our ability to foster loyalty and retain experience, which is why Tesco wants to ensure that pension is a highly valued benefit.
Both current Executive Directors are members of the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme, which provides a pension of up to two-thirds of base salary on retirement, normally at age 60, dependent on service Final Salary Scheme.
This Final Salary Scheme is now closed to new entrants and has been replaced in the UK by a defined benefit scheme based on career average earnings.
New Executive Directors will be automatically enrolled into this scheme.
From 1 June 2012, two changes were made in respect of the build-up of future benefits under the Pension Scheme.
These changes applied to all participants in the Scheme including the Executive Directors.
Firstly, whilst the Normal Pension Age remains unchanged, the age at which a full pension is paid was increased by two years from 60 to 62.
This will be adjusted up or down to reflect any further unexpected changes in life expectancy.
Secondly, we will increase pensions, up to 5%, by CPI instead of RPI.
Pension accrued before 1 June 2012 and drawn before age 60 will be actuarially reduced to reflect early retirement.
Pension accrued from 1 June 2012 will be actuarially reduced if it is drawn before the age at which a full pension is paid currently age 62 but subject to adjustment up or down to reflect unexpected changes in life expectancy.
Our defined benefit pension remains a key part of our total reward package for all UK colleagues.
SURBS Since April 2006, following implementation of the regulations contained within the Finance Act 2004, and the subsequent changes to the annual allowance in 2010, Executive Directors have been eligible to receive the maximum pension that can be provided from the registered Pension Scheme without incurring additional tax charges.
The balance of any pension entitlement for Executive Directors is delivered through an unfunded retirement benefit scheme SURBS.
The SURBS is secured by using a fixed charge over a cash deposit in a designated account.
This SURBS is closed to new entrants.
Employee Executive Directors who are members of the Final Salary Scheme are required to contribute 10% of salary.
New Executive contribution Directors will be required to contribute 7.75% of salary into the new career average pension scheme.
Both these rates are in line with contribution levels by senior management below Board level.
Further details of the pension benefits earned by the Directors can be found on page 60.
Short-term bonus The table below sets out a summary of the maximum opportunity under the short-term bonus for 2013 14: During the year the Committee reviewed the performance measures At a glance used for the short-term bonus plan in light of our business priorities for Maximum opportunity of 250% of salary for the CEO.
the foreseeable future and the financial performance that shareholders Maximum opportunity of 200% of salary for the CFO.
can expect us to deliver in the current economic environment.
The Committee decided to expand the success factors against which annual Half payable in cash and half payable in shares which are deferred for three years.
performance is assessed to create a better balance between incentive payouts, financial results, and the strategic drivers of sustainable Clawback provisions apply to the deferred shares element prior shareholder value.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 51 The following short-term performance measures apply for the 2013 14 bonus arrangements: Short-term performance measures for 2013 14 Financial 76% of short-term bonus Profitability 50% of short-term performance Strategic financial 26% of short-term performance Strategic non-financial 24% of short-term performance Measured in relation Based on performance against key strategic Based on performance against key strategic operational measures.
to Trading Profit financial measures.
For 2013 14 these For 2013 14 these metrics will be: performance.
metrics will be: Customer Group customer service 8% Group internet sales 10% Colleague Group colleague engagement 8% UK like-for-like 8% Community Group CO2 reduction 8% Group working capital 8% The strategic financial and non-financial elements of the bonus are subject to a profit underpin.
No portion that relates to strategic measures can be earned unless profit growth has been achieved.
Link to strategy This Link to strategy The selected strategic Link to strategy At Tesco we believe that a focus on the enablers measure incentivises the financial measures allow for the Company of business performance will help us build a much more successful, delivery of strategy by to more specifically incentivise the delivery sustainable business for the long term which will ultimately yield encouraging the creation of key elements of our strategy.
financial returns for all stakeholders.
of annual shareholder Clicks & Bricks is an important and exciting The Committee therefore considered that it was important the value through improved dimension of our strategy and a key focus 2013 14 annual bonus framework focused on: bottom-line financial for 2013 14.
Improving our service to our customers.
Another key priority for 2013 14 is delivering Improving the engagement of all of our colleagues if our The profit measure on our commitments to build a better colleagues smile, our customers smile too.
used will be based on business in the UK.
A focus on improving Being a business that puts back more into our community Trading Profit rather than like-for-like performance will support this.
Trading A working capital metric has been introduced Group customer service and Group colleague engagement Profit is widely understood this year to focus Executives on the effective is objectively measured through our management Steering throughout the business management of stock, cash and suppliers.
Wheel which ensures that we manage in a balanced way across but, unlike Underlying The Committee believes that this working our business.
Profit, does not include capital is a measure that is better suited to property profits.
This We are currently developing a new reputation scorecard and the short-term bonus than ROCE which reflects our fundamentally envisage replacing the CO2 metric from 2014 15 with this measures long-term capital efficiency.
different approach to new metric.
The balance of measures is illustrated in the chart below: Long-term incentives At a glance Balance of measures for short-term bonus % Maximum award of 275% of salary for the CEO.
Maximum award of 225% of salary for the CFO.
Profitability Shares vest in three years time subject to performance targets Strategic financial 24% being met.
Strategic non-financial Clawback provisions apply to PSP awards prior to vesting.
50% The ultimate goal of our strategy is to provide long-term sustainable returns for all of our shareholders.
Tesco believes that the best way to deliver enhanced value is to grow earnings over the long term while 26% maintaining a sustainable level of return on capital employed in other words to keep growing the size of the business in an efficient way.
2013 Performance Share Plan awards will continue to be subject to performance against a matrix of stretching earnings growth targets and sustainable return on capital performance.
The Committee believes Given their commercial sensitivity, we do not publish the details of that this combination of EPS growth and ROCE performance is strongly aligned with our strategic objectives and also reflects the drivers of longtargets in advance.
However, targets are considered to be measurable and appropriately stretching.
If they are achieved the Committee term shareholder value.
Achieving this performance will demonstrate the successful implementation of our strategy.
considers that value will have been added for shareholders.
The Committee will provide an explanation of the rationale for the level The economic environment, both in the UK and internationally, of any bonus paid in the 2013 14 Directors Remuneration Report continues to be challenging.
In January 2012, we announced our plans to ensure transparency for shareholders regarding the level of reward to reprioritise our Group investment.
We have focused our investment paid in the context of performance delivered.
on the customer experience, our multichannel offering and targeted consumer offers rather than new space expansion.
We are starting to see Clawback applies to deferred shares to allow the Committee to scale back deferred share awards prior to vesting potentially to zero in the positive returns from this strategy, with encouraging sales performance being achieved, particularly in the UK, however we are still at the start event that results are materially misstated.
of our journey to Build a Better Tesco.
2013 14 will see us continuing on this journey.
52 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors remuneration report continued In light of our fundamentally different approach to space going forward, Against this performance background, the main aspects of remuneration the Committee has determined that underlying EPS performance will practice for the year were as follows: be measured excluding property profits.
The Committee also reviewed the performance targets for the 2013 PSP awards to ensure that they At a glance remained motivational for management while still representing longBase salary Salaries for Executive Directors were reviewed and term value creation for shareholders.
Having carefully reviewed targets increased by 2% with effect from 1 July 2012, in line in the context of this objective and having discussed proposals with with the general increase for other colleagues across shareholders, the Committee determined that it was appropriate to the Group.
lower the EPS target range and broaden the ROCE target range.
Given Next base salary review is with effect from 1 July 2013. this it is also proposed to reduce the proportion of the award that vests for meeting threshold performance from 20% of maximum opportunity Annual Despite good progress against a number of strategic to 0% and to reduce the level of vesting in the bottom right end of the bonus operational measures and encouraging financial matrix from 85% to 70%.
performance in the latter part of the year, profitability targets were not met and therefore no bonus will be 2013 14 award paid to Executive Directors in respect of 2012 13.
The vesting matrix and targets for the three years to 2015 16 are illustrated below: Long-term Our long-term rewards were assessed based on Group incentives and International ROCE and EPS delivered over the % of initial award vesting past three years.
Challenging Group and International ROCE targets were not met and therefore PSP awards granted in Threshold Stretch 2010 will lapse.
EPS growth targets were not met Targets 3% 10% and therefore the share options granted in 2010 will Straight-line 15% 45% 100% ROCE vesting between also lapse.
12% 0% 70% these points The following provides further detail on these decisions.
Performance targets for awards granted in 2011 and 2012 are set out in Salaries for 2012 13 a footnote to the Long Term Performance Share Plan table on page 64.
The base salaries of the Executive Directors following the 2012 The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make adjustments review were: to ROCE to take account of acquisitions which were not envisaged when the targets were set but will only do so when the impact is material.
Salaries 2012 13 Clawback provisions apply to awards, allowing the Committee to scale Base salary 1 July 2012 back awards potentially to zero prior to vesting in the event that results CEO 1,122,000 are materially misstated.
CFO 869,040 Remuneration outcomes for Executive Salary increases for Executive Directors last year were 2%, which was broadly the same as the increase for other Executives and colleagues Directors in 2012 13 throughout the Group.
Salary increases over the last four years have been Our strategy to Build a Better Tesco focuses on improving returns aligned with those of other colleagues.
through reducing space growth, improving the performance of existing stores, and investing more in developing different ways to reach customers, for example, digital shopping.
Over the last year we have made a significant investment in the customer shopping trip, particularly in the UK, developing warmer, friendlier and more inviting stores.
The feedback so far is that customers and colleagues like this focus on service and the format of the new stores.
Good trading over Christmas and New Year offers us encouragement about progress against our new strategic plans but we are at the start of our journey to Build a Better Tesco.
Our customer satisfaction rating in the UK has improved following through to an improvement in UK like-for-like sales, we have delivered strong growth in internet sales, reduced CO2 output and improved our feedback from colleagues.
However, this progress has yet to flow through into profitability and we have fallen short of where we need to be.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 53 Short-term bonus 2012 13 Performance measures and payout Performance measures Maximum opportunity 2012 13 payout 70% based on profitability Underlying profit performance CEO Maximum bonus opportunity 0% payout of 250% of base salary 30% based on strategic performance UK like-for-like sales growth CFO Maximum bonus opportunity UK ROCE of 200% of base salary UK customer satisfaction Group internet sales Group employee engagement Group CO2 reduction The following illustrates performance against targets for various objectives.
Measures Performance Below Threshold Target Stretch Profitability Underlying profit Strategic UK like-for-like sales growth UK return on capital employed UK customer satisfaction Group internet sales Group CO2 reduction Group employee engagement Despite good progress against a number of strategic operational measures and encouraging financial performance in the latter part of the year, annual profitability targets were not met.
There will therefore be no bonus paid in respect of 2012 13.
Long-term incentives Vesting of 2010 11 to 2012 13 awards Awards vesting in the year were made under the previous long-term incentive framework, comprising both share options and performance related shares.
The performance conditions applying to these awards and achievement against these targets are summarised below: Performance measures and payout Maximum opportunity 2012 13 payout Earnings per share First 100% subject to the achievement of Share options with a face 0% of maximum % underlying diluted EPS growth of at least value of 200% of salary opportunity vested.
20 RPI plus 9% over three years and the at the date of grant.
balance vesting for achieving growth of at least RPI plus 15% over three years.
The increase in underlying diluted EPS above RPI over the three years from 2010 11 to 2012 13 10 100% vesting was below threshold and therefore awards granted in 2010 will lapse.
5 EPS growth performance was below threshold and therefore share options will not vest 0 Performance measures and payout EPS growth above RPI over three years 54 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Performance measures and payout Maximum opportunity 2012 13 Payout Return on capital employed Group Maximum vesting for Group ROCE of Maximum award Group reported ROCE for % 13.6% with threshold vesting 25% for of 100% of salary.
measured on a continuing basis 75% based on performance against and excludes the US operations Full vesting target with 25% based on the Committee and one-off items in respect 13.5 assessment of the quality of ROCE of the UK property write-down, performance.
goodwill impairments in Central Granted in 2010 11.
Europe and the increased 13.0 Performance period ended 2012 13. provision for PPI at Tesco Bank.
The Remuneration Committee 25% vesting decided that underlying 12.5 performance for incentive Group ROCE performance was below purposes should include threshold and therefore PSP awards will not vest these items and therefore 12.0 adjusted ROCE performance down.
This resulted in Group ROCE performance being below the threshold level of performance required and therefore 0% of the maximum the award will vest.
Return on capital employed International % Maximum vesting for International Maximum award International ROCE for 2012 13 ROCE of 7.5% with threshold vesting of 50% of salary.
was below the level required for 8.0 for International ROCE of 6%.
threshold levels of vesting and Full vesting 75% based on performance against therefore 0% of the award 7.5 target with 25% based on the Committee will vest.
assessment of the quality of ROCE 7.0 performance.
25% vesting 6.0 International ROCE performance was 5.5 below threshold and therefore PSP awards will not vest 5.0 International ROCE Group ROCE OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 55 Aligning pay with performance The following charts illustrate performance at Tesco against key performance indicators over the past five years.
This index has been selected to provide an established and broad-based comparator group of retail and non-retail companies.
For further details in relation to numbers set out in the charts above please see the five year record on page 136.
The following chart illustrates remuneration arrangements paid to Executive Directors over the last five years: Philip Clarke Laurie Mcllwee million million 4.0 4.0 Gain on share options gain at vesting date 3.5 3.5 PSP value on vesting date Annual bonus deferred shares awarded 3.0 3.0 Annual bonus cash 2.5 2.5 Benefits 2.0 2.0 Base salary 1.5 1.5 1.0 1.0 0.5 0.5 0 0 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 Philip Clarke was promoted to the role of CEO with effect Laurie Mcllwee was promoted to the Board during 2008 09 from 1 March 2011. and therefore the first full year shown above is for 2009 10.
He waived his entitlement to bonus for 2011 12.
Notes 1 Base salary The base salary paid in the year, as reported in the emoluments table for the relevant financial year.
2 Annual bonus cash The cash bonus in respect of annual performance in that financial year, as reported in the emoluments table for the relevant financial year.
3 Annual bonus deferred shares The value of deferred bonus shares on award, as reported in the emoluments table for the relevant financial year.
4 PSP The value of PSP awards that vested in respect of the performance period ending in the relevant financial year.
Awards valued based on the share price at the date of vesting.
5 Share options The gain in relation to share options that vested in respect of the performance period ending in the relevant financial year.
Gain calculated based on the share price at the date of vesting less the exercise price.
6 Pension Pension is not included for the purpose of this analysis.
Value of 100 invested 24 February 2008 56 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Other information Leaving arrangements for Executive Directors David Potts, Andrew Higginson, and Lucy Neville-Rolfe retired from the business after 68 years of combined service.
Richard Brasher and Tim Mason left the business after 56 years of combined service.
They are entitled to draw their accrued pension from the date of retirement.
Accrued pensions are calculated based on length of service since joining the Company Pension Scheme and there has been no augmentation of pension benefits.
Further details on pension benefits can be found in Table 2 Pension on page 60.
The liquidated damages paid to Richard Brasher and Tim Mason were determined in accordance with their contracts.
Further details on these payments can be found in Table 1 Directors emoluments on page 60.
All unvested long-term incentive awards previously granted to Richard Brasher and Tim Mason will lapse.
Further details can be found in Table 3 Share Options on page 61 and Table 5 Performance Share Plan on page 63.
Outside appointments Tesco recognises that its Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies.
Such Non-executive duties can broaden experience and knowledge which can benefit Tesco.
Subject to approval by the Board, Executive Directors are allowed to accept Non-executive appointments, provided that these appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest, and retain the fees received.
Executive Directors biographies which include details of any outside appointments can be found on page 24 of this report.
Fees retained for any Non-executive Directorships held by individuals who were Executive Directors during the year are set out below.
Non-executive Directorships Name Company in which Non-executive Directorship held Fees retained in 2012 13 000 Andrew Higginson BSkyB plc 79 Lucy Neville-Rolfe The Carbon Trust plc 13 ITV plc 49 Non-executive Directors Non-executive Director responsibilities Jacqueline Sir Richard Gareth Patrick Stuart Karen Ken Ken Deanna Tammenoms Broadbent Bullock Cescau Chambers Cook Hanna Hydon Oppenheimer Bakker Senior Independent Director X Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Audit Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman of Committee o Member of Committee X Senior Independent Director Sir Richard Broadbent became a member of the Remuneration Committee on 5 October 2012.
Ken Hanna took over from Ken Hydon as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 5 October 2012.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 57 There were no increases to the Non-executive Director fee levels in the year.
The current Non-executive Director fees are as follows: Non-executive Director fees Basic fees 70,000 p. a.
Additional fees: Senior Independent Director 26,000 p. a.
Chairs of Audit and Remuneration Committees 30,000 p. a.
Membership of Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nominations and Remuneration Committees 12,000 p. a. for each Committee Gareth Bullock, Stuart Chambers and Deanna Oppenheimer were appointed to the Board of Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited in July 2012.
They are paid a basic fee of 70,000 p. a. for this role and an additional fee for Committee membership of 12,000 p. a. in line with other members of the Board of Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited.
Letters of appointment Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment setting out their duties and the time commitment expected.
The letters are available to shareholders to view from the Company Secretary upon request.
Review of performance The Chairman meets with each Non-executive Director separately to review individual performance.
Reappointment policy In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Non-executive Directors will submit themselves for re-election by shareholders every year at the Annual General Meeting.
All Non-executive Director appointments can be terminated by either party without notice.
Policy for determining Non-executive Director remuneration The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Committee after considering external market research and individual roles and responsibilities.
Chairman fees The Remuneration Committee determines the Chairmans remuneration, having regard to time commitment of the role and remuneration arrangements for Chairmen of other companies of a similar size and complexity.
Sir Richard Broadbents fee for his role as Non-executive Chairman is 625,000 p. a. and he has the benefit of a company car and driver.
This fee was set at the time of his appointment and has not been increased since.
He does not receive additional committee fees.
Corporate governance Membership of the Number of Actual possible meetings Remuneration Committee meetings attended and attendance at meetings Stuart Chambers Committee Chairman 4 4 Sir Richard Broadbent 1 1 Karen Cook 4 4 Ken Hanna 4 4 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 4 4 The Committee also convenes on an ad hoc basis between formal meetings when necessary.
The Directors biographies can be found on pages 24 and 25 of this report.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest in the matters being decided, other than as a shareholder, nor any day-to-day involvement in running the business of Tesco.
Role of the Remuneration The Committees key responsibilities are: Committee To determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and the Chairman.
To ensure the level and structure of remuneration is designed to attract, retain, and motivate the Executive Directors needed to run the Company while remaining appropriate in the context of the remuneration arrangements throughout the Group.
To ensure that the structure of remuneration arrangements is aligned with the creation of sustainable returns for shareholders and that the level of reward received by Executives reflects the value delivered for shareholders.
As required by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, Tesco Bank has a separate independent remuneration committee.
The Group Remuneration Committee is consulted on, and makes recommendations in relation to the remuneration arrangements for Tesco Bank colleagues, with the aim of encouraging consistency with Group remuneration policy, but it does not make decisions in relation to, or direct, how remuneration is managed within Tesco Bank.
58 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee activities 2012 13 The following provides a summary of the Committees activities during and shortly following the end of the financial year: Meeting Standing agenda items Other agenda items April 2012 Review and agree payout outcomes for short-term annual bonus, Professional development update on long-term PSP and share option awards for 2011 12.
Department for Business, Innovation Approval of short-term bonus and long-term PSP targets for and Skills BIS shareholder voting 2012 13 2014 15 awards.
Sign off 2011 12 Directors Remuneration Report.
June 2012 Report from the Tesco Bank Remuneration Committee.
Packages for new Executive Committee Update on shareholder feedback on Directors Remuneration members.
Review of Executive Director base salary and total compensation.
Response to BIS on shareholder rights Determine base salaries with effect from 1 July 2012. consultation.
Consideration of the relationship between Executive Director and Confirmed leaving arrangements for Executive Committee reward and reward at the level below this.
Richard Brasher, Andrew Higginson Benchmarking of Chairmans pay against market and agreeing and David Potts.
October 2012 Review of remuneration trends and developments in best practice.
Review of remuneration strategy for 2013 14.
Professional development update on Review approach to 2012 13 Directors Remuneration Report.
Hermes discussion paper, FR lab project Follow-up from Committee effectiveness review.
on single figure, Kay Review and Fidelity Remuneration Committee bible.
February 2013 Review of performance against short-term annual bonus, long-term Packages for new Executive Committee PSP and share option awards for 2012 13. members.
Review of remuneration strategy and policy for 2013 14 and review Information provided on the Companys of shareholder feedback in relation to proposed changes.
HR polices for the Committee to note.
Review of the first draft of the 2012 13 Directors Remuneration Professional update on Association of Report.
British Insurers ABI, ISS and NAPF Committee effectiveness review.
guidelines, BIS response to the Kay Review, FR Lab project and NAPF stewardship code.
Confirmed leaving arrangements for Tim Mason and Lucy Neville-Rolfe.
April 2013 Review and agree payout outcomes for short-term annual bonus, Following year end long-term PSP and share option awards for 2012 13.
Approval of short-term bonus and long-term PSP targets for 2013 14 2015 16 awards.
Sign off 2012 13 Directors Remuneration Report.
Number of meetings Normally four meetings per year.
Four meetings were held during 2012 13.
External advisors Deloitte LLP Appointed by the Committee.
Deloitte is one of the founding members of the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and adheres to this Code in its dealings with the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Deloitte is independent.
Deloitte also provided unrelated advisory services in respect of corporate tax planning, technology consulting, risk management, share schemes, international taxation, corporate finance and treasury to the Group during the year.
Internal advisors Jonathan Lloyd, the Company Secretary, is Secretary to the Committee.
Philip Clarke Chief Executive of the Group and Laurie Mcllwee Group CFO attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
They are not present when their own remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee is supported by Alison Horner Group Personnel Director, Drew Matthews Group Remuneration Director and Corporate Secretariat and Finance functions.
Terms of reference Available from the Company Secretary upon request or can be viewed at www.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 59 Shareholder voting Tesco remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and carefully reviews voting outcomes on remuneration matters.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to Directors remuneration, Tesco would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote, and would detail any actions in response to it in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our last report in 2012: % of votes For Against 2011 12 Directors Remuneration 96.85% 3.15% Report 2012 AGM 92,278,876 votes were withheld in relation to this resolution c. 1% of shareholders.
Funding of equity awards Executive incentive arrangements are funded by a mix of newly issued shares and shares purchased in the market.
Where shares are newly issued the Company complies with ABI dilution guidelines on their issue.
The current dilution usage of Executive plans is c. 4% of shares in issue.
Where shares are purchased in the market, these may be held by Tesco Employees Share Schemes Trustees Limited, in which case the voting rights relating to the shares are exercisable by the trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
Change of control Long-term incentive awards may vest or become exercisable before their normal vesting date in the event of a change of control of Tesco PLC subject to the rules of the applicable plans.
Compliance In carrying out its duties, the Remuneration Committee gives full consideration to best practice.
The Committee was constituted and operated throughout the period in accordance with the principles outlined in the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority derived from the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The auditors report, set out on page 71, covers the disclosures referred to in this report that are specified for audit by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The report has been drawn up in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the Financial Conduct Authority Listing Rules.
Details of Directors emoluments and interests are set out on pages 60 to 66 of this report.
Approved by the Board on 1 May 2013 Stuart Chambers Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 60 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Tables 19 are audited information Table 1 Directors emoluments Performance Fixed emoluments related emoluments Loss of office Short-term Short-term deferred Total Total 2 Salary Benefits cash shares 2012 13 2011 12 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 1 Richard Brasher 1,302 1,302 1,138 Philip Clarke 1,114 57 1,171 1,155 1 Andrew Higginson 459 29 488 1,149 1, 2 Tim Mason 691 400 1,682 2,773 1,634 Laurie McIlwee 863 54 917 1,137 1 Lucy Neville-Rolfe 613 67 680 895 Non-executive Directors Sir Richard Broadbent 625 57 682 281 3 Gareth Bullock 141 141 82 Patrick Cescau 132 132 120 3 Stuart Chambers 171 171 100 1 Karen Cook 82 82 82 Ken Hanna 112 112 94 1 Ken Hydon 100 100 100 1, 3 Deanna Oppenheimer 138 138 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 94 94 82 Total 5,335 664 2,984 8,983 8,049 Appointments and leavers 1 The figures in this table are from the date of appointment or until the date that each Director ceased to be a Director of Tesco PLC, including any payments receivable in connection with the termination of qualifying services.
S ir David Reid retired from the Board in 2011 12.
He continued to have the ongoing benefit of health insurance and the use of a company car and chauffeur for one year after leaving with a net value of 66,000.
The gross value of these benefits is 132,000.
D avid Potts stepped down from the Board in 2011 12.
He did not receive any payments or benefits outside his normal contractual arrangements but continued to be employed by the Group until 30 June 2012 and was paid a salary of 346,000 and received benefits of 15,000 during this period.
R ichard Brasher stepped down from the Board on 15 March 2012.
He did not receive any payments or benefits outside his normal contractual arrangements but continued to be employed by the Group until 31 July 2012 and was paid a salary of 386,000 and received benefits of 49,000 during this period.
In line with his contract Richard Brasher was paid liquidated damages of 1,302,000 which are shown in the table above.
Andrew Higginson retired from the Board on 1 September 2012.
He did not receive any payments or benefits outside his normal contractual arrangements.
T im Mason stepped down from the Board on 5 December 2012.
In line with his contract Tim Mason was paid liquidated damages of 1,682,000 as shown in the table above.
L ucy Neville-Rolfe retired from the Board on 2 January 2013.
She did not receive any payments or benefits outside her normal contractual arrangements.
Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed on 1 March 2012.
Karen Cook and Ken Hydon retired from the Board on 23 February 2013.
Benefits 2 Benefits are made up of car benefits, chauffeurs, disability and health insurance, staff discount and membership at clubs.
T im Masons benefits comprise a pro rata net expatriate allowance of 204,000, the gross value of which is 400,000.
The Company will also pay repatriation costs up to a total value of 100,000.
NED fees 3 The figures in this table include fees paid to Gareth Bullock, Stuart Chambers and Deanna Oppenheimer in respect of their membership of the Board and Committees of Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited.
Table 2 Pension details of the Directors Increase in Transfer Transfer Transfer Increase in accrued value of a at value of total value of total Increase Total accrued accrued pension 23 February accrued accrued in transfer pension at pension during the 2013 less pension at pension at value less Age at Years of 23 February during the year net of Directors 25 February 23 February Directors 1, 2 3 4, 5 5 23 February Company 2013 year inflation a contributions 2012 2013 contributions 2013 service 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Richard Brasher 51 26 421 10 6 90 6,551 6,844 293 Philip Clarke 52 38 600 28 13 182 9,727 10,738 1,011 Andrew Higginson 55 15 328 17 13 1,120 7,628 9,000 1,372 Tim Mason 55 31 379 20 11 843 9,005 10,363 1,358 Laurie McIlwee 50 12 326 33 26 351 4,464 5,217 753 Lucy Neville-Rolfe 60 15 329 24 18 373 6,811 7,796 985 David Potts 55 39 491 9 5 99 9,302 9,559 257 Notes 1 The accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at 60 based on service to 23 February 2013.
Where an Executive Director has left or retired, the accrued pension is based on their pension date of leaving, or pension at retirement reduced for early retirement but before any pension is exchanged for cash respectively.
2 Some of the Executive Directors benefits are payable from an unfunded pension arrangement.
This is secured by a fixed and floating charge on a cash deposit.
3 The increase in accrued pension over the year is additional pension accrued during the year.
Where Executive Directors have retired during the year, the increase in accrued pension is shown before any reduction for early retirement.
4 Inflation over the year has been allowed for using the September 2012 statutory CPI revaluation order of 2.5%.
Where members retired left during the year, a proportionate inflationary increase has been applied.
5 For members who left or retired during the year, the transfer values are calculated as at the date of leaving or retirement, using market conditions at 23 February 2013.
The first 100% is subject to the achievement of underlying diluted EPS growth of at least RPI plus 9% over three years and the balance vests for achieving growth of at least RPI plus 15%.
Executives have until the tenth anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their options.
No options have been granted to Executive Directors under the Discretionary Share Option Plan since 2010.
Maximum awards of up to 200% of base salary can be granted under the Discretionary Share Option Plan.
However, it is not intended that this plan will be used and awards will only be granted in exceptional circumstances.
Performance against targets EPS growth for the period 2009 10 to 2011 12 exceeded RPI by 17.1% and therefore the share options awarded in 2009 vested in full on 6 May 2012.
EPS growth for the period 2010 11 to 2012 13 did not meet the performance target and therefore the share options awarded in 2010 will lapse on 7 May 2013.
Market prices of Tesco PLC shares The share price as at 23 February 2013 was 372.25p.
The share price during the 52 weeks to 23 February 2013 ranged from 297.1p to 374.4p.
Leaving provisions Where a Director ceased to be a Director of Tesco PLC in the year, the figures in this table are at the date on which they ceased to be a Director of Tesco PLC.
Richard Brasher stepped down from the Board on 15 March 2012 and left the Company on 31 July 2012.
His vested awards may be exercised for one year after leaving.
His unvested award 2010 will lapse on 7 May 2013 as the performance conditions have not been met.
His vested awards may be exercised for three years after leaving.
Tim Mason stepped down from the Board on 5 December 2012.
His unvested award 2010 lapsed on leaving.
Lucy Neville-Rolfe retired from the Board on 2 January 2013.
Her vested awards may be exercised for three years after leaving.
Her unvested award 2010 will lapse on 7 May 2013 as the performance conditions have not been met.
Option exercises and lapses Options are not subject to performance conditions.
All options are exercisable from 1 February in the year which is six years from the year of grant.
All options expire six months from their exercise date i. e. on 1 August of the relevant year.
Richard Brasher stepped down from the Board on 15 March 2012.
His options lapsed on leaving the Company on 31 July 2012.
His options granted in 2009 and 2010 lapsed on leaving the Company on 1 September 2012.
His 2007 and 2008 options may be exercised with the savings available at the point of leaving.
All his options lapsed on leaving the Company on 5 December 2012.
Her options may be exercised with the savings available at the point of leaving.
Tim Masons awards have been made in the form of unfunded promises to deliver shares.
Awards are increased to reflect dividend equivalents as each dividend is paid.
Performance against targets Awards made before 2011 are subject to performance conditions based on ROCE targets.
As reported in last years report, 69.7% of the 2009 awards based on Group ROCE performance vested on 15 July 2012.
The balance of the Group award and whole award subject to performance against International ROCE targets lapsed on 15 July 2012.
For PSP awards granted on 14 October 2010 the Group ROCE target for the first 75% was 12.5% 25% vesting to 13.6% 100% vesting.
The International ROCE target for the first 75% was 6.0% 25% vesting to 7.5% 100% vesting.
The remaining 25% of each portion of the award vests subject to the Committees assessment of the quality of ROCE performance.
Group and International ROCE performance was below the level required for threshold levels of vesting and therefore no portion of these awards will vest.
64 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Table 5 Long Term Performance Share Plan continued PSP targets 2011 and 2012 The targets for the awards granted on 11 July 2011 and 30 July 2012 are set out below.
Performance against these targets will be measured at the end of the 2013 14 and 2014 15 financial years.
% of initial award vesting % of initial award vesting EPS growth p. a. EPS growth p. a.
Threshold Target Stretch Threshold Stretch Targets for Targets for 2011 2011 awards 7% 10% 12% 2012 2012 awards 5% 12% Straight-line 14.6% 45% 100% 14.6% 45% 100% 75% vesting between ROCE ROCE 13.6% 20% these points 13.6% 20% 60% 85% 85% Leaving provisions Where a Director ceased to be a Director of Tesco PLC in the year, the figures in this table are at the date on which they ceased to be a Director of Tesco PLC.
No new awards were made to former Directors in the year.
In line with the plan rules, existing awards held by former Directors will vest subject to performance in the same proportion as the other Directors awards above.
His last award 2011 lapsed on leaving the Company on 31 July 2012.
His vested awards 2007, 2008 and 2009 may be exercised for one year after leaving.
His 2010 award will lapse on 14 July 2013 as the performance targets were not met.
His last award 2012 lapsed on leaving.
His 2011 award will vest on 11 July 2014 subject to the achievement of performance conditions and any vesting portion will be available for exercise for one year.
All of his awards lapsed on leaving the Company on 5 December 2012.
Her last award 2012 lapsed on leaving.
Her 2010 award will lapse on 14 July 2013 as the performance targets were not met.
Her 2011 award will vest on 11 July 2014 subject to the achievement of performance conditions and any vesting portion will be available for exercise for one year.
Table 6 Group New Business Incentive Plan Options exercised Date of As at Shares shares As at award 25 February awarded released 23 February grant 2012 in year in year 2013 Date from which exercisable Expiry date Sir Terry Leahy 14.11.2007 2,886,738 152,010 3,038,748 Four tranches 20112014 14.11.2017 Group New Business Incentive Plan The award made under this plan will normally vest in four tranches, four, five, six and seven years after the date of award for nil consideration.
The award is in the form of nil cost options.
Awards may be adjusted to take account of any dividends paid or that are payable in respect of the number of shares earned.
The former Group CEO, Sir Terry Leahy, retired on 2 March 2011 and his interest in these awards will continue until their normal vesting dates.
Awards are increased to reflect dividends as each dividend is paid.
These will vest in line with the underlying award based on performance.
Performance against targets The vesting of the award made to Sir Terry Leahy under this plan is conditional on achievement against Group and International ROCE performance conditions.
Once performance against the Group and International targets has been determined, the extent to which the award made under this plan is capable of vesting will be conditional on the financial performance of the US business venture.
The targets are set out below.
The third tranche 2012 13 of the award was subject to testing against US Return on Capital Employed ROCE and Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT targets and the targets were not met.
The 2010 11 and 2011 12 targets were also not met so no part of this award has vested to date.
The next and last assessment of performance will be in respect of 2013 14.
It is unlikely that any portion of the award will vest.
Targets The extent to which the awards will vest is conditional on the financial performance of the US business based on the achievement of stretching EBIT and ROCE targets.
A percentage of the EBIT of the US business for the relevant years may be allocated to an EBIT pool which will be capped at 10% in any one year.
The portion of the award which may vest will be determined by reference to the value of the EBIT pool as well as the ROCE targets.
Summary of US business performance conditions ROCE hurdle 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 Maximum 6% ROCE 9% ROCE 11% ROCE 12% ROCE Target performance 4% ROCE 6% ROCE 8% ROCE 10% ROCE Vesting percentage % of maximum award Vesting levels at maximum performance Up to 25% Up to 50% Up to 75% Up to 100% Vesting levels at target performance Up to 6.25% Up to 10% Up to 12.5% Up to 18.75% Following a strategic review, the Group has decided to dispose of its US operations.
It is considered that it is highly unlikely that the final performance test for the Group New Business Incentive Plan will be met and therefore it is expected that this award will lapse in full.
Awards made in 2009 were in the form of restricted shares.
No options lapsed in the year.
As reported in last years report, Richard Brasher and David Potts were awarded deferred share bonuses of 13.54% of salary on 25 May 2012 in respect of the performance against targets in 2011 12.
His awards may be exercised for one year from the date that the award is due to become exercisable, three years after the date of grant.
His awards may be exercised for one year after leaving the Company on 1 September 2012.
His awards will be released at the date that the award is due to become available, three years after the date of grant.
Her awards may be exercised for one year after leaving the Company on 2 January 2013.
66 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Table 8 Directors interests in the Long Term Incentive Plan Number Number of shares of shares Price on as at as at Share price award 25 February 23 February on release Value realisable Award date pence 2012 Shares awarded Shares released 2013 pence 000 Release date Laurie McIlwee 20.05.09 356.05 50,596 1,612 52,208 311.125 162 20.05.12 These shares were awarded to Laurie McIlwee under the senior management bonus scheme before he joined the Board.
Table 9 Disclosable interests of the Directors, including family interests 23 February 2013 or at date of 25 February 2012 retirement resignation if earlier or on appointment if later Options Options to acquire to acquire Ordinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary 1 2 1 2 shares shares shares shares Executive Directors 3 Richard Brasher 1,258,619 3,501,665 1,258,585 3,501,665 Philip Clarke 1,829,467 5,251,600 1,832,007 4,352,977 3 Andrew Higginson 572,174 3,978,855 707,081 4,076,589 3 Tim Mason 1,082,208 1,154,281 1,975,704 1,545,587 Laurie McIlwee 76,390 2,731,881 75,506 2,144,448 3 Lucy Neville-Rolfe 456,466 2,472,447 458,036 2,516,326 Non-executive Directors Sir Richard Broadbent 53,996 53,996 Gareth Bullock Patrick Cescau 18,340 18,340 Stuart Chambers 25,000 5,500 3 Karen Cook Ken Hanna 25,000 25,000 3 Ken Hydon 60,093 60,093 3 Deanna Oppenheimer 52,500 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 16,472 16,472 Total 5,526,725 19,090,729 6,486,320 18,137,592 Ordinary shares 1 Ordinary shares shown in this table include shares awarded to Tim Mason under the Performance Share Plan shown in Table 5 which are subject to future performance conditions, shares held by Tim Mason under the Executive Incentive Plan shown in Table 7 which are subject to a holding period, shares held under the Long Term Incentive Plan shown in Table 8 which are subject to a holding period and shares held under the all-employee Share Incentive Plan which are subject to a holding period.
Deanna Oppenheimer holds 17,500 Tesco American Depositary Receipts which is equivalent to 52,500 Tesco ordinary shares of 5p.
B etween 23 February 2013 and 30 April 2013, 88 shares were purchased by Executive Directors as part of the Buy As You Earn scheme.
Buy As You Earn is an HMRC approved share purchase scheme under which employees invest up to a limit of 110 on a four-weekly basis to buy shares in Tesco PLC at the market value.
On 25 April 2013, Olivia Garfield, a Nonexecutive Director appointed on 1 April 2013, purchased 4,086 ordinary shares.
There have been no other changes in Directors Interests in Tesco PLC shares at the date of the publication of this report.
Options over shares 2 Options to acquire ordinary shares shown in this table comprise options held under the Discretionary Share Option Plan shown in Table 3, Save As You Earn scheme shown in Table 4 and nil cost options held under the Performance Share Plan and Executive Incentive Plan shown in Tables 5 and 7 respectively.
Appointments and leavers 3 The figures in this table are from the date of appointment or until the date that each Director ceased to be a Director of Tesco PLC.
