70 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Statement by Chair of Remuneration Committee Pay for performance Dear Shareholder, I am delighted to present our report on Directors remuneration at the end of a very successful year.
The Groups improved financial performance and rapid progress in respect of the Transformation The Committee considers it have exceeded our initial expectations.
Whilst these significant essential to ensure that our achievements are fully explained on pages 2 to 45 of the Annual Report, I would like to summarise the Groups achievements here executive pay arrangements togive context to the decisions of the Committee during, and in respect of, the year.
are fully aligned with the ambition and achievement The Committee believes that the performance of Harriet Green has been exceptional throughout the year.
Under her strong leadership of our Transformation and and vision we have effected a rigorous and rapid turnaround of the profitable growth strategy.
business and moved at pace with our ambitious Transformation: delivering more than expected, as demonstrated by our signicantly improved financial performance across a range of KPIs.
We have also developed, communicated and started to implement our strategy of sustainable profitable growth.
The performance of Michael Healy is also regarded by the Committee as exceptional with the introduction of a successful range of internal disciplines and measures to strengthen our balance sheet and the execution, in June of this year, ofour 1.6 billion Capital Renancing Plan.
Chairman Roger Burnell The outstanding performance of our Executive Directors across a range of metrics, as disclosed on page 80 of the Annual Remuneration Report, should not diminish the stretching nature of the targets when set by the Committee at the start of the year.
It is against this pleasing backdrop, and in line with our pay for performance remuneration philosophy, that the Committee has taken its decisions in respect of our Executive Directors remuneration arrangements.
The Committee considers it essential to ensure that our executive pay arrangements are fully aligned with the ambition and achievement of our Transformation and profitable growth strategy.
We also aim to operate a best-in-class approach to governance and shareholder engagement, so that our executives are remunerated in a manner that reects the views of our shareholders and best corporate governance practice.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 71 The changes outlined impact upon all senior executives with Alignment with our Transformation responsibility for delivering our Transformation, including andprotablegrowth strategy Executive Directors.
The Committee rigorously follows its pay for performance philosophy and, during the year, developed senior executive pay arrangements Aligning the long-term interests of toensure they are both stretching and fully aligned with our ambitious 1 ourseniorexecutives Transformation and profitable growth strategy.
For the first time, all senior executives now share in the same strategic targets and KPIs that The Committee considers it is important that Executive Directors will focus Thomas Cook on delivery and success.
Performance against and other key senior executives should further demonstrate their these targets and KPIs is monitored on a regular basis.
alignment with the long-term interests of shareholders and, therefore, the following changes have been made: Key changes in line with the above reward philosophy include: the introduction of a shareholding guideline policy of1xsalary: and new financial performance measures and targets for the increased annual bonus deferral, with one-third of the annual bonus Performance Share Plan PSP : and deferred for two years and the unvested deferred shares subject new financial and strategic performance measures and targets to clawback.
Our targets and KPIs for our Transformation How our remuneration is aligned with our Transformation and profitable growth strategy and profitable growth strategy FY15 Target Annual bonus 13 14 Performance share plan 2012 and 2013 1 New product revenue 700m Reected as a core measure Web penetration 50% Reected as a core measure Reected in Group EBIT measure and 1 2 Cost out profit improvement 440m GroupCEO and CFO role-specic objectives Reected in our Group EBIT core measure Sales CAGR 3 year 3.5% Role-specic objectives where appropriate Reected in Group EBIT measure and Gross margin improvement 1.5% GroupCEO and CFO role-specic objectives Reected in our Group EBIT core measure UK underlying EBIT margin 5% Role-specic objectives where appropriate 1 Cash conversion 70% Reected as a core measure Reected as a core measure for 2012 and 2013 1 As described on page 20, three of the targets set out above have been signicantly increased since March 2013, when they were first set and communicated to the market reecting the pace and extent of progress in respect of the Transformation.
These increased targets are: new product revenue increased from 500 million to 700 million, cost out profit improvement increased from 350 million to 440 million, and cash conversion increased from 60% to 70%.
The targets for the FY 13 14 annual bonus and the September 2013 PSP awards were set with reference to the new targets.
Harriet Green and Michael Healy.
A full discussion of performance against Reecting the views of our shareholders targets is set out on page 80.
In summer 2013, the Committee conducted a comprehensive The 2010 PSP and Co-Investment Plan COIP awards lapsed as the consultation with our major shareholders, representing greater than 50% performance targets were not met.
of our share capital, and also key governance bodies to discuss our overall remuneration policy and the changes outlined above.
Remuneration for 2013 14 We are grateful for the level of engagement and the positive, supportive Base salary, annual bonus and PSP award decisions for 2013 14 are set and constructive feedback we received on our proposals.
We used 3 out in the Statement of implementation of remuneration Policy in the these inputs to nalise our remuneration policy as we strive to operate following financial year on pages 84 and 85. abest-in-class approach to remuneration and corporate governance.
Those decisions also reect the exceptional performance of both Further detail, including key changes that were made as result of this Harriet Green and Michael Healy over the last year, as evidenced by consultation, is set out on pages 76 and 87. the achievement of the first stages of our Transformation: and the We remain committed to ongoing engagement with our shareholders significant contribution that will be required from our Executive Directors and expect to consult with our major shareholders in relation to any in the future.
matters that we consider shareholders should have the opportunity to express a prior view on.
This includes determining the performance New style report measures for the next award under the Performance Share Plan Our Remuneration Report has been prepared in line with the new currently expected to be made in January 2015 and the exercise of regulations.
We are grateful to shareholders for their inputs to our Policy exibility or significant discretion as provided for in our Policy Report.
Report during our summer 2013 consultation and look forward to your support at the 2014 AGM and throughout the year ahead.
Remuneration outcomes for 2012 13 As referenced above, the annual bonus performance targets set at the start of the year were stretching and fully reected the challenging nature Roger Burnell of the task that then lay ahead.
We believe in pay for performance and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee therefore, due to the exceptional performance by our management 27 November 2013 team, 100% of the maximum annual bonus opportunity was paid to Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 72 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy It is intended that this Policy Report shall take binding effect from the date of its approval at the 2014 AGM.
Information on how the Company intends to implement the policy for the current financial year is set out in the Statement of implementation of remuneration policy section in the attached AnnualRemuneration Report.
Future policy table Element Purpose and link to strategic objectives Operation Provides xed remuneration for the Salaries are paid monthly and are normally reviewed annually.
Base salary role, which reects the size and scope of Consideration is typically given to a range of factors including: the Executive Directors responsibilities.
#0'#, !# talent necessary to deliver the F 7.
@ To provide competitive post-retirement Payment may be made either into a pension scheme e. g. a dened contribution plan or delivered as a Retirement benets or cash allowance equivalent.
cash allowance with Company contributions set as a percentage of basic salary.
benets Attracts and retains the high-calibre Level of benefit is dependent upon seniority.
talent necessary to deliver the business strategy.
Ensures the overall package Provision of a range of benets by the Company.
Such benets may include those currently provided to Executive Benets is competitive.
Directors, as disclosed on page 79.
These are reviewed annually by the Committee to ensure that they provide a Attracts and retains the high-calibre competitive package and facilitate the delivery of the business strategy.
talent necessary to deliver the The Company reserves the right to deliver benets to Executive Directors depending on their individual business strategy.
circumstances, which may include housing, travel, education, healthcare and other allowances.
In the case of non-UK executives, the Committee may consider additional allowances in line with standard practice.
Energises and focuses management on Measures and targets are set annually and pay-out levels are determined by the Committee after the year end Annual bonus rigorous execution of Thomas Cooks basedon performance against those targets.
strategy on an annual basis.
The Committee has full discretion to amend the bonus pay-out upwards or downwards, if in its judgement any Rewards annual performance against formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual Executive Director or the Company, taking challenging annual targets and key account of the overall business performance or situation of the Company.
performance indicators which are Executive Directors must defer one-third of their annual bonus into Company shares which then vest two years critical to the realisation of our business after the cash bonus payment date, subject to continued employment and clawback provisions but no additional strategy.
Regarding the clawback provisions, unvested share awards lapse in certain scenarios, Compulsory deferral into the asdescribed on page 74.
Companys shares provides a link to the Good leaver terms are described in more detail on page 75. creation of long-term sustainable value, At the Committees discretion, Executive Directors may receive the value of dividend equivalents during and also a retention element.
theholdingperiod on the vested shares.
The clawback provision enables the Company to mitigate risk.
Energises and focuses management on The current Performance Share Plan was approved by shareholders in 2007, and is governed by the rules of the Plan.
Long-term rigorous execution of Thomas Cooks Asummary of the key features is set out below: share-based strategy over the longer term.
Awards may be made in the form of conditional shares or options with vesting dependent upon the achievement of incentive plan Rewards sustained performance performance conditions set by the Committee.
Vesting of awards will be subject to a three-year performance period.
against challenging long-term targets The Committee has full discretion to amend the number of shares that vest upwards or downwards, if in its and key performance indicators which judgement any formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual Executive Director or the are critical to the realisation of our Company, taking account of the overall business performance or situation of the Company.
The award will lapse if the participant leaves employment before vesting unless in specic good leaver Long-term performance targets and circumstances.
Good leaver terms are described in more detail on page 75. share-based remuneration support The Committee may in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital adjust or amend the terms of the creation of long-term shareholder theawardsin accordance with the rules of the Plan.
If the Company pays any dividends in respect of record dates falling in the period from the award date to the vestingdate, the Committee may consider that the Executive should receive a payment following delivery ofthesharesin satisfaction of their award, the value of which is equivalent to the cash value of the dividends inrespectofany shares that vest.
To reward individuals for fullling the The Committee is responsible for determining the fees for the Chairman of the Company.
The fees for the other Chairman and relevant role.
Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
Non-Executive Attracts and retains individuals with The fee structure may include: Director fees the skills, experience and knowledge to F 1'!
$## contribute to an effective Board.
J@ Travel and hotel costs that are deemed to be an employment benefit by the relevant tax authority may also be paid.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration or loss of office payments including the satisfaction of any outstanding awards of variable remuneration made to Executive Directors, where the terms of that payment were agreed: i prior to the approval of this Policy under their original terms for these purposes, the terms of a share award are agreed at the time it is granted: or ii at a time where the individual was not a Director of the Company, and in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 73 1 Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Current salaries are disclosed on page 85.
Performance, through our performance management processes is one of the key considerations in setting Increases may be made to salary levels in certain circumstances as and reviewing salary.
required, for example, to reect: F, !0# 1# ', 1!-.
-1'2'-, ', % -4#0 2' #@ Ordinarily, salary increases will not exceed the average increase awarded to other employees in the Group.
Current Company contribution rates are disclosed on page 79.
Set at a level which the Committee considers is appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and complexity in the relevant market.
Benets may include those currently provided to Executive Directors, None.
as disclosed on page 79, however the Committee reserves the right 2 to provide such level of benets as it considers appropriate to support the ongoing strategy of the Company.
For maximum performance: The Committee will have regard to various performance metrics which will be determined by 150% of salary.
theCommittee measured over the relevant financial year, when determining bonuses.
No less than 70% of the award is based on financial measures and up to 30% of the award may bebasedonthe achievement of role-specic objectives, which may be financial or non-financial.
For achievement of a threshold performance level, the minimum level of performance that results inanypayment, no more than 20% of the maximum for each element of the bonus pays out.
For achievement of a mid performance level, no more than 60% of the maximum for each performancemetric in relation to the bonus pays out.
For achievement of a maximum performance level, 100% of the maximum pays out.
Under the plan rules, the aggregate value of all awards made within The performance measures for the Performance Share Plan will be a combination of financial measures any 12 month period must not exceed 200% of base salary or and share price based measures, measured over at least a three-year performance period.
Normally, the such other period as the Committee may determine in exceptional weightings will be as follows: 3 circumstances.
# 130#1 The normal maximum face value of awards is 150% of salary.
"0'!# 1#"" # 130#1@ max, when it believes the situation warrants a higher level of award."
The Committee will determine more specic performance measures for future awards as the Company makes progress with its Transformation during 2014 and will consult with major shareholders ahead of thenext award.
The performance measures may be adjusted, following grant, by the Committee to ensure a consistent basisof calculation and to provide a fair reection of the Companys performance.
For achievement of a threshold performance level, which is the minimum level of performance that results in any part of an award vesting, no more than 30% of each respective element of the award will vest.
For achievement of a maximum performance level, which is the highest level of performance that results in any additional vesting, 100% of each respective element of the award will vest.
Normally, there will be straight-line vesting for any performance level between threshold and maximum.
The Committee may substitute, vary or waive the performance targets if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that the target is no longer appropriate.
Set at a level which the Committee or the Board, as appropriate None.
"#!2#"" from the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors F.. 0-."
'#1 ofa similar size and complexity in the relevant market.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 74 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy continued Policy for the remuneration of employees generally Explanatory detail for future policy table Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group Changes made in the year based on the same principle that reward should be achieved for In light of the new Thomas Cook strategy for profitable growth which delivery of our business strategy and should be sufficient to attract was announced in March 2013, the Company undertook a review and retain high calibre talent, without paying more than is necessary.
of the executive remuneration policy to ensure that it ts the future needs of the business.
Thomas Cook has operations based in a number of different countries and at different levels of seniority, and though based on the The following changes were made: overarching principle above, reward policies vary depending upon The performance measures for the annual bonus plan and the these factors.
Performance Share Plan were reviewed and will be agreed each year to ensure that they support the Thomas Cook strategy Senior executives with a significant ability to inuence Company The level of annual bonus deferral was increased to improve the results may participate in the annual bonus plan and the PSP.
alignment of the Thomas Cook executive team with shareholders over the longer term Approach to recruitment remuneration For the same reason, a shareholding guideline policy was introduced.
When agreeing a remuneration package for the appointment of new directors, the Committee will apply the following principles: As detailed below, shareholder views were sought on these changes.
The package will be sufficient to attract and retain the high-calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy Explanation of chosen performance measures The Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than and the target setting process isnecessary Performance measures have been selected to reect the targets and In the next annual remuneration report, the Committee will explain key performance indicators which are critical to the realisation of our to shareholders the rationale for the relevant arrangements and if business strategy.
and when the transition to the policy described on pages 72 and 73 will occur.
Challenging performance targets are set by the Committee each year for the annual bonus and the PSP.
When setting these targets, The following elements may be considered by the Committee the Committee will take into account a number of different reference for inclusion in a recruitment package for an Executive Director, in points including the Companys business plan and consensus analyst addition to the policy elements set out in the table on pages 72 forecasts of the Companys performance.
Full vesting will only occur and 73: for what the Committee considers to be stretching performance.
Element Approach Clawback Initial long-term An initial long-term incentive award may be made, which may be As highlighted in the policy table, a clawback arrangement is in incentive award higher than the maximum PSP opportunity, as set out on page 73. place.
Under this arrangement, the unvested deferred annual bonus The Committee will ensure: shares may lapse in whole or in part if a clawback event occurs, The award is linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance targets which includes: The award will be forfeited if the performance and continued a material adverse misstatement of the Companys employment conditions are not achieved.
nancialstatements Initial annual bonus The initial annual bonus opportunity may be set higher than the the participant or their team having engaged in gross misconduct opportunity approved policy.
orinconduct which resulted in significant losses, as determined The Committee will ensure the award is linked to the achievement bythe Committee and or of appropriate and challenging performance targets.
the Company having suffered serious reputational damage, Compensation for The terms of any compensation will be determined by taking asdetermined by the Committee, as a result of any action taken forfeited awards into account the terms of any forfeited awards, including: bythe participant or his team.
Performance achieved or likely to be achieved The proportion of performance vesting period remaining The form and timing of the original award.
In addition, under the PSP, the Committee has discretion to amend the final vesting level should any formulaic output not reect the Sign on awards In certain limited circumstances, for example in order to overall business performance.
This discretion allows the Committee compensate for a loss at a previous employer other than for forfeited awards, the Committee may make a one-off sign-on to decrease or increase the pay-out in the range of 0% 100% of the award as part of the initial package.
The Committee retains the discretion to determine, based on the circumstances at the time, whether this would be in cash or Salary, pension and benets are not subject to clawback.
shares, whether or not performance conditions or an additional holding period would apply.
Notice period The initial notice period may be longer than the Companys six month policy up to a maximum of 24 months.
However, this will reduce by one month for every month served, until the Companys policy position is reached.
Relocation costs Where necessary, the Company will pay appropriate relocation costs, in line with standard practice.
The Committee will seek toensure that no more is paid than is necessary.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 75 An enhanced initial notice period, sign-on awards or increased initial For reference, good leaver scenarios include death, disability, injury, annual bonus or long-term incentive award opportunities would only ill-health, redundancy, retirement, the award holders employing be made available in exceptional circumstances.
company or business being sold out of the Group, or any other reason that the Committee determines appropriate.
Under the reporting regulations, Thomas Cook is required to set out the maximum amount of variable pay which could be paid to a Other than in the good leaver scenarios described, no pay-outs will 1 new Director in respect of their recruitment.
In order to provide the be made under performance-linked elements.
Company with sufficient exibility in a recruitment scenario, the Committee has set this gure as 500% of base salary.
This covers Any good leaver awards may vest or be paid out immediately upon themaximum annual bonus and the maximum face value of any termination or in line with the original vesting or payment date, at the long-term incentive awards.
This level of variable pay would only be available in exceptional Awards granted under the PSP shall lapse at the time of cessation of circumstances, and in order to achieve such a level of variable pay, employment unless the Committee has used its discretion to deem stretching targets would need to be met, over both one year for that an individual is a good leaver, when the Committee has the the annual bonus and at least three-year for long-term incentive discretion to determine when awards vest and, if relevant, when they performance periods.
Awards structured as options shall be exercisable for a period of six months or 12 months in the case of death from For individuals becoming Executive Directors as a result of an internal vesting unless the Committee determines any other period should promotion from within Thomas Cook or as a result of an acquisition, apply.
Awards may also vest early if the participant is moved to a any awards under other arrangements which were made prior to country where their capacity to hold the award or deal in shares would joining the Board may be allowed to continue under the original terms, be restricted or they would suffer a tax disadvantage in connection or under a revised basis such as a roll-over into Thomas Cook shares with the award.
if the Committee determines appropriate.
2 In the event of a takeover or winding-up of the Company other Fee levels for a new Chairman or new Non-Executive Directors will be than as part of an internal reorganisation of the Thomas Cook determined in accordance with the policy set out in the future policy Group, PSP awards may also vest to the extent determined by table above.
the Committee taking into account the period elapsed since grant and the performance achieved against any relevant performance targets.
The awards may also be rolled over into new shares of an Service contracts and loss of office payments acquiring company.
Executive Directors Executive Directors have Company service contracts.
For Harriet Green Non-Executive Directors and Michael Healy, the service contracts provide for a six months Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed notice period, from both the Company and the Executive Director.
pursuant to a letter of appointment.
During the year the notice period for all Non-Executive Directors was reduced, from six months to three If the Company terminates the employment of the Executive Director months for the Chairman, and from six months to one month for the with immediate effect, a payment in lieu of notice may be made.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject This may include base salary, pension and benets.
to annual re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment continue until the date stated in their Outstanding awards under the performance-linked elements of the appointment letter, unless they are terminated for cause, or on the package will normally lapse if an executive leaves the Company before notice period stated, or if they are not re-elected at the AGM.
the payment or vesting date.
However, in good leaver scenarios 3 these may vest.
This may include: The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are kept If the participant leaves during the annual bonus performance for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
year and before the payment date, a bonus payment in respect of the year may be made, pro-rated to reect the portion of theperformance year elapsed, and with reference to performanceachieved If the participant leaves before the end of the holding period, anyunvested deferred bonus shares may vest Outstanding unvested awards under the PSP vest to the extent determined by the Committee taking into account the period of time the individual has held the award and performance achieved against any relevant performance targets.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 76 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy continued Outside appointments Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Company recognises the benets to the individual, and to the The Company is committed to on-going engagement and seeks major Group, of Executive Directors taking on external appointments as shareholder views in advance of proposing significant changes to its Non-Executive Directors.
Subject to the approval of the Committee, an remuneration policies.
The following describes the 2013 consultation Executive Director may accept such appointments at other companies as a recent example: or other similar advisory or consultative roles.
The Committee has set During the year, the Company consulted with its shareholders in a limit of one external appointment for each Executive Director, to one respect of remuneration.
FTSE 100 or 250 company, or an international company of a similar In response to the advisory shareholder vote on the Directors size, unless there is justication for a further appointment.
The Board Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM, both the Chairman of the will review the time commitment of all outside appointments and Board and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with ensure that it is satisfied that this will not negatively impact upon major shareholders to discuss the issues raised by them.
the executives time commitment to the performance of Thomas In addition, after the announcement of the Companys new strategy Cook duties.
in March 2013 the Chairman of the Board and the Remuneration Committee chairman met with major shareholders, representing The Committee may allow Executive Directors to retain any cumulatively over 50% of the Companys share capital in June fees payable.
and July 2013 to discuss the approach to performance conditions for the September 2012 and September 2013 PSP awards, and to present the Remuneration Policy set out under the then draft Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere revised Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, which included inthe Company the increased annual bonus deferral and the introduction of shareholding requirements.
At these meetings, soundings were When setting the policy for Directors remuneration, the Committee taken in respect of Executive Director base pay rises.
has regard to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere within Subsequent follow-up consultation was carried out during the Group.
This includes consideration of: September, October and November.
Salary increases for the general employee population Overall spend on annual bonus We were pleased with the level of engagement from our shareholders, Participation levels in the annual bonus and any and the positive, supportive and constructive feedback we received long-term incentives on our proposals.
Views from all shareholder meetings were taken Company-wide benefit including pension offerings into consideration when formulating executive remuneration policy.
Any other relevant factors as determined by the Committee.
An example of how shareholders views were taken into account was that the Committee decided to amend the share-price measurement In order to take into account the views of the general employee basis to be in line with shareholder requirements, as described on population when formulating Director pay policy, the Committee pages 81 and 87. mayreview information provided by the HR function and feedback from employee engagement surveys.
We were pleased with the level of engagement from our shareholders, and the positive, supportive and constructive feedback we received on our proposals.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 77 Illustrative performance scenarios Group CEO Harriet Green Group CFO Michael Healy Total Remuneration 000 Total Remuneration 000 3,500 3,500 3,450 39% 1 3,000 3,000 2,500 2,500 2,397 42% 2,000 1,988 2,000 30% 15% 1,500 1,500 1,322 31% 1,070 31% 17% 1,000 1,000 100% 54% 31% 34% 647 500 500 27% 100% 49% 0 0 Base salary, Mid Maximum Base salary, Mid Maximum benets, pension benets, pension Total xed Annual bonus PSP Total xed Annual bonus PSP The above charts are based on the current package.
The charts show the level of remuneration that would be received by the Directors above in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy in the first financial year it applies i. e. financial year 2013 2014.
The charts show three scenarios: a base salary, benets and pension, b mid and c maximum.
In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: 2 Based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with the following scenario: Only total xed pay is received, i. e. base salary, benets and pension.
This is calculated as follows: Base salary is the latest known salary.
Benets measured at benets in single gure table.
Further context for this gure is provided on page 79.
Base salary, benets Pension measured by applying cash in lieu rate against latest known salary.
and pension Base Benets Pension Total xed Group CEO 680,000 186,000 204,000 1,070,000 Group CFO 500,000 22,000 125,000 647,000 Based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with the Companys expectations, which would result in the following scenario: Mid Annual bonus pays out at 60% of maximum for mid performance.
A PSP award with a face value of 150% in line with the normal grant policy pays out 30% of maximum, being threshold level of vesting.
Based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with the following scenario: Full pay-out of annual bonus, i. e. 150% of salary.
Maximum A PSP award with a face value of 200% in line with the maximum possible award under the plan rules pays out at 100% 3 of maximum.
Notes: As required by the regulations, performance share plan awards and amounts included within the bonus which have been deferred into shares are set out at face value, withno share price growth assumptions.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 78 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee presents its Annual Report on External advisors Directors remuneration which is set out below: Deloitte LLP were formally appointed as advisors by the Committee following a competitive tender process in June 2012.
They were Consideration by the Directors of matters appointed specically to provide the Committee with objective and relating to Directors remuneration independent advice on executive remuneration matters.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, The following Directors were members of the Remuneration voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive Committee when matters relating to the Directors remuneration for remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is satisfied that the year were considered: the advice they have received from Deloitte during the year has been Roger Burnell Chair objective and independent.
Total fees paid to Deloitte in relation to Dawn Airey advice to the Committee amounted to 65,559 charged on a time Martine Verluyten plus expenses basis.
Other practices of Deloitte, separate from the Emre Berkin from 1 April 2013 executive remuneration practice, have provided consulting services in relation to systems and organisational design projects and general tax The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings, as it deems and corporate finance advice to the Company during the year.
beneficial to assist it in reviewing matters for consideration.
During the year, these individuals included Frank Meysman Chairman, Harriet During the year, Alithos provided assistance to the Committee Green Group Chief Executive Officer, Peter Marks Non-Executive regarding the calculation of total shareholder return, for which the Director, Craig Stoehr Group General Counsel, Sandra Campopiano total fees were 9,000 based on the number of awards for which Chief People Officer, Judith Mackenzie Group Head of Performance calculations were performed and the reports produced.
Alithos was and Reward and Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary.
selected by the Company as a service provider, and the Committee is Martine Verluyten is also Chairman of the Audit Committee and satisfied that the advice is independent and objective.
Alithos provided as such ensures that there is coordination in respect of risk and no other services to the Company.
No Director or Senior Executive is present at meetings when their own remuneration arrangements are discussed.
2 The bonus amount shown of 1,785,000 relates to a 14-month period from 30 July 2012 to 30 September 2013, however, as the performance conditions ended during theyear 2012 13, it is necessary to show the bonus amount solely within that year.
3 Michael Healy was appointed Group CFO on 1 July 2012.
4 Emre Berkin was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2012.
5 Richard Pennycook was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2013 and resigned on 5 June 2013.
6 As disclosed in the 2011 12 Directors Remuneration Report, by resigning from her previous position to join the Company, Harriet Green forfeited deferred bonus and long-term incentive awards granted by her former employer.
To help in securing her appointment, the Company agreed to provide a measure of compensation for these awards, based on an independent external valuation of the projected vesting level.
As a result, the Company paid Harriet Green cash payments of 244,000 and 292,000 in April and July 2013 respectively, such dates being the normal vesting dates for the awards made by her former employer.
The value has been noted in the 2011 12 column as the payment was in respect of Harriet Greens appointment during that year.
The Committee did not consider it appropriate to apply additional Thomas Cook performance measures to these payments, as they are compensation for forfeiture of awards from a former employer and reect only the projected vesting level of those awards, already taking into account performance achieved compared to the original targets set.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 79 Additional disclosures Further information in respect of the salary, benets, pension, annual bonus and PSP amounts included in the table above are given below: Salary Base salaries for the Executive Directors were unchanged during the year.
1 Benets The following table sets out the benets received and the tax paid by the Company in respect of certain benets: Tax on grossed-up Income Accommodation accommodation Tax on grossedName Car allowance Private medical Life assurance protection costs costs Travel costs up travel costs Total Harriet Green 20,000 1,693 1,405 6,468 60,937 54,619 21,205 19,440 185,767 Michael Healy 20,000 1,693 796 22,489 Frank Meysman 13,174 12,241 12,379 37,794 The benets received by the Executive Directors include private medical benets, life assurance death-in-service benefit and car allowance.
Harriet Green additionally receives income protection and the provision of accommodation in London and travel costs reimbursed by the Company and the income tax assessed by HMRC as payable on the accommodation and travel expense elements.
Of the benets disclosed for Harriet Green, circa 82,000 relate to these accommodation and travel costs, which are considered necessary due to late and early meetings necessitated by the scale and pace of our ambitious Transformation.
The gure disclosed for Frank Meysman is in respect of accommodation in London and travel costs reimbursed by the Company and the income tax assessed by HMRC as payable on the London accommodation element.
Frank Meysmans travel expenses between Belgium and the UK are not taxable, as he is domiciled in Belgium and is entitled to a specic deduction under HMRC rules.
2 The income tax is not paid on any other elements of the benets received by Harriet Green and Frank Meysman.
Pensions The Company contributes for each of the Executive Directors into either a pension scheme or as a cash allowance an amount equivalent to 30% and 25% of annual base salary or the Group CEO and Group CFO, respectively.
Currently, both Harriet Green and Michael Healy receive their pension contributions as cash allowances.
3 Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 80 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Remuneration Report continued Annual bonus For the year, the maximum annual bonus award opportunity was: Group CEO: 225% of salary per annum however the Committee agreed at the time of appointment of Harriet Green that the 2012 13 annual bonus maximum would be adjusted to reect the 14 month period from date of appointment to the year end.
The rationale for this maximum bonus opportunity of 225% was, as stated in last years report, to incentivise significant stretch targets linked to the Transformation plan.
The annual bonus opportunity for FY 2013 14 is aligned with policy at 150%.
Group CFO: 150% of salary per annum.
The table below sets out details of performance against the FY 2012 13 bonus targets: Group CEO Actual performance relative to targets set Resulting level Weight % Below Threshold Mid Maximum Actual performance of award Measures as a % of improvement 20% of 60% of 100% of achieved %maximum max award on 2011 12 maximum maximum maximum opportunity opportunity opportunity opportunity 1 Group free cash ow 15% 53.2m n a 100% 2 Group underlying EBIT 10% 263.0m 68.48% 100% 3 UK underlying EBIT 10% 65.2m 413.39% 100% Savings of 250m announced to the Financial Internal savings 10% market at the half year and 70m realised n a 100% FY13 1.6bn renancing plan executed External funding 15% n a 100% inJune2013 Management 5% significant improvements delivered n a 100% Information Reporting Targets were set Performance judged exceptional against relating to the all measures.
Highlights include successful development and approval and positively received launch Strategic launch of the new of the new strategy for profitable growth 35% n a 100% and critical new leadership appointments andpeople strategy, and key talent, made and significant improvements in engagement and internal and external communication best practice sharing andeffective ways of working.
initiatives Total resulting level of award as % of maximum opportunity 100% Group CFO Actual performance relative to targets set Resulting level Weight % Below Threshold Mid Maximum Actual performance of award Measures as a % of improvement 20% of 60% of 100% of achieved %maximum max award on 2011 12 maximum maximum maximum opportunity opportunity opportunity opportunity 1 Group free cash ow 35% 53.2m n a 100% Financial 2 Group underlying EBIT 35% 263.0m 68.48% 100% Exceptional performance in leading the successful capital renancing Targets were set inMay 2013. relating to external Continuous improvement of funding, development GroupFinance processes.
Strategic of the Group Finance 30% Savings of 250m announced to the n a 100% andpeople market at the half year and 70m function, and relevant realised FY13.
strategic financial Supported the UK management team targets in achieving turnaround objectives and delivery of UK underlying EBIT of 65.2m.
Total resulting level of award as % of maximum opportunity 100% Notes: 1 The percentage improvement on 2011 12 for Group free cash ow is marked as n a because last years gure of 103 million was negative which does not permit a percentage comparison.
2 Group underlying EBIT performance of 263 million for FY 13 resulted in 100% achievement of the bonus stretch target.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee made an adjustment to the FY 13 actual performance and bonus targets to include the results of the North American business for the period prior to disposal in FY 13.
Although this calculation reduced actual performance and increased the bonus target, as the North American business made losses prior to disposal while it was budgeted to be profitable, the result showed that 100% ofthestretch target would still have been achieved.
3 2011 12 gures included India divested in 2012.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 81 The actual performance targets set at the beginning of the Scheme interests awarded during the financial year performance period are not disclosed as they are considered to The following table sets out details of awards of conditional shares remain commercially sensitive at this time.
We will disclose these made during the year under the PSP.
Thomas Cook consulted with targets at such point that the Committee considers they are no longer major shareholders in respect of these awards further detail is commercially sensitive.
1 Annual bonus deferral Reecting the exceptional performance of both Executive Directors One quarter of the annual bonus was deferred into the Companys over the last year, as evidenced by the achievement of the first stages shares, which will be released after one year.
This policy has been of our Transformation, the Committee considered enhanced award amended for the current year and one-third of the bonus declared levels with face values of 200% and 187.5% of salary were appropriate in respect of the 2013 14 year will be held in the form of shares, for Harriet Green and Michael Healy, respectively.
The award levels, which will vest after two years from the cash bonus date, subject and the challenging performance targets, reect the significant to continued employment and the clawback provisions described contribution that will be required from our Executive Directors over the on page 74.
The deferred shares may be forfeited if the Executive next three years.
Director leaves before the date the deferred shares are released.
In addition, the levels reect that the Committee does not currently Performance Share Plan PSP awards envisage making any further awards under the PSP to Executive There are no pay-outs in respect of the PSP as no awards made to the Directors until early 2015 i. e. it is not intended to make PSP awards Executive Directors have yet reached their vesting dates.
to Executive Directors during the financial year ending 30 September 2014.
Face value has been calculated by multiplying the number of shares awarded by a price of 1.475 which was the closing share price for the 2 trading day immediately prior to the award date.
Amount vesting End of financial Threshold Maximum measures End of share price Number of shares performance performance performance performance Date of award awarded Face value % of face value % of face value period period Group CEO 30.09.2013 922,033 1,360,000 30% 100% 30.09.2016 Measurement approach is Group CFO 30.09.2013 610,169 900,000 30% 100% 30.09.2016 described below Awards to both Executive Directors will vest dependent upon the achievement of three-year performance measures, as set out below: Share price 45% of the overall award Group underlying EBIT 30% of the overall award Cash conversion 25% of the overall award Group Performance Vesting % of Performance Vesting % of Performance Cash Vesting % of Share price underlying level this portion level this portion level conversion this portion EBIT Maximum 3.00 100% Maximum See below 100% Maximum 90% 100% 3 Threshold 2.25 30% Threshold 30% Threshold 70% 30% Share price performance is measured as the Group underlying EBIT performance in respect of Cash conversion performance measured in average share price performance over the xed FY16, which is the final year of the three-year respect of FY16 cash conversion, which is the period of 30 trading days from the release of performance period.
nalyear of the three-year performance period.
thepreliminary FY16 results, with the intention Group underlying EBIT excludes Cash conversion is dened as free cash ow ofcapturing the markets reaction to the exceptional items.
postexceptional items, before capital financial results.
The performance measures above were selected to reect the The Committee considers the targets to be challenging and the strategic and transformational objectives of the Group.
Along with auditors maintain oversight of the performance measurement the 2013 14 annual bonus plan targets, these measures create full process.
The Companys share price when Harriet Green joined on alignment of our reward arrangements with our Transformation 30 July 2012 was 16.25 pence and by 30 September 2013 it was targets and KPIs, as demonstrated on page 20.
The performance targets for the September 2013 PSP the continued use of share price targets, albeit with an amended award were made by reference to the new increased financial targets measurement basis, was agreed with major Shareholders, as set out as described on pages 20 and 71. on pages 66, 76 and 87.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 82 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Remuneration Report continued The Committee also considers the Group underlying EBIT targets to Each of the Non-Executive Directors has been appointed pursuant be stretching, however due to our ambitious plans for the business to a letter of appointment, which are available for inspection at the Transformation, we consider that these targets are commercially Companys registered office.
The appointments under these letters sensitive at this point.
We commit to disclosing the target range continue until the expiry dates set out below unless terminated for on a retrospective basis at the end of the performance period.
cause or on the period of notice stated below: We have discussed this approach with our major Shareholders, Date of latest letter Notice Director ofappointment Expiry date period whoare supportive.
Frank Meysman 27 March 2013 N A 3 months Dawn Airey 27 March 2013 11 April 2016 1 month The Committee will have the discretion to amend the final pay-out Emre Berkin 27 March 2013 30 October 2015 1 month level if it does not consider that it reects the underlying performance of the Company.
As discussed on page 71, we would expect to consult Roger Burnell 27 March 2013 2014 AGM 1 month with our shareholders in the event of any significant adjustment, in Peter Marks 27 March 2013 30 September 2014 1 month particular an upwards adjustment.
Carl Symon 3 October 2013 2 October 2016 1 month Warren Tucker 3 October 2013 2 October 2016 1 month The Committee considers that it is important that all senior executives Martine Verluyten 27 March 2013 8 May 2014 1 month share in the same strategic targets and KPIs that will focus Thomas Note: The notice period for Non-Executive Directors was reduced from six months to Cook on delivery and success.
The top 100 senior executives one month three months for the Chairman during the year, to bring the notice periods participate in the Performance Share Plan, and are therefore also in line with best practice.
focused on delivery of share price, Group underlying EBIT and cash conversion targets.
External appointments Full details of the scheme interests held by Executive Directors As set out in the Policy Report, the Company recognises the benets of are set out on page 86.
Executive Directors taking on external appointments as Non-Executive Directors, subject to the limitations set out in the Policy Report and to Payments within the reporting year to past Committee approval.
Directors, and loss of office payments Harriet Green is a non-executive director of BAE Systems plc and There were no payments to past Directors who were not in position Emerson Electric Co.
Both roles were held prior to her appointment as a Director at the time a relevant payment was accrued.
On her appointment, the Board agreed that she also no loss of office payments made within the year.
should continue to serve on both boards, being satisfied that she will devote sufficient time and energy to the Company and that being a Current Executive Director service contracts non-executive director is a mutual benefit to the executive and the The dates of the service contracts for Harriet Green and Michael Company.
For the period from 1 October 2012 until 30 September Healy are 23 May 2012 and 8 May 2012.
Harriet Greens initial notice 2013, she received fees of 84,000 and $115,875.08 respectively, period was 24 months, reducing at the rate of one month for every which she is allowed to retain.
month served from commencement of her service as CEO on 30 July 2012 until the Policy position of six months is reached.
At the date of Performance graphs approval of this report, Harriet Greens notice period is nine months, Performance of market capitalisation since 31 July 2012: and at the time of our AGM in February 2014, it will be six months, The graph set out below shows the increase in the Companys stock inline with our Policy.
The service contracts are available for inspection market capitalisation, in the period 31 July 2012 to 30 September at the Companys registered office.
2013 the period between the appointment of Harriet Green as CEO and the end of FY13 : Non-Executive Directors Market capitalisation m The Chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee of 275,000.
Q3 IMS 1 Pre closing trading 2,500 1 August 2013 26 Sept 2013 The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee, plus additional fees 2,000 1,068m for chairmanship of Board Committees.
1,036m H1 Results and 1.6bn 1,500 renancing 16 May 2013 The annual rates of Non-Executive Director fees are shown in the Capital Markets Day 1,000 31 March 2013 table below: Annual fees Position 000 500 263m Non-Executive Director 60 177m 0 Additional fee for the Chairman of the Audit Committee 20 31 July 12 30 Sept 12 30 Nov 12 31 Jan 13 31 Mar 13 31 May 13 31 July 13 30 Sep 13 Additional fee for the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 Additional fee for the Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee 10 Note: Fee rates were reviewed during the year and, following a benchmarking exercise, were left unchanged.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 83 Relative performance since 31 July 2012: Total shareholder return The graph set out on the right shows the Total Shareholder Return 31 July 2012 to 30 September 2013 TSR, described in more detail further below for Thomas Cook Thomas Cook FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index 1,000 Group plc shareholders from 31 July 2012 to 30 September 2013 the 900 period between the appointment of Harriet Green as CEO and the end 800 of FY13, based on a starting value of 100 invested, compared to the 1 FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index.
700 600 Note: This graph shows the value of Thomas Cook plc on 31 July 2012 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index.
500 The intermediate points are the values at the end of each month in the period.
400 300 200 100 0 31 July 12 30 Sept 12 30 Nov 12 31 Jan 13 31 Mar 13 31 May 13 31 July 13 30 Sept 13 Statutory graph: The graph below shows the TSR for holders of Thomas Cook Group plc 0.10 Ordinary Shares 0.01 Ordinary Shares from 3 June 2013 for the five-year period since 30 September 2008, measured against the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index.
These indices were chosen as relevant comparators, as the Company is a member of both indices, with one reecting a broad equity index and the other being specic to the travel sector.
The calculation of TSR is in accordance with the relevant remuneration regulations and is broadly the change in market price together with reinvestment of dividend income.
This graph shows the value of 100 invested in Thomas Cook Group 2 plc on 30 September 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index.
The intermediate points are the values at the Companys financial year ends.
Total shareholder return Thomas Cook FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 30 Sept 08 30 Sept 09 30 Sept 10 30 Sept 11 30 Sept 12 30 Sept 13 Group CEO FY 2008 09 FY 2009 10 FY 2010 11 FY 2011 12 FY 2012 13 1 CEO single gure Harriet Green 717,000 2,855,000 ofremuneration 2 Sam Weihagen 153,000 1,171,000 3 3 4 Manny Fontenla-Novoa 2,996,000 2,322,000 2,175,000 Annual bonus pay-out Harriet Green See note 5 100% as % maximum Sam Weihagen 0% 23% opportunity Manny Fontenla-Novoa 96% 80% 0% PSP vesting Harriet Green See note 6 See note 6 as % of maximum Sam Weihagen 0% 0% opportunity Manny Fontenla-Novoa 67.5% 0% 0% The table above shows the prescribed remuneration data as shown in the left-handside column for the Director s undertaking the role of Group Chief Executive Officer during each of the last five financial years.
Notes: 1 Harriet Green was appointed Group CEO on 30 July 2012.
2 S am Weihagen was appointed Group CEO on 3 August 2011, and remained in post until the appointment of Harriet Green.
3 Manny Fontenla-Novoa stepped down as CEO on 2 August 2011.
4 The single gure for FY 2010 11 for Manny Fontenla-Novoa includes his termination payment, which was a total of 1,166,639 in respect of contractual entitlements to base salary, pension allowance and benets, in lieu of notice.
5 No annual bonus targets were set in respect of the two-month period between HarrietGreens appointment in July 2012 and the September 2012 year end.
6 There was no PSP award vesting in FY 2011 12 and 2012 13 as none of HarrietGreens awards had yet reached the end of their performance periods.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 84 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Remuneration Report continued the Group annual bonus plan were not met and therefore annual bonus payments Percentage change in remuneration were only made in limited, exceptional, circumstances in respect of the personal targets element of the plan.
For FY 2012 13, the Group financial targets have been  exceeded, and 100% of the maximum opportunity in respect of this element will The table below sets out the percentage change in the remuneration pay out for all participants.
Group financial targets account for 70% of the maximum opportunity.
The remaining 30% is in respect of personal targets, and performance of the Group CEO compared to that of UK-based employees, against these for the employee population will be determined in early December including retail and tour-operations but excluding any employees 2013 in line with the usual performance management cycle.
whose pay is subject to long-term collective agreements.
We have selected this comparator group as the Group CEO is UK-based and this provides a local market reference point, and is a sizeable and Relative importance of spend on pay fair representation of our employee base.
Long-term collective The chart below displays the relative expenditure of the Company agreements have been excluded to ensure that pay movements onvarious matters, as required in the case of Group employees pay within the comparator group are subject to similar external pressures and shareholder distributions by the relevant remuneration regulations: as the Group CEO.
% change in remuneration from FY11 12 to FY12 13 Comparat tiv ive e char chart t m % change in % change in % change in basesalary benets annual bonus 1,200 3.0% 1 Group CEO 0% See note 3 below See note 5 below 1,000 1,068m 68m 10 1,03 36m 6m 2 Thomas Cooks UK-based employees 0% See note 4 below See note 6 below 800 dividend policy is suspended during Notes: 600 the Transformation 1 The Group CEO, Harriet Green, was appointed on 30 July 2012.
Her salary upon appointment was 680,000 and this has not increased during FY11 12 or FY12 13.
48.6% 400 No 63.6% Harriet Greens salary on appointment was set at a lower level than her predecessors, change 200 Sam Weihagen and Manny Fontenla-Novoa.
Their respective salary rates are 26 263 3m m shown below: 177m 3.3m 5.4m 0 0 0 Salary rate per annum Overall expenditure on Overall expenditure Group underlying Shareholder Group employees pay on Directors pay EBIT distributions Harriet Green from 30 July 2012 680,000 2012 2013 Sam Weihagen 3 August 2011 to 30 July 2012 750,000 Manny Fontenla-Novoa to 2 August 2011 850,000 Group underlying EBIT is shown above as this is a key performance 2 UK-based employees have had their base salary frozen since 2010, due to business indicator for the Company.
Overall Director pay has also been included, challenges and uncertainties, similar to the majority of Thomas Cook employees across all segments.
Any exceptional or one-off changes to salaries due for example to give an indication of its context compared to overall employee pay.
topromotions or role-changes within the year have been excluded.
The gures shown in the table are extracted from the Groups financial 3 The Company has provided the same types and levels of benets to Harriet Green statements.
The amounts for Group employees pay and Directors since her appointment.
Given the fact that Harriet Green was only CEO for two pay both include employer social security payments.
months of the prior financial year it is difficult to provide a direct comparison.
However, to provide some comparison, Harriet Greens annualised benets for FY 11 12 were 156,000 based on 27,000 benets received, in relation to a 63-day Statement of implementation of remuneration period from 30 July 2012 and benets for the year being reported on as shown in the single gure table on page 78 were 186,000.
A full breakdown of the benets policy in the following financial year for the current year is provided on page 79.
Harriet Greens predecessor as CEO, The Committee considers that the Companys performance has been Sam Weihagen, received 93,000 in benets in the prior year, as disclosed in last years report.
exceptional since the appointment of Harriet Green and Michael 4 The main taxable benets provided to UK-based employees are private medical Healy last year, as evidenced by the excellent delivery of the first insurance and car allowance, dependent upon seniority.
There has been no change stages of our Transformation measured by a range of metrics and in the level ofbenets provided.
the Companys Capital Renancing Plan.
The following section of the 5 Harriet Greens bonus payment of 1,785,000 shown in the single gure report sets out the executive remuneration decisions made to support remuneration table on page 78 relates to a 14-month period as CEO from 30 July 2012 to 30 September 2013 and reects a period of exceptional performance.
Thomas Cooks delivery of the next stage of our Transformation.
Harriet Green did not receive a bonus payment in respect of the prior financial year having joined the Company as CEO just two months prior to the year end.
2013 14 base salaries Therefore a direct comparison against the prior year is not possible.
Harriet Greens When reviewing Executive Director salaries, in line with our policy predecessor as CEO, Sam Weihagen, was in place for approximately 10 months of stated on page 72, the Committee considers a range of factors, the prior financial year and, as disclosed in last years Remuneration Report, received a bonus payment of 300,000 for that 10-month period.
Sam Weihagens bonus including the size and scope of the executives responsibilities, gure cannot be compared directly to Harriet Greens gure, in a manner which performance and experience, and pay for other employees in permits comparison, as Sam Weihagen was an Interim CEO, and therefore his the Company.
The Committee also takes a holistic view of total package was framed on an entirely different basis to Harriet Greens.
As disclosed remuneration, including the level of variable pay which will vest in last years Remuneration Report, the bonus arrangement in respect of Sam Weihagen reected the special circumstances and uncertain tenure of his dependent upon achievement of demanding performance targets appointment as Group CEO.
As also previously disclosed, Sam Weihagen was aswe deliver our Transformation.
awarded 23% of his maximum bonus opportunity for the prior year.
Harriet Green has been awarded 100% of her bonus opportunity for the year being reported on, The Committee is particularly mindful of the Companys current reecting exceptional performance during that period.
6 In order to provide the most direct comparison possible, the Committee considers circumstances, and the broader employee context within the a focus on all employees participating in the Group annual bonus scheme is organisation, with some parts of the Group subject to recent pay appropriate, as the performance targets have a Group focus similar to the freezes and redundancy programmes.
The Committee also noted performance targets in place for Harriet Green.
It is difficult to provide a meaningful the range of views expressed by Shareholders in our meetings percentage change gure from FY 11 12 to FY 12 13 as the performance of the Company has transformed over this period.
For FY 11 12, the financial targets for this summer.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 85 The Committee believes that the strong leadership, vision and Performance Share Plan exceptional achievements delivered by Harriet Green justify a salary The Committee granted awards under the PSP to Harriet Green and increase, however, both the Committee and Harriet Green were Michael Healy on 30 September 2013.
As these awards were made in mindful of the wider pay context, and share the view that it would the 2012 13 financial year, these are described in detail on page 81. be inappropriate to award a salary increase at this time to the Group CEO for 2013 14 the salary rate therefore remains 680,000 p. a..
The Committee will consider the next grant under the PSP for 1 Instead, the Committee decided that the best way to recognise the Executive Directors during the course of this year.
This award is CEOs significant performance and achievements throughout the likelytomade in January 2015 i. e. it is not intended to make PSP last year and her continued and significant role in the future in the awards to Executive Directors during the financial year ending execution of our strategy was to grant an award under the 2013 PSP 30 September 2014. at the maximum level of 200% of salary in September, as detailed on page 81, rather than by way of a small percentage increase in Directors share and share plan interests base pay.
The following tables show the interests of the Directors in the shares ofthe Company as follows: The Committee also recognises the exceptional performance shares held beneficially: delivered by Michael Healy throughout the past year.
In view of his shares held as part of the deferred bonus arrangements: and performance, his continued and significant role in the future and, in his share plan interests under the Performance Share Plan held case, internal relativities with other senior executives, the Committee bytheExecutive Directors.
considered it appropriate to increase his base salary by 4.2% from 480,000 to 500,000, with effect from 1 October 2013 and make a 2013 PSP award of 187.5% of salary based on the pre-increase salary Shareholding guidelines of 480,000 as detailed on page 81.
Executive Directors are required to hold the Companys shares to the 2013 14 annual bonus measures and weightings value of 100% of base salary, under the Thomas Cook shareholding 2 As detailed on page 80, the maximum annual bonus opportunity for guidelines operating policy.
both Executive Directors for 2013 14 will be 150% of salary.
Executive Directors are allowed a build-up period which ends after sufficient awards under the PSP have vested to provide shares to the In line with our Policy, at least 70% of the annual bonus will be linked value of 100% of base salary after tax has been paid on the shares.
to the achievement of financial measures and 30% will be linked to Until the shareholding guideline is met, after-tax proceeds of vested role-specic strategic objectives.
For 2013 14, the measures will be PSP shares cannot be sold.
At the year-end Harriet Green had met the as follows: shareholding guidelines in advance of the end of the build-up period, Weighting having acquired a total of 700,000 shares, with a value basedon a three- % overall Measures opportunity Harriet Green Michael Healy month average share price of 1.36 of 140% of her salary.
Michael Healy Core Group underlying EBIT 25% continues to make progress towards the one times salary holding.
measures Group cash conversion 25% Total beneficial holdings of the Directors: Web targets 10% The beneficial interests of Directors in the shares of the Company New product revenue 10% arelisted below: Role-specic Group cost out 10% No.
shares as at strategic beneficial holdings 30September 2013 Group gross margin 10% objectives Current Directors Organisation and people 10% Harriet Green 700,000 Michael Healy 24,001 The performance measures above were selected to reect the 3 Frank Meysman 420,000 strategic and transformational objectives of the Group.
Along with Dawn Airey 42,000 the 2012 and 2013 Performance Share Plan targets, these measures create full alignment of our reward with our Transformation targets Emre Berkin and KPIs, as demonstrated on page 20.
Roger Burnell 271,169 Peter Marks 145,051 The Committee considers that the targets are commercially sensitive, Martine Verluyten 140,000 so these have not been disclosed.
We will disclose these targets Past Non-Executive Director at such point that the Committee considers they are no longer Richard Pennycook commercially sensitive.
Notes: 1 The shares shown in the beneficial holdings table above were acquired by the The Committee considers it is important that all senior executives Directors using their own funds and not through any share incentive scheme or similar, with the exception of Michael Healys shareholding above which includes share in the same strategic targets and KPIs that will focus Thomas 5,753 shares held within the Deferred Bonus Plan detailed below.
Harriet Green Cook on delivery and success.
The annual bonus plan described purchased 700,000 shares during the year, which comprised 500,000 shares above with 70% focus on core measures which are consistent for purchased on 28 November 2012 and 200,000 shares purchased on 20 June 2013. all participants and 30% on role-specic strategic objectives is in 2 All share interests shown above were unchanged as at 26 November 2013.
3 Warren Tucker and Carl Symon were appointed as Non-Executive Directors of place for the Executive Directors and other senior executives with theCompany on 3 October 2013.
They had no beneficial holdings in theCompanys responsibility for delivering our Transformation.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 86 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Remuneration Report continued Deferred Annual Bonus shares The table below sets out the shares held as part of the Deferred Annual Bonus arrangements, as at 30 September 2013: Share price on date of purchase Date of purchase Number of shares acquired pence Michael Healy 20 06 2013 5,753 125.1 Total: 5,753 Further details of the annual bonus deferral process are described on page 81.
No further performance conditions apply.
The bonus payment date was March 2013 but the relevant shares were not purchased until the Company ceased to be in a prohibited period at the conclusion of the Companys Placing and Rights Issue in June 2013.
Subject to the conditions described on page 81 with clawback described on page 74, the shares will be released in March 2014.
Performance Share Plan PSP The table below sets out the Directors PSP interests, as at 30 September 2013: Share price on Number of date of award Earliest 1 Scheme Date of award sharesawarded pence vestingdate Performance measures Harriet Green PSP 28 09 2012 7,195,316 17.5 28 09 2015 Subject to share price and financial performance measures, further detailavailable in the 2011 12 Directors Remuneration Report, and innotes 1 and 2 below.
PSP 30 09 2013 922,033 153.4 30 09 2016 Subject to share price and financial performance measures, as set out onpage 81.
Total: 8,117,349 Michael Healy PSP 12 06 2012 576,780 16.5 12 06 2015 Subject to share price, further detail available in the 2011 12 Directors Remuneration Report, and in note 1 below PSP 28 09 2012 2, 307,120 17.5 28 09 2015 Subject to share price and financial performance measures, further detailavailable in the 2011 12 Directors Remuneration Report, and innotes 1 and 2 below.
PSP 30 09 2013 610,169 153.4 30 09 2016 Subject to share price and financial performance measures, as set out onpage 81.
Total: 3,494,069 Notes: 1 The Company undertook a Rights Issue as part of its Capital Renancing in June 2013.
This impacted upon the Companys outstanding share awards made before this date.
In line with usual market practice, the number of shares in the awards have been adjusted to ensure that participants were no better or worse off as a result of the Rights Issue.
For reference the unadjusted numbers of shares, as provided in last years report, were as follows: Harriet Greens September 2012 PSP award was 6,237,488 shares and Michael Healys June and September 2012 PSP awards were 500,000 and 2,000,000 shares respectively.
The share price on date of grant in the table above is shown on the same basis as last years report, i. e. on an unadjusted basis.
In addition, the Committee also considered that it was necessary to adjust the share price targets set in relation to the June 2012 and September 2012 PSP awards to ensure that the targets remain equally as challenging as when they were originally set.
The adjustments used were calculated using the standard formula, taking into account the terms of the Rights Issue.
The adjustments were applied to all outstanding awards held by employees.
The principles of the adjustments were discussed with our major shareholders, whowere supportive.
2 T he September 2012 PSP awards made to Executive Directors were disclosed in the 2011 12 Directors Remuneration Report.
The share price targets were set at the time the award was made, and also disclosed in the report.
However, the Committee considered that the financial performance conditions attached to the award needed to be relevant to the task ahead, including creating value for shareholders and delivering the Transformation, although at the time of making the award the strategy had not yet been developed.
Accordingly, it was determined and agreed with major shareholders that the financial targets would be set after the announcement of the new strategy.
In consultation with major shareholders as discussed on pages 66 and 76 the financial performance measures and targets were set as described in the table below.
The weightings oftheperformance conditions described in the table below for Michael Healy describe the overall 2012 award i. e. June 2012 and September 2012.
Share price Group underlying EBIT Cash conversion 45% of the overall award 30% of the overall award 25% of the overall award Performance Applies to 45% of Applies to 20% of Performance Group Vesting Performance Cash Vesting level Michael Healys award Harriet Greens level underlying %of this level conversion %of this and 25% of Harriet awardonly EBIT portion portion Greens award Share price Vesting Share price Vesting as adjusted % of this as adjusted % of this for the portion for the portion Rights Issue Rights Issue Maximum 86.69p 100% 121.36p 100% Maximum See below 100% Maximum 65% 100% Threshold 26.01p 30% 48.55p 0% Threshold 30% Threshold 55% 30% Share price performance is measured as the highest 60-day Group underlying EBIT performance in Cash conversion performance measured in average share price achieved in the final year of the respect of FY15, which is the final year of the respect of FY15 cash conversion, which is performance period.
the final year of the three-year As described on pages 81 and 87 this approach has been Group underlying EBIT excludes performance period.
amended for the 2013 PSP awards.
Cash conversion is dened as free cash ow post exceptional items, before capital expenditure EBITDA.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 87 At the time the performance targets were set, the Committee recovery to continue for some time.
This makes measuring considered that these were challenging.
The Companys share price percentage growth relative to other companies less challenging than when HarrietGreen joined on 30 July 2012 was 16.25 pence and in the absolute pence targets.
In addition, the continued suspension September 2012 when these share price targets were being set it of Thomas Cooks dividend means that Total Shareholder Return remained around thesame level.
Therefore even the threshold target which is share price plus dividends is a less relevant measure than represented a significant increase.
Maximum achievement of the cash share price.
On this basis, major Shareholders were supportive of 1 conversion target would exceed our then publicly stated FY15 target of our continued use of an absolute rather than relative share price 60% subsequently increased to 70%, reecting the pace and extent measure for our September 2013 awards.
The Committee agreed to of progress in respect of the Transformation see pages 20 and 71. reconsider the appropriateness of relative Total Shareholder Return as a performance measure for the next awards under the PSP, which The Committee also considers the Group underlying EBIT targets to are not currently envisaged to be granted until early 2015. be stretching, however due to our ambitious plans for the business A revised approach to share price measurement was taken for Transformation weconsider that these targets are commercially the September 2013 PSP awards.
As described on page 81, this sensitive at this point.
We commit to disclosing the target range will measure the average share price performance over the xed on a retrospective basis at the end of the performance period.
period of 30 trading days from the release of the preliminary FY16 We have discussed this approach with our major Shareholders, results, with the intention of capturing the markets reaction to whoare supportive.
Shareholders were consulted on the revised approach.
They were appreciative that the Committee had The Committee has reviewed where the Companys performance to addressed their concerns on this matter and were supportive of the date is tracking in relation to the targets and is satisfied that, overall, revised approach.
theplan continues to provide sufficient levels of incentivisation to participants.
Auditable sections of the Annual Report onRemuneration The scheme interests shown in the tables above the Deferred Annual 2 Bonus shares and the PSP were unchanged as at 26 November 2013.
The auditable sections of the Annual Remuneration Report are shown on page 78 Single gure of total remuneration section, onwards to page 82 up to and including the section on Non-Executive Directors Statement of Shareholder voting and on page 85 Total beneficial holdings section, onwards to page The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Remuneration 87 up to and including the Performance Share Plan section.
Report at the 2013 AGM: This Annual Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Votes for Votes against Votes cast Votes withheld Directors and signed on its behalf by: Number % Number % 307,213,359 70.3 129,898,306 29.7 437,111,665 26,050,879 Roger Burnell Chairman, Remuneration Committee Both the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the 27 November 2013 Remuneration Committee contacted key Shareholders to understand and address concerns.
Specic issues raised by investors included: The approach to share price measurement for the 2012 PSP targets was based on the highest 60-day average share price achieved in the final year of the performance period.
Some Shareholders considered that this is retesting.
3 A number of Shareholders were not supportive of absolute share price targets in general for performance share plans.
Actions taken in response to these concerns were: As described on page 66 of the Corporate Governance Report, Frank Meysman and Roger Burnell met with a number of major Shareholders who had voted against the Remuneration Report last year, to listen to their reasons why they exercised their votes inthis way.
As described on page 76, the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with key Shareholders representing over 50% of our share capital in June and July 2013 to consult in respect of the remuneration policy and the performance measures in respect of the PSP, amongst other matters described in more detail on page 76.
In these meetings, the rationale for the continued use of absolute share price targets was explained to Shareholders.
This is on the basis that we expect the upward trajectory of our share price Financial statements Directors report Strategic report
