DIRECTORS 68 REMUNERATION REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEmBER 2013 This report sets out the Groups remuneration policies for its The approach to basic salary increases should be directors and senior executives and how these policies will consistent across all colleagues including no pay be applied in practice.
The policy is available to view on the increases for mergers and acquisitions activity Companys website in the investor centre.
performanCe oUtComes UnaUdited information As the Chairmans report indicated, the strong business 1. remUneration Committee Chairmans performance in the second half of the year driven by the statement delivery of a number of managements strategic initiatives Dear Shareholder, resulted in very good full year results.
Adjusted EPS was 2013 was a year of transition for the reporting of up 14%, debt levels lower by 104m, and the share price directors remuneration, following the introduction of the increased from 12.52 at the time of writing last years new government regulations on executive remuneration report to 18.72 by the end of 2013.
Historically we have always sought to be our progressive dividend policy - this year declaring a full transparent in our disclosures and consulted widely with year dividend of 31.0p, a 24% increase on the previous shareholders on our remuneration proposals and we year.
Over the longer term the Groups outperformance have embraced the new regulations as we believe they has been reflected in the TSR increase from 100% to will help us to continue to deliver clear and easy to read 742% over 5 years and our move into the FTSE 100, remuneration reports.
This compares favourably to the market TSR The policy on directors remuneration will be subject to a increase from 100% to 200% over the same period.
binding shareholder resolution at the forthcoming Annual This performance is reflected in the remuneration received General meeting AGm and every three years thereafter.
by the executive directors for the year under review.
Annual The Annual Report on remuneration which describes how bonus awards for executive directors have been determined the policy has been applied during the year will be subject to by the Committee based on a rounded assessment of an advisory resolution at the forthcoming AGm.
There will be an annual In addition we are seeking support via a separate incentive payout for executive directors and central function resolution for the renewal of part of our long term incentive managers of typically 60-65% of the maximum bonus arrangements.
During consultations last year shareholders opportunity.
This reflects the fact that whilst performance were supportive of our remuneration package for directors in the second half of the year was very strong the tough and a key element of the package is our co-investment conditions in the first half meant that the EPS and ROCE share matching scheme SmS.
Participants invest in targets set for 2013 were only partially met.
These results company shares using their own funds and are eligible for are set out separately in this report on page 26. a matching grant which vests subject to achievement of As part of determining the 60-65% bonus payment cash return on capital employed targets.
It is for this scheme level the Committee reviewed managements performance renewal we seek support.
against a range of strategic objectives which account for up In this, our first report under the regulations, I want to to 20% of the maximum bonus.
These include measures explain the context of our remuneration philosophy both in relating to people and process capability, health and safety terms of our recent performance but also in relation to our improvements, market competitiveness, business quality, future business strategy.
growth potential and financial performance.
Overall the Remuneration Committee has judged these objectives as remUneration phiLosophy 75% achieved with particular success in relation to TSR and We remain committed to a remuneration policy that incremental value of investments but with some work to do balances long term shareholder value creation with the against stretching targets for customer engagement, multineed to motivate, reward and retain high calibre executives.
The principles of our remuneration policy remain unchanged Levels of bonus awarded therefore reflect actual from previous years.
performance relative to both annual and longer term Remuneration should be competitive and contribute to expectations.
the delivery of short and long-term superior financial Half of the annual bonus earned has been deferred into results for shareholders shares which are subject to forfeiture if target share prices Remuneration should contain significant performance are not achieved over the next two years.
This mechanism related incentive elements ensures that there is a meaningful deferral of variable pay Reward mechanisms ensure that a significant proportion on an at risk basis.
of variable pay is delivered in deferred shares with We are delighted that across our businesses the majority clawback provisions ensuring that executives retain a of colleagues in our merchanting divisions and central meaningful personal stake in the Groups success support functions will also receive a bonus in respect of All colleagues should be able to share in the success of 2013 performance.
the Group through participation in both annual bonus Both short and long term incentive performance schemes and longer term share plans measures are directly linked to driving and rewarding TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
