TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 79 BuSineSS and financial review Directors report financial StatementS SharehOlder infOrmatiOn remuneration report i am pleased to introduce the directors remuneration report for the under the existing deferred annual Bonus Scheme daBS executive year ended 30 September 2013. directors may be given a matching share award of up to four times the deferred bonus amount.
the last grant of matching share awards last years directors remuneration report anticipated many of the will be made in december 2013 for performance in the year ended new remuneration reporting requirements which were in draft form 30 September 2013. the change will simplify our incentive framework at that time.
we received positive feedback from shareholders on the and provide greater transparency.
we are also responding to feedback revised format and approach.
This year we are one of the first companies from some of our shareholders who have expressed concerns with to publish a report in the format required under the large and matching share arrangements more generally.
medium-sized companies and groups accounts and reports amendment regulations 2013 that came into force on 1 October 2013. maximum annual bonus opportunities will remain the same and We hope that you find our report comprehensive, clear and informative.
the performance measures, which the Committee consider are appropriately stretching, are unchanged.
Executive Directors will still The implementation of new legislation, coupled with a review of be required to defer 25% of any bonus awarded, with the option of executive remuneration, has led to this being a particularly busy year deferring a further 25% if they wish to do so.
for the remuneration committee the committee.
the removal of the matching share element will result in a reduction executive Director remuneration review in overall incentive opportunity.
in line with our aim of linking a substantial proportion of the total remuneration package to long-term as a committee we believe it is essential that the directors performance measures, the Committee proposes to increase the remuneration Policy the Policy is aligned with the companys Strategic maximum Performance Share Plan PSP award limit to 400%.
Framework, the interests of shareholders and the external competitive However, it is envisaged that awards will generally be made of up to 300%.
we also recognise the current focus on executive pay and are mindful of investor expectations and best practice guidelines.
we consider that the current stretching PSP performance measures continue to be aligned with our business strategy and are appropriate With this in mind, during 2013, the Committee undertook a review for the business at this time.
Therefore, we are not proposing any of the Policy and engaged in consultation with our key shareholders.
changes to the performance measure framework.
i would like to take this opportunity to thank them for the helpful and constructive feedback which they provided.
Following this process, we Malus provisions are proposing a number of changes to our remuneration framework.
we have decided that it is an appropriate time to seek shareholder In summary, these changes are intended to: approval for the renewal and update of the companys two shareholderapproved executive share plans the PSP and daBS at the annual simplify our remuneration structure: general meeting agm to be held on 6 february 2014. the current provide greater transparency for shareholders: rules expire in July 2017. the renewed versions will operate in the same reduce the overall quantum of long-term remuneration by the way as the existing plans and also reflect the changes outlined above.
removal of the matching shares element of our deferred bonus revising the rules now gives us the opportunity to ensure that they are arrangements: completely in line with the Policy, and reflect current market practice, introduce malus provisions on unvested deferred bonus and including the introduction of malus provisions.
the malus provisions long-term incentive awards: and will allow us to reduce or cancel unvested PSP and daBS awards in create greater alignment with investors by increasing our a number of specific circumstances when it is in the interests of shareholding guidelines for executive directors.
coline Mcconville chairman 15 RemunerationXReport v32 copy.
indd 79 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 80 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT remuneration report continued shareholding guidelines The Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended we are committed to ensuring alignment between our executive directors 30 September 2013 has been prepared on behalf of the Board by and the long-term interests of our shareholders.
Within this context, the committee.
the shareholding guidelines for the executive directors have been the report has been compiled taking into account the listing rules increased as follows: of the Financial Conduct Authority, the relevant sections of the Shareholding requirement as percentage of salary companies act 2006 and the large and medium-sized companies Before 1 October 2014 from 1 October 2014 and groups accounts and reports amendment regulations 2013.
Peter long 200% 400% the committee adopts the principles of good governance as set out Johan lundgren 150% 200% in the uK corporate governance code.
william waggott 150% 200% dr volker Bttcher 150% 200% this report will be subject to two votes at the agm on 6 february 2014 a binding vote in relation to the directors remuneration Policy and an advisory vote in relation to the statement by the remuneration salary review committee chairman and the annual report on remuneration.
executive directors will not receive a salary increase for the year In addition, there will be two separate votes to approve the renewed commencing 1 October 2013. the ceO has not received a salary and updated versions of the companys two executive share plans.
As part of the remuneration review outlined previously, the Committee Bonus awards and long-term share plan vesting has reaffirmed the aims of the Policy as follows: As you will have seen previously, we have had a very successful year.
As stated earlier, the Committee closely aligns remuneration decisions to set the total remuneration package at a level that reflects to the delivery of our strategic plans and the achievement of stretching the competitive markets in which the group operates: financial results.
As detailed later, the Companys strong profit and to align the executive directors interests with those of shareholders cash performance is reflected in the Executive Directors bonus over the long-term by building a significant shareholding in our awards.
In addition, achievement of the Companys EPS and TSR business: targets, together with significant share price growth over the last to link a substantial proportion of the total remuneration year, have resulted in the achievement of long-term incentive goals.
package to the achievement of demanding long-term financial performance targets: On behalf of the committee i thank you for your support and trust that you find the new-style report informative.
to provide an appropriate balance between fixed remuneration and variable at-risk reward: to provide a package that is simple and transparent to shareholders: coline Mcconville to enable recruitment, retention and stability: and remuneration committee chairman to reinforce a high-performance culture throughout the group.
9 december 2013 The Policy components are summarised below: perForMance relateD FixeD reMuneration reMuneration Base salary short-terM long-terM annual PerfOrmance BeneFits PerfOrmance Share Plan BOnuS pension contriBution all eMployee share plans 15 RemunerationXReport v32 copy.
indd 80 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 81 BuSineSS and financial review Directors report financial StatementS SharehOlder infOrmatiOn Directors remuneration policy this section sets out the Policy which will be put forward for shareholder approval at the agm on 6 february 2014 in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
The Policy will apply to any remuneration and loss of office payments made on or after 1 October 2014. executive Directors Future policy table element Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Set at levels to attract and retain executive directors of the high calibre required to develop and deliver the strategy.
To reflect the individuals skills, experience and role within the Group.
Operation When determining salaries, the Committee typically takes into account: business and individual performance: salary levels at companies of a similar size, industry, global scope and complexity to TUI Travel PLC: and the pay and conditions of employees elsewhere in the group.
Salaries are generally reviewed annually in October, although an out-of-cycle review may be conducted if the committee determines appropriate.
a review will not necessarily lead to an increase in salary.
maximum opportunity Salary increases will typically be in line with the general level of increase awarded to other employees in the group.
In exceptional circumstances, at the Committees discretion, higher increases may be made.
These could include: increase in the scope and or responsibility of the individuals role: development of the individual within the role: and or where a larger increase is considered necessary for the retention of an executive director.
Salary levels for the year ending 30 September 2014 are detailed in the annual report on remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2013.
Performance measures individual and business performance are considerations in deciding salary levels.
element Retirement benefits Purpose and link to strategy to attract and retain executive directors of the right calibre.
To provide a market competitive retirement benefit.
to reassure executive directors about their provision in retirement.
Operation Executive Directors can choose to participate in the relevant local defined contribution pension or receive a cash allowance or a combination thereof.
William Waggott has deferred pension entitlements under the final salary section of the TUI Pension Scheme UK.
he ceased to be an active member on 3 September 2007.
When appointing new Executive Directors, the Committee may apply alternative pension provisions.
In such circumstances the Committee will consider a range of factors including cost, market practice and pension policy elsewhere in the group.
maximum opportunity the maximum company contribution to an executive directors pension or equivalent cash allowance may not exceed 50% of base salary.
Performance measures not performance related.
element Other benefits Purpose and link to strategy to ensure broad competitiveness with market practice.
to support personal health and well-being.
Operation Benefits provision is set at an appropriate market level, taking into account the individuals home jurisdiction, the jurisdiction in which the individual is based, market practice at similar companies and the level of benefits provided elsewhere in the group.
The benefits to which Executive Directors are entitled include but are not limited to private medical insurance for the individual and his family, life assurance, permanent health insurance, car provision allowance, holiday travel concessions up to an annual limit of 2,500 and interest-free loans.
Global relocation support for up to five years and any associated costs or benefits including but not limited to housing benefits, personal tax advice and school fees may also be provided if business needs require it.
The Company may also provide tax equalisation arrangements.
The Committee may remove benefits that Executive Directors receive or introduce other benefits if considered appropriate to do so.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate, on the same basis as other employees, in the Companys HMRCapproved Share incentive Plan or any other all-employee share plan operated in the future.
maximum opportunity The maximum level of benefits provided to an individual Executive Director may not exceed 70,000 per annum.
In exceptional circumstances, at the Committees discretion, an exception to the above limit might be approved, e. g. where global relocation of an executive director is considered necessary to deliver business objectives.
Participation by Executive Directors in the Share Incentive Plan, and any other all-employee share plan operated in the future, is limited to the maximum award levels permitted by the relevant legislation.
indd 81 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 82 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT remuneration report continued element annual performance Bonus and Deferred annual Bonus scheme Purpose and link to strategy To encourage and reward the attainment of challenging financial and strategic performance targets during an annual period.
the performance measures closely align to the strategy of the business as outlined on pages 14 to 25 and shareholder value creation as summarised in the investment case on page 4.
The deferred element drives and rewards delivery of sustained long-term performance, aligns Executive Director and shareholder interests and supports retention.
Operation Performance is normally assessed over one financial year.
25% of any bonus paid must normally be deferred into shares under daBS for three years.
Participants may either voluntarily choose to defer up to an additional 25% or the Committee may, in certain circumstances, determine that an additional 25% of the bonus should be deferred on a compulsory basis.
as outlined in the notes to this table the last awards of matching shares under daBS will be made in december 2013.
The awards will relate to performance in the year ended 30 September 2013.
These, and other previous DABS awards currently outstanding, will vest in subsequent years.
The vesting of matching awards is subject to continued employment, achievement of performance conditions and compliance with the policy on payment for loss of office.
dividend equivalent payments may be made equal to the amount of dividends that would have been payable during the period between the grant and vesting of an award.
Share awards are normally made in the form of nil-cost options but may be awarded in other forms if appropriate such as conditional share awards.
nil-cost options may normally be exercised until the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
Awards may also be satisfied in cash and may be granted to a Directors personal service company at the discretion of the committee.
For bonuses awarded in respect of the year commencing 1 October 2014, and subsequently, malus provisions will apply.
These allow the Committee to cancel or reduce vesting of unvested awards in certain circumstances including: a misstatement of results that resulted in a bonus or award being paid at too high a level: a material failure of risk management or health and safety: serious reputational damage to the company: and or personal misconduct.
the committee may adjust and amend the terms of the awards in accordance with the plan rules.
maximum opportunity the maximum bonus opportunity as a percentage of salary is up to 175% for the ceO and up to 140% for the other executive directors.
the last award of daBS matching shares will be made in december 2013. the award will relate to performance in the year ended 30 September 2013. the maximum multiple awarded will be a ratio of four matching shares to one deferred share.
Performance measures annual bonus The annual bonus is based on a mix of financial and individual business objectives, with the majority of the weighting being given to financial metrics.
financial performance-related measures typically 75% to 85% of total are chosen carefully to ensure a strong link between reward and underlying Company financial performance.
As an example, these measures may typically include profit, cash flow or other measures as appropriate.
individual performance 15% to 25% of total is measured through an assessment of comprehensive business deliverables, financial targets, personal performance and the achievement of specific individual objectives.
The exact measures, weightings and targets are determined by the Committee each year taking into account the groups key strategic priorities and the approved budget for the year.
a sliding scale between 0% and 100% of the maximum award applies for achievement between threshold and maximum performance under the bonus plan.
indd 82 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 83 BuSineSS and financial review Directors report financial StatementS SharehOlder infOrmatiOn element performance share plan psp Purpose and link to strategy to incentivise long-term value creation through the setting of stretching targets that ensure a strong link between reward, underlying Group financial performance and shareholder returns.
to support recruitment and retention.
Operation awards are discretionary and normally vest subject to performance over a three-year performance period.
The vesting of awards is subject to continued employment or compliance with the policy on payment for loss of office.
For awards made in respect of the year commencing 1 October 2014, malus provisions will apply.
These allow the Committee to cancel or reduce vesting of unvested awards in certain circumstances including: a misstatement of results that led to the award being granted at too high a level: a material failure of risk management or health and safety: serious reputational damage to the company: and or personal misconduct.
maximum opportunity The maximum award opportunity under the PSP is 400% of salary in any financial year.
It is currently envisaged that awards will be made of up to an operational limit of 300% of salary, although a larger award may be made in exceptional circumstances.
the committee also retains power to increase the operational limit to up to the maximum plan limit without shareholder approval if it considers it appropriate to do so, in which case the committee will aim to engage with shareholders.
Performance measures Awards vest based on performance against EPS as defined in the plan rules, relative TSR and ROIC measures over a three-year period.
Normally, these will be broadly weighted as below, although the Committee may vary the precise weightings, as well as setting the specific targets for each measure as appropriate to reflect business and strategic priorities.
ePS 50% relative tSr 25% rOic 25% To ensure that the PSP awards vest only when shareholder value is being created, awards will be subject to the achievement of an initial financial performance hurdle.
This will normally be based on a return on capital measure.
failure to achieve this hurdle will usually result in none of the award vesting.
Should the hurdle be achieved vesting for threshold performance will be up to, but no more than, 15% of the maximum award opportunity.
if events happen that cause the committee to determine that the performance conditions are no longer a fair measure of the Companys performance, the Committee can amend the conditions as it determines to be appropriate, with due regard to the best interests of shareholders.
notes to the executive Directors Future policy table performance, the Committee can amend the target if considered appropriate, with due regard to the best interests of shareholders.
legacy matters the committee reserves the right to make remuneration payments Selection of performance measures annual bonus and payments for loss of office including the exercise of any discretions the committee will choose annual bonus performance measures and available to the committee in connection with such payments that fall targets which will provide an appropriate balance between incentivising outside the Policy where the terms of the payment were agreed before Executive Directors to achieve financial targets for the year and driving the Policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was the delivery of specific business deliverables, strategic objectives and not a director of the company and the payment was not in consideration personal goals.
for the individual becoming a director of the company.
Selection of performance measures PSP For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying awards the company aims to create sustainable long-term shareholder value.
of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the To encourage and reward this, the Company aims to align performance terms of the payment agreed at the time the award was granted.
the measures under the PSP with the strategy of the business and set share awards under the PSP and daBS held by the executive directors stretching targets, achievement of which it considers should result in which were granted, or which are anticipated to be, prior to the Policy long-term value creation.
In particular: coming into effect are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
financial performance measures a direct measure of business health, matching shares reflecting the strength of our underlying financial performance.
We the last award of daBS matching shares will be made in december 2013. take into account a number of internal and external reference points the award will relate to performance in the year ended 30 September to ensure that targets are appropriately stretching: and 2013. the maximum multiple awarded will be a ratio of four matching share price performance measures the most focused indicator of shares to one deferred share.
these and other previous daBS awards our ultimate delivery of shareholder returns and intended to promote that are currently outstanding will therefore vest in subsequent years.
alignment between investors and executive directors.
targets are matching awards are subject to performance measured over a three-year set taking into account a number of factors, including reference to period.
the framework used for assessing performance is the same as typical market practice.
they are set at a level which the committee that for PSP awards.
if events happen that cause the committee to considers represents stretching performance.
determine that any target is no longer a fair measure of the companys 15 RemunerationXReport v32 copy.
indd 83 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 84 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT remuneration report continued deferred bonus awards not subject to performance measures PSP and daBS rules no further performance measures apply to deferred share awards The Companys existing PSP and DABS rules, approved by granted under the daBS as these represent the deferral of annual shareholders on 25 July 2007, can continue to be operated until bonus amounts that have already been earned.
However, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 6 February 2014, all future awards granted to Executive Directors will only be made under the renewed and updated versions of these rules.
non-executive Directors Future policy table The Board aims to recruit high-calibre Non-Executive Directors, and the limits set by the articles of association.
the policy for the with broad commercial, international or other relevant experience.
chairman is determined by the committee of which the chairman the remuneration policy for non-executive directors with the is not a member.
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the exception of the chairman is set by the Board having taken account remuneration arrangements offered will generally be in line with of the fees paid in other companies of a similar size and complexity those set out in the non-executive directors future Policy table.
approach to setting fees Basis of fees other items fees are set at an appropriate level to attract each non-executive director is paid a basic the non-executive directors do not participate and retain high-calibre non-executive directors.
fee for undertaking non-executive director in the annual bonus or long-term incentive plans and Board duties.
a higher fee is typically and do not receive any pension benefits.
fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals paid to the chairman of the Board and the taking into account the time commitment the group provides each non-executive deputy chairman.
expected and practice in peer companies director with relevant liability insurance of a similar size, sector and complexity.
additional fees may also be paid for taking for the duration of their appointment.
on committee responsibilities and other non-executive directors receive holiday Board duties.
the maximum annual value is the maximum aggregate fees for all non- 2,500.
There are currently no other benefits executive directors allowed by the companys provided to Non-Executive Directors.
However, articles of association is 1.5m.
the Board may introduce additional benefits if it is considered appropriate to do so.
non-executive directors fees are not subject to claw-back or withholding arrangements.
consideration all relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the remuneration arrangements across the group impact on other existing remuneration arrangements, the candidates Our reward philosophy is consistent across the Group, namely that location and experience, external market influences and internal pay reward should support our business strategy and be sufficient to relativities.
attract and retain high-performing individuals.
Within this framework, there are differences for a range Typically, the new appointment will be in line with, or be transitioned of reasons, including global location and the local talent market.
onto, the policy as set out in the Executive Directors Future Policy Table.
following any executive director recruitment the committee will include Salaries and benefits a range of factors are considered including the rationale for the arrangements offered in the next remuneration business and individual performance, the pay of other employees report.
Annual bonus consistent with the policy for Executive Directors, components and approach annual bonuses across the group are typically linked to local the package offered to a new executive director will typically include business performance with a focus on underlying profit growth those elements listed within the executive directors future Policy and performance against key strategic business objectives.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may use other elements management team members may also receive some of their annual if it considers it appropriate to do so with due regard to the best bonus in shares which have to be deferred for three years, in line interests of the shareholders.
In particular, in considering its approach, with the policy for executive directors.
the Committee will take into account factors which include, but are not PSP a small number of senior executives who provide significant limited to, typical market practice, existing arrangements for other strategic input may be invited to participate in the PSP in any year.
Executive Directors, internal relativities and market positioning.
all employee Share Plans an hmrc-approved Share incentive Plan Where expatriate appointments are made, the Committee may consider is open to all uK eligible employees including executive directors providing additional benefits where considered appropriate and in the on the same terms, giving them the opportunity to become companys best interests to do so.
Participation in a global plan may be offered in the future.
Currently, over 3,200 employees participate In exceptional circumstances the Committee may, at its discretion, in the Share incentive Plan and hold over 5.6 million shares.
offer a service contract that contains a longer initial notice period, tapering down to 12 months over a set period of time, if it is deemed approach to the recruitment and retention of to be in the best interests of our shareholders.
executive Directors Buy-outs we have a strong track record of succession planning and growing the committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate and promoting talent internally.
to buy-out forfeited remuneration arrangements.
In doing so, the committee will typically take account of relevant factors including any principles performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which When hiring a new Executive Director, or promoting to the Board from they were awarded e. g. cash or shares and the time over which they within the Group, the Committee will offer a package that is sufficient would have vested.
generally it is the committees intention that the to retain and motivate and, if relevant, attract the right talent whilst at buy-out of awards will be made on a comparable basis to those all times aiming to pay no more than is necessary.
in determining an forfeited and will be share-based.
appropriate remuneration package, the Committee will take into 15 RemunerationXReport v32 copy.
indd 84 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 85 BuSineSS and financial review Directors report financial StatementS SharehOlder infOrmatiOn In determining whether it is appropriate to offer a buy-out, the Johan lundgren committee will ensure that any awards are made in the best interests 4,500 4,032 Fixed pay Annual bonus LTI of both the company and its shareholders and will give due regard 4,000 to all relevant factors.
3,500 3,000 52% Maximum level of variable pay 2,500 the maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new 2,000 1,705 executive directors is limited to 575% of salary.
this excludes any 15% 1,500 buy-out awards.
24% 952 29% 1,000 For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect 500 100% 56% 24% of the previous role may either continue on its original terms or be 0 adjusted to reflect the new appointment.
Minimum performance Performance in line Maximum performance with expectations it is appropriate for the committee to have discretion to make additional one-off cash or share-based awards to executive directors William Waggott in order for the committee to be able to respond in exceptional and 3,500 3,173 unexpected circumstances.
the company will make full disclosure Fixed pay Annual bonus LTI 3,000 of any such awards made, including the rationale, in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the relevant financial year.
2,500 52% 2,000 illustrations of the application of the executive Directors remuneration policy 1,344 1,500 Our remuneration arrangements have been designed so that a 15% 24% 1,000 753 29% substantial proportion of pay is dependent on the achievement 500 of stretching short and long-term performance targets.
100% 56% 24% 0 As part of this process, the Committee reviews, on at least an annual basis, Minimum performance Performance in line Maximum performance with expectations the impact of different performance scenarios on the potential reward opportunity and pay-outs to be received by the executive directors.
the charts show hypothetical values of the remuneration package for Dr Volker Bttcher Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios: 2,000 1,802 Fixed pay Annual bonus LTI minimum performance i. e. fixed elements of pay only, with no bonus pay-out or vesting of long-term incentives : 1,500 56% performance in line with expectations assuming 50% pay-out under the annual bonus, and threshold performance under the PSP, 1,500 i. e. 10% vesting under the ePS element and 15% vesting under the 744 17% tSr and rOic elements : and 20% 441 24% 1,000 maximum performance assuming 100% pay-out under both the annual bonus and the PSP.
100% 59% 24% 0 the charts presented are in line with our remuneration policy effective Minimum performance Performance in line Maximum performance with expectations from 1 October 2014. matching share awards under daBS are excluded as these will not be granted in respect of years commencing Notes: 1 October 2013 and subsequently.
1 these illustrations of the application of the directors remuneration Policy show the potential reward opportunity for the executive directors from 1 October 2014 onwards these charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes assuming PSP awards are made at the operational limit of 300% of salary.
may differ from those shown.
2 Total remuneration for minimum performance.
Fixed remuneration is comprised of salary, standard benefit provision company car or car allowance, medical insurance and holiday travel concessions based on maximum values for the year ended 30 September 2013 and peter long employer pension contribution allowance.
6,000 3 Total remuneration for performance in line with expectations is comprised of fixed 5,339 Fixed pay Annual bonus LTI remuneration, annual bonus at 50% of maximum performance levels and long-term 5,000 incentives at threshold performance levels.
4 Total remuneration for maximum performance is comprised of fixed remuneration, 48% 4,000 annual bonus at maximum performance levels and long-term incentives at maximum performance levels.
3,000 5 All scenarios assume no share price appreciation during the vesting period.
Therefore, 2,364 depending on share price performance, the actual outcomes could be higher 14% 28% 2,000 6 All employee share plans have been excluded, as have any legacy awards which Executive 1,301 31% directors may hold.
1,000 7 In calculating remuneration for Dr Volker Bttcher, who is paid in EUR, payments have 100% 55% 24% been converted at 1.1902 to 1 GBP, being the average exchange rate for the period 0 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013.
Minimum performance Performance in line Maximum performance with expectations 15 RemunerationXReport v32 copy.
indd 85 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 000s 000s 000s 000s 86 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT remuneration report continued The obligations on the Company, which could give rise to, or impact on, Directors service agreements remuneration payments or payments for loss of office, contained in In line with best corporate practice for listed companies, the Committees dr volker Bttchers service contract are set out below.
dr Bttchers policy is for executive directors to have rolling contracts with a 12 month service contract is governed by german law.
notice period although in some recruitment circumstances a longer notice period may be offered, tapering down to 12 months over a set notice period 12 months notice by the company and 12 months period of time.
notice by the executive director.
the following table sets out a description of any obligations on the expiry date Rolling service contract.
Company, contained in the UK Executive Directors service contracts, fixed retirement date.
which could give rise to, or impact on, remuneration payments or Basic salary contractual entitlement to receive a basic salary payments for loss of office.
and for a salary review to take place each year.
the company is not obliged to increase notice period 12 months notice by the company and six months dr Bttchers salary following a review.
pension Pension contribution of up to 25% of basic salary.
expiry date Rolling service contract.
contributions Basic salary contractual entitlement to receive a basic salary contractual Contractual entitlement to: and for a salary review to take place each year.
benefits accident insurance to cover death or invalidity: the company is not obliged to increase an sick pay: executive directors salary following a review.
company car allowance: and pension Pension contribution of up to 50% of basic holiday travel benefits.
contributions salary for Peter long and 33% of basic salary for will waggott and Johan lundgren.
annual bonus contractual entitlement to participate in the annual bonus scheme dependent on performance factors.
contractual Contractual entitlement to: benefits private medical insurance: long-term contractual entitlement to be considered for permanent health insurance: incentive plans participation in the PSP and DABS, subject to the companys policy in relation to such schemes and sick pay: to the approval of the committee.
life assurance: company car allowance: and retirement date dr Bttchers contract automatically expires at the holiday travel benefits.
end of the month in which he reaches the age of 63. annual bonus contractual entitlement to participate in the annual termination if dr Bttcher is placed on notice he may be eligible bonus scheme dependent on performance factors.
payments to be paid an annual bonus equivalent to at least 50% of the maximum amount that could have been long-term contractual entitlement to be considered for awarded had he worked his notice.
the normal incentive plans participation in the PSP and DABS, subject to the award required under german case law is the companys policy in relation to such schemes and average of the previous three-years bonus awards.
to the approval of the committee.
the company may also apply a non-compete retirement date there is no default retirement age.
in such circumstances under the german for retirement are considered on a case-by-case commercial code dr Bttcher would be entitled basis.
it is anticipated that at least 12 months to 50% of the annual remuneration he last received notice will be provided, albeit that the contractual in his role including variable remuneration as requirement on the part of an executive director compensation.
this would be paid in 12 monthly to give notice is only six months.
instalments and would be subject to mitigation.
compliance with the german commercial code termination the director will be paid his salary and any other is a legal obligation.
payments contractual benefits in respect of the relevant in a termination situation the committee would notice period.
if the director is placed on notice strive to balance the interests of the company he may be eligible to be paid an annual bonus with german legislative requirements.
equivalent to 50% of the maximum amount that could have been awarded had he worked his notice.
executive directors are able to accept non-executive appointments outside the Company as long as this does not lead to a conflict of the service contract for any new executive directors will not include interest with the consent of the Board as such appointments can any provision that is more generous than those listed above.
enhance their experience and add value to the company.
any fees received excluding positions where the executive director is appointed as the companys representative are retained by the executive director.
indd 86 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 87 BuSineSS and financial review Directors report financial StatementS SharehOlder infOrmatiOn the following table sets out a description of any obligations on the executive directors are entitled to 12 months base pay and contractual Company, contained in the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive benefits if served notice by the Company.
The Company is entitled Directors, which could give rise to, or impact on, remuneration payments to six months notice of termination by uK executive directors and or payments for loss of office: 12 months by dr Bttcher.
In the normal course of events, the Executive Director will work his notice period three months notice by either party.
expiry date rolling appointment typically expected to last six years, save for Minnow Powell, Janis Kong in the event of termination for cause e. g. gross misconduct neither and Coline McConville, whose letters notice nor payment in lieu of notice PilOn will be given and the of appointment are subject to a three-year executive director will cease to perform his services immediately.
Fees and benefits Entitled to receive fees, together with such in the event of termination for other reasons than cause e. g. resignation holiday concession arrangements as may and the individual being requested to cease working before the end from time-to-time be made available to of his notice period PilOn may be payable.
if a portion of the notice directors.
non-executive directors are covered period is served, the payment will be reduced on a pro-rata basis.
by the companys directors indemnity Payments may be made on a phased basis and may be subject to insurance.
Alternatively, rather than making a PILON, the Company pension contributions none may instead place an executive director on garden leave for the annual bonus and longnot eligible to participate in any annual bonus term incentive plans scheme or long-term incentive plan.
duration of some or all of their notice period.
termination payments not entitled to any compensation for loss in redundancy situations the committee will comply with prevailing of office.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, all executive director service contracts and non-executive director the company may pay a contribution towards the executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the companys legal fees for entering into a statutory agreement and may pay a registered office during normal hours of business, and will also be contribution towards fees for outplacement services as part of a available at the companys agm on 6 february 2014 until the close negotiated settlement.
there is no provision for additional compensation on termination following a change of control nor liquidated damages of any kind.
Policy on payment for loss of office we are committed to ensuring a consistent approach so that we do not Payment may also be made in respect of accrued benefits, including pay more than is necessary.
in the event of an early termination of a untaken holiday entitlement.
contract, the policy is to seek to minimise any liability.
When managing Executive bonus and share-based schemes will be managed as follows: such situations, the Committee takes a range of factors into account including contractual obligations, shareholder interests, organisational stability and the need to ensure an effective handover.
good leavers other leavers annual performance bonus the committee considers it appropriate for unless the committee exercises its discretion the company to have discretion regarding the to treat the Executive Director as a good leaver, payment of a full or partial bonus in termination no bonus will be payable.
when determining whether an executive Director is a good leaver, the Committee will consider contractual terms, personal performance, the generally accepted definition of a good leaver and other factors outlined below.
psp and matching awards under the Participants will be a good leaver on ceasing unvested awards will lapse in full where the existing DaBs employment due to injury, disability, ill-health, termination is on grounds of gross misconduct.
death, redundancy or the sale of the Company the principles as described apply in respect in other circumstances unvested awards will or business in which the participant is employed.
of the current version of the PSP and, subject lapse in full unless the committee applies to shareholder approval, the renewed version awards held by good leavers will normally vest discretion to treat the executive director as well as the existing version of the daBS.
after three years pro-rated for time and subject as a good leaver.
to the relevant performance measures.
the committee has discretion to accelerate vesting to the date employment ends.
the committee also has discretion to waive the time pro-rating requirement.
Deferred annual Bonus scheme DaBs unvested deferred share awards which unvested deferred share awards will lapse in full represent deferrals of earned bonus vest in where the termination is on grounds of gross the principles as described apply in respect full on ceasing employment other than on misconduct.
of the current version of DABS, and, subject grounds of gross misconduct either at the date to shareholder approval, the renewed version of termination or on the normal vesting date, of this plan.
at the discretion of the committee.
indd 87 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 88 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT remuneration report continued In considering the exercise of discretion as set out above, the consideration of conditions elsewhere in the company Committee will take into account all relevant circumstances.
In doing so, the committee has oversight of the main compensation structures factors that the Committee may take into account shall include, but not throughout the group and actively considers the relationship between be limited to, considering the best interests of the Company, whether general changes to employees remuneration and executive director the Executive Director has presided over an orderly handover, the reward.
when considering potential changes to executive director contribution of the executive director to the success of the company remuneration the committee is provided with comparative employee during their tenure, the need to ensure continuity, the need to information, e. g. average salary reviews across the Group.
compromise any claims that the Executive Director may have, whether the committee does not consider it appropriate to consult directly the Executive Director received a PILON payment and whether, had with employees when formulating executive director reward policy.
the Executive Director served out their notice, a greater proportion However, it does take into account information provided by the Group of the outstanding award may have vested.
hr director and feedback from our global employee satisfaction On a corporate event affecting the Company, the rules of the current survey, which includes questions about remuneration.
PSP and DABS, as previously approved by shareholders, and, subject to approval at the AGM on 6 February 2014, the rules of the renewed consideration of shareholder views PSP and DABS, will apply.
A corporate event will include: the committee is strongly committed to an open and transparent a takeover of the company: dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters.
we believe that it is important to meet regularly with our key shareholders to a company or a person, already having control, making a general understand their views on our remuneration arrangements and offer to acquire shares in the company: discuss our approach going forward.
a voluntary winding-up: and under the rules of the new plans if the Board so determines, during the year we consulted with the companys largest shareholders a fide-merger or other similar event materially affecting the value and the main shareholder representative bodies.
their views have of shares.
been instrumental in shaping the changes to the remuneration policy described elsewhere in this report.
In summary, awards under the PSP and matching awards under the DABS will vest subject to the performance conditions and, unless the In particular, and as outlined in the letter from the Remuneration Board determines otherwise, time pro-rating.
Deferred awards under Committee Chairman, the Committee noted ongoing shareholder the DABS, which represent previously earned bonuses, will vest in full.
concern regarding the continued use of deferred bonus matching On a variation of share capital, a fide-merger, a sale of a substantial part awards.
as a result these will no longer be awarded in respect of of the Groups business or similar event, the Committee may make such bonuses achieved for the year commencing 1 October 2013 and subsequently.
adjustment to awards as it considers appropriate.
In respect of the Share Incentive Plan, the same leaver conditions will the committee has also taken account of market practice and general be applied as those applied to all employees.
investor views in recommending increased shareholding requirements and an update to the rules of the PSP and daBS that will include the In the event of death in service, the arrangements for the Executive introduction of malus provisions.
directors provide lump sums for the purchase of dependants pensions of the greater of eight times salary or the value of the pension fund, the committee will continue to engage with shareholders going forward in addition to which a lump sum of four times salary is payable.
and will aim to consult on any material changes to the application of the approved Policy or proposed changes to the Policy.
the company may enter into new contractual arrangements with an Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, the committee may make minor changes to the Policy that do not including but not limited to settlement of claims, confidentiality, have a material advantage to executive directors without seeking restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements, where shareholder approval.
the committee determines it necessary or appropriate to do so.
appropriate disclosure of any such arrangement will be made.
indd 88 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 89 BuSineSS and financial review Directors report financial StatementS SharehOlder infOrmatiOn the annual report on remuneration for the year ended 30 september 2013 The following section sets out the Directors remuneration for the financial year ended 30 September 2013.
The following information has been audited by  LLP: single total figure of remuneration: retirement benefits: scheme interests awarded between 1 October 2012 and 30 September 2013: payments to past directors: loss of office payments: and directors shareholdings.
the year ended 30 September 2012 columns therefore include both pre-review and post-review data.
2 To comply with the new legislation, benefits for the year ended 30 September 2013 include where used holiday travel concessions.
3 Annual bonus figures include a cash element of up to 50% and a deferred element of the remainder.
The deferred element is used to allocate nil-cost options over TUI Travel PLC shares, which are deferred for at least three years.
the deferred element is not subject to performance conditions.
4 as required by the new legislation the anticipated value of the daBS and PSP shares that will vest for the three-year period ended 30 September 2013 has been calculated using a share price of 365p, this being the three-month average for the year ended 30 September 2013.
The DABS and PSP values on pages 94 and 95 of this Report are based on the 30 September 2013 share price of 367.7p as required by the listing rules of the financial conduct authority.
5 Awards vest after the approval of the financial statements for the year ending 30 September and such awards relate to a performance period ending on the same date as those financial statements.
Therefore, the figures in the 2013 DABS and 2013 PSP columns relate to awards that will vest in December 2013.
6 In calculating remuneration for Dr Volker Bttcher, payments made in EUR during the year ended 30 September 2013 have been converted at 1.1902 to 1 GBP, being the average exchange rate for the period 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013.
Payments made in EUR during the year ended 30 September 2012 have been converted at 1.2035 to 1 GBP, being the average exchange rate for the period 1 October 2011 to 30 September 2012. alignment of pay with performance the remuneration policy at tui travel places substantial emphasis on variable pay.
the committee considers that this is aligned with the best PSP 1,700 1,010 interests of shareholders and ensures that executive directors will only receive significant remuneration for exceptional performance.
Over the last three years, the Executive Directors have delivered strong DABS 2,975 1,767 Company performance, driven by growth in profit and cash generation.
matching For example, our EPS as defined in the plan rules has increased by over 22% per annum since 2010.
Shareholders have seen this reflected 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 in our share price, which has increased by almost 60% over this period Value of share vest in 000s taking our market capitalisation from 2.2bn to 4.1bn.
we consider that Performance element Share appreciation element the remuneration received for the year ended, 30 September 2013 recognises this performance.
For example for Peter Long see chart : Over 85% of his total remuneration was delivered in variable pay: and Of this variable amount, at least 30% was directly due to the significant increase in our share price over the last three years.
indd 89 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 90 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT remuneration report continued Benefits excluding pension the individual business objectives were determined with consideration Benefits incorporate tax assessable benefits arising from the to the strategic goals set for each executive director by the Board.
is the case for all senior management in the Group, objectives were set under the strategic drivers described on page 15 content, brands and Peter Long.
Car car allowance, private healthcare cover and holiday distribution, technology, growth and scale and people.
against these objectives was reviewed by the committee against Johan Lundgren.
Car car allowance, private healthcare cover and quantifiable individual performance metrics.
School fees 41,000 and tax advice as reported earlier the company has had a very successful year and were also provided as part of the ongoing support relating to his this is reflected in the level of bonus awards.
relocation to the uK from Sweden on 1 august 2009.
Car car allowance, private healthcare cover and the bonus weightings for the year ended 30 September are holiday travel concessions.
Retirement benefits do not include his detailed below: deferred pension entitlements under the final Salary section of the Bonus weightings TUI Pension Scheme UK.
Please refer to the Retirement benefits group section for further details.
average Source individual group headroom market mainstream Business dr volker Bttcher.
Provision of a fully-expensed company car and executive directors Profit Cash cash Profit Cash Profit Objectives holiday travel concessions.
Peter long 65% 15% 20% Johan lundgren 65% 15% 20% Retirement benefits william waggott 65% 15% 20% total pension contributions or allowances accrued to the year ended dr volker Bttcher 10% 55% 10% 25% 30 September 2013 were 952,000.
Payments totalling 1,195,000 have been made as at the date of this report.
these payments Based on these weightings the performance levels were: include contributions for the year ended 30 September 2012 which were accrued but not paid at the date of the 2012 annual report Bonus results as % of maximum opportunity for each element and accounts.
group average Source individual william waggott has deferred pension entitlements under the final group headroom market mainstream Business executive directors Profit Cash cash Profit Cash Profit Objectives Salary section of the tui Pension Scheme uK.
he ceased to be an Peter long 100% 100% 60% active member on 3 September 2007 and therefore did not accrue Johan lundgren 100% 100% 60% further benefits during the year.
The accrued benefits including william waggott 100% 100% 80% deferred revaluation to 30 September 2013 are a pension dr volker Bttcher 100% 64% 100% 65% of 60,837.45 per annum, payable from age 60.
The transfer value as at 30 September 2013 calculated on the current basis is 1,402,198.
The subsequent awards are: the transfer value as at 30 September 2012 calculated on the basis in force at that time was 1,503,860.
The only change in accrued Overall bonuses for year ended 30 September 2013 benefits over the financial year is another year of deferred revaluation max bonus as % total bonus as total bonus as total bonus executive directors of salary % of max % of salary 000 fixed at 5% per annum.
The accrued benefits at the start of the Peter long 175% 92.0% 161.0% 1,369 year were 57,940.43 per annum so there has been an increase in Johan lundgren 140% 92.0% 128.8% 902 pension of 2,897.02 over the year.
No contributions were made in william waggott 140% 96.0% 134.4% 739 the year ended 30 September 2013. dr volker Bttcher 120% 71.3% 85.6% 392 annual bonus The annual bonus is driven by the achievement of Group, business up to 50% of each executive directors annual performance bonus will be and individual targets which are weighted for each executive director.
deferred into shares for three years on 12 december 2013. it is anticipated For the year ended 30 September 2013 the achievement of financial that a matching award will be made on the same date as follows: targets represented up to 80% of the bonus awarded with the balance estimated value of award being determined by the achievement of individual objectives.
executive directors 000 Peter long 2,737 The financial element is weighted to the achievement of profit and Johan lundgren 1,803 cash targets.
these are set by the committee annually with reference william waggott 1,478 to the Companys five-year strategic plan, analyst profit forecasts and dr volker Bttcher cashflow performance.
The targets are designed to be stretching, drive improved results and align delivery with shareholders expectations.
The specific financial targets are considered by the Committee to be commercially sensitive.
indd 90 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 91 BuSineSS and financial review Directors report financial StatementS SharehOlder infOrmatiOn long-term incentives Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme DABS the daBS shares awarded on 6 december 2010 will be released on 10 december 2013. the vesting of the matching shares is subject to achievement of the following performance conditions over the three-year performance period and continued employment.
Measure target Weighting achievement a performance hurdle of rOic requiring rOic to be on average at least equal to wacc.
growth in the companys ePS as Average annual EPS growth in excess of RPI growth of: 75% ePS growth in excess of rPi for defined in the plan rules in relation the three-year performance less than 4% results in nil achievement to the growth in uK rPi.
between a threshold level of 4% to 13% results in this performance measure was achievement between 10% and 100% on a straight-line basis therefore achieved at 100%.
greater than 13% results in 100% achievement the companys ranking of total Ranking: 25% the companys achieved shareholder return tSr performance ranking was 16th out of 71. below median results in nil achievement relative to the tSr performance of the this performance measure was between median and upper quartile results in achievement companies in the ftSe 100 ranked therefore achieved at 100%.
between 15% and 100% on a straight-line basis 30th to 100th by market capitalisation.
above upper quartile results in 100% achievement therefore the overall result is that a vesting level of 100% was achieved.
Performance Share Plan PSP the PSP shares awarded on 6 december 2010 will be released on 10 december 2013. the vesting of the shares will be subject to three performance conditions.
growth in the companys ePS Average annual EPS growth in excess of RPI growth of: 50% ePS growth in excess of rPi for as defined in the plan rules in the three-year performance less than 4% results in nil achievement relation to the growth in uK rPi.
greater than 13% results in 100% achievement the companys ranking of total Ranking: 50% the companys achieved shareholder return tSr performance below median results in nil achievement ranking was 16th out of 71. relative to the tSr performance of the between median and upper quartile results in achievement this performance measure was companies in the ftSe 100 ranked between 15% and 100% on a straight-line basis therefore achieved at 100%.
indd 91 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 92 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT remuneration report continued Single total figure of remuneration scheme interests awarded between 1 october 2012 and 30 september 2013 non-executive Directors y e Y e y e Y e Awards under the DABS and PSP were made on 6 December 2012, 30 sep 2013 30 Sep 2012 30 sep 2013 30 Sep 2012 in respect of the preceding financial year.
total total Fees fees remuneration remuneration Under the DABS, each Executive Director deferred 50% of their annual non-executive directors 000 000 000 000 bonus into deferred shares for a three-year period.
daBS matching friedrich Joussen shares were awarded at a ratio of four matching shares to one deferred chairman 163 163 share.
the vesting of the daBS matching shares is subject to continued Sir michael hodgkinson employment and the achievement of stretching performance conditions deputy chairman 200 200 200 200 over a three-year period to 30 September 2015. horst Baier 55 55 55 55 tony campbell 55 55 55 55 awards made under the daBS on 6 december 2012 are summarised clare chapman 3 3 below: Bill dalton 43 43 DaBs deferred award Sebastian ebel 29 29 number of face value rainer feuerhake 20 55 20 55 nil-cost share of award dr michael frenzel executive directors date of award options awarded 000 Outgoing chairman 145 300 145 300 Peter long 06-dec-12 256,646 729 Janis Kong 55 19 55 19 Johan lundgren 06-dec-12 170,809 485 coline mcconville 65 58 65 58 william waggott 06-dec-12 134,207 381 minnow Powell 70 70 70 70 dr volker Bttcher 06-dec-12 87,886 250 dr erhard Schipporeit 55 55 55 55 DaBs matching award dr albert Schunk 55 55 55 55 number of threshold harold Sher 55 55 55 55 nil-cost threshold value of tOtal 1,022 1,023 1,022 1,023 share face value value of award as options of award award % of max executive directors date of award awarded 000 000 award Peter long 06-dec-12 1,026,584 2,915 364 12.5% Johan lundgren 06-dec-12 683,236 1,940 243 12.5% william waggott 06-dec-12 536,828 1,525 191 12.5% dr volker Bttcher 06-dec-12 351,544 998 125 12.5% notes 1 daBS matching awards will not be granted in respect of deferral of bonuses awarded for the year commencing 1 October 2013 or subsequently, as per the Policy.
2 daBS awards were allocated on 6 december 2012 using the mid-market share price 284.0p of tui travel Plc shares on the date immediately preceding the allocation date.
3 In calculating remuneration for Dr Volker Bttcher, share awards made on 6 December 2012 have been converted at 1.2315 EUR to 1 GBP, being the Financial Times closing mid-rate on the date immediately preceding the allocation date.
Under the PSP, shares were awarded on 6 December 2012 which are also subject to continued employment and the achievement of stretching performance conditions over a three-year period to 30 September 2015.
The awards are summarised below: psp number of face value face value of threshold value threshold value date of nil-cost share of award award as % of award of award as % executive directors award options awarded 000 of base salary 000 of max award Peter long 06-dec-12 598,591 1,700 200% 213 12.5% Johan lundgren 06-dec-12 295,774 840 120% 105 12.5% william waggott 06-dec-12 232,394 660 120% 83 12.5% no PSP award was made to dr volker Bttcher.
notes 1 PSP awards were allocated on 6 december 2012 using the mid-market share price 284.0p of tui travel Plc shares on the date immediately preceding the allocation date.
indd 92 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 93 BuSineSS and financial review Directors report financial StatementS SharehOlder infOrmatiOn performance measures up to one-quarter of the awards will vest based on the companys the following performance measures apply to the daBS matching rOic performance over the performance period.
shares and PSP shares awarded on 6 december 2012. average annual rOic Proportion of award that vests Below 14.1% 0% up to half of the awards will vest based on growth in the companys Between 14.1% and 15.6% Between 15% and 100% on a reported EPS as defined in the plan rules in excess of growth in straight-line basis the UK Retail Price Index RPI, as follows: greater than 15.6% 100% average annual ePS growth Proportion of in excess of rPi growth award that vests a performance hurdle of rOic requiring rOic to be on average at less than 4% 0% least equal to wacc measured over three years is used to ensure that Between 4% and 13% inclusive Between 10% and 100% on a the long-term incentive awards pay out only when shareholder value is straight-line basis being created over the performance period.
if the rOic wacc greater than 13% 100% performance hurdle is not met no shares will vest.
up to one-quarter of awards will vest based on the groups the committee assesses the ePS and the rOic tests based on audited tSr performance relative to an average of the tSr performance information.
independent calculations of tSr performance for of an index of international travel and leisure companies which are outstanding awards are performed by deloitte.
considered the most relevant peers in terms of size, global scope, share incentive plan business type and exposure to external factors.
the companies Peter Long, Johan Lundgren and Will Waggott are participants in the included in the index are: hmrc-approved tui travel Plc Share incentive Plan.
during the year 1 aer lingus group 13 international consolidated airlines group ended 30 September 2013: 2 air Berlin 14 Kuoni reisen holding 3 air france-Klm 15 national express group Peter long did not purchase any partnership shares and was not 4 carnival 16 norwegian air Shuttle awarded any matching shares in the year.
5 club mediterranee 17 Pierre & vacances Johan lundgren purchased 403 partnership shares at a share price of 6 deutsche lufthansa 18 Priceline.
com 372p and was awarded 100 matching shares at a share price of 372p.
7 easyJet 19 royal caribbean cruises will waggott purchased 403 partnership shares at a share price of 8 expedia 20 ryanair holdings 372p and 154 dividend shares at a share price of 304p and was 9 finnair 21 Stagecoach group awarded 101 matching shares at a share price of 372p.
10 firstgroup 22 thomas cook group 11 flight centre travel group 23 wotif.
com holdings payments to past Directors 12 hertz global holdings there have been no payments to former directors during the year.
the vesting schedule for the portion of awards subject to tSr Payments for loss of office performance is as follows: during the year there have been no payments made to directors for tui travel Plcs tSr Performance Proportion of award that vests loss of office.
Below index 0% Between index and index 8% Between 15% and 100% on a per annum straight-line basis exceeding index 8% per annum 100% statement of executive Directors shareholding and share interests the executive directors are subject to a shareholding obligation.
as explained in the letter from the remuneration committee chairman the requirement will increase on 1 October 2014. from this date Peter long is expected to hold shares at least equal to 400% of his base salary.
the remaining executive directors are expected to hold shares at least equal to 200% of base salary.
as shown below the executive directors comply with the revised holding requirement.
Shares held outright at 30 September 2013 as a percentage of salary Outstanding scheme interests at 30 September 2013 based on share price total of all share of 367.7p as at Outstanding, Outstanding, total shares interests and Shares held 30 September 2013 unvested scheme unvested scheme subject to outstanding scheme outright at and salary as at interests subject to interests not subject to outstanding interests at executive directors 30 September 2013 30 September 2013 performance measures performance measures scheme interests 30 September 2013 Peter long 3,025,860 1309% 6,505,148 1,033,005 7,538,153 10,564,013 Johan lundgren 533,467 280% 3,608,892 549,724 4,158,616 4,692,083 william waggott 556,620 372% 2,752,323 465,608 3,217,931 3,774,551 dr volker Bttcher 376,726 303% 2,005,498 379,760 2,385,258 2,761,984 notes 1 interests in shares held at 30 September 2013 include shares held by connected persons.
2 all outstanding scheme interests take the form of rights to receive shares nil-cost share options or conditional share awards.
3 details of each scheme interest awarded under the daBS and PSP held by each executive director are set out later in this report.
4 In calculating shareholding as a percentage of salary for Dr Volker Bttcher, the salary has been converted at 1.1902 to 1 GBP, being the average exchange rate for the period 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013.
2 DABS matching award: A multiple of the deferred award, subject to continued employment to the release date and performance conditions over the three-year vesting period as follows: The performance measures and targets applicable for matching awards granted in 2010 are described in the single total figure of remuneration section.
Matching awards granted in 2009 were subject to the same performance measures and targets.
the performance measures and targets applicable for matching awards granted in 2012 are described in the Scheme interests awarded section.
matching awards granted in 2011 are subject to the same performance measures and targets.
3 the maximum value is based on the 30 September 2013 share price of 367.7p.
the anticipated value of the daBS shares that will vest for the three-year period ended 30 September 2013 see page 89 has been calculated using the three-month average for the year ended 30 September 2013 i. e. 365.0p.
4 During the financial year ended 30 September 2010 the Director and the Company agreed to enter into a joint election pursuant to section 431 1 of the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 in respect of this award.
Consequently, the Remuneration Committee agreed to vest this award early and release sufficient shares to satisfy the tax liability arising from the joint election.
The remaining shares were held by the Employee Benefit Trust on behalf of employees and were subject to claw-back conditions.
They were released after the third anniversary of the award date in accordance with the scheme rules on 4 December 2012, on which date the market price of a share is as shown in the Market price per share at vesting column and the aggregate value of the shares released to the executive director is as shown in the market value at vesting column.
PSP awards granted in 2009 were subject to the same performance measures and targets.
the performance measures and targets applicable for PSP awards granted in 2012 are described in the Scheme interests awarded section.
PSP awards granted in 2011 are subject to the same performance measures and targets.
2 the maximum value is based on the 30 September 2013 share price of 367.7p.
the anticipated value of the PSP shares that will vest for the three-year period ended 30 September 2013 see page 89 has been calculated using the three-month average for the year ended 30 September 2013 i. e. 365.0p.
indd 95 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 96 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT remuneration report continued the table below shows the historic levels of Peter longs pay single statement of non-executive Directors shareholdings figure of total remuneration and annual variable and long-term As at 30 September 2013, the Non-Executive Directors interests in incentive pay awards as a percentage of plan maxima.
ordinary shares of the Company were: interests in shares held at value of vested non-executive directors 30 September 2013 Single figure of annual annual variable pay long-term incentive remuneration awarded as percentage awards as percentage friedrich Joussen chairman financial year 000 of maximum of maximum Sir michael hodgkinson deputy chairman 20,000 2012 13 10,122 92% 100% horst Baier 2011 12 6,737 98% 65% tony campbell 52,044 2010 11 4,935 100% 65% Sebastian ebel 2009 10 6,309 50% 74% Janis Kong 15,000 2008 09 5,041 100% 96% coline mcconville minnow Powell 6,891 notes dr erhard Schipporeit For the financial year ended 30 September 2010, the performance targets for the annual dr albert Schunk bonus were met in full.
However, the Committee decided that, in the context of an harold Sher appropriate claw-back of prior year bonus due to the profit restatement and substantial one-off costs during the year, the cash portion of the bonus would not be payable.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to percentage change in remuneration of ceo inspection at the Registered Office, contains full details of Directors We have an international workforce of more than 55,000.
The Committee shareholdings and will be available for inspection before and during considers the most meaningful comparator group to be the uK group the annual general meeting on thursday 6 february 2014. reward Population grP whose remuneration is managed on a central During the year, the price of the Companys ordinary shares ranged rather than local basis.
there were 94 managers in this group at between 401.5 pence and 232.0 pence and the mid-closing price on 30 September 2013. monday 30 September 2013 was 367.7 pence.
the following table shows the percentage change in remuneration For the year ended 30 September 2013, Peter Long received and between the years ended 30 September 2012 and 30 September 2013 retained non-executive directors fees in respect of an appointment for the ceO and comparator group.
No other Executive Salary Benefits annual bonus director currently holds an external non-executive director post.
comparator group percentage change including travel concessions 2.9% 14.3% 14.0% On 4 October 2013, William Waggott and Tony Campbell were allocated comparator group percentage 44 and 525 additional shares respectively under the dividend change excluding travel concessions 2.9% 2.3% 14.0% reinvestment Plan open to all shareholders under the same terms.
ceO percentage change including there have been no further changes in the interests of the directors travel concessions 0.0% 8.3% -6.1% between 30 September 2013 and the date of approval of the 2013 ceO percentage change excluding annual report and accounts.
travel concessions 0.0% 0.0% -6.1% performance graph and table relative importance of spend on pay The graph below compares the TSR performance of TUI Travel PLC, remuneration assuming dividends are re-invested, with the TSR performance of paid to or distributions to receivable by shareholders an index of international travel and leisure companies.
this index is all employees by way of considered by the committee to be the most appropriate comparison of the group dividends reference for these purposes.
from October 2011 this index has also m m been used for performance measurement under the companys Year ended 30 September 2013 1,827 132 long-term incentive schemes.
As a member of the FTSE 100, the Year ended 30 September 2012 1,734 128 performance of this index has also been shown.
Percentage change 5% 3% 250 TUI Travel PLC International Travel & Leisure excluding TUI Travel PLC FTSE 100 200 150 100 50 0 30 Sept 08 30 Sept 09 30 Sept 10 30 Sept 11 30 Sept 12 30 Sept 13 15 RemunerationXReport v32 copy.
indd 96 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 97 BuSineSS and financial review Directors report financial StatementS SharehOlder infOrmatiOn implementation of the policy consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Policy will apply to any remuneration and loss of office payments made on or after 1 October 2014. the committee advises the Board on overall remuneration policy.
it also determines, on behalf of the Board, and with the benefit of advice remuneration for the year commencing 1 october 2013 from external consultants and members of the HR Department, the remuneration of the executive directors and other members of the salary group management Board.
The salaries that are effective from 1 October 2013 are: annual salary the committee formulates and applies the Policy with consideration Peter long 850,000 to the prevailing economic climate in the major economies in which the Johan lundgren 700,000 group operates.
it also observes the spirit of the groups core values william waggott 550,000 which cultivate responsible leadership in the external and internal dr volker Bttcher 400,000 social environment.
consequently the committee closely considers the companys performance in building both shareholder value and Benefits excluding pension a secure future for all stakeholders.
The benefits that are effective from 1 October 2013 are: the activities of the committee are governed by its terms of reference Peter Long.
Car car allowance, private healthcare cover and holiday which were last revised on 25 march 2013 and can be found on the travel concessions.
Car car allowance, private healthcare cover and the committee currently comprises three non-executive directors holiday travel concessions.
the support relating to his relocation to each of whom the company deems to be independent.
all three were the uK from Sweden on 1 august 2009 will decrease during the year.
in place throughout the whole year.
Car car allowance, private healthcare cover and coline mcconville chairman holiday travel concessions.
Sir michael hodgkinson dr volker Bttcher.
Provision of a fully-expensed company car and holiday travel concessions.
Janis Kong the companys major shareholders are supportive of Sir michael Retirement benefits hodgkinson continuing in his role whilst an orderly succession plan Retirement benefits will continue to be applied as per the Policy is put in place.
and application in previous years.
The following resigned from the Committee during the year: annual Bonus The Committee has set stretching targets focused on both profit tony campbell 1 October 2012 and cash performance for the business.
although the target detail is rainer feuerhake 8 february 2013 considered commercially sensitive the measures and weightings for dr michael frenzel 25 march 2013 the year commencing 1 October 2013 are: individual group Source market mainstream Business Profit Cash Profit Cash Sector Profit Objectives Peter long 80% 20% Johan lundgren 80% 20% will waggott 80% 20% dr volker Bttcher 20% 45% 15% 20% DaBs as stated on page 90 it is anticipated that daBS deferred awards and matching awards will be made in december 2013 in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2013.
The performance measures and targets for the matching awards are outlined on page 93. psp It is anticipated that a PSP award will be made as follows: anticipated value of december 2013 award 000 Peter long 1,275 Johan lundgren 700 william waggott 550 dr volker Bttcher the performance measures and targets are as outlined on page 93 of this report.
indd 97 13 12 2013 17:54 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 98 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT remuneration report continued No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, other the committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information than as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided by the Committee.
it requires from any employee of the group.
the committee is also The three independent members of the Committee have no conflicts of authorised to require the attendance of any director at any of interest arising from cross-directorships.
members of the committee its meetings.
have no day-to-day involvement in the running of the company.
During the year, the Committee received independent advice on the committee met six times during the year.
details of attendance executive remuneration matters from deloitte.
deloitte received can be found in the corporate governance report see page 68.
128,000 in fees for these services.
Deloitte is a founder member of During the year, the Committee carried out the following activities: the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration review of the executive director and gmB remuneration Policy and consulting in the uK.
review of individuals reward arrangements in line with the Policy.
the committee appointed deloitte to the role of independent consultation with shareholders and external bodies regarding advisers to the Committee in 2008, following an interview process.
the committee is comfortable that the deloitte engagement partner assessment of the achievement of executive directors and gmB and team, which provide remuneration advice to the Committee, members performance against their annual bonus objectives.
do not have connections with tui travel Plc that may impair their assessment of performance for the vesting of the 2009 Performance independence or objectivity.
In addition, during the year ended Share Plan and deferred annual Bonus Scheme awards.
30 September 2013, Deloitte also provided various tax services to approval of the directors remuneration report for the year ended the company.
30 September 2012. herbert Smith freehills llP was appointed to provide advice on law consideration of market trends in executive remuneration.
and regulation in relation to share scheme matters which is provided deliberation about corporate governance developments and their to the company and is available to the committee.
legal fees relate potential impact.
to advice provided to the Company and not the Committee, and are review of the executive shareholding guidelines and their application.
herbert Smith freehills llP also Agreement of the Annual Bonus, PSP and DABS performance provides general legal advice to the company.
targets for the year ended 30 September 2013. statement of shareholder voting during the year the committee considered the results of a remuneration at the annual general meeting of tui travel Plc on thursday 7 february Committee Effectiveness Survey.
No significant concerns were raised.
2013 the results of the vote regarding resolution 2 to approve the advisors Directors Remuneration Report were: while it is the committees responsibility to exercise independent votes for votes against judgement, the Committee does request advice from management number % number % votes total votes withheld and professional advisers, as appropriate, to ensure that its decisions 921,085,873 95.23 46,105,489 4.77 967,191,362 9,101,232 are fully informed.
advice or services were provided to the committee during the year by: the remuneration report was approved by a duly authorised deloitte llP deloitte : committee of the Board of directors on 9 december 2013 and signed on its behalf by: andrew John company Secretary: now Group Director Secretariat, Health & Safety and Risk : Peter long chief executive: coline Mcconville Jacky Simmonds group hr director: and chairman of the remuneration committee tim taylor group reward director.
9 december 2013 the group hr director has direct access to the chairman of the Committee and, together with the Group Reward Director, advised the committee on reward matters relating to the executive directors and members of the gmB and broader group hr strategy and policy.
the chief executive attends meetings of the committee to make recommendations relating to the performance and remuneration of his direct reports and the company Secretary acts as Secretary to the committee.
executives are not in attendance when their own remuneration is considered.
