Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Overview of performance during the year Introduction 2013 was a year of good strategic progress and operational achievement.
This remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2013 Continuing adjusted EPS grew by 12.8% to 53.6p, Events profit margin complies with UK governance requirements including the Large and remained strong at 32.2% and organic revenue growth was 3.7%.
Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Wedisposed of our Data Services business Delta and substantially Regulations 2008 as amended, the rules of the UK Listing Authority restructured our Marketing Services activities to focus on the and the provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
professional communities our events serve.
We ended the year withsignificantly higher quality earnings and with the business better The report comprises two sections: positioned for structural growth.
Section 1 The Directors Remuneration Policy Report, which In respect of Executive Director bonuses for the year, 99.5% of financial contains details of the remuneration policy that will apply from the objectives were achieved.
For the CEO 74.9% of personal objectives date of the AGM.
were met, and for the CFO 69% of personal objectives were met.
This Section 2 The Directors Annual Remuneration Report, which resulted in bonus payments of 93.3% of maximum bonus for the CEO sets out details of how the remuneration policy was implemented resulting in a cash bonus of 784,042, with 25% 261,347 forfeit in for the year ended 31 December 2013, and how we intend the lieu of deferral and 91.85% of maximum bonus for the CFO resulting in policy to apply for the year ending 31 December 2014. a cash bonus of 383,920 and 25% 127,973 deferred into shares.
At the AGM in May 2014, the Directors Remuneration Policy Performance share awards, granted in April 2011, were based on Reportwill be put to a binding shareholder vote and the Directors relative TSR performance.
UBMs TSR did not outperform the median Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote.
of the comparator index and therefore none of the awards will vest in Theresults of these votes will be disclosed in the 2014 April 2014.
Bonus Investment Plan Matching awards, granted in April RemunerationReport.
UBMs EPS growth was below the threshold of 5% per annum above RPI and therefore none of the The following information has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP: awards will vest in April 2014.
Single total figure for remuneration: LTIPs granted during 2013: Payments to past Directors: Loss of office payments: Directors shareholdings and share interests: Total interests in shares and Scheme interests.
SECTION 1 THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Our reward philosophy To provide remuneration that attracts, motivates and retains executives Greg Lock with the appropriate skills and talent to deliver UBMs strategy and Chairman, Remuneration Committee create long-term shareholder value.
Our reward principles Alignment with UBMs strategy Our short and long-term incentives are primarily based on performance measures which are linked to Group and Divisional strategic KPIs, so that our remuneration policy incentivises and rewards Executive Directors and management to deliver UBMs vision.
The 2014 annual bonus will be subject to operating profit and revenue growth targets, to encourage profitable growth.
The financial underpin that applies to the annual bonus plan, and the malus provision under the LTIP, ensure that reward is only provided for robust and sustainable performance.
LTIP awards will be subject to a ROACE measure alongside EPS and TSR.
This will incentivise earnings growth and the maintenance of an efficient and sustainable level of return on capital.
Alignment with shareholders A significant proportion of our executives remuneration is performance-based, focused towards the long term and delivered in UBM shares to ensure that the interests of management are aligned with those of our shareholders.
Alignment with the wider Group The reward principles that govern Executive Directors reflect the broader reward philosophy and principles of the Group.
When determining remuneration for Executive Directors the Committee considers the pay and conditions of the wider employee population.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Governance 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy table Executive Directors The table below sets out the remuneration policy that will, subject to shareholder approval, apply from the date of the AGM.
Note that payments may be made under arrangements in place prior to this policy becoming effective including pension, other benefits and incentives.
The remuneration policy offered to employees of the Group will be adapted to reflect local market practice and seniority.
Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Annual base Supports the recruitment and Reviewed annually.
Any changes While the Committee has not set a None, although performance retention of Executive Directors generally apply from January.
salary maximum level of salary, increases will of the individual is taken into of the calibre required to deliver Paid in cash.
be set in the context of salary increases account by the Committee when UBMsstrategy.
setting and reviewing base When considering base salary levels, the salarylevels.
Committee takes a range of factors into However, the Committee retains the consideration, including: discretion to make increases above this level in certain circumstances, for The skills, experience, responsibilities example, but not limited to: and performance of the individual.
Pay at companies of a similar size and An increase in the individuals scope complexity to UBM and pay at media and responsibilities.
Alignment to the external market.
An increase to reflect an individuals Pay increases for our internal performance and development employee comparator group.
in the role e. g. where a new appointment is recruited at a lower For 2014, salaries will be as follows: salary level and is awarded stepped David Levin: 659,200 0% increase increases.
Robert Gray: 478,466 3% increase, Tim Cobbold New CEO : 650,000.
Retirement Provides a market-competitive Defined contribution plan or cash Annual contributions by the Company No performance measures.
retirement benefit in line with local benefits allowance in lieu of pension contribution.
will not exceed 20% of base salary.
Set as a percentage of base salary.
Level of contribution allowance All of UBMs defined benefit schemes dependent on local market and seniority are closed to new employees.
Benefits Provides a competitive Executive Directors receive private There is no maximum.
Set at a level No performance measures.
benefitspackage, in line with local healthcare insurance, income protection which the Committee considers market practice.
cover and life assurance benefits of four is appropriate in the context of the times base salary.
circumstances of the role individual and local market practice.
Executive Directors are entitled to participate in any all-employee plans The value may vary depending operated by the Company, such as onservice provider, cost and Sharesave, in which they are eligible marketconditions.
Other benefits may be provided if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee, including, but not limited to, housing allowance and relocation allowance.
Annual bonus Rewards the achievement of key Measures and targets are set annually in For maximum performance: Performance over the relevant annual Group financial targets and the context of UBMs vision.
financial year is assessed against the delivery of quantifiable personal CEO: 150% of base salary.
the following measures: and strategic business objectives.
The Committee determines bonus payouts after the financial year-end, based Financial measures: The bonus starts paying out from 0% of on performance against targets.
base salary for threshold performance.
a profit-based measure: and Pay-outs are on a straight-line basis a revenue-based measure.
Non-financial measures such as : Individual objectives which may include quantitative strategic KPIs, to be agreed on an annual basis.
46 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Annual Bonus Compulsory deferral of part of the The annual bonus is normally delivered The balance of the measures continued bonus into shares under the 2014 75% in cash after the audited results is weighted towards financial Deferred Bonus Plan, providing a link for that year are approved based on metrics, with a minimum to creating sustainable long-term annual performance targets, and 25% in weighting of 75%.
value and acting as a retention tool.
deferred shares after three years.
The financial underpin that applies Details of the measures that to the annual bonus plan, and the Payment of any bonus is at the discretion applied for the 2013 financial malus provision under the deferred of the Committee and subject to the year are set out in the Annual bonus see Operation opposite, financial underpin whereby no bonus will Remuneration Report on page 52. seek to ensure that reward is only be paid unless at least 50% of budget provided for robust and sustainable operating profit is achieved.
Measures for following years performance.
will be set out in the nonUnvested Deferred Bonus Plan awards policy section of the Annual are subject to a malus provision which Remuneration Report of the could reduce or cancel the award.
Examples of where malus would apply are a material misstatement of results: material failure of risk management: serious reputational damage.
Performance Incentivises and rewards the Awards are made annually in the form The range for 2014 PSP awards will Performance is assessed against delivery of UBMs strategy.
Share Plan of conditional share awards, nil cost usually be between 100% and 200% of three independently measured Incentivises the creation of long- 2014 PSP options or restricted shares with vesting base salary for CEO and between 100% metrics which are equally term shareholder value through dependent upon the achievement of and 160% of base salary for CFO, to weighted: the delivery of strong market performance conditions over three years.
be determined annually, with awards performance, earnings growth and EPS.
at the top of the range made only in maintenance of an efficient and Return on capital.
The weighting of measures and targets exceptional circumstances.
sustainable level of return on capital.
Relative TSR performance is reviewed annually in the context of Delivered in shares to align against a comparator group internal performance forecasts and The plan rules allow for awards to executives with shareholders and or index.
be made up to 250% of salary in to help executives build a significant exceptional circumstances such as the shareholding in UBM.
The measures will be equally The Committee may amend or substitute recruitment of a new Director.
Assists in the retention of weighted for the first year of the performance targets if an exceptional executives.
the policys operation: however event occurs to cause it to determine that Awards vest as follows: the Committee may alter the an amended or substituted target would weighting and targets annually if Threshold performance: 25% of be more appropriate.
Any amended or it determines that it is appropriate award.
substituted target would not be materially to do so.
Maximum performance: 100% of less difficult to satisfy in line with the the award.
Details of the targets that will apply for awards granted during Straight-line vesting in between.
Unvested awards will be subject to a 2014 are set out in the Annual malus provision in line with the rules of Remuneration Report on page 58. the 2014 PSP, as described in Annual Bonus above.
Targets for following years will be set out in the Annual Awards that vest will accrue dividend Remuneration Report of the equivalent payments up to the point relevant year.
Committee discretion The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above.
This applies where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the policy came into effect: or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes but is not limited to the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Incentive plans which were in operation before 2014 include the Performance Share Plan approved 26 September 2005, the Bonus Investment Plan approved 26 September 2005 and the Executive Share Option Scheme approved 2 June 2008.
Full details of these plans, including the discretions available to the Committee, can be found in the shareholder meeting notices at the time the plans were approved.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Governance 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy table Non-Executive Directors Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Chairman and NonProvide an appropriate reward to attract and Fees are reviewed periodically.
There is no defined maximum opportunity.
Executive Director fees are set at a level which: The fee structure is as follows: Reflects the commitment and contribution The Chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee.
that is expected from the Chairman and NonExecutive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee, plus additional fees for chairmanship Is appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and of Board Committees and for the Senior Independent Director.
complexity in the relevant market and at media companies in the FTSE 350.
Fees may be paid in cash and or UBM shares.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Annual Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any Remuneration Report for the relevant financial year.
Additional fees may be paid to reflect increased responsibilities on an interim or permanent basis.
Illustration of our executive remuneration policy Three scenarios have been illustrated below for each Executive Director: CEO CFO Maximum Maximum 28% 34% 38% 2.9m 32% 30% 38% 1.9m performance performance On-target On-target 51% 31% 18% 1.6m 56% 27% 17% 1.1m performance performance Below target Below target 100% 0.8m 100% 0.6m performance performance 0 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m 3m 3.5m 0 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m 3m 3.5m Fixed Annual bonus Long-term Fixed Annual bonus Long-term incl.
deferred bonus incentives PSP incl.
deferred bonus incentives PSP Assumptions for the scenario charts Shareholder views and consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The remuneration policy for Executive Directors reflects the reward Fixed pay minimum Base salary, benefits and pension.
philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the Group.
performance No vesting under the PSP.
The remuneration policy for employees across UBMs global On-target performance Fixed pay base salary, benefits and pension.
workplace will differ from the policy for executives to reflect different 50% of maximum bonus opportunity 75% of salary for levels of seniority and local market practice.
the CEO, 60% of salary for the CFO.
25% of PSP shares vest at threshold performance 42.5% Consideration of pay and conditions for the wider Group of salary for the CEO, 37.5% of salary for the CFO.
TheCommittee considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere Maximum Fixed pay base salary, benefits and pension.
in the Group when determining executive pay, to ensure that pay 100% of bonus pays out 150% of salary for the CEO, performance structures are appropriately aligned.
The Committee also considers 120% of salary for the CFO.
100% of PSP shares vest 170% of base salary for the base pay movements of our all-employee population when CEO, 150% of salary for the CFO.
determining base salaries for Executive Directors.
As part of the strategic remuneration review, during 2013 more than 50 senior managers were consulted on the pay and conditions of the The scenarios illustrated above do not take into account share price employees within their business units.
The charts are based on the remuneration Communication with our shareholders The Committee policy as it is intended to be operated for 2014. maintains an open dialogue with UBM shareholders and seeks their views when any significant changes are made to remuneration arrangements.
The Committee discussed with shareholders twice during 2013, to seek input on the formulation of the revised remuneration strategy and policy.
48 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Recruitment remuneration arrangements Loss of office payments When recruiting an Executive Director, the Committee will normally seek Salary fees and benefits to align the remuneration package offered with the remuneration policy.
Executive Director service contracts contain provisions for payment in However, the Committee retains the discretion to make appropriate lieu of notice in respect of base salary.
The Committee may, in its remuneration decisions outside the limits and structure of the standard discretion, make payments in addition to salary, in respect of any policy to meet individual circumstances.
An example of this might contractual benefits including retirement benefits, apportioned for the include, but not be limited to, payment of Directors on a short-term length of the notice period, subject to mitigation if alternate contractual basis e. g. if an interim Director or the Chairman are required employment is taken up.
to take on an executive function on a short-term basis, the Committee may decide to pay a contractual fee rather than a base salary which if pro Annual bonus rated per annum exceeds the limit set out in the policy above.
Executive Directors may be eligible to receive a bonus payment inrespect of the financial year of cessation: however, there is no The Committee has the discretion to change the performance measures contractual entitlement to a bonus.
In determining eligibility for a and or targets used under the annual bonus and or long-term incentive bonus, consideration will generally be given to the circumstances plan if it determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit ofthe cessation including details of future employment and such alteration.
performance during the year of cessation.
The rationale for any changes to the policy in operation will be clearly Where a bonus payment is made, it will generally be on a pro rata explained in the report in respect of that year.
basis for the period served during the year of cessation, based on an assessment of performance.
For a bonus earned in respect of the year The Committee will take into consideration any relevant factors when in which the executive leaves, the executive will forfeit 25% of bonus determining the remuneration arrangements for a new Executive which would ordinarily have been deferred into shares.
Director, including the calibre and experience of the individual: local market practice in the individuals current location: the individuals Long-term incentives remuneration arrangements: the remuneration arrangements for other The treatment of leavers under our long-term incentive plans is executives: and business circumstances.
We seek to ensure that determined by the rules of the relevant plans.
The Committee will arrangements are in the best interests of both the Company and its determine when awards vest and the period during which awards may shareholders, and to pay no more than is necessary.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new Deferred Bonus Plan awards made under the 2014 Deferred Executive Directors in the year of recruitment would normally be in Bonus Plan will generally lapse if the Executive Director leaves linewith the maximum level of variable pay that may be awarded employment before the end of the vesting period, unless they are underthe annual bonus plan and 2014 PSP as described in the policy.
In considered to be an approved leaver.
In such circumstances any circumstances, the maximum level of annual variable pay that may vesting will not normally be accelerated unless the Committee beawarded excluding buy-out awards will not exceed 400% of determines that awards should vest on the date the Director leaves.
basesalary, in line with the policy maximum set out in the policy table.
2014 PSP awards made under the 2014 PSP will generally lapse if the Executive Director leaves employment before the end of the The remuneration package offered to new Executive Directors may vesting period, unless they are considered to be an approved leaver.
include buy out remuneration forfeited by the new employee on To the extent that awards do not lapse, awards would usually vest on leaving their former employment, and other remuneration components the normal vesting date except in the case of death, where awards included in the remuneration policy e. g. base salary fees, pension, would normally vest as soon as reasonably practical, unless the benefits, annual bonus and long-term incentives.
Committee determines that awards vest on cessation.
Awards vest taking into account the extent to which any applicable performance Buy-outs conditions are satisfied and, unless the Committee determines The Committee will take account of relevant factors including otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed since grant.
performance conditions attached to awards, the form in which they Approved leaver is limited to individuals leaving by reason of death, were granted e. g. cash or equity awards and the timeframe of awards.
injury, disability, ill health, the participants employing company Buy-out awards will generally be structured on a comparable basis to ceasing to be part of the Group, or in such other circumstance as the awards forfeited.
Committee determines except where a participant is summarily dismissed.
The Committee may rely on exemption 9.4.
2. of the Listing Rules which allows for the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, Corporate events the recruitment of a Director.
Awards made using this exception would Change of control apply to buy-outs only, and would be structured to follow similar 2014 PSP The rules of the 2014 PSP provide that in the event of a principles as awards under the 2014 PSP.
Awards made using this change of control, awards would normally vest at the time of the event exception will not exceed the variable pay limit set out above.
taking into account the extent to which any applicable performance conditions are satisfied and, unless the Committee determines Executive Director service contracts otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed since grant.
The current Executive Directors have service contracts which may be terminated by the Company for breach by the executive or by either Deferred Bonus Plan awards under the 2014 Deferred Share Bonus the Company or executive giving 12 months notice.
Plan will normally vest in full upon a change of control.
Service contacts for new Executive Directors will generally be limited The Committee may permit participants to exchange 2014 PSP to 12 months notice.
However, the Committee may agree a longer orDeferred Bonus Plan awards for awards in shares of the period, of up to 24 months initially, reducing by one month for every acquiringcompany.
month served until it falls to 12 months.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49
