REMUNERATION REPORT Enhancing compensation structures Michael Kenyon, Committee chairman Dear Shareholders, On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the !financial year ending 31 December 2013.
Company performance in 2013 has been strong overall, assessing the Companys TSR performance, applicable to in terms of the progression of the business and the the vesting of Executive Director LTIP awards, against the achievement of a number of key operational and !financial weighted mean TSR of our comparator group.
Key performance highlights include forward, we have decided that vesting will be based on achieving annual attributable gold production of 641,931 outperformance of the unweighted median TSR in order ounces of gold, 7% higher than the upper end of ABGs to simplify current practices, enhance transparency and 2013 production guidance range, at annual cash cost per better align our approach with UK market practice.
This ounce sold of US$827, being 10% lower than the lower change also requires TSR performance to be at least end of our cash cost guidance range set for the year, and equal to that of the applicable comparator group in order achieving a year on year AISC reduction of 14% whilst to receive any payment under LTIP awards.
achieving a total reportable injury frequency rate of 0.68 for Changing the TSR comparator group for operation the year, an 18% reduction on 2012.
We also continued to of the LTIP in addition to enhancing the operation see good progress in wider areas relating to responsible of the TSR performance condition during the year we mining initiatives.
decided to change the comparator group relevant for the assessment of the TSR performance condition.
As part of our ongoing review of compensation practices, Going forward, vesting of Executive Director LTIP awards during the year we decided to adopt the following to better will be determined by reference to the constituents of align the interests of Executive Directors with shareholder the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
This decision was interests and expectations: taken to provide further objectivity to the TSR Executive Director Shareholding guidelines we have assessment and to address wider considerations adopted shareholding guidelines that require individuals applicable to the performance of participants in the to build up a shareholding equal to two times base salary gold mining industry.
Change of control change of control provisions Changes to the assessment of TSR performance condition have been removed from Executive Director service for Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards this year we contracts and, going forward, will not be used for such have taken the decision to discontinue the practice of service agreements.
com GOVERNANCE Directors In addition to conducting a general review of compensation practices during the year, the committee also considered Remuneration the recruitment arrangements for Brad Gordon, the Companys new CEO, the appropriate package for Andrew Wrays assumption of the role of CFO, and the remuneration Policy package for Michelle Ash, who was recruited during the year to act as ABGs Executive General Manager for Planning and Business Improvement.
The committee also reviewed the ABGs approach to Directors remuneration exit arrangements for Greg Hawkins following his stepping ABGs approach to Directors remuneration aims to attract, motivate and down as CEO, details of which have been provided as part retain individuals of the calibre and with the talent necessary to manage of the 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration.
our strategic and business objectives, to lead our workforce and As regards signi!cant decisions for 2014, in light of the operations and drive our Company and business forward in a challenging ongoing implementation and deepening of the Operational and complex operating environment and industry, in order to deliver Review, and in particular the ongoing efforts to streamline sustainable shareholder returns.
We aim to achieve this by offering our organisational structure and the impact that this will competitive packages benchmarked against general market practice likely continue to have on the wider ABG workforce, we have within the global mining industry, based on an ethos of pay for taken the view that it would be inappropriate for the CEO performance and without rewarding for failure.
and all other members of the Senior Leadership Team to To achieve this we have formulated our Directors Remuneration Policy receive salary increases for 2014.
We have also decided Remuneration Policy on the basis of the following objectives: to maintain the current level of maximum opportunities available to members of the Senior Leadership Team Remaining competitive with international gold mining, general mining SLT under performance-related incentive plans and FTSE listed companies of a similar size and complexity Short-Term Incentive plan, Long-Term Incentive Plan and Aligning the interests of Directors, and in particular Executive Stock Option Plan, whilst enhancing the targets used to Directors, with the short and long-term interests of shareholders assess applicable performance metrics, particularly the Linking executive remuneration to the performance of the Company targets used to assess performance metrics applied to the and, where appropriate, the individual assessment of awards under the Short-Term Incentive plan.
"Achieving an appropriate balance between !xed and performanceThese efforts and decisions re""ect the Boards increasing related pay expectations of management and our continued development of practices which promote pay for performance."
"In this Incorporating performance metrics that support and promote the regard, it is important to note that all of the decisions we progression of the key performance indicators used to monitor have taken regarding plans for the structure of senior performance across the wider business management remuneration in 2014 have received the full Setting challenging performance targets that reward delivery support of the SLT as a whole, re""ecting their ongoing and success dedication to business improvement and their commitment Reinforcing key business imperatives and strategy and focus on driving existing operational and cost control initiatives further."
"Re""ecting developments affecting the ABG Groups wider workforce As required under the Large and Medium-sized Companies In fide!ning our Remuneration Policy we have taken into account advice and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment received from external consultants and external legal counsel, best Regulations 2013, the remaining content of this practice guidelines on executive remuneration issued by institutional Remuneration Report is divided into the Directors bodies, such as the Association of British Insurers, and have also taken Remuneration Policy pages 57 to 64 and the Annual into account feedback from our shareholders, notably in the context of Report on Remuneration for 2013 pages 65 to 75."
In addition, whilst we do not consult employees on Directors Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders the formulation of the Remuneration Policy, we do take into account for approval in a binding vote at the forthcoming AGM and wider developments as regards our compensation practices for our wider will come into effect immediately following such approval.
This is particularly the case when determining salary Save for the developments referred to above, the proposed increases for the CEO and the Senior Leadership Team as part of overall policy remains largely consistent with that operated for annual salary reviews.
For example, in 2013 the average salary increase 2013 and approved at the 2012 AGM.
across the Group was 8% compared to 3% for the CEO.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Implementing our Remuneration Policy with regard to the particular strategic priorities and economic and We structure remuneration packages using a mixture of !xed and industry developments for the year in question.
Further details of !xed performance-related components.
We have also adopted shareholding and performance-related components of our Remuneration Policy are guidelines to ensure alignment between Executive Directors, Nonprovided in the Summary Table of Executive Directors Remuneration Executive Directors and shareholders.
In addition to the above elements of remuneration, the Compensation committee may consider it appropriate to grant incentive Fixed components of remuneration packages for Executive Directors awards under a different structure in order to facilitate the recruitment of comprise base salary, pension and taxable bene!ts.
Performance-related an individual, exercising the discretion available under Listing Rule components are delivered via the following  plans: 9.4.
2 R. The Compensation committee also retains various discretions in order to assess Executive Director exit and severance arrangements Short-Term Incentive STI a cash-based annual bonus incentive when necessary, in order to ensure that any severance and exit designed to focus executives on the delivery of key short-term arrangements entered into by the Company with exiting individuals are operational objectives in order to reinforce business priorities for fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Further information regarding each !financial year.
This incentive scheme is measured on the basis our approach to Executive Director recruitment is provided at pages 61 of Company-wide performance and, where appropriate, individual to 62 and further information as regards our approach to determining performance.
"Performance metrics are set on an annual basis, Executive Director exit arrangements is provided at pages 62 to 63. re""ecting wider key performance indicators used across our business and strategic objectives set for the Company."
The targets for the Our Remuneration Policy as regards Non-Executive Directors is based on performance metrics vary from year to year and take into account the payment of appointment fees, comprised of a base fee and ongoing business needs and priorities when setting appropriate base, additional fees for the role of Senior Independent Director, Board target and stretch thresholds.
committee chair and committee membership fees.
Independent Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP a long-term incentive plan that Non-Executive Directors may also make elections to receive deferred provides for the award of conditional shares, share options and share units DSUs under the Companys Deferred Share Unit Plan restricted stock units, but that is primarily used to grant restricted DSU Plan in lieu of all or part of the annual fees, details of which are stock units RSUs.
Awards made to Executive Directors vest on the provided on pages 63 and 64.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to basis of TSR performance condition s share price and dividends, participate in the STI, LTIP or SOP.
assessed over a three-year performance period.
Historically, the TSR performance condition was assessed on the basis of the Companys Use of Remuneration Policy across the ABG workforce relative TSR performance against the weighted mean TSR of a In general, we apply our Remuneration Policy to Executive Directors and comparator group of companies consisting of international gold all members of the Senior Leadership Team alike to ensure that all key miners.
Going forward, the Company will assess TSR performance on individuals involved in the day to day management and oversight of the outperformance of the unweighted median TSR against the Company are appropriately awarded and motivated to drive the Company constituents of the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
All members of the SLT are eligible for awards under the STI, reward long-term decision making and performance that delivers LTIP and SOP and their performance targets are the same as, or long-term shareholder value and returns.
The Compensation cascaded from, the targets set for the Executive Directors.
In addition, committee considers that relative TSR is an appropriate performance certain LTIP awards may be made to members of the SLT on a time-only measure for the LTIP because it captures objectively the shareholder vesting basis to assist with retention.
The Compensation committee return delivered over the long term and is less sensitive to short-term reviews and approves the individual remuneration packages for all changes in the gold price than many alternative measures commonly members of the SLT to ensure they are appropriate in the used in LTIPs.
The committee also reviews and approves all annual Stock Option Plan SOP a stock option plan pursuant to which base salary increases and annual incentive awards made for these options are granted over Company shares on a nil-cost basis, and with individuals for the same purpose.
The reward framework at other senior an exercise price equal to the fair market value at the date of grant.
executive levels also focuses heavily on performance-related Grants vest in equal parts over four years and expire seven years from remuneration.
In addition to the SLT, key senior employees participate in the date of grant.
The application of a performance condition to SOP the LTIP, including mine General Managers and members of their awards is discretionary in order to ensure that SOP awards can be respective mine management teams, departmental and functional used for retention and recruitment purposes, in addition to incentive heads, and individuals who are otherwise identi!ed as high potential purposes.
This incentive arrangement aims to reward long-term performing employees for business performance and succession decision making and performance that delivers shareholder value and planning purposes.
By adopting this approach, the Company seeks to returns over the long term and also provides a basis on which promote the alignment of individual interests with those of shareholders executives can build a stake in the Company, further aligning interests in order to drive the business forward.
Within the wider workforce, there is alignment on overall ABG Group The proportion of Executive Director total remuneration that is targets under the annual bonus plan: this is then supported by relevant performance-related is signi!cant for target performance in order to drive team and individual targets to focus colleagues on key deliverables in a culture of pay for performance.
The performance targets set for any their area of the business.
The speci!c bonus framework varies by job given year are set at such a level as to be stretching but achievable, level and scope, as appropriate.
com GOVERNANCE SUMMARY TABLE FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Fixed remuneration Base salary Pension Bene!ts Purpose To provide an appropriately competitive level of To help provide for an To provide bene!ts which are base salary with due regard to the size and appropriate retirement bene!t.
competitive in the market in which the nature of the responsibilities of each role, as individual is employed.
well as an individual executives experience.
Operation Reviewed annually, with any adjustments Executive Directors receive Executive Directors receive bene!ts, effective 1 January and made at the discretion contributions into a personal which usually include the provision of a of the Compensation committee.
pension scheme of their choice, company car or cash alternative, health or a cash supplement of and life insurance, liability insurance, Salaries are benchmarked against international commensurate value.
!tness club membership and gold mining, general mining and FTSE listed professional membership: however, the companies of similar size and complexity.
The Group does not operate any Compensation committee retains fide!ned bene!t schemes.
The Compensation committee also takes into discretion to approve any other form of bene!t that it deems appropriate to account corporate and individual performance and experience: general market conditions: and award depending on individual circumstances.
For example, relocation salary increases applied within the Company as a whole.
allowances and international transferrelated bene!ts are often provided for, when required, in line with general industry practices for the recruitment of international employees.
Opportunity To avoid setting expectations of Executive Executive Directors receive The value of bene!ts will generally be Directors and other employees, no maximum contributions or an equivalent assessed on the basis of market norms salary is set under the Remuneration Policy.
It cash supplement equal to a at the relevant point in time.
is not anticipated that salary increases for percentage of gross base salary The Compensation committee retains Executive Directors will exceed those of the in line with market norms at the the discretion to approve a higher total wider workforce over the period during which relevant point in time.
cost of bene!ts in exceptional this Remuneration Policy is effective.
Where circumstances e. g. relocation or in increases are awarded in excess of the wider circumstances where factors outside employee population, the Committee will the Companys control have changed provide the rationale in the relevant years materially e. g. increases in medical Annual Report on Remuneration.
Short-Term Incentive STI Purpose To reinforce the delivery of key short-term operational objectives on an annual basis in order to promote performance as regards business priorities for each !financial year in the context of individual and Company performance.
"Operation Performance measure weightings and targets are set at the start of the year and weighted to re""ect business priorities."
At the end of the year, the Compensation committee determines the extent to which targets have been achieved, taking into account Company-wide performance and the individual performance of each Executive Director.
STI payments are delivered in cash: clawback provisions apply to any STI payment made to an Executive Director in the event of individual misconduct or !financial misstatement misreporting.
Opportunity The STI provides Executive Directors with an annual bonus opportunity in the range of 0% to 150% of base salary, with target bonus opportunity of 75% of base salary.
Performance measures Bonus outcomes are assessed by the Compensation committee on a scorecard assessment, based on the achievement of the targets set for each performance measure and the committees broad assessment of Company performance.
Performance measures are based on challenging budget and stretch targets for Company-wide !financial and operational performance and, where appropriate, individual performance.
Performance measures may include !financial, operational, growth, production, cost and capital expenditure control and sustainability metrics.
"Performance measures are selected annually to re""ect key strategic initiatives and matters underpinning the key !financial and non-!financial performance indicators used to manage performance across the ABG Group."
Performance measures will be weighted appropriately each year according to the business plan.
"Weightings of performance measures may vary, typically up to 10% and 50%, with the range of performance required under each measure calibrated to re""ect the Companys annual published guidance range, particularly as regards production, cash costs and capital expenditure."
For threshold performance, the STI is anticipated to be 75% of Executive Director base salary, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation committee.
Whilst performance measures, weightings and targets for any given year will not be disclosed on a prospective basis due to commercial sensitivities, the Compensation committee aims to provide such details retrospectively as part of the Annual Report on Remuneration, unless ongoing commercial sensitivities discourage such disclosures.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose To reinforce an enterprise culture that promotes and protects shareholders long-term interests, so as to reward long-term decision making and performance that support the delivery of shareholder returns and drive shareholder value over the long term.
Operation Awards of conditional shares, options or restricted stock units RSUs may be granted annually, with the maximum value that may be awarded to each Executive Director fide!ned as a percentage of base salary at the date of grant.
Vesting is based on ABGs corporate performance over a three-year period.
There is no retest provision.
Clawback provisions are included in the LTIP for Executive Directors, whereby an award is subject to clawback for one year from the vesting date or exercise date, if relevant in the event of exceptional circumstances of individual misconduct or !financial misstatement misreporting.
Opportunity The LTIP permits a maximum award with a value equal to 200% of base salary at the time of grant to be made each year under normal circumstances.
The Committee may exceed this limit in exceptional circumstances only.
Such circumstances would include, for example, speci!c recruitment or retention scenarios.
The exercise of this discretion would be assessed in each case on the circumstances in question.
LTIP awards granted for annual incentive purposes are ordinarily granted at a target level equal to 150% of base salary at the time of grant.
Maximum performance, which will be assessed as 35% outperformance of the unweighted median TSR over the performance period going forward, can deliver vesting of up to 2x the target value of the award, i. e. an award with a value of 150% of base salary at the time of grant would, if maximum performance were achieved, vest at a value equal to 300% at the time of vesting.
"Additional RSUs are credited to re""ect dividends paid on ABG Ordinary Shares prior to the vesting date."
Such RSUs are subject to the same vesting provisions as the underlying awards.
Performance measures Subject to continued employment and ABGs relative TSR performance over a three-year performance period when compared to the constituents of the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
TSR performance must be at least equal to that of the TSR comparator group in order to receive any payment under LTIP awards, at which level 50% of the target award will vest.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of a three-year performance period, awards will lapse.
The Compensation committee reviews the comparator group of international gold miners against which TSR performance is measured from time to time to ensure it remains appropriate.
The Compensation committee has the discretion to determine the treatment of comparators in the event of their delisting or otherwise in any event which, in the opinion of the committee, compromises the suitability of a company as a comparator for ABG.
"Additionally, the committee may, at its discretion, reduce the number of awards vesting in the event that the achievement against the performance condition is not a genuine re""ection of the underlying performance of the Company."
More generally, the performance measures applied to LTIP awards are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain aligned with shareholder interests and, in this regard, the committee retains discretion to employ performance measures other than TSR to the LTIP in order to allow for performance assessments to evolve over time.
Share Option Plan SOP Purpose To reinforce an enterprise culture that promotes and protects shareholders long-term interests, so as to reward long-term decision making and performance that support the delivery of shareholder returns and drive shareholder value over the long term.
Operation Whilst the LTIP is expected to be used as the main long-term incentive for Executive Directors going forward, the committee retains the ability to grant stock options under the SOP where appropriate, such as in recruitment or retention scenarios.
The Compensation committee will set a vesting period for SOP awards appropriate to the circumstances at the time of grant.
Historically, this has included vesting in equal parts over four years or vesting after three years.
All awards expire seven years from the date of grant.
There are no clawback provisions included under the SOP.
Opportunity The SOP permits a maximum share option award with a value equal to 200% of base salary at the time of grant to be made each year under normal circumstances.
The committee may exceed this limit in exceptional circumstances only.
In the event that a stock option award was used for annual incentive purposes, such awards would ordinarily be granted at a target level equal to 150% of base salary at the time of grant.
In this regard, the committee would look to use an appropriate valuation model, for example, the Black-Scholes model, for purposes of ascertaining the fair value of any award made.
Performance measures The Compensation committee determines the performance metrics applying to share option awards as appropriate to the circumstances at the time of grant, based on the purpose of making such award, i. e. whether for recruitment, retention or as a matter of annual performance incentive.
Generally, in the event that the committee were to grant an SOP award as an incentive, it would look to apply an appropriate performance condition.
com GOVERNANCE Shareholding guidelines Purpose To align the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders through the building up of a signi!cant shareholding in the Company.
Operation Executive Directors are required to establish a minimum shareholding holding equivalent to two times base salary over a period of !five years.
Shareholding requirements may be satis!ed by interests under LTIP awards.
By means of illustration, this may be Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis the case as a result of the impact of wider socio-economic or political The chart below provides an estimate of the potential future reward factors or market-wide developments that were generally unforeseeable opportunity for the Chief Executive Of!cer, and the potential split or remote at the time of setting performance measures, but nonetheless between the different elements of remuneration under three different occur during a performance period.
It is for such reasons that the performance scenarios: Minimum, On-target and Maximum.
Compensation committee retains a number of discretions for the operation of all incentive schemes STI, LTIP and SOP including, but Brad Gordon Illustrative 000 not limited to, the ability to determine the following: Scheme participants 2,500 The timing of grant and size of awards 2,000 Appropriate treatment of vesting of awards in the context of restructurings and or takeovers 1,500 Appropriate adjustments to awards in the event of variations to the 1,000 Companys share capital Absent speci!c bad leaver scenarios, the ability to determine and 500 designate leavers as good leavers in order to determine appropriate 0 treatment of awards in exit scenarios Treatment, size and grant of awards in a recruitment context Fixed remuneration The application, scope, weighting and targets for applicable Annual bonus Long-term incentives performance measures and performance conditions from time to time, including any amendments to existing performance measures conditions and related targets Potential reward opportunities are based on the Remuneration Policy, applied to the latest base salary.
The STI and LTIP are based on the Whilst it may not be possible to give an exhaustive list of Compensation level of maximum opportunities applied in 2014.
Note that the LTIP committee discretions, the exercise of discretions and the rationale awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary underpinning their use, if any, will generally be provided in context, as of the date of grant, and the projected value excludes the impact of part of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
"Approach to recruitment of Executive Directors The minimum scenario re""ects base salary, pension and bene!ts When determining the remuneration package for a new Executive i. e. !xed remuneration which are the only elements of the Chief Director the Compensation committee aims to offer a package that is Executive Of!cers remuneration package not linked to performance."
suf!ciently competitive, to attract motivate and retain candidates of the calibre and experience required to run our business.
"This will generally The on-target scenario re""ects !xed remuneration as above, plus target be determined in each case not only in the context of the skills required STI 75% of salary and target vesting of the LTIP 150% of salary."
"for a position and those of each candidate, but will also be determined on the basis of recruitment trends within the global mining industry and The maximum scenario re""ects !xed remuneration, plus maximum any additional considerations relevant to the recruitment of executives in payout under all incentives 150% of salary under the STI and full the FTSE, and other markets outside of London."
In addition, our vesting of an LTIP award at maximum performance, which would be approach to recruitment will also depend on whether we use external equal to 300% for an award granted at target of 150% of base salary.
recruitment or internal promotion routes.
"Use of Compensation committee discretions External recruitment Generally, it is not possible for any remuneration policy to pre-empt every In determining appropriate remuneration for an external candidate, the possible scenario and for this reason the Compensation committee has Compensation committee will take into consideration all relevant factors been provided with the ability to apply various discretions and including quantum, the nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction the judgements in order to ensure the achievement of fair outcomes and to candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the maintain the ""exibility required to balance the interests of individuals best interests of the Company and its shareholders."
For such purposes, and those of the Company.
For example, the Compensation committee the Compensation committee may make use of all of the existing may be required to exercise discretion when determining whether or not components of the Remuneration Policy as follows: the outcomes of performance measures and targets applicable to incentive plans are fair in context, or if realities encourage the use of Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 Minimum 100% 530 On-target 36% 21% 43% 1,486 Maximum 22% 20% 26% 52% 2,442 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Component Approach Maximum annual grant value Fixed Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant N A remuneration market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current basic salary.
Where new appointees have initial basic salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years subject to their development in the role.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions or an equivalent cash supplement, which is equivalent to that received by existing executives and in line with market norms.
Bene!ts New appointees will be eligible to receive bene!ts which may include but are not limited to the provision of a company car or cash alternative, private medical insurance and any necessary relocation expenses.
"STI The STI described in the Summary Table of Executive Directors Remuneration 150% of salary Variable remuneration Policy will apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to re""ect the proportion of employment over the year."
Targets for the individual element will be tailored towards the executive.
LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on the same terms as 200% of salary other executives, as described in the Summary Table of Executive Directors Remuneration Policy.
SOP New appointees may be granted awards under the SOP, as described in the 200% of salary Summary Table of Executive Directors Remuneration Policy.
Based on target level: award can be higher in circumstances deemed by the Committee to be exceptional, i. e. where it is necessary to buy out incentive arrangements or make offers equivalent to sign-on bonuses.
The Compensation committee may also make an award under one Company, the Executive Director can continue to receive basic salary, of the Companys incentive plan outlined above in respect of a new bene!ts and pension for the duration of his her notice period during appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a which the Company may require the individual to continue to ful!l his previous employer.
In doing so, the committee will consider relevant her current duties or may assign a period of garden leave, depending on factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the circumstances in question.
The service contract used for any new the likelihood of those conditions being met and the term remaining to hire would be based on similar terms.
The CEOs service contract is their vesting.
In addition, where candidates are recruited from overseas, available for inspection at the Companys registered of!ce.
the Committee may be required to consider additional bene!ts received Generally, in an exit scenario the Company will honour all contractual in the home jurisdiction or arrange for a form of substitution of such entitlements, this being a matter required by the operation of law, and bene!ts in addition to the payment of suitable relocation allowances.
for individuals who relocated from overseas, reasonable relocation costs The Compensation committee may also consider it appropriate to grant will be considered as appropriate in the circumstances.
an award under a structure not included in the Remuneration Policy, exercising the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R where The treatment of incentive arrangements in exit scenarios are necessary.
Such an award would include, for example, a sign-on considered on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant payment.
The recruitment package used to appoint Brad Gordon is contractual terms of the individual, the circumstances of the exit and any outlined in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Generally, the payment of incentives as part of exit arrangements is determined on the basis of good leaver bad Internal promotion leaver and change of control scenarios.
Summary termination, In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal termination for gross misconduct or gross negligence or termination in promotion, the Committee will be consistent with the policy used for circumstances which would justify summary termination are all examples external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual of bad leaver scenarios.
Good leavers include individuals who have left commitments made prior to his or her promotion to Executive Director the Company as a result of retirement, injury, disability or death.
In level, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements even in addition, the Compensation committee retains the discretion to instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the determine any leaver that is not a bad leaver as a good leaver.
This prevailing Remuneration Policy at the time of appointment.
discretion is viewed as necessary by the Company given the vast range of scenarios in which an individual may leave the Company where Approach to Executive Director exit arrangements conduct is not at issue.
The availability of this discretion is particularly Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early key in exit scenarios in which an individuals performance per se is not termination, are carefully considered by the Compensation committee at issue.
Whilst it is not possible to provide an exhaustive list of such and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate directors of the quality scenarios, examples would include circumstances in which the Board required to manage the Company.
The committee considers that determines a need to change the Companys strategic direction or focus, appointments of an inde!nite term and with a notice period of one year or is required to review Board and management composition generally, to be appropriate.
The service contract used for the Companys current as a result of operational or market developments, or other CEO, being the sole Executive Director at present, provides for developments in the business, such as entry into new markets or a compensation of 12 months salary in the event of early termination.
In any event, when exercising such The Company has the discretion to pay such compensation in discretion the Compensation committee would always recognise and instalments, requiring the Executive Director to mitigate loss i. e. by take into account the balance of shareholder interests and those of the gaining new employment over the relevant period, or in a lump sum.
If notice to terminate is served by either the Executive Director or the 62 www.
com GOVERNANCE The table below summarises how the variable incentives are typically treated in speci!c circumstances, subject to the exercise of the discretions generally described above: Event Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting payment Short-Term Incentive Any event.
No automatic eligibility for payment.
The committee may exercise discretion to award a bonus for the performance year.
Such discretion would generally only be used in good leaver scenarios.
If an award is made, the award will be made on a pro-rata basis for the period of time served to the agreed termination date.
Any STI payment would be subject to applicable STI performance measure and target assessments for the year in question.
RSUs and Stock Options Resignation Awards lapse Not applicable Retirement, injury, disability, death or any other As set out in the vesting schedule Vesting of RSUs is calculated based on performance to the leaver determined by the committee to be a determined at grant.
end of the relevant performance period with awards pro-rated good leaver.
Note the committee may exercise discretion to waive time pro-rating of award.
Stock Options vest in full subject to the vesting schedule determined at grant.
Any Stock Options which remain unexercised six months from the vesting date will lapse.
Change of control Date of change of control.
The committee determines whether and to what extent not including internal reorganisations.
outstanding RSUs and Stock Options vest based on all relevant facts and matters including performance, time elapsed since grant and the interests of ABGs shareholders.
Alternatively, ABG awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer where appropriate.
The treatment of exit arrangements for Greg Hawkins is outlined in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 73.
Non-Executive Director remuneration primarily focuses on the payment Executive Director external appointments of fees.
As noted above, Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to It is the Boards policy to allow Executive Directors to accept nonparticipate in any of the incentive plans available to Executive Directors.
executive directorships of other quoted companies for which they However, Non-Executive Directors may participate in the Companys DSU would normally be allowed to retain fees.
Any such directorships must Plan.
This plan, which was established in 2012, provides Non-Executive be formally approved by the Chairman of the Board.
Currently, no such Directors with the option to elect to waive some or all of their annual positions are held by the Companys sole Executive Director.
fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment, payable only after Approach to Non-Executive Director remuneration a participant ceases to hold of!ce with the Company.
Broadly, cash The Board aims to recruit Non-Executive Directors of a high calibre with payments under this plan are calculated by reference to the fair market broad commercial, international and other experience relevant to mining value of the Companys shares at the time of payment and remain operations.
"Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the subject to market ""uctuations in the context of the Companys share recommendation of the Nomination and Governance committee."
Their price until the time of payment.
This plan was adopted by the Company appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to annual to address certain practices and trends of North American mining re-election by shareholders at each AGM in accordance with the companies, which provide for similar elections to be made in order to requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
"Upon the ensure that our practices for Non-Executive Director compensation recommendation of the Nomination and Governance committee, they structures remain ""exible and competitive against our global peers."
may be re-appointed for two additional terms of three years, subject to Elections under the plan are made annually, usually in April of each year.
their continuing to satisfy requirements for continuing appointment and, In addition, to align Non-Executive Director interests with shareholders, again, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The terms of the Company has adopted Non-Executive Director shareholding engagement of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in a letter of guidelines for its independent Non-Executive Directors, which require appointment.
These letters do not contain any provision for relevant individuals to acquire a minimum shareholding equivalent to compensation for early termination of of!ce, nor do they contain any their annual base fee within two years from election to the Board, which notice periods.
All letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors may be satis!ed through the purchase of ABG Ordinary Shares or by are available for inspection at the Companys registered of!ce.
electing to waive base fees for DSUs.
Details as regards current outstanding awards under the DSU Plan and ABG Ordinary Shares currently held by Non-Executive Directors are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 74.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Further details of the Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Fees Purpose To attract and retain candidates with the required skill and experience to form part of the Board and to ensure fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are competitive and comparable with other companies of equivalent size and complexity operating within the global mining industry.
Operation The base fee for Non-Executive Directors is reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective 1 April each year.
Fees payable to the Chairman are determined by the Compensation committee, while the base fee and any other fee payable to the other Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board.
In addition to the base fee, additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director and as chair of any of the Boards committees Audit, Compensation, EHS&S, Nomination and Governance and Technical and for individual membership of such committees.
These additional fees are also reviewed annually, with any adjustment effective 1 April each year.
In the event that the Board requires the formation of an additional Board committee, as with the Transaction committee in 2012, fees for the chair and membership of such committee will be determined by the Board at the time.
No base fee or fee for membership of Board committees is payable to Non-Executive Directors appointed by Barrick pursuant to the nomination rights contained in the Relationship Agreement.
Non-Executive Director fee levels are benchmarked against international gold mining, general mining and FTSE listed companies of similar size and complexity.
Time commitment, responsibility, and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective Board are taken into account when reviewing fee levels.
Opportunity Non-Executive Director fee increases are set in response to the outcome of the annual fee review.
Fees for the year ending 31 December 2013 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The maximum aggregate annual fee for all Directors provided in the Companys Articles of Association is 3,000,000.
"Deferred Share Unit Plan DSU Plan Purpose To ensure ABG non-executive compensation structures remain ""exible and competitive against global peers."
Operation Non-Executive Directors can elect to waive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment under the DSU Plan.
"The value of additional DSUs is credited to re""ect dividends paid on ABG Ordinary Shares over the period of participation."
Cash payments become payable only after a participant ceases to hold of!ce with the Company.
Opportunity Non-Executive Directors can waive up to 100% of their annual fee.
"Performance measures Cash payments are calculated by reference to the fair market value of ABGs Ordinary Shares at the time of payment and remain subject to market ""uctuations in ABGs share price until payment."
Awards lapse in the event that an individual is summarily terminated for: i breach of contract: ii breach of Directors duties: or iii misconduct, or if an individual resigns in circumstances justifying summary termination.
Approach to recruitment of Non-Executive Directors In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-Executive Director, the Board will utilise the Remuneration Policy as set out above.
A base fee which is aligned with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for Board membership, with additional fees payable for acting as Senior Independent Director or as chair of any of the Boards committees and for individual membership of such committees.
Non-Executive Directors would also be eligible to waive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment under the DSU Plan, further details of which can be found below.
Approach to Non-Executive Director exit arrangements As regards Non-Executive Director resignation, retirement or termination, base fee and any additional fees would be payable to the resignation retirement termination date and treatment of any awards under the DSU Plan would be as follows: DSU Plan Event Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting payment Retirement, injury, disability, death On leaving of!ce Save in the case of certain circumstances, DSU awards vest in full on leaving of!ce, whereby the relevant cash payment made in respect of Change of control On leaving of!ce.
awards is determined by reference to the fair market value of an ABG not including internal reorganisations.
Ordinary Share at the time of payment.
Summary termination or termination for gross misconduct or termination in circumstances which would justify summary termination.
com GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE Annual Report on Remuneration for 2013 Compensation committee membership in 2013 Advisers As of 31 December 2013, the Compensation committee comprised four Kepler Associates Kepler was appointed by the Compensation Non-Executive Directors of whom three are independent: committee in 2010 and retained during the year.
The Compensation committee evaluates the support provided by its advisers annually Michael Kenyon chairman and is comfortable that the Kepler team provides independent Kelvin Dushnisky remuneration advice to the committee and does not have any Peter Tomsett connections with the Company that may impair its independence.
Kepler is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct Steve Lucas for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at David Hodgson and Andre Falzon stepped down from the committee www.
In 2013, Kepler provided during the year.
In addition, the following individuals attended meetings independent advice on trends and developments, reporting regulations, by invitation during the year and provided advice to the committee to revisions to the LTIP TSR performance condition, the recruitment package enable it to make informed decisions: for Brad Gordon, the exit package for Greg Hawkins and benchmarking data for selected senior executives.
Kepler does not advise the Company Brad Gordon, Chief Executive Of!cer on any issues outside of compensation and governance thereof.
Keplers Peter Geleta, Executive General Manager Organisational Effectiveness total fees for the provision of remuneration services in 2013 were Katrina White, General Counsel and Company Secretary 115,135 on the basis of time and materials.
The committee also received legal advice from Travers Smith LLP as regards certain Greg Hawkins also attended meetings of the committee prior to stepping remuneration practices during the year and the legal aspects to down as CEO in August 2013.
No Director is present when his or her the structure of the Remuneration Policy, the total fees for which own remuneration is being determined.
The Compensation committee equalled 17,564. met !five times during the year and details of members attendance at meetings are provided in the Governance report on page 45.
An overview of committee activities during the year is provided as part of the committee chairmans introduction to this report.
Details of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment As at 31 December 2013, Directors current appointments are as follows: Date of current service contract or letter of appointment Unexpired term as at 31 December 2013 Executive Director Brad Gordon 21-Aug-13 Non-Executive Directors Kelvin Dushnisky 6-Jun-12 1 year 8 months Peter Tomsett 26-Apr-13 2 years 4 months Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 14-Jul-11 7 months Andre Falzon 26-Apr-13 2 years 4 months David Hodgson 19-Oct-11 10 months Michael Kenyon 26-Apr-13 2 years 4 months Graham Clow 26-Apr-13 2 years 4 months Steve Lucas 24-Oct-13 2 years 10 months Rachel English 24-Oct-13 2 years 10 months Rick McCreary 19-Jul-12 1 year 7 months Stephen Galbraith 26-Apr-13 2 years 4 months Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Single total gure of remuneration for Directors audited The table below sets out a single !gure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the year ending 31 December 2013. e f g h i Salary fees Taxable bene!ts STI LTIs Pension Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Current Directors Executive a Brad Gordon 154,744 189,770 113,170 34,212 491,896 Non-Executive Kelvin Dushnisky b Peter Tomsett 115,000 115,000 Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 87,500 65,000 87,500 65,000 Andre Falzon 96,250 85,000 96,250 85,000 David Hodgson 94,500 96,000 94,500 96,000 Michael Kenyon 109,350 116,600 109,350 116,600 b Graham Clow 74,375 74,375 c Steve Lucas 15,487 15,487 c Rachel English 16,455 16,455 Rick McCreary Stephen Galbraith Former Directors d Derek Pannell 47,753 165,890 47,753 165,890 a Greg Hawkins 490,000 475,000 57,012 385,790 444,675 302,813 58,042 122,500 118,750 1,172,229 1,282,353 d Kevin Jennings 146,770 359,700 17,831 127,710 256,286 64,421 89,925 229,022 833,621 Notes: a Greg Hawkins stepped down from the position of CEO and Brad Gordon assumed the role of CEO and sole Executive Director on 21 August 2013.
Further details regarding Brad Gordons appointment arrangements are provided on pages 70 and 71.
Further details regarding Greg Hawkins exit arrangements are provided on page 73.
As regards payments to Greg Hawkins, 446,725 of the total !gure presented was paid in respect of salary, taxable bene!ts and pension for the period 1 January 2013 to 31 August 2013.
725,504 of the total !gure presented was paid in respect of salary, taxable bene!ts and pension for the period 1 September 2013 to 31 December 2013. b Peter Tomsett and Graham Clow were appointed to the Board on 26 April 2013. c Steve Lucas and Rachel English were appointed to the Board on 24 October 2013. d Derek Pannell and Kevin Jennings retired from their position as Directors at the Companys 2013 AGM held on 18 April 2013. e Non-Executive Director fees payable include all base fees paid in respect of the appointment as a Non-Executive Director and additional fees payable in respect of appointments as SID, chair and or members of Board committees.
An overview of fees payable for 2013 is provided on page 68.
In addition, Non-Executive Directors can elect to waive all or some of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to receive a cash payment on leaving the Company, pursuant to the terms of the Companys DSU Plan.
Further details of this plan are provided on pages 63 and 64.
Details as regards DSU elections made during the year are explained in note j below.
Non-Executive Directors appointed pursuant to Barricks nomination rights under the Relationship Agreement Kelvin Dushnisky, Rick McCreary and Stephen Galbraith do not receive any fees in respect of their appointment.
A further breakdown of taxable bene!ts received for 2013 is provided below: Car allowance Relocation Medical Other Total Brad Gordon 11,362 174,822 3,586 189,770 Greg Hawkins 19,600 3,896 33,516 57,012 Kevin Jennings 13,239 4,592 17,831 g This represents the short-term incentive payable in cash for annual performance.
Details as regards the performance assessment applicable to 2013 STI awards are provided on page 69. h This represents LTIP awards and SOP awards vested during the year.
Further details as regards LTIP vesting and SOP vesting during the year are provided on page 73. i Certain independent Non-Executive Directors elected to covert a proportion of their annual fee for 2013 into DSUs, pursuant to the terms of the Companys DSU Plan as follows: Michael Kenyon elected to convert an amount of approximately 43,750 of the total of his fee for 2013 into DSUs: Peter Tomsett elected to convert an amount of approximately 115,000 of the total of his fee for 2013 into DSUs: Andre Falzon elected to convert an amount of approximately 10,047 of the total of his fee for 2013 into DSUs: David Hodgson elected to convert an amount of approximately 47,500 of the total of his fee for 2013 into DSUs: Graham Clow elected to convert an amount of approximately 42,500 of the total of his fee for 2013 into DSUs.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Executive Director salaries The following table shows Executive Director salaries for 2013 and 2012 and those payable for 2014: 2014 salary 2013 salary 2012 salary a Brad Gordon 425,000 a Greg Hawkins 490,000 475,000 b Kevin Jennings 370,000 359,700 a Greg Hawkins stepped down from the position of CEO and Brad Gordon assumed the role of CEO and sole Executive Director on 21 August 2013. b Kevin Jennings retired from his position as CFO and as a Director at the Companys 2013 AGM held on 18 April 2013.
As mentioned in the committee chairmans introduction to this report, the committee has decided not to increase salaries payable to the CEO and other members of the SLT for 2014.
Non-Executive Director fees For year ending 31 December 2013, no fees were paid to Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, appointed by Barrick pursuant to its nomination rights under the Relationship Agreement.
Fees paid to independent Non-Executive Directors were paid as follows: Fee Component Amount per annum Base fee 75,000 Senior Independent Director fee 25,000 Chair of Audit committee fee 20,000 Chair of Compensation committee, EHS&S committee, Technical committee and Nomination and Governance committee fee 15,000 Board committee membership fee 5,000 Non-Executive Director fees for 2014 will be reviewed prior to the 2014 AGM and will apply as of 1 April 2014.
com GOVERNANCE Executive Directors Short-Term Incentive awards For the year ending 31 December 2013, Executive Director awards were earned on the basis of Company-wide performance, this being representative of the overall leadership, management and performance of an individual holding this position.
Company-wide performance measures for 2013 were set on the basis of performance measures underpinning the key performance indicators that are used to chart the progress of Company performance against our strategy and objectives.
For the 2013 STI, the committee decided to focus on four broad performance areas: production, costs, safety and speci!c strategic initiatives, each of which was allocated speci!c weightings.
The performance areas were further subdivided into speci!c performance measures, assessed on the basis of individual weightings and in line with a range of performance targets to provide for threshold, target and maximum performance, as outlined in the table below.
2013 STI Scorecard assessment Performance Threshold Target Max Overall Relevance to Weighting scorecard Measure Company strategy individual 0% 75% 100% 150% 200% Actual rating Ounces of gold Expand grow 25.0% 540,000 560,000 580,000 600,000 615,000 641,931 50% Production 25% produced Oz weighting overall Costs Cash costs Optimise 12.5% 962 944 926 910 877 872 25% 25% US$ Oz weighting AISC Optimise 12.5% 1,650 1,600 1,557 1,428 1,393 1,361 25% overall US$ Oz Safety TRIFR Responsible 5.0% 0.91 0.83 0.75 0.67 0.61 0.68 5% 10% mining weighting Critical Standards Responsible 5.0% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 80% 5% overall Rating mining % implemented Strategic Operational review Optimise 10.0% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 10% 10% initiatives % cost saving 40% on 2012 weighting Organisational Optimise 10.0% 5 4 3 2 1 4 7.5% overall redesign Government Responsible 10.0% 5 4 3 2 1 4 7.5% Relations mining & SLTO Rating delivery of Expand 10.0% 85% 90% 100% 105% 110% 85% 0% Bulyanhulu projects and grow % Total vesting % of salary Sum product of weightings and vesting percentages 135% x target bonus 75% salary Overall, the Company performed well against performance targets in 2013, achieving annual attributable gold production of 641,931 ounces, being 7% higher than the upper end of the Companys 2013 production guidance range, at annual cash cost per ounce sold of US$827 per ounce, being 10% lower than the lower end of the cash cost guidance range set for the year, whilst achieving a year on year AISC reduction of 14%.
We were also successful in progressing the Operational Review, achieving overall savings of US$129 million against a target of over US$100 million by the end of 2013.
We also saw strong results in our safety performance, achieving a total reportable injury frequency rate TRIFR of 0.68, representing an 18% improvement on 2012.
In addition, we continued to see the progression of key matters in the context of other responsible mining initiatives.
"On this basis, the Company achieved over-target performance for the year assessed as 135%, which has been re""ected in STI awards for the year."
Brad Gordon received an award of 113,170, equal to 135% of base salary, assessed on a pro-rata basis since his appointment as CEO in August 2013.
In addition, an amount of 444,675 was awarded to Greg Hawkins given his contribution to 2013 performance as part of overall exit arrangements.
Further details as regards these payments are provided on page 73.
For 2014, the CEOs STI opportunity will remain at 75% of base salary for target performance with a maximum opportunity of 150% of base salary for maximum performance.
Broadly, performance measures for 2014 will continue to focus on production, costs, safety and speci!c strategic initiatives.
Further details of 2014 performance measures, weightings and targets will be provided as part of the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Executive Directors interests under the LTIP audited As at 31 December 2013 the following awards were outstanding under the LTIP: Shares over which Shares over which End of Shares over which awards held as of awards granted Market price performance awards held on Award date 01-Jan-13 during the year at date of award period Vesting date 31-Dec-13 Brad Gordon 21-Aug-13 795,036 1.60 20-Aug-16 20-Aug-16 795,036 Greg Hawkins 30-Nov-11 93,105 4.97 29-Nov-14 29-Nov-14 97,587 13-Feb-13 235,099 3.02 12-Feb-16 12-Feb-16 246,513 As explained in the Remuneration Policy, RSU incentive awards are generally granted at target level 150% of salary at the date of grant.
If maximum performance is achieved over the performance period, the TSR performance condition operates so as to deliver up to two times the value of the initial award at the date of vesting.
"For all awards, additional RSUs are granted to re""ect dividends paid on ABG Ordinary Shares prior to the vesting date."
As part of his recruitment package Brad Gordon received an RSU award equal to 795,036 ABG Ordinary Shares on 21 August 2013, with a fair value equal to 300% of his base salary at the time of grant.
The market price of ABG Ordinary Shares at the time of this award was 1.60, assessed on the basis of the average of middle market quotations from the Daily Of!cial List of the LSE for the day of grant and the following 2 dealing days.
The end of the applicable performance period and the vesting date of the award is 20 August 2016.
This award is subject to the satisfaction of the TSR performance condition applicable at the time of making the award, this being the assessment of the Companys TSR on a weighted mean average against the comparator group.
The comparator group for awards made to Brad Gordon in 2013 is comprised of the following: Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. IAMGOLD Corp. AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. Kinross Gold Corporation Buenaventura Mining Company New Gold Inc. Centamin plc Petropavlovsk PLC Centerra Gold Inc. Randgold Resources Ltd. Eldorado Gold Corp. Semafo Inc. Gold Fields Ltd. Yamana Gold Inc. Harmony Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
For purposes of assessing performance against the comparator group, TSR will be assessed over the performance period on a weighted median basis, as follows: ABGs TSR % outperformance of comparator group weighted mean over three years % of target level of award 20% 200% 0% 100% -12.5% 50% Below -12.5% 0% Where performance is between the above levels, the percentage of target level of award is determined on a proportionate basis.
The ongoing treatment of RSU awards made to Greg Hawkins following his departure as CEO in August 2013 is outlined below on page 73.
Kevin Jennings, the Companys former CFO, previously held awards under the LTIP: however, all awards lapsed at the time of his departure from the Company April 2013 and no amounts in respect of these awards remain payable.
com GOVERNANCE Executive Directors interests under the SOP audited As at 31 December 2013 the following awards were outstanding under the SOP: Shares over Shares over Shares over which awards which awards Exercised Market price which awards held as of granted during Exercise lapsed during at the date Earliest Final held on Award date 01-Jan-13 the year price the year of exercise Expiry date vesting date vesting date 31-Dec-13 Brad Gordon 21-Aug-13 841,308 1.60 N A 20-Aug-20 20-Aug-14 20-Aug-17 841,308 Greg Hawkins 27-Apr-10 125,000 5.68 N A 26-Apr-17 27-Apr-11 27-Apr-14 125,000 25-Nov-10 142,501 5.12 N A 24-Nov-17 25-Nov-11 25-Nov-14 142,501 29-Nov-11 135,202 4.97 N A 28-Nov-18 29-Nov-12 29-Nov-15 135,202 As part of his recruitment package Brad Gordon received a stock option award equal to 841,308 ABG Ordinary Shares on 21 August 2013, representing an award with a fair market value equal to 1 year of base salary 425,000.
The fair market value of the award was ascertained using the Monte Carlo Simulation valuation 31.5% of the market value of an ABG Ordinary Share at the time of grant.
The award vests in equal parts over 4 years and expires 7 years from the date of grant.
Vesting is subject to the satisfaction of the TSR performance condition outlined above for the RSU awards made to Mr Gordon in 2013.
Subsequent to year end, stock option held by Greg Hawkins have been waived and cancelled as part of exit arrangements.
Kevin Jennings, the Companys former CFO, previously held awards under the SOP.
However, all awards lapsed at the time of his departure from the Company April 2013 and are no longer exercisable.
Kevin Jennings, the Companys former CFO, previously held awards under Barricks Share Option Plan.
However, these awards expired or otherwise lapsed in connection with his departure from ABG April 2013 and are no longer exercisable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for SLT members.
"Given that the Company operates across a number of diverse economies with pay levels and structures re""ecting local market conditions, the Compensation committee believes that using the SLT as a subset for purposes of comparing CEO pay against wider employee pay provides a more meaningful comparison than using pay data for all employees."
The CEOs remuneration includes base salary, taxable bene!t and STI payments and for 2013 includes the sum of payments made to Brad Gordon and Greg Hawkins.
SLT data is based on a consistent set of employees, i. e. the same individuals appear in the 2012 and 2013 populations.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows shareholder distributions i. e. dividends and total employee pay expenditure for the !financial years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013, along with the percentage change in both.
Further details of the Companys economic contribution, including the economic value we add by paying our employees, governments, suppliers, shareholders, contractors and communities, is included in the corporate responsibility review of this Annual Report.
2013 2012 % change 000 000 2012-2013 Shareholder distributions 36,360 46,750 -22% Total employee expenditure 144,121 159,475 -10% Comparison of Company performance The following graph shows ABGs TSR performance for the period from the IPO to 31 December 2013 calculated in accordance with the regulations against the FTSE 350 and ABGs LTIP comparator group.
The FTSE 350 was chosen on the basis of it being a recognised broad equity market index, of which ABG was a member for the reporting period.
The table below details the Chief Executives single !gure remuneration over the same period.
Historical TSR performance CEO remuneration Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding from IPO to Individual 2010 2011 2012 2013 31 December 2013 CEO single !gure Greg Hawkins 774 936 1,282 1,171 160 of remuneration 000 Brad Gordon N A N A N A 317 140 STI payout as 120 Greg Hawkins 90% 75% 64% 135% % of maximum 100 opportunity Brad Gordon N A N A N A 135% 80 RSU vesting as Greg Hawkins N A N A N A 88% 60 % of maximum opportunity Brad Gordon N A N A N A N A 40 Option vesting 20 Greg Hawkins N A 100% 100% N A as % of maximum 0 opportunity Brad Gordon N A N A N A N A 18 March 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 African Barrick Gold FTSE350 2013 LTIP comparator group 72 www.
com Value of 100 invested at IPO GOVERNANCE Executive Director exit arrangements audited In August 2013 it was decided that Greg Hawkins would step down from his position as CEO as part of ongoing operational reviews and refocusing of strategic plans for the Companys operations.
"Due to a number of commercial sensitivities, the Board took the decision to place Greg on garden leave for his notice period, in accordance with the ""exibilities provided to address exit arrangements under Executive Director service contracts."
Given the restrictions placed on individuals in garden leave scenarios, Mr Hawkins will continue to receive a monthly salary and the bene!ts afforded under his service contract as regards permanent health insurance, life assurance, and either the use of a company car or the payment of a car allowance, until such time as his period of garden leave is discontinued.
In addition to this, the exit arrangements for Mr Hawkins also provide for the following: In recognition of Mr Hawkins contribution to the Company since its listing and Mr Hawkins contribution to 2013 performance, exit arrangements provide for a payment of 444,675, representative of the STI payable for 2013 in light of Company-wide performance, the assessment of which is further explained on page 69.
Outstanding LTIP awards have been determined on a good leaver basis to allow for vesting in accordance with existing vesting schedules, subject to satisfaction of applicable performance conditions at the end of each performance period Relocation arrangements, up to a maximum amount of 100,000, given his status as an international employee and country of origin and the payment of certain legal fees in relation to the execution of exit arrangements As part of the agreement reached with Mr Hawkins, all of his outstanding stock options have been waived and cancelled following year end and are no longer exercisable.
As regards the STI-equivalent payment, this amount will remain subject to clawback in the event of the exceptional circumstances of individual misconduct or !financial misstatement misreporting.
"As regards Mr Hawkins outstanding LTIP awards, these will continue to subsist, subject to being pro-rated to re""ect time of employment during the relevant performance periods."
Vesting will be assessed against the TSR performance condition in place at the time the awards were granted.
The applicable TSR performance condition provides for the assessment of the Companys TSR performance on a weighted mean average against a comparator group of international gold mining companies.
The comparator group and basis of assessment under the structure of this performance condition is as follows: Comparators Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. IAMGOLD Corp. AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. Kinross Gold Corporation Buenaventura Mining Company Petropavlovsk PLC Centamin plc Polyus Gold International Limited Centerra Gold Inc. Randgold Resources Ltd. Eldorado Gold Corp. Semafo Inc. Gold Fields Ltd. Yamana Gold Inc. Harmony Gold Mining Co. Ltd. Zijin Gold Mining Group Co. Ltd For the February 2013 RSU award the comparator group also includes New Gold Inc. and excludes Zijin Gold Mining Group Co. Ltd and Polyus Gold International Limited.
ABGs TSR % outperformance of comparator group weighted mean over three years % of interests transferred 20% 200% 0% 100% -12.5% 50% Below -12.5% 0% Where performance is between the above levels, the percentage of RSUs to be transferred is determined on a proportionate basis.
To date, one RSU award granted to Greg Hawkins in November 2010 has vested.
Over the relevant three-year performance period, the Companys TSR was 59.9% which was 4% below the weighted mean of the 2010 comparator group.
As a result 88% of the original interests awarded were due to vest based on performance, further details of which are provided below: Market price RSUs held RSUs cancelled RSUs vesting Interests vesting Date vested on vesting Value Greg Hawkins 75,014 39,901 35,113 88% 24-Nov-2013 1.65 58,042 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors interests in ABG Ordinary Shares and shareholding requirements audited As noted in the Remuneration Policy, Executive Directors are required to acquire a minimum holding in ABG Ordinary Shares equivalent to two times base salary over a period of five years.
For these purposes, LTIP awards are taken into account but stock options awards made under the SOP are not taken into account when assessing whether or not shareholding requirements have been satisfied.
Independent Non-Executive Directors are required to acquire a minimum holding equivalent to their annual base fee within two years of election to the Board, which may be satisfied via the acquisition of ABG Ordinary Shares or by electing to waive base fees for DSUs under the ABG DSU Plan.
The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2013 along with the form of their interests in ABG Ordinary Shares.
Shares held Options held RSUs held DSUs held Unvested and Unvested and Current subject to subject to Shareholding shareholding Requirement Owned outright Vested but performance performance requirement % salary a a b c e or vested not exercised condition condition Unvested % salary fee fee met?
Executive Director d d Brad Gordon 841,308 795,036 200% 200% Yes Non-Executive Directors Kelvin Dushnisky N A N A N A Peter Tomsett 73,577 100% 159% Yes Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 100% 0% No Andre Falzon 9,000 11,427 100% 104% Yes David Hodgson 13,000 48,798 100% 198% Yes Michael Kenyon 36,056 100% 167% Yes Graham Clow 27,607 100% 60% No Steve Lucas 100% 0% No Rachel English 100% 0% No Rick McCreary N A N A N A Stephen Galbraith N A N A N A Notes: a RSUs and stock option awards vest subject to a relative TSR performance condition.
b The Companys DSU Plan for Non-Executive Directors provides Non-Executive Directors with the option to elect to waive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment, payable only after a participant ceases to hold office with the Company.
Broadly, cash payments under this plan are calculated by reference to the fair market value of ABGs Ordinary Shares at the time of payment and remain subject to market fluctuations in the context of ABGs share price until the time of payment.
c Based on ABGs share price at the time of acquiring shares and or electing to receive DSUs and or receiving RSU awards.
d Consists of options awarded and RSUs awarded on recruitment which vest subject to a relative TSR performance condition.
e Graham Clow, Steve Lucas and Rachel English were appointed during the year and therefore have approximately 18 to 24 months to satisfy shareholding requirements.
Greg Hawkins, Kevin Jennings and Derek Pannell held interests in 20,000, 44,000 and 20,000 ABG Ordinary Shares respectively prior to their respective departures from the Board.
Mr Pannell also held DSUs which vested subsequent to his departure.
There have been no other changes in Directors shareholdings between 31 December 2013 and 11 March 2014.
com GOVERNANCE Summary of shareholder voting at the 2013 AGM The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2012 Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM: Total number of votes % of votes cast For 306,288,212 82.9% Against 62,956,279 17.1% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 369,244,491 100.0% Votes withheld 48,939 0.01% Total votes cast including withheld votes 369,293,430 Whilst the level of support remains broadly unchanged from the 2012 AGM, the Compensation committee recognises that there were two key areas of concern for shareholders: the deviation of ABGs long-term incentive structures from typical UK practice, and changes made to Executive Director service contracts in 2012.
As explained above, and as part of the committee chairmans introduction to this report on page 56, both of these areas of concern have been addressed as a result of changes made to the structure of the TSR performance condition applicable to the vesting of RSU awards going forward, and the removal of change of control provisions from Executive Director service contracts.
Approval of Directors Remuneration report The Directors Remuneration report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Michael Kenyon, Compensation committee chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75
