DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE CHAIRMANS LETTER DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, ATTENDANCE Last year the Compensation and Management Resources Paul Walsh 6 6 Committee the Committee made significant changes to the Chairman of the Compensation and structure of the Directors Remuneration Report in preparation Management Resources Committee for the new remuneration reporting regulations in the UK which came into effect from 1 October 2013.
We were pleased with the Ann Fudge 5 6 feedback we received on the clarity and level of our disclosure.
Kees Storm 5 6 For the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report we have made some Michael Treschow 6 6 further changes to reflect the final regulations.
We have aimed to keep our reporting clear and transparent and we hope This table shows the attendance of Directors at Committee meetings held shareholders find this useful and easy to follow.
in the year ended 31 December 2013.
If Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss anyagenda Our remuneration policy remains fundamentally unchanged from items with the Committee Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the 2013 and, in line with legal requirements, will be submitted to number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
shareholders for a binding vote at the PLC and NV AGMs on 14May 2014.
Again, pursuant to legal requirements, the remainder of the Report will be subject to an advisory vote at the PLC AGM.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2013 The Committee looks forward to receiving your support on these resolutions.
In addition, the implementation of our remuneration policy in 2013 will be discussed with shareholders at the NV AGM.
No changes have been made to the remuneration policy during the year.
2013 has been another year of solid progress for Unilever.
We The Committee approved the introduction of a delivered underlying sales growth of 4.3%, which was again ahead of our competitors, volume growth of 2.5% and our core new global employee share plan.
operating margin improved 0.4 percentage points to 14.1%, The Directors Remuneration Report has been demonstrating the consistent delivery of both topand bottom-line further updated to make it compliant with the growth.
There has also been significant progress in embedding new remuneration reporting regulations in the sustainable living, the centre of our business model, throughout Unilever.
The year, however, has not been without its challenges UK, following significant changes to the with economic, competitive and political conditions continuing to structure of the report in 2012. be tough.
PRIORITIES FOR 2014 REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES Review of the reward structure for Unilevers executive management population two years SUPPORTING THE DELIVERY OF OUR STRATEGY THROUGH after implementation to ensure that it is REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS Our business vision is to double the size of Unilever while delivering on objectives.
reducing our environmental footprint and increasing our positive Further review and shaping of Unilevers future social impact through a focus on our brands, our operations and reward framework to ensure that it remains our people and the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP.
aligned with strategy and long-term shareholder Remuneration is one of the key tools that we have as a business to help us to motivate our people to achieve our goals.
Review of the Directors Remuneration Report Our remuneration arrangements are designed to support our after the first year of compliance with the new business vision and the implementation of our strategy.
The key remuneration reporting regulations.
elements of our remuneration package for Executive Directors are summarised below: FORMAT OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT FIXED PERFORMANCE-RELATED Our Directors Remuneration Report is split into the ELEMENTS ELEMENTS following sections: Fixed allowance Chairmans letter page 60 to 61 Longer-term: Longer-term: Base salary Annual bonus and other MCIP GSIP Remuneration Principles page 60 to 61 benefits Policy Report page 62 to 72 Annual Remuneration Report page 73 to 83 60 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 In this context, the Committee decided to pay a bonus of 157% of Other key activities of the Committee during the year were: salary to the CEO Paul Polman and a bonus of 105% of salary to annual review of the remuneration framework: the CFO Jean-Marc Hut.
The Committee feels that this outcome annual review of Unilevers remuneration practice to ensure fairly reflects the performance delivered in the context of that the overall remuneration structure continues to promote challenging markets.
Unilevers business strategy: determination of the remuneration packages for the Executive Over the longer term Unilever has consistently performed strongly Directors, other members of the Unilever Leadership against a range of measures enabling us to deliver over 40% Executive ULE and the fee structure of the Non-Executive in total shareholder return TSR over the past three years.
In the Directors, including the setting of the performance targets for same period, underlying sales growth has been 5.9% per annum the bonus, GSIP and MCIP awards: which the Boards consider to be exceptional performance determination of the extent to which the performance in the context of the recent economic climate.
We have also measures for the bonus, GSIP and MCIP awards were achieved: consistently improved margin performance converting our top-line determination of selection criteria for the hiring of advisers by growth into profitable returns for our shareholders.
Cash flow the Committee and the assessment of performance of the performance has also been strong funding future investment in Committees independent adviser, Deloitte LLP: and growth.
On the basis of this performance, the Committee refinement of the Executive Directors minimum shareholding determined that GSIP awards granted to Executive Directors in requirements.
2011 will vest at 128% of initial award levels out of a maximum of 200% i. e. 64% of maximum awards.
The Committee remains committed to linking remuneration to the achievement of Unilevers strategic objective.
The Committee believes it is important that Executive Directors act and think as shareholders.
The CEO currently holds around 14 times salary in Unilever shares with the CFO holding around six times salary.
In addition, at Unilever we believe it is important that Paul Walsh all employees, not just senior management, are shareholders in Chairman of the Compensation and Management Resources our business.
During the year, therefore, the Committee approved Committee the introduction of a new global employee share plan for those employees who do not currently participate in equity incentive arrangements.
We will start the process of implementing this scheme across all the countries where we employ people from2014.
The package has been designed based on the following key ALIGNMENT WITH SHAREHOLDER INTERESTS principles: The majority of the package for our Executive Directors is delivered in Unilever shares to ensure that the interests of PAYING FOR PERFORMANCE executives are aligned with shareholders.
This is further The focus of our package is on variable pay based on annual supported by significant shareholding requirements ensuring and long-term performance.
Performance-related elements that a substantial portion of each Executive Directors personal are structured so that target levels of reward are competitive, wealth is linked to Unilevers share price performance.
but Executive Directors can only earn higher rewards if they exceed the ongoing standards of performance that Unilever Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to build up their requires.
personal holding of Unilever shares to ensure alignment with shareholders interests.
ALIGNING PERFORMANCE MEASURES WITH STRATEGY The performance measures for our annual and long-term PAYING COMPETITIVELY plans have been selected to support our business strategy and The overall remuneration package offered to Executive the ongoing enhancement of shareholder value through a Directors is sufficiently competitive to attract and retain highly focus on increasing sales value and volume, improving margin, experienced and talented individuals, without paying more and cash generation and generating returns for shareholders.
DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE PREVENTING INAPPROPRIATE RISK-TAKING Acknowledging that success is not only measured by delivering The Committee believes that Unilevers risk management financial returns, we also consider the quality of performance process provides the necessary control to prevent in terms of business results and leadership, including inappropriate risk-taking.
When the Committee reviews the corporate social responsibility and progress against the USLP, structure and levels of performance-related pay for Executive when determining rewards.
Directors and other members of the ULE, it considers whether these might encourage behaviours that are incompatible with To ensure that remuneration arrangements fully support our the long-term interests of Unilever and its shareholders or that sustainability agenda, the personal performance goals for the may raise any environmental, social or governance risks.
CEO under the annual bonus include USLP targets.
Where necessary, the Committee would take appropriate steps to address this.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED POLICY REPORT POLICY TABLE The following sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy.
This Policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2014 AGMs.
This Policy will apply to payments made from 14 May 2014, the date of the 2014 AGMs.
PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE SUPPORTING TO STRATEGY MEASURES INFORMATION n a This column does not Set by the Boards on the Increases will normally be in BASE SALARY: recommendation of the line with the range of form part of the Supports the recruitment Committee and generally increases awarded to other binding policy report.
It and retention of Executive reviewed once a year, with employees within the Group.
Directors of the calibre is intended to provide new salaries usually effective required to implement additional contextual Increases may be above this from 1 January although our strategy.
Reflects the information for the level or applied more increases may be awarded at individuals skills, reader.
frequently in certain any other time if the experience, performance circumstances, such as: Committee considers that is and role within the Group.
where there is, in the for Executive Directors Committees opinion, a Salaries are paid in cash.
are unchanged from significant change in an 2013 at: Salaries are set at an Executive Directors scope or role: appropriate level to attract CEO 1,010,000 and retain Executive where a new Executive CFO 714,000 Director has been Directors of the required calibre, taking into account: appointed to the Boards on a salary lower than the i our policy to generally pay typical market level for at around the median of an such a role and larger appropriate peer group of increases are justified as other global companies of a the Executive Director similar financial size and becomes established in complexity to Unilever : the role, subject to performance and market ii the individuals skills, conditions: and experience and performance: where it is considered and necessary to reflect iii pay and conditions across significant changes in the wider organisation.
The Committee will consider the factors outlined above and will determine the maximum amount that would be paid in base salary during the policy period.
Any significant increase would be subject to prior shareholder consultation with our major shareholders.
The fixed allowance is The Boards retain discretion n a For 2014, fixed FIXED ALLOWANCE: reviewed periodically by the to amend or increase the allowances for Provides a simple Committee and changes are fixed allowances as is Executive Directors are: competitive alternative to usually effective from considered appropriate, the provision of itemised CEO 250,000 1 January.
taking into account relevant benefits and pension, not CFO 260,000 market data and individual linked to base salary.
Set at an appropriate level circumstances.
Any The level of fixed taking into account the significant increase would be allowance provided to median of an appropriate subject to prior shareholder the CFO will be reduced peer group in line with the consultation with our major in 2015 to 220,000 at approach to base salary and shareholders.
prevailing rates to individual circumstances reflect the phasing-out such as whether they have of his annual housing been required to relocate to allowance.
Normally, paid monthly in cash.
The current peer group includes: Anglo American, AstraZeneca, BASF, Bayer, BHP Billiton, BMW, BP, British American Tobacco, BT, Carrefour, Centrica, Daimler, Danone, GlaxoSmithKline, Imperial Tobacco, LOral, Metro, National Grid, Nestl, Novartis, Reckitt Benckiser Group, Rio Tinto, Roche, Royal Dutch Shell, Sanofi, Siemens, Tesco, Total, Vodafone, Volkswagen.
The peer group used for benchmarking purposes is reviewed regularly and companies are added and or removed at the Committees discretion to ensure that it remains appropriate.
62 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE SUPPORTING TO STRATEGY MEASURES INFORMATION Provision of death, disability n a This column does not Provision of death, disability OTHER BENEFITS: and medical insurance cover and medical insurance cover, form part of the Provides certain benefits actual tax return preparation and actual tax return binding policy report.
It on a cost-effective basis preparation costs.
Other costs and other items to aid attraction and is intended to provide considered appropriate by benefits may be provided in retention of Executive additional contextual the future where it is costthe Committee, as per the Directors.
information for the cost to Unilever and effective for Unilever to do reader.
this and it is considered dependent on individual circumstances.
appropriate by the Committee For 2014, the accrual and where it is not covered by Social security obligation for the CEOs the fixed allowance.
in the CEOs country of conditional In the event that Unilever residence dependent on supplemental pension earnings and rates of social were to require an existing or is capped at 117,123. new Executive Director to security.
For details of benefits relocate, Unilever may pay Conditional supplemental provided during 2013 appropriate relocation pension accrual for the CEO see page 73. allowances for a specified capped from 2012 onwards at time period of no more than 12% of the lower of actual three years.
This may cover base salary or his 2011 base costs such as but not limited salary 920,000 plus 3% per to relocation, cost of living, annum as required.
housing benefit, home leave, tax and social security Relocation allowances the equalisation and education level of such benefits would assistance.
be set at an appropriate level by the Committee, taking into In line with the commitments account the circumstances of made to the current CEO upon the individual and typical recruitment, Unilever pays market practice.
the social security obligation in the CEOs country of Awards under all-employee residence to protect him plans may be up to HMRC against the difference approved limits.
between the employee social security obligations in his country of residence versus the UK.
He also receives a conditional supplemental pension accrual to compensate him for the arrangement forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
This supplemental pension accrual is conditional on the CEO remaining in employment with Unilever to age 60 and subsequently retiring from active service or his death or total disability prior to retirement.
Executive Directors are entitled to participate on the same terms as all UK employees in the Unilever PLC 2005 Sharesave Plan and the Sharebuy scheme known as the Unilever PLC Share Incentive Plan.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE SUPPORTING TO STRATEGY MEASURES INFORMATION This column does not Unilever performance Target bonus opportunities Performance targets ANNUAL BONUS: measures and personal as percentage of base for the initial form part of the Incentivises year-on-year goals for the Executive salary are: assessment of binding policy report.
It delivery of stretching Directors are set by the performance are short-term financial, is intended to provide CEO 120% Committee on an annual normally financial in strategic and operational additional contextual other Executive Directors basis to ensure that they are nature, however, the objectives and personal information for the 100% appropriately stretching for Committee may performance objectives reader.
the delivery of threshold, introduce non-financial selected to support our Maximum bonus target and maximum measures in the future annual business strategy opportunities as percentage For 2014 bonuses, performance.
subject to a minimum of and the ongoing of base salary are: financial performance 50% of targets being enhancement of The Committee has CEO 200% will be assessed financial in nature.
discretion to adjust the other Executive Directors against the following When determining overall bonus award but may The ability to recognise 150% measures: payouts the Committee not exceed the maximum performance through may also consider Bonuses start to be earned underlying sales potential.
annual bonus enables us performance against 1 from 0% of salary for growth : to control our cost base 3 personal performance Unless otherwise achieving threshold underlying volume flexibly and react to goals and the quality of determined by the 1 performance.
growth : and events and market 3 results delivered in Committee, Executive core operating circumstances.
terms of both business Directors are required to margin results and leadership.
invest at least 25% and can 1 improvement.
3 invest up to a maximum of Performance is In addition, when 60% of their gross annual normally measured determining annual bonus earned in Unilever over a one-year period bonus awards, the shares under the MCIP see in line with the financial page 65.
Committee will also year end.
consider personal 1 Claw-back provisions apply.
performance and the quality of results in terms of both business results and leadership, including corporate social responsibility and progress against the delivery of USLP goals.
The Committee has set the targets for the 2014 bonuses, but has chosen not to disclose the details in this Report as it is the opinion of the Committee that it maybe seriously prejudicial to the interests of Unilever to do so.
However, the specific targets and the extent to which the targets have been met, will bedisclosed in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
64 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE SUPPORTING TO STRATEGY MEASURES INFORMATION The Committee sets This column does not Executive Directors are Vesting of the matching MANAGEMENT required to buy Unilevers shares ranges between 0% three-year performance form part of the CO-INVESTMENT targets for each MCIP shares out of their after-tax and 150% of the grant level, binding policy report.
It PLAN MCIP annual bonus.
They must dependent on actual matching share award.
is intended to provide The MCIP encourages invest at least 25% and may performance against additional contextual senior management to Performance measures invest up to 60% of the value long-term MCIP targets.
information for the focus firmly on the are linked to Unilevers of their gross annual bonus reader.
sustained delivery of high clearly stated growth As such, the maximum earned in Unilevers shares performance results over award of matching shares ambition and our investment shares which the longer term by long-term business for the CEO and CFO as a Performance measures are held in the individuals requiring them to invest a percentage of base salary at strategy and vest for 2014 awards which name.
portion of their after-tax grant, assuming a maximum subject to sales, margin, are assessed over the annual bonus in Unilevers Executive Directors are able bonus, maximum deferral cash generation and three-year period shares.
to choose whether they invest under the MCIP and relative shareholder 2014-2016 are in PLC or NV shares or a maximum performance return measures.
described under the The key terms of the MCIP 50 50 mix.
Executive under the MCIP, would be Performance measures GSIP on page 80. were approved by the Directors receive a 180% of base salary and are equally weighted.
shareholders at the 2010 The Committee corresponding number of 135% of base salary AGMs.
The Committee has considers that using the performance-related shares respectively.
discretion to determine 2 same performance matching shares.
Matching 31% of the grant level would that other performance measures across both shares will be awarded in the pay out at threshold measures may be used the MCIP and GSIP is same form as the investment performance.
However, this for future awards and appropriate, as the shares i. e. in PLC or NV may be amended at the that a different performance measures shares or a 50 50 mix.
discretion of the Committee if weighting of measures used reflect our key Matching shares will the number of companies in may apply.
Any such strategic goals and normally vest after the end of the TSR comparator group change which is maintain the alignment the three-year performance changes.
material would be of our incentive plans to period subject to: subject to prior delivering our clearly Unilevers performance shareholder stated growth ambition.
against long-term MCIP consultation with our Given that we use four targets over the major shareholders.
different performance performance period and The specific measures, the the quality of results performance measures Committee believes that delivered: will be disclosed in the the proportion of continued employment: year in which the award remuneration linked to and is granted.
The extent to each performance maintenance of the which the performance measure is not underlying investment targets have been met excessive.
will be disclosed in the Directors 1 Claw-back provisions apply.
Remuneration Report following the end of Dividend equivalents are 3 each respective reinvested under the plan.
The Committee shall operate the MCIP in accordance with the plan rules.
The Committee may adjust and or amend awards to take account of variations in the share capital, a change in the certification of Unilever N. V. shares, demerger, a special dividend, rights issues or other corporate events affecting the value of an award in accordance with the MCIP rules.
Prior shareholder approval will be required for amendments that are materially to the advantage of participants under the MCIP in respect of provisions relating to eligibility, limits, form of award or the adjustments of awards.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE SUPPORTING TO STRATEGY MEASURES INFORMATION 2 The Committee sets This column does not Awards of shares are Target awards of conditional GLOBAL SHARE normally made annually with shares under the GSIP each three-year performance form part of the INCENTIVE PLAN targets for each vesting conditional on year as a percentage of base binding policy report.
It GSIP : Unilevers performance salary are limited to: conditional GSIP award.
is intended to provide The GSIP incentivises against long-term targets additional contextual Executive Directors to Performance measures CEO 200% over a three-year information for the achieve Unilevers clearly other Executive Directors are linked to Unilevers performance period and the reader.
stated growth ambition by clearly stated growth 178% quality of results delivered.
delivering sustained high ambition and our The vesting range for awards performance and long-term business Prior to vesting Executive For 2014, the CEOs of conditional shares is sustainable returns for Directors are able to choose strategy and vest target award will be between 0% and 200% of the shareholders over the subject to sales, whether they receive any 200% of salary and his grant level.
shares that are due to vest in margin, cash maximum award will be maximum award of shares generation and relative PLC or NV shares or a 50 50 400% of salary.
The The key terms of the GSIP under the GSIP is as a mix.
shareholder return CFOs target award will were approved by percentage of base salary at measures.
1 be 175% of salary which shareholders at the 2007 Claw-back provisions apply.
grant : Performance measures is the current AGM.
Dividend equivalents are CEO 400% operational maximum 3 reinvested under the plan.
other Executive Directors and his maximum award The Committee has 356% will be 350% of salary.
discretion to determine Ultimate Remedy provisions 4 that other performance apply.
31% of the grant level would Awards made in 2014 are measures may be used pay out at threshold subject to four equally The Committee shall operate for future awards and performance.
However, this weighted long-term the GSIP in accordance with that a different may be amended at the performance measures the plan rules.
The weighting of measures discretion of the Committee if over the three-year Committee may adjust and may apply.
Any such the number of companies in period 2014-2016: or amend awards to take change which is the TSR comparator group account of variations in the material, would be underlying sales changes.
share capital, a change in the growth: subject to prior In accordance with the GSIP certification of Unilever N. V. core operating shareholder shares, demerger, a special rules, under exceptional margin consultation with our circumstances the dividend, rights issues or improvement: major shareholders.
other corporate events Committee may award cumulative The specific higher than the maximum affecting the value of an operating cash flow: performance measures award in accordance with the awards set out above.
and will be disclosed in the GSIP rules.
Prior relative total year inwhich the award shareholder approval will be shareholder return.
The extent to required for amendments which the performance For the three business that are materially to the targets have been met focused measures, 25% advantage of participants will be disclosed in of awards vest for under the GSIP in respect of theDirectors threshold performance provisions relating to Remuneration Report and for maximum eligibility, limits, form of following the end of performance 200% of award or the adjustments of therespective the GSIP awards vest awards.
Against the TSR comparator group, comprising 18 other companies 19 including Unilever, 50% vests if Unilever is ranked 10th, 100% vests if Unilever is ranked 7th and 200% of the GSIP award vests if Unilever is ranked 3rd or above this is capped at 150% for the MCIP.
Further details of the TSR comparator group are set out on page 80.
1 Claw-back: The Committee has discretion to reclaim or claw-back some or all of the value of awards of performance-related payments to Executive Directors in the event of a significant downward restatement of the financial results of Unilever.
This includes the annual bonus together with any awards that have been made and or vested shares under the Share Matching Plan, the GSIP and the MCIP.
This claw-back may be effected by reducing outstanding awards or requiring the return of the net value of vested awards to Unilever.
2 Form of Awards: Awards may take the form of conditional awards, nil-cost options and forfeitable shares under the GSIP and the MCIP.
Awards may be settled in cash.
3 Dividends: Notional dividends accrue on awards under the GSIP and MCIP matching shares between grant and vesting of awards, delivered as shares or cash at the discretion of the Committee, but will only be paid out to the extent that the underlying shares vest.
The Committee shall have discretion to determine how notional dividend awards shall be calculated, which may include the deemed reinvestment of these dividends in Unilevers shares on a cumulative basis.
4 Ultimate Remedy: Grants under the GSIP and MCIP are subject to ultimate remedy.
Upon vesting of an award, the Committee shall have the discretionary power to adjust the value of the award if the award, in the Committees opinion taking all circumstances into account, produces an unfair result.
In exercising this discretion, the Committee may take into account Unilevers performance against non-financial measures.
The Committee will only adjust the value of a vesting award upwards after obtaining shareholder consent.
66 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CEO REMUNERATION SCENARIOS OUR EMPHASIS ON PERFORMANCE-RELATED PAY It is Unilevers policy that the total remuneration package for Executive Directors should be competitive with other global companies Maximum 18% 21% 61% 9.60m and that a significant proportion should be performance-related.
The Committee typically reviews, on at least an annual basis, the impact o Taf d rgetifferent p 30% erfo21% rmance s 49% cenar 5.68m ios on the potential reward opportunity and payouts to be received by Executive Directors and the alignment of these with the returns that might be received by shareholders.
The Committee believes that the level of remuneration that can be delivered in the various scenarios is appropriate for Threshold 100% 1.72m the level of performance delivered and the value that would be delivered to shareholders.
0.00m 2.00m 4.00m 6.00m 8.00m 10.00m 12.00m The charts below show hypothetical values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance Fixed pay Annual reward Long-term reward scenarios: CEO CFO Maximum 18% 21% 61% 9.60m Maximum 18% 19% 63% 5.55m Target 30% 21% 49% 5.68m Target 30% 21% 49% 3.41m Threshold 100% 1.72m Threshold 100% 1.02m 0.00m 2.00m 4.00m 6.00m 8.00m 10.00m 12.00m 0.00m 1.00m 2.00m 3.00m 4.00m 5.00m 6.00m Fixed pay Annual reward Long-term reward Fixed pay Annual reward Long-term reward DEC TA FO ILS OF FIXED ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION FOR CEO AND CFO AND ASSUMPTIONS FOR SCENARIO CHARTS Maximum 18% 19% 63% 5.55m Consists of base salary, fixed allowance and other benefits plus the conditional supplemental pension for the CEO FIXED REMUNERATION Base salary effective from 1 January 2014.
Target 30% 21% 49% 3.41m Fixed allowance based on policy for 2014.
Other benefits based on the cost as reported in the single figure for 2013, excluding one-off amounts paid to the CFO in 2013.
Threshold 100% 1.02m CEO conditional supplemental pension based on maximum accrual for 2014 117,123.
Supplemental 0.00m 1.00m 2.00m 3.00m 4.00m 5.00m 6.00m 000s Base Fixed allowance Other benefits pension Total fixed Fixed pay Annual reward Long-term reward CEO 1,010 250 344 117 1,721 CFO 714 260 47 n a 1,021 No bonus payout and no vesting under the MCIP or GSIP.
VARIABLE BELOW THRESHOLD REMUNERATION Target payout of the annual bonus 120% of base salary for the CEO and 100% of ON TARGET base salary for the CFO.
Target vesting under the MCIP 72% of base salary for the CEO and 60% of base salary for the CFO assuming target performance under the bonus and GSIP 200% of base salary for the CEO and 175% of base salary for the CFO.
Maximum payout of the annual bonus 200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% of MAXIMUM base salary for the CFO.
Maximum vesting under the MCIP 150% of target award assuming maximum performance under the annual bonus and GSIP 200% of target award.
In all scenarios it is assumed that the Executive Directors invest the maximum NOTES TO VARIABLE possible under the MCIP.
REMUNERATION The actual amount delivered to Executive Directors under the above scenarios will depend on share price performance over the three-year vesting period for the MCIP and the GSIP.
For the purposes of these illustrations, no share price growth is assumed.
Participation in all-employee plans has not been included.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CLAW-BACK, DISCRETION AND FLEXIBILITY On 1 January 2014 claw-back and ultimate remedy were enacted in Dutch law.
Variable remuneration may be reclaimed if it has been paid on the basis of incorrect information regarding the achievements or the circumstances on which the remuneration depends.
The Boards, acting on the proposal of the Committee, are authorised to adjust the value of variable remuneration upwards and downwards if payment of such remuneration would be unacceptable in accordance with the principles of reasonableness and fairness.
For awards under the MCIP, the Committee may change the terms of a performance measure or target in accordance with its terms or if anything happens which causes the Committee reasonably to consider it appropriate to do so.
For awards under the GSIP, the Committee, with the consent of the Boards, may change the terms of a performance measure or target during the performance period to take into account any structural changes relating to the shares or the Group e. g. rights issues in accordance with established market practice.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any relevant discretions notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the Policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of Unilever N. V. or PLC and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of Unilever N. V. or PLC.
For these purposes, payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
LEGACY PLAN SHARE MATCHING PLAN Prior to their participation in the MCIP, Executive Directors were required to invest 25% of their bonus into shares and hold them for a minimum period of three years under the Share Matching Plan.
The Executive Directors would then receive a corresponding matching award in the form of NV and PLC shares.
The matching shares would normally vest after three years, provided the underlying shares have been retained during this period and the Executive Director has not resigned or been dismissed.
The last award under the Share Matching Plan was made in 2011, relating to the annual bonus earned for 2010, and will vest in March 2014 see page 77 for details.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND THE LINK TO STRATEGY Performance measures are selected to align with Unilevers clearly stated growth ambition and our long-term business strategy.
Unilevers primary business objective is to generate a sustainable improvement in business performance through increasing the underlying value and volume of sales while steadily improving core operating margins and cash flow.
The measures chosen for the annual and long-term incentives support the delivery of this objective.
Performance measures focus management on the delivery of a combination of top-line revenue growth and bottom-line profit growth that Unilever believes will build shareholder value over the longer term.
Total shareholder return measures Unilevers success relative to peers.
The following sets out the performance measures for shortand long-term executive incentive plans to be awarded in 2014 as well as the business performance and the behaviours that they drive.
INCENTIVE PLAN PERFORMANCE MEASURE LINK TO STRATEGY Underlying sales growth Supports the achievement of Unilevers growth ambition SHORT TERM: ANNUAL BONUS Underlying volume growth Supports the achievement of Unilevers growth ambition Core operating margin improvement Supports the achievement of profitable growth Underlying sales growth Supports the achievement of Unilevers ambition to deliver sustainable LONG TERM: growth over the longer term MCIP AND GSIP Core operating margin improvement Supports the achievement of Unilevers ambition to deliver sustainable profitable growth over the longer term Cumulative operating cash flow Supports the achievement of Unilevers ambition to deliver shareholder value Relative total shareholder return Supports the achievement of Unilevers ambition to deliver greater long-term shareholder value than our competitors 68 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 APPROACH TO TARGET SETTING The Committee sets performance targets for incentive plans, taking into account internal budgets, business priorities and external forecasts so that the targets are sufficiently stretching.
Good performance results in target payout while maximum payout is only achieved for delivering exceptional performance.
The Committee retains the discretion to amend the performance targets in exceptional circumstances.
If discretion is exercised in this way, the Committee will consult with major shareholders as appropriate.
INCENTIVE AWARDS GRANTED TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS THAT ARE NOT SUBJECT TO PERFORMANCE MEASURES No incentive awards were made without performance measures in 2013.
SUMMARY OF ANY CHANGES TO THE REMUNERATION POLICY There have been no changes to the remuneration policy during 2013.
DIFFERENCES IN PAY POLICY FOR DIRECTORS AND OTHER EMPLOYEES GENERALLY Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based on the same principle that reward should support our business strategy and should be sufficient to attract and retain high-performing individuals without paying more than is necessary.
Unilever is a global organisation with employees at a number of different levels of seniority and in a number of different countries and, while this principle underpins all reward arrangements, the way it is implemented varies by geography and level.
In principle, all our managers participate in the same Unilever annual bonus scheme with the same performance measures based on Unilevers overall performance.
All middle and senior management are invited to participate in the MCIP and receive awards under the GSIP.
All other employees will have the opportunity to participate in the global employee share plan following its implementation.
CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP When determining the pay of Executive Directors the Committee considers the pay arrangements for other employees in the Group, including considering the average global pay review budget for the management population, to ensure that remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors remain reasonable.
Unilever employs over 170,000 people in 98 countries and, given this geographic spread and other factors, the Committee did not consider that it was appropriate to consult employees on the remuneration policy for Executive Directors during the year.
However, Unilever takes the views of its employees seriously and on an ongoing basis we operate the Rate-My-Reward survey to gauge the views of employees on the different parts of their reward package.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee takes the views of shareholders very seriously.
These views have been influential in shaping our policy and practice over the last few years.
We maintain an open and regular dialogue with our shareholders on remuneration matters, including consulting with our largest shareholders in the UK and the Netherlands, when we are considering making material changes to our remuneration policy.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NEW HIRES In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will align the remuneration package with the above Policy.
In addition, theCommittee retains the discretion to make awards to the new Executive Director to buy out on a like-for-like basis remuneration termsforfeited on leaving a previous employer buy out awards.
We will inform shareholders of any such buy out awards when announcing the appointment.
For an internal appointment, any variable remuneration element awarded in respect of a prior role may be paid out according to its original terms.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment to the Boards may continue to be honoured.
MINIMUM SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENT The remuneration arrangements applicable to our Executive Directors require them to build and retain a personal shareholding in Unilever by the later of 2015 or five years from the date of appointment to align their interests with those of Unilevers long-term shareholders.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SERVICE CONTRACTS POLICY IN RELATION TO EXECUTIVE SERVICE CONTRACTS AND PAYMENTS IN THE EVENT OF LOSS OF OFFICE PROVISION CURRENT SERVICE CONTRACTS 12 months notice from Unilever: NOTICE PERIOD 6 months notice from the Executive Director.
This is in line with both the practice of many comparable companies and the entitlement of other senior executives in Unilever.
The intention is that the notice period for any new Executive Directors would reflect the above policy.
Starting dates of the service contracts: EXPIRY DATE CEO: 1 October 2008 signed on 7 October 2008 : CFO: 1 February 2010 signed on 19 March 2010.
Both service contracts shall end upon termination.
The service agreements are available to shareholders to view at the AGMs or on request from the Company Secretary.
A payment in lieu of notice can be made of no more than one years base salary, fixed allowance and other benefits TERMINATION unless the Boards, at the proposal of the Committee, find this manifestly unreasonable given the circumstances or PAYMENTS unless dictated by applicable law.
If applicable, the Executive Director shall be credited with 12 months service for the purposes of any pension schemes based on length of service.
Executive Directors may, at the discretion of the Boards, remain eligible to receive an annual bonus for the financial OTHER year in which they cease employment.
Such annual bonus will be determined by the Committee taking into account time ELEMENTS in employment and performance.
Treatment of share awards as set out below.
All-employee share arrangements will be treated in accordance with HMRC approved terms.
Other payments, such as legal or other professional fees, repatriation or relocation costs and or outplacement fees, may be paid if it is considered appropriate.
LEAVER PROVISIONS IN PLAN RULES GOOD LEAVERS AS LEAVERS IN CHANGE OF CONTROL Such circumstances include but may not be limited to a DETERMINED BY THE OTHER takeover or a merger of the Group.
COMMITTEE IN ACCORDANCE CIRCUMSTANCES WITH THE PLAN RULES Investment shares are Investment shares Investment shares are transferred in full at the time INVESTMENT transferred in full upon are transferred in of the change of control.
SHARES MCIP termination and are transferred full upon Alternatively, participants may be required to to the personal representative of termination.
exchange the investment shares for equivalent shares the Executive Director in the in the acquiring company in the event of a event of his or her death.
Awards will normally vest Awards will In accordance with Dutch law, matching shares and MATCHING following the end of the original normally lapse performance shares are shares that are obtained SHARES MCIP performance period, taking into upon termination.
as part of the Executive Directors remuneration.
AND account performance and Therefore their value is frozen in a period for four PERFORMANCE pro-rated for time in employment weeks before an announcement of a public offer and SHARES GSIP unless the Boards on the four weeks after the conclusion of a public offer.
Any proposal of the Committee increase in value in this period has to be reclaimed determine otherwise.
by Unilever from the Executive Director upon Alternatively, the Boards may retirement or sale of these shares, if at that time determine that awards shall vest the value of the shares is higher than the value four upon termination based on weeks before the announcement of the public offer.
performance at that time and Awards will vest based on performance at the time pro-rated for time in of the change of control and the Boards, at the employment unless the Boards proposal of the Committee, have the discretion to on the proposal of the pro-rate for time.
Committee determine Alternatively, participants may be required to otherwise.
exchange the awards for equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company in the event of a reorganisation of the Group.
An Executive Director will usually be treated as a good leaver if he or she leaves due to death, ill-health, injury or disability, retirement with Unilevers agreement or redundancy.
The Boards may decide to treat an Executive Director who leaves in other circumstances as a good leaver.
An Executive Director will not be treated as a good leaver if he chooses to leave for another job elsewhere, if he is summarily dismissed or leaves because of concerns about performance.
In deciding whether or not to treat an Executive Director as a good leaver, the Boards will have regard to his or her performance in the role.
70 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 If Unilever is affected by a demerger, special distribution or other transaction which may affect the value of awards, the Committee may allow matching shares under the MCIP and performance shares under the GSIP to vest early over such number of shares as it shall determine to the extent any performance conditions have been met and may be pro-rated to reflect the acceleration of vesting at the Committees discretion.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS KEY ASPECTS OF UNILEVERS 2014 FEE POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Non-Executive Directors receive annual fees from Unilever N. V. and PLC.
The Boards determine non-executive fee APPROACH TO levels within total annual limits as approved by shareholders currently PLC 2,000,000, also specified in PLCs SETTING FEES Articles of Association, and NV 3,000,000.
Unilevers policy is to set fees at a level which is sufficient to attract, motivate and retain high-class talent of the calibre required to direct the strategy of the business.
They are set taking into account: Unilevers Group-wide reward philosophy: the commitment and contribution expected by the Group: and fee levels paid in other global non-financial services companies based in Europe.
Unilever applies a modular fee structure for Non-Executive Directors to ensure we fairly reflect the roles and OPERATION responsibilities for Committee membership and Chairmanship.
Our basic philosophy is to pay the Chairman and Vice-Chairman an all-inclusive fee.
Other Board members receive a basic fee and additional fees for chairing or membership of various committees.
The fees are split 50 50 between PLC in sterling and NV in euros.
Fees are normally reviewed annually but may be reviewed less frequently.
The Non-Executive Director fee levels were reviewed in 2013 and no changes were made.
The table below outlines the FEE STRUCTURE 2014 fee structure: Role NV PLC Chairman 313,570 and 275,000 Vice-Chairman 94,070 and 82,500 Basic Non-Executive Director fee 42,760 and 37,500 Membership of the Nominating and Corporate Governance, Compensation and Management Resources or Corporate Responsibility Committee 5,700 and 5,000 Membership of the Audit Committee 8,550 and 7,500 Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance, Compensation and Management Resources or Corporate Responsibility Committee 11,400 and 10,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee 17,100 and 15,000 The Boards may increase these fee levels where it is considered appropriate, taking into account the principles above.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a personal shareholding of at least 100% of their total annual fees OTHER ITEMS over the five years from 1 January 2012 or appointment if later.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any of the Groups incentive plans.
All reasonable travel and other expenses incurred by Non-Executive Directors in the course of performing their duties are considered to be business expenses.
Non-Executive Directors also receive expenses relating to the attendance of the Directors spouse or partner, when they are invited by Unilever.
Other benefits or additional payments may be provided in the future if, in the view of the Boards, this was considered appropriate.
Such benefits and or payments would be within the total annual limits as approved by shareholders as described above.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NEW NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR HIRES In the event of hiring a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will align the remuneration package with the Policy detailed in thisReport.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT The terms of engagement of Non-Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment which each Non-Executive Director signed with effect from the 2013 AGMs.
Non-Executive Directors are currently appointed for a one-year term, subject to satisfactory performance, re-nomination at the discretion of the Boards on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and re-election at forthcoming annual shareholder meetings.
It is Unilevers expectation that Non-Executive Directors serve for a minimum of three years.
The letters of appointment allow for Unilever to terminate a Non-Executive Directors appointment in cases of gross misconduct, bankruptcy or where the Non-Executive Director is prevented from occupying such a position by law.
The letters do not contain provision for notice periods or compensation if their appointments are terminated by Unilever.
Non-Executive Directors may terminate their engagement upon three months notice.
Except in exceptional circumstances, the Boards will not propose Non-Executive Directors for re-nomination when nine years have elapsed since the date of their appointment.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection on request from the Company Secretary.
In considering appointments to the Boards, the Directors and Unilever give due consideration to the time commitment required to fulfil the role appropriately.
All Non-Executive Directors were reappointed to the Boards at the 2013 AGMs, with the exception of Sunil Bharti Mittal who chose not to put himself forward for re-election.
Date first appointed to Effective date of current Non-Executive Director the Board letter of appointment Michael Treschow 16 May 2007 15 May 2013 Laura Cha 15 May 2013 15 May 2013 Louise Fresco 14 May 2009 15 May 2013 Ann Fudge 14 May 2009 15 May 2013 Charles Golden 09 May 2006 15 May 2013 Byron Grote 09 May 2006 15 May 2013 Mary Ma 15 May 2013 15 May 2013 Sunil Bharti Mittal 12 May 2011 n a Hixonia Nyasulu 16 May 2007 15 May 2013 Sir Malcolm Rifkind 12 May 2010 15 May 2013 John Rishton 15 May 2013 15 May 2013 Kees Storm 09 May 2006 15 May 2013 Paul Walsh 14 May 2009 15 May 2013 The unexpired term for all Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment is the period up to the 2014 AGMs, as they all, unless they are retiring, submit themselves for annual re-election.
72 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT The following sets out how Unilevers remuneration policy was implemented in 2013 and how it will be implemented in 2014.
SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2013 FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table below shows a single figure of remuneration for each of our Executive Directors, for the years 2012 restated and 2013.
AUDITED Paul Polman Jean-Marc Hut CEO UK CFO UK 000s 000s 2013 2012 2013 2012 Restated Restated Base salary a 1,189 1,169 841 860 Fixed allowances and other benefits b 700 640 594 465 Annual bonus c 1,864 2,406 879 1,295 GSIP performance shares required by UK law d 3,849 3,503 2,665 2,453 Conditional supplemental pension e 138 134 n a n a Total remuneration paid EUR required by UK law a b c d e 7,740 7,852 4,979 5,073 Share awards required by Dutch law f 4,069 3,290 2,652 2,699 Total remuneration paid EUR required by Dutch law a b c e f 7,960 7,639 4,966 5,319 Where relevant amounts for 2013 have been translated into using the average exchange rate over 2013: 1 0.8492.
Amounts for 2012 have been translated into using the average exchange rate over 2012: 1 0.8107.
We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans or guarantees.
ELEMENTS OF SINGLE FIGURE REMUNERATION 2013 a BASE SALARY AUDITED Salary set in sterling and paid in 2013: CEO 1,010,000 CFO 714,000 b FIXED ALLOWANCE AND OTHER BENEFITS AUDITED For 2013 this comprises: Paul Polman Jean-Marc Hut CEO UK CFO UK 000s 000s 2013 2013 Fixed allowance 250,000 300,000 Medical insurance cover and actual tax return preparation costs 64,383 34,193 Provision of death-in-service benefits and administration 17,675 12,495 Payment to protect against difference between employee social security obligations in country of residence versus UK 262,075 Sum agreed on recruitment as reimbursement for the loss and costs on the sale of his house in the US 158,247 Total 594,133 504,935 T he numbers in this table are quoted in sterling and have been translated into euros for the Single figure of remuneration table above using the average exchange rate over 2013 of 1 0.8492.
This does not include the Dutch crisis tax charge, to which Dutch-based companies like Unilever N. V. are subject, of 16% on the portion of employees 2013 salaries exceeding 150,000 from current employment that is taxable in the Netherlands.
The tax charge for Unilever N. V. with respect to the CEO is 176,125 2012: 112,394.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 73 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED c ANNUAL BONUS AUDITED Annual bonus 2013 actual outcomes CEO 1,583,175 which is 78% of maximum, 157% of base salary CFO 746,130 which is 70% of maximum, 105% of base salary This includes cash and shares invested under the MCIP.
Performance against targets: PERFORMANCE Result vesting Performance measures Threshold Target Maximum % of target Underlying sales growth 1 3 2% 4.3% 8% 77% Underlying volume growth 1 3 0% 2.5% 5% 100% Core operating margin improvement percentage percentage percentage 0 0.4 0.6 133% compared with prior year 1 3 points points points Overall performance ratio 0% 200% 103% based on actual performance Reduced performance ratio 0% 200% 95% after committee discretion 2013 has been a year of solid performance, especially given the tough economic and competitive environment Unilever has faced.
At the start of the year, the Committee set very challenging targets and we are pleased with progress against these goals.
Underlying sales growth was 4.3%, which though slightly below target performance represents strong performance in challenging markets and intensifying competition.
Underlying volume growth was 2.5% resulting in target payout.
Improvement in core operating margin compared with 2012 was 0.4 percentage points, which was ahead of target.
2013 was not, however, without its challenges and, in order to recognise this and in particular a tough third quarter, the Committee exercised its judgement to reduce the overall Group bonus score from 103% of target to 95% of target.
In determining bonus outcomes for the CEO, the Committee also considered his personal performance and leadership, including progress against the delivery of USLP goals and his overall contribution to making sustainable living commonplace.
As a consequence of that review the CEO was awarded a personal performance multiplier of 137.5%.
This resulted in the CEO receiving a bonus of 157% of his base salary.
This is calculated as follows: Target bonus: 120% of Unilevers 2013 Personal performance 1,583,175 base salary 1,212,000 performance ratio 95% multiplier 137.5% 157% of base salary In determining bonus outcomes for the CFO, the Committee also considered his personal performance and leadership, including corporate social responsibility and progress against the delivery of USLP goals.
As a consequence of that review the CFO was awarded a personal performance multiplier of 110%.
This resulted in the CFO receiving a bonus of 105% of his base salary.
This is calculated as follows: Target bonus: 100% of Unilevers 2013 Personal performance 746,130 base salary 714,000 performance ratio 95% multiplier 110% 105% of base salary 2014 MCIP AWARDS BASED ON 2013 ANNUAL BONUS OUTCOMES On 14 February 2014, the CEO invested 60% 949,905 and the CFO invested 25% 186,533 of their 2013 bonus in MCIP investment shares.
The CEO elected to invest fully in NV shares.
The CFO elected to receive a 50% 50% mix of PLC NV shares.
They each received a corresponding award of performance-related MCIP matching shares awarded in the same form as the investment shares.
MCIP matching awards are subject to the same performance measures as GSIP awards.
Further information on matching awards is set out on page 80.
No matching awards under the MCIP vested based on performance in the year ended 31 December 2013.
74 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 d GSIP UK LAW REQUIREMENT AUDITED 2013 OUTCOMES This includes GSIP awards vesting based on performance in the three-year period to 31 December 2013.
The values included in the single figure table for 2013 are calculated by multiplying the number of shares granted on 14 March 2011 including additional shares in respect of accrued dividends through to 31 December 2013 by the level of vesting 128% of target awards and the three-month average share price to 31 December 2013 PLC 24.47 and NV 28.58.
The award was equally based on the performance measures outlined in the table below.
Performance against targets: PERFORMANCE Result vesting Performance measures Threshold Target Maximum % of target Underlying sales growth p. a 25% 4% 6% 5.9% 191% Underlying operating margin vs percentage percentage percentage 0 0.19 0.4 110% prior year 25% points points points Cumulative operating cash flow 10.5bn 14.5bn 13.4bn 153% compared with prior year 25% Total shareholder return 25% 10th 10th 3rd 60% Overall vesting 128% Comparator group of 20 companies including Unilever.
The comparator group is the same as those disclosed on page 80 with the addition of Heinz.
25% of target awards vest for threshold performance under the three business focused performance measures.
60% of target awards vest for threshold performance under the TSR performance measure.
Over the past three years, the business has delivered a very strong performance and has consistently been ahead of our competitors.
Underlying sales growth during the period was 5.9% per annum which the Committee considered to be exceptional performance in the context of the global economic climate during this period and the strong base we were building from.
We have also consistently improved margin performance converting our top-line growth into profitable returns for our shareholders with underlying operating margin improving 0.19 percentage points.
Cash flow performance has also been strong, funding future investment in growth.
On the basis of this performance, the Committee determined that GSIP awards granted to Executive Directors in 2011 will vest at 128% of initial award levels out of a maximum of 200% i. e. 64% of maximum awards.
During 2013, the CFO also received the third and final tranche of restricted stock award made to him on recruitment under the GSIP.
The value of this award has not been included in the above GSIP figures as it is not required by the regulations.
The 2012 GSIP performance shares figure has been restated to reflect the actual number of shares and the market value of the shares that vested and have been translated into using the average exchange rate over 2012: 1 0.8107.
The figure included in the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report was estimated as the vesting date was post the publication of the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
The actual values at the vesting date were: Paul Polman 3,503,000 estimated as 3,089,000 and Jean-Marc Hut 2,453,000 estimated as 2,164,000. e CONDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION AUDITED CEO: Paul Polman Conditional supplemental pension provision agreed with the CEO on hiring, which is conditional on his remaining in employment with Unilever to age 60 and subsequently retiring from active service or his death or total disability prior to retirement.
CFO: Jean-Marc Hut The CFO does not receive a conditional supplemental pension.
f SHARE INCENTIVES DUTCH LAW REQUIREMENT AUDITED As per the Dutch requirements, these costs are non-cash costs and relate to the expenses recognised for the period following IFRS 2.
This is based on share prices on grant dates, a 98% adjustment factor for GSIP shares and MCIP matching shares awarded in 2013 and 2012 and GSIP shares awarded in 2011 and 2010, and an 89% adjustment factor for GSIP shares awarded in 2009 to take account of the external performance condition TSR.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 75 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED OTHER IMPLEMENTATION INFORMATION FOR 2013 SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED IN THE YEAR AUDITED PLAN BASIS OF AWARD MAXIMUM FACE THRESHOLD PERFORMANCE DETAILS OF VALUE OF VESTING % OF PERIOD PERFORMANCE AWARDS TARGET AWARD MEASURES Based on the level of CEO: Four equally weighted 1 January 2013 Subject to four equally MCIP 2013 bonus invested by long-term 31 December 2015 weighted performance Conditional 1,742,332 the CEO and CFO.
For the share award CFO: The following numbers Underlying sales three business made on 18 of matching shares growth 390,678 focused metrics, 25% February 2013 were awarded on 18 Core operating of the target award February 2013: margin vests for threshold improvement performance.
For the CEO: Operating cash flow TSR measure, 50% of and PLC 22,999 the target awards vest Relative total for threshold NV 22,999 shareholder return performance.
CFO: Further details are set out on page 80.
PLC 5,157 NV 5,157 Maximum vesting results in 150% of target awards vesting.
The CEO was made a CEO: As above As above As above GSIP target award of 200% of Conditional 4,009,861 base salary.
share award made on 18 CFO: CEO: February 2013 2,480,381 PLC 39,698 NV 39,698 The CFO was made a target award of 175% of base salary.
CFO: PLC 24,556 NV 24,556 Maximum vesting results in 200% of target awards vesting, which translates to a maximum vesting of 400% of base salary for the CEO and 350% of base salary for the CFO.
The values included in this table are calculated by multiplying the number of shares granted on 18 February 2013 by the grant price of PLC 25.64 and N. V. 29.28 respectively, assuming maximum performance and therefore maximum vesting of 200% for GSIP and 150% for MCIP and then translating into using an average exchange rate over 2013 of 1 0.8492.
The actual targets for the three business focused performance measures for the 2013 MCIP and GSIP awards have not been disclosed up front as the Boards deem this to be commercially sensitive information as targets could reveal information about Unilevers business plan and budgeting process to competitors, which could be damaging to Unilevers business interests and therefore to shareholders.
Targets will be disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report following the end of the relevant performance period.
76 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 MINIMUM SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENT AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHARE INTERESTS UNAUDITED The table below shows the Executive Directors share ownership against the minimum shareholding requirements as at 31 December 2013 and the interest in NV and PLC ordinary shares of Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2013.
When calculating an Executive Directors personal shareholding the following methodology is used: Base salary at the date of measurement.
Shares in either Unilever PLC or Unilever N. V. or a combination of both will qualify provided they are personally owned by the Executive Director or by a member of his her immediate family connected person.
Shares purchased from the Annual Bonus under the MCIP will qualify as from the moment of purchase as these are held in the individuals name and are not subject to further restrictions.
Shares acquired under a restricted stock arrangement will qualify on a net of tax basis.
Shares awarded on a conditional basis by way of the GSIP, or the MCIP, will not qualify until the moment of vesting i. e. once the precise number of shares is fixed after the three-year vesting period has elapsed.
The value of the shares to be taken into account will be the higher of the open market value at the date of acquisition or the open market value at the date of measurement.
The euro sterling US $ exchange rate to be applied will be the prevailing rate on the chosen date.
With effect from 1 January 2014 Executive Directors will be required to hold shares to the value of 100% of their shareholding requirement for 12 months post cessation of employment at Unilever, and 50% of these shares for 24 months post cessation of employment with Unilever.
The other members of the ULE are required to build a shareholding of 300% of base salary.
This requirement is 150% of base salary for the top 100 management layer below ULE.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES AND SHARE OWNERSHIP AUDITED Actual share Shares held as at Shares held as at b c Share ownership ownership 1 January 2013 31 December 2013 guideline as % of Have guidelines as a % of a base salary been met?
base salary NV PLC NV PLC CEO: Paul Polman 400 Yes 1379 234,291 192,371 306,928 266,546 CFO: Jean-Marc Hut 300 Yes 591 52,921 52,921 86,620 86,853 a Calculated based on the minimum shareholding requirements and methodology set out above.
b 1 NV shares are ordinary 0.16 shares and PLC shares are ordinary 3 p shares.
9 C Numbers exclude awards and options over shares which are subject to performance.
On 14 February 2014, Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Hut invested 60% and 25% respectively of their annual bonus earned in 2013 and paid in 2014 in the MCIP.
This resulted in 41,775 NV investment shares for Paul Polman and 4,036 NV and 4,036 PLC investment shares for Jean-Marc Hut.
They each received a corresponding award of performance-related NV and PLC shares under the terms of the MCIP.
The voting rights of the Directors who hold interests in the share capital of NV and PLC are the same as for other holders of the class of shares indicated.
None of the Directors Executive and Non-Executive or other executive officers shareholdings amounts to more than 1% of the issued shares in that class of share.
Except as stated above, all shareholdings are beneficial.
INFORMATION IN RELATION TO OUTSTANDING SHARE INCENTIVE AWARDS As at 31 December 2013, Paul Polman held awards over a total of 355,452 shares which are subject to performance conditions and awards over 20,906 shares which are not.
Jean-Marc Hut held awards over a total of 205,775 shares which are subject to performance conditions and awards over 10,094 shares which are not.
There are no awards in the form of options.
SHARE MATCHING PLAN AUDITED Balance of Conditional Balance of conditional shares shares vested conditional shares at a at 1 January 2013 in 2013 31 December 2013 Share type No.
of shares Price at award No.
of shares b Paul Polman NV 19,416 9,484 22.53 9,932 b PLC 19,416 9,484 19.44 9,932 c Jean-Marc Hut NV 5,047 5,047 c PLC 5,047 5,047 a Each award of matching shares is conditional and vests three years after the date of the award subject to continued employment and maintenance of the underlying bonus shares.
These awards were not subject to further performance conditions.
b 9,484 PLC and NV shares awarded on 18 March 2010 and vested on 18 March 2013 and 9,932 PLC and NV shares awarded on 14 March 2011 and due to vest on 14 March 2014. c Awarded on 14 March 2011 and due to vest on 14 March 2014.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 77 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED MANAGEMENT CO-INVESTMENT PLAN AUDITED Balance of Balance of conditional shares Conditional shares conditional shares a at 1January 2013 awarded in 2013 at 31 December 2013 Performance period Dividend shares Share 1 January 2013 to Price at accrued during d type Original award 31December 2015 award the year b Paul Polman NV 18,413 22,999 29.28 1,307 42,719 b PLC 18,478 22,999 25.64 1,435 42,912 c Jean-Marc Hut NV 3,781 5,157 29.28 280 9,218 c PLC 3,794 5,157 25.64 308 9,259 a Each award of conditional matching shares vests three years after the date of the award further details can be found on page 80.
Awards are all subject to continued employment and maintenance of the underlying investment shares.
On 18 February 2013, Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Hut invested in the MCIP 60% and 25% respectively of their annual bonus earned during 2012 and paid in 2013 and received a corresponding award of marching shares which will vest, subject to performance, on 18 February 2016. b This includes 17,772 NV and PLC shares granted on 17 February 2012 and 641 NV shares and 706 PLC shares from reinvested dividend accrued in 2012.
These shares will vest, subject to performance, on 17 February 2015. c This includes 3,649 NV and PLC shares granted on 17 February 2012 and 132 NV shares and 145 PLC shares from reinvested dividend accrued in 2012.
These shares will vest, subject to performance, on 17 February 2015. d Reflects reinvested dividend equivalents accrued during 2013 and subject to the same performance conditions as the underlying matching shares.
GLOBAL SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN AUDITED The following conditional shares were granted during 2013 and were outstanding at 31 December 2013 under the Global Share Incentive Plan: Balance of Balance of conditional shares Conditional shares conditional shares a at 1January 2013 awarded in 2013 at 31 December 2013 Additional Performance period Dividend shares Vested shares Share 1 January 2013 to Price at accrued during in earned in Price at d e type Original award 31December 2015 award the year 2013 2013 vesting No.
The 2013 award was made on 18 February 2013 vesting 18 February 2016. b This includes a grant of 44,137 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 18 March 2010 vested 18 March 2013, a grant of 47,173 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 14 March 2011 vesting 14 March 2014, a grant of 38,676 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 17 February 2012 vesting 17 February 2015 and 9,240 NV shares and 10,363 PLC shares from reinvested dividend accrued in prior years in respect of awards.
c This includes a grant of 30,906 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 18 March 2010 vested 18 March 2013, a grant of 32,665 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 14 March 2011 vesting 14 March 2014, a grant of 29,798 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 17 February 2012 vesting 17 February 2015 and 6,543 NV shares and 7,337 PLC shares from reinvested dividend accrued in prior years in respect of awards.
d Reflects reinvested dividend equivalents accrued during 2013 and subject to the same performance conditions as the underlying GSIP shares.
On 14 February 2014, Paul Polman received an award of 43,700 NV and 43,700 PLC performance-related shares and Jean-Marc Hut received an award of 27,031 NV and 27,031 PLC performance-related shares under the GSIP.
RESTRICTED STOCK AUDITED Jean-Marc Hut received a one-off restricted stock award on joining Unilever under the GSIP.
Details of balances and vesting during 2013 are shown below.
Balance of Balance of shares at shares at 1 January 2013 Vesting in 2013 31 December 2013 Share type No.
of shares Price at vesting No.
78 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 SHARE SAVE PLAN AUDITED The Unilever PLC 2005 Share Save Plan is an HMRC-approved, all-employee, savings-related share option scheme under which employees can save up to a limit of 250 per month with an option to buy PLC shares at the end of a five-year vesting period subject to continued employment.
Balance of Balance of options at Granted options at First Final a Share type 1 January 2013 in 2013 31 December 2013 exercisable date expiry date Paul Polman PLC 1,042 1,042 01 10 2014 01 04 2015 a Option price at grant was 14.92.
PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS AUDITED There have been no payments to former Directors during the year.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED There were no payments for loss of office.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2014 FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION FIXED ELEMENTS OF AT A GLANCE DESCRIPTION REMUNERATION Salary effective from 1 January 2014: The Committee reviewed the competitive positioning of Executive BASE SALARY Director base salaries in late 2013 and, after giving due consideration to CEO 1,010,000 unchanged from pay and conditions elsewhere in Unilever, the Boards, on the proposal of 2013 the Committee, decided not to award any base salary increases to the CFO 714,000 unchanged from 2013 Executive Directors effective January 2014.
For 2014, the 0% salary increase for the Executive Directors is less than the general forecast salary increase for all management staff across the UK and Netherlands, which is effective April 2014.
Fixed allowance for 2014: FIXED ALLOWANCE CEO 250,000 CFO 260,000 Amounts for other benefits are not In line with the Policy table above, Executive Directors will be provided OTHER BENEFIT known until the year end.
with death, disability and medical insurance cover and actual tax return ENTITLEMENTS preparation costs in 2014.
Unilever also pays the CEOs social security obligations in his country of residence.
Conditional supplemental pension In line with the CEOs hiring-in agreement, he will receive a contribution to his supplemental pension of 12% of the lower of his actual base salary over the year and his 2011 base salary 920,000 plus 3% per annum as required.
The benchmark cap for 2014 has been kept at 976,028, with a maximum contribution of 117,123.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PERFORMANCE ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION: The actual targets for the annual bonus and the three business-focused performance measures for the MCIP and GSIP awards to be made in 2014 have not been disclosed up-front as the Boards deem this to be commercially sensitive information as targets could reveal information about Unilevers business plan and budgeting process to competitors, which could be damaging to Unilevers business interests and therefore to shareholders.
Where appropriate, targets will be disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report following the end of the respective performance period.
PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE DESCRIPTION ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION CEO target 120% of base salary, The performance measures for 2014 will be: ANNUAL BONUS maximum 200% of base salary CFO target 100% of base salary, Underlying sales Underlying volume Core operating maximum 150% of base salary growth 1 3 growth 1 3 margin improvement 1 3 The Committee also considers the quality of performance in terms of business results and leadership, including corporate social responsibility and delivery of USLP goals, when determining payouts.
Out of their after-tax annual bonus Matching shares awarded under the MCIP in 2014 will be subject to the MCIP 2014 awards, Executive Directors are same measures as GSIP awards made in the year.
Further details on the required to invest 25% of their gross performance measures are disclosed below.
bonus and may invest up to 60% of their gross bonus in the MCIP They are awarded an equal number of MCIP matching shares Maximum vesting of 1.5x initial award Maximum award 200% of base salary Performance measures for 2014 awards: GSIP 2014 AWARDS for the CEO and 175% of base salary for CFO Underlying Core operating Cumulative Relative total Maximum vesting of 2x initial award sales growth margin operating cash shareholder a a b 25% improvement flow 25% return 25% Maximum vesting of 400% of base a 25% salary for the CEO and 350% of base salary for the CFO Both performance conditions must reach threshold performance, before any payout in respect of either measure is made.
a For the three business-focused measures, 25% of target awards vest for achieving threshold performance.
200% of target awards vest capped at 150% under the MCIP for maximum performance.
b For the relative TSR measure, Unilevers TSR is measured against a comparator group of other consumer goods companies.
TSR measures the return received by a shareholder, capturing both the increase in share price and the value of dividend income assuming dividends are reinvested.
The TSR results are measured on a common currency basis to better reflect the shareholder experience.
The current TSR peer group is as follows: Avon Colgate-Palmolive Henkel LOral Reckitt Benckiser Beiersdorf Danone Kao Nestl Shiseido Campbell Soup General Mills Kelloggs PepsiCo Coca-Cola Este Lauder Kimberly-Clark Procter & Gamble Following the sale of Heinz in February 2013, the TSR comparator group for all outstanding awards was adjusted with effect from 1January 2014 to discontinue its participation.
The TSR comparator group will therefore consist of 18 companies 19 including Unilever with effect from 1 January 2014.
No shares in the portion of the award subject to TSR vest if Unilever is ranked below position 10 in the peer group at the end of the three-year period, 50% vests if Unilever is ranked 10th, 100% vests if Unilever is ranked 7th and 200% 150% under the MCIP vests if Unilever is ranked 3rd or above.
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
80 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION IN 2013 FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below shows a single figure of remuneration for each of our Non-Executive Directors, for the years 2012 and 2013.
Includes basic Non-Executive Director fee and Committee chairmanship and or membership.
b The only benefit received relates to travel by spouses or partners where they are invited by Unilever.
d This does not include the Dutch crisis tax charge, to which Dutch-based companies like Unilever N. V. are subject, of 16% on the portion of Directors 2013 fees exceeding 150,000 from current appointment that is taxable in the Netherlands.
The tax charge for Unilever N. V. with respect to the Chairman is 26,171 2012 was 26,751. e Chair, Corporate Responsibility Committee.
g Chose not to put himself forward for re-election at the May 2013 AGMs.
h Vice-Chairman and Chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
i Chair, Compensation and Management Resources Committee.
We do not grant our Non-Executive Directors any personal loans or guarantees, nor are they entitled to any severance payments.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES AUDITED Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a personal shareholding of at least one times their annual fees over the five years from 1 January 2012 or appointment if later.
The table shows the interests in NV and PLC ordinary shares of Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2013.
There has been no change in these interests between 31 December 2013 and 3 March 2014 other than Byron Grote who purchased 200 NV NY shares and 200 PLC ADRs on 10 February 2014 at a share price of US $37.91 and US $39.22 respectively.
Mary Ma NV n a b Chose not to put himself forward for re-election at May 2013 AGMs.
PLC n a Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 81 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED OTHER DISCLOSURES RELATED TO DIRECTORS CEO SINGLE FIGURE FIVE-YEAR HISTORY REMUNERATION The table below shows the five-year history of the CEO single figure of total remuneration: SERVING AS A NON-EXECUTIVE ON THE BOARD OF 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ANOTHER COMPANY Executive Directors serving as non-executive directors on the CEO boards of other companies are permitted to retain all Single figure of total remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships subject remuneration 000 3,859 6,292 6,010 7,852 7,740 to a maximum of one outside listed directorship see Outside Annual bonus award rates Appointments on page 45 for further details.
against maximum opportunity 82% 80% 68% 100% 78% Paul Polman is a non-executive director of The Dow Chemical Company and received an annual fee of 86,773 US $115,000 GSIP performance shares vesting rates against based on the average exchange rate over the year 1 US maximum opportunity n a 47% 44% 55% 64% $1.3253.
In addition, he received a restricted award of 3,920 ordinary shares with a nominal value of US $2.50 per share in the Share Matching capital of The Dow Chemical Company.
The shares include the Plan vesting rates against rights to vote and to receive dividends thereon.
The shares cannot maximum opportunity 100% 100% n a n a n a be sold or transferred until Paul Polman leaves the board of Shown in year of award.
directors of The Dow Chemical Company, and in any case not earlier than 10 May 2015.
Paul Polman elected to defer his 2013 PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF DIRECTOR annual fee into a deferral programme of The Dow Chemical UNDERTAKING THE ROLE OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Company.
This programme allows non-executive directors at the The table below shows the percentage change from 2012 to 2013 end of the year to defer the annual fees for the following year.
At for base salary, bonus and benefits excluding pension for both the time of enrolment, the non-executive director decides when the CEO and all UK and Dutch management in Unilever.
The he wants to receive the fees upon leaving or a specified year in subset of UK and Dutch management has been used as a fair the future.
The funds are hypothetically invested according to the representation of our dual listing status.
Benefits Jean-Marc Hut is a non-executive director of Delta Topco not Limited and received an annual fee of 181,091 US $240,000, including b % change from 2012 to 2013 Salary Bonus pension including fees of 45,273 US $60,000 each for membership of the Audit & Ethics Committee and the Nomination Committee.
a CEO 1.7% -22.5% 9.4% UK and Dutch management 2.7% -26.8% 5.0% FIVE-YEAR HISTORICAL TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN a Calculated using the data from the Executive Directors single figure table TSR PERFORMANCE on page 73.
The table below includes: b The change in level of bonus from 2012 to 2013 for both the CEO and our UK growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five and Dutch management subset is due to exceptional results in 2012 years FTSE 100 comparison based on 30-trading-day average uplifting the bonus compared with a solid year in 2013. values: and growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 investment over five RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY years AEX comparison based on 30-trading-day average The chart below shows the relative spend on pay compared with values.
dividends paid to Unilever shareholders and core earnings.
Core earnings represent the net profit attributable to Unilever The Committee has decided to show Unilevers performance shareholders, adjusted for non-core items.
Over time, core against the FTSE 100 Index, London and also the Euronext 100 earnings and core earnings growth provide a good reference point index AEX, Amsterdam as these are the most relevant indices in to compare spend on pay.
the UK and the Netherlands where we have our principal listings.
Unilever is a constituent of both these indices.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 7,000m -1.7% 6,000m 200 5,000m 3.4% 180 4,000m 10.6% 3,000m 160 2,000m 140 1,000m 120 0m 1 Core earnings m Dividends paid to Unilever Total staff costs m 100 Shareholders m 2012 Restated 2013 Unilever NV Unilever PLC FTSE 100 AEX 1 In calculating core earnings, net profit attributable to shareholders equity is adjusted to eliminate the post tax impact of non-core items.
Refer to note 7, and the table titled Calculation of core earnings on page 108 for reconciliation of core earnings to net profit attributable to shareholders equity.
82 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Value of hypothetical holding THE COMPENSATION AND MANAGEMENT RESOURCES SHAREHOLDER VOTING COMMITTEE Unilever remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and During 2013, the Committee comprised four Non-Executive takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a Directors: Paul Walsh Committee Chairman, Michael Treschow, substantial vote against a resolution in relation to Directors Ann Fudge and Kees Storm.
remuneration, Unilever would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would set out in the following Annual Report The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the year.
and Accounts any actions in response to it.
The Committee is concerned with: the remuneration policy for the ULE and senior corporate The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our executives: previous report: the remuneration and benefits of the Directors and other Voting outcome % of votes For Against members of the ULE: the design and terms of all long-term incentive plans: 2012 Directors Remuneration Report 2013 AGM PLC 95.39% 4.61% leadership development, especially of the ULE and senior corporate executives: and 32,520,664 votes were withheld c. 2.5% of share capital.
performance evaluation of the members of the ULE.
The Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to a The Committees revised terms of reference are contained within shareholder vote in the Netherlands.
With effect from 1 January The Governance of Unilever, and are also set out on our website 2014, the implementation of the Remuneration Policy will be a at www.
discussion item prior to the adoption of the Annual Accounts.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the and concluded that it was broadly operating effectively.
Where Boards and signed on their behalf by Tonia Lovell, Group Secretary.
appropriate, the Committee agreed steps to enhance its effectiveness.
ADVISERS While it is the Committees responsibility to exercise independent judgement, the Committee does request advice from management and professional advisers, as appropriate, to ensure that its decisions are fully informed given the internal and external environment.
The Committee appointed Deloitte LLP to provide independent advice on various matters it considered.
Deloitte was appointed in 2011 following an interview process by the Committee.
During the year, Deloitte also provided other services to Unilever primarily in relation to the Directors Remuneration Report.
The wider Deloitte firm has also provided tax and consultancy services including tax compliance, transfer pricing, financial transformation, IT restructuring and sourcing strategies advice to Unilever.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Further details can be found at www.
The Committee is satisfied that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team, which provide remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections with Unilever N. V. or Unilever PLC that might impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
The fees paid to Deloitte LLP in relation to advice provided to the Committee in the year up to 31 December 2013 were 47,000.
This figure is calculated based on time spent and expenses incurred for the majority of advice provided, but on occasion for specific projects a fixed fee may be agreed.
During the year, the Committee also sought input from the Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman, the Chief Human Resources Officer Doug Baillie and the SVP Global Head of Reward Peter Newhouse on various subjects including the remuneration of senior management.
No individual was present when his or her own remuneration was being discussed to ensure a conflict of interest did not arise.
The Committee also received legal and governance advice from the Group Secretary Tonia Lovell.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS Statement of Directors responsibilities 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Independent auditors reports 86 15 Capital and funding 115 15A Share capital 116 Consolidated income statement 90 15B Equity 117 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 90 15C Financial liabilities 118 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 91 16 Treasury risk management 120 16A Management of liquidity risk 120 Consolidated balance sheet 92 16B Management of market risk 122 Consolidated cash flow statement 93 16C Derivatives and hedging 124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 94 17 Investment and return 125 17A Financial assets 126 1 Accounting information and policies 94 17B Credit risk 127 2 Segment information 96 18 Financial instruments fair value risk 127 3 Gross profit and operating costs 98 19 Provisions 129 4 Employees 99 20 Commitments and contingent liabilities 129 4A Staff and management costs 99 4B Pensions and similar obligations 99 21 Acquisitions and disposals 131 4C Share-based compensation plans 104 22 Assets and liabilities held for sale 132 5 Net finance costs 105 23 Related party transactions 133 6 Taxation 106 24 Remuneration of auditors 133 6A Income tax 106 6B Deferred tax 106 25 Events after the balance sheet date 133 6C Tax on other comprehensive income 108 26 Principal group companies and non-current investments 134 7 Combined earnings per share 108 Independent auditors report Unilever N. V. 136 8 Dividends on ordinary capital 109 Company accounts Unilever N. V. 137 9 Goodwill and intangible assets 109 Notes to the Company accounts Unilever N. V. 138 10 Property, plant and equipment 111 Further statutory and other information Unilever N. V. 141 11 Other non-current assets 112 Independent auditors report Unilever PLC 142 12 Inventories 113 Company accounts Unilever PLC 143 13 Trade and other current receivables 113 Notes to the Company accounts Unilever PLC 144 14 Trade payables and other liabilities 114 Shareholder information 146 84 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013
