Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Melanie Gee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder This Remuneration Report in respect of 2013 has been prepared in compliance with the new UK reporting requirements.
In line with these regulations, the Report now comprises three sections with the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration following this annual statement.
Shareholders will be invited to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy in a binding vote and the Annual Report on Remuneration in an advisory vote at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 1 May 2014.
In my 2012 letter I indicated that senior management and the Remuneration Committee the Committee intended to take the opportunity in 2013 to conduct a detailed review of executive and senior management remuneration, in light of both changing legislation and the requirement for a new Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP in 2014.
As a leading global engineering solutions provider, our business is complex and our customers are exposed to a number of end markets.
Our Group strategy targets delivery of sustainable profitable growth which is faster than our end markets and this is supported by our key pillars of Value Chain Excellence, Innovation, Collaboration and Global Capability.
We have a clear understanding of our core values that underpin Group strategy and it was with these in mind that we approached our detailed review of the overall shape of our executive remuneration.
In addition to our extensive internal work, including a full market review with our consultants, we examined emerging best practice and feedback from our shareholders, including from our 2013 AGM.
We undertook a specific consultation on these proposals with our major shareholders and their representative bodies towards the end of the year.
Our proposals represent a simplification of existing arrangements and continue to comprise three elements: base salary, plus benefits in kind: an annual bonus scheme, with cash and shares: and a long term incentive plan, with shares.
Two of the three elements are performance related.
Overview of our revised remuneration plan The Committee adopted a number of key principles against which to evaluate revised proposals, including the following: our remuneration structure should support the Groups strategy and business objectives, drive long term and sustainable value creation, and identify the interests of executives with those of our shareholders: overall value should remain broadly constant: the plan should provide a flexible framework to extend performance related remuneration further down the organisation and cascade to the top 300 executives in the Company: and the plan should be acceptable to our shareholders.
The Committee is mindful of the difficult economic conditions in much of the global economy and the broad range of views on remuneration.
In finalising our proposals, the Committee had regard to both the external environment and the global and complex nature of the business.
The revised remuneration proposals reinforce Weirs overarching strategy of delivering sustainable growth ahead of our markets and becoming our customers partner of choice.
Specific elements also support our key pillars and our key output measures of delivering top quartile margins and increased return on capital.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 85 Directors Report: Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Continued The revised remuneration proposals incorporate a number of significant changes which I have summarised below, with full details in the Directors Remuneration Policy: removal of both the voluntary deferral option on annual bonus and matching awards under the existing LTIP, providing simplification: the addition of a return on capital employed ROCE measure to our LTIP targets, alongside total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS in equal proportions, to enhance the alignment of our LTIP with business strategy.
ROCE is a key internal measure for the Group: the introduction of a formalised and increased shareholding requirement for Executive Directors and the other members of the Group Executive: Executive Directors to hold vested shares for an additional period of two years, to strengthen alignment of senior management and shareholder interests: the overall plan to be cascaded down to the top 300 executives with flexibility below Executive Director level to respond to specific market requirements, providing global consistency with local flexibility: and adoption of changes to the terms and conditions of the proposed new LTIP, to reflect emerging best practice.
The Committee reviewed all other key elements of the current arrangements and agreed to retain these.
The most important included the three year performance period for the LTIP.
The Committee concluded that, given our exposure to a number of different end markets some of which have long cycles and the importance of both the original equipment and aftermarkets to our business, a three year performance period for the LTIP represented an appropriate long term time frame.
The overall impact of the simplification of the new proposals is to increase the potential level of award under the LTIP to compensate for the removal of the voluntary deferral option on annual bonus and matching awards under the existing LTIP.
Towards the end of the year, the Committee considered the appropriate targets for both the 2014 annual bonus scheme and our proposed new LTIP, including the targets for the new ROCE measure.
While in the medium term the Group will benefit from structural growth trends, mixed end market conditions are expected to impact performance in 2014.
Further details of the performance targets are included in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Committee was concerned to ensure that the targets not only support the Groups overarching strategy and high achievement expectations, but are both challenging and realistically achievable.
The Committee is comfortable that the right balance has been struck for each of the targets.
Total compensation opportunity levels for our Chief Executive and Finance Director Under our current arrangements, target total compensation for both our Chief Executive and Finance Director are well below market competitive levels.
The Committee spent some time analysing how this has emerged.
In part it is a result of the Company making no specific pension provision for our Chief Executive and Finance Director.
We are only one of two companies in the FTSE 51 to 100 where such provision is not made.
This is normally taken as a non-bonusable cash in lieu of pension payment of between 25% and 30% of salary per annum.
In the current environment the Committee took the view that it was not appropriate to propose the introduction of such a cash payment.
The proposed increased LTIP goes some way to address this gap.
Unlike a cash payment, this is performance linked and the 2014 award will not vest for three years.
As part of the discussion around pension provision, the Committee also reviewed the Companys plans for auto-enrolment applicable to all UK employees below Board level which will come into full effect during 2014.
The Committee decided that it would be appropriate to extend the same terms to the Executive Directors.
Details are summarised in the policy table.
Our Finance Director, Jon Stanton, was appointed to his role in 2010 and it was his first public company appointment.
As highlighted in previous reports, as his experience and contribution has increased, the Committee has increased his compensation towards market rates.
The Committee believes that it is now appropriate, in addition to the increased LTIP award referred to above, to increase his maximum bonus percentage from 100% to 125% of salary, in line with peers.
The Committee also considered possible base pay increases for the Executive Directors for 2014 in line with our proposed new policy broadly in line with salary increases applied to UK employees.
We were comfortable that the relative performance of the business, the performance of the two individuals, and market data supported such an increase.
However, the Committee concluded that there should be no increase in base pay for 2014 for the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
This takes account of shareholder feedback following our consultation on the terms of our new remuneration proposals and recognises the increase in total compensation levels being proposed for both individuals, which has the full support of the Committee.
86 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 2013 performance and remuneration outcomes During 2013 our key end markets in minerals and oil and gas continued to be challenging.
The senior team provided strong leadership throughout, delivering significant cost and efficiency savings whilst also driving continued focus on talent management in line with strategy.
Whilst the relative performance of the business was strong, the minimum profit target for payment of the profit related element of the annual bonus for 2013 was not achieved as we saw a more gradual recovery in key end markets than had been anticipated when the targets were set.
The Committee reviewed the personal performance criteria for each of the Executive Directors, representing 20% of bonus entitlement.
For 2013, half of the personal element for Executive Directors was linked to a stretching Group working capital target.
Whilst good progress has been made in this area, the Group target was not achieved.
All other personal objectives were achieved in full and the Executive Directors were awarded a bonus of 10 per cent of maximum bonus entitlement.
Our 2011 LTIP performance shares and matching shares will vest in March 2014, based on TSR and EPS performance conditions over the three year period to 31 December 2013.
The overall level of vesting is 42.8 per cent of the awards.
The Group achieved EPS growth during this period of slightly more than 13 per cent per annum, which will lead to vesting of 85.5 per cent of this element.
TSR growth was below median performance relative to peers, resulting in no vesting of this element.
2013 has been a busy year for the Committee.
We are grateful for the extensive work undertaken by the Company and our remuneration advisers and for the support we have received from our major shareholders and their representative bodies.
We are confident that the revised remuneration proposals, together with our policy statement and the decisions taken in respect of 2014 salaries, bonus and LTIP targets increase the alignment of compensation for our senior executives with shareholders interests, provide a sound base for the medium term and, importantly, also represent an overall fair outcome.
Melanie Gee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 February 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 87 Directors Report: Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Directors Remuneration Policy Directors future policy table The policy described in this section will apply from the date of the 2014 AGM, subject to a binding shareholder vote at that meeting, after which the policy section will be displayed in the Remuneration Committee section on the Companys website.
The remuneration policy has been determined through an extensive strategic remuneration review in 2013.
This has involved significant consultation internally and externally with shareholders and shareholder bodies.
The Remuneration Committee considers the remuneration policy for senior executives periodically to ensure that it remains aligned with business needs and is appropriately positioned relative to the market.
In line with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations, there is no current intention to revise the policy more frequently than every three years.
The Groups overarching remuneration policy is designed to ensure that remuneration supports the Groups strategy and business objectives.
The policy and practice have been developed to support the creation of value for shareholders, drive appropriate behaviours and incentivise outperformance, while being clearly linked to both individual and corporate performance.
The Committee is mindful of a broad range of stakeholders in setting this policy and has considered best practice guidelines from shareholders and representative bodies.
As part of this process, the Committee has adopted a set of principles which are used as the basis against which remuneration arrangements have been established.
The Groups remuneration principles are that reward should enable the Group to: attract, motivate and retain senior executives with the necessary abilities to manage and develop the Groups activities successfully for the benefit of shareholders: clearly align remuneration outcomes with the long term interests of the Group and its shareholders: drive appropriate behaviours that are in line with the culture of the Group and focus senior executives on the critical business objectives by rewarding them against challenging performance criteria: and provide a significant part of potential reward through performance based incentive plans.
Future policy table How the element supports our Maximum potential value and Performance metrics used, weighting strategic objectives Operation of the element payment at threshold and time period applicable Base salary The provision of a competitive Reviewed annually with It is expected that salary base salary as part of an overall effect from 1 April.
Set by increases for Executive compensation package enables reference to market practice Directors will be made the Group to attract and retain for a similar role in a peer broadly in line with salary talented leaders.
group of global companies of increases applied to UK a similar size and complexity: employees or the relevant personal performance: the jurisdiction if an Executive wider employee context: and Director is based outside the economic and labour market UK.
apply if there is a change in role or responsibility, the individual is relatively new in role, or there is significant variance to the market.
Any significant salary increases will be appropriately explained.
The maximum salary level for each Executive Director is set by reference to a peer group of FTSE 51-100 companies and appropriate overseas comparators of similar size and complexity.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to change the peer group during the life of this policy.
88 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements How the element supports our Maximum potential value and Performance metrics used, weighting strategic objectives Operation of the element payment at threshold and time period applicable Benefits and pension To provide a market aligned Benefits include, but are not The value of relevant benefits The auto-enrolment provision for benefits package.
limited to: Group health care: will be determined by the Executive Directors is expected car allowance: travel allowance: cost of the provision of to commence in August 2014. and death in service insurance.
As the The Company may also meet cost of providing such certain mobility costs and pay insurance benefits varies additional tax arising due to an according to premium rates international assignment, and and the cost of other benefits may also provide for long term is dependent on market rates disability benefits.
Additional and other factors, there is no benefits may be provided where formal maximum monetary required by legislation or to value.
Car allowance will align the package with market normally be no greater than practice where these are not 20,000 per annum.
Directors As part of the Companys and Officers Liability insurance provision in respect of autowill also be provided.
enrolment, at senior levels The Group makes no specific individuals will be eligible provision for Executive Directors for a contribution into the pensions.
However, the Board pension plan or a cash has considered the implications allowance of 12% of salary of the new UK government per annum.
legislation on auto-enrolment for UK employees and has adopted a policy for all UK employees to be implemented when the auto-enrolment regulations come into force.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 89 Directors Report: Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Continued How the element supports our Maximum potential value and Performance metrics used, weighting strategic objectives Operation of the element payment at threshold and time period applicable Annual bonus see also notes 1 and 3 To reward the achievement of The annual bonus the Executive 150% of salary for Chief The measures, as well as the stretching Group performance for Bonus Scheme is based on Executive 2013: 150%.
weightings within these measures, the current year, supporting our in-year performance against will depend on the strategic focus 125% of salary for other strategy of delivering sustainable financial, personal and strategic of the Company in any given year.
Executive Directors 2013: growth in our key markets.
The financial element of the The annual bonus plan has two annual bonus is based on The achievement of stretch parts a cash element 70% the achievement of a Group targets results in maximum and an element converted Normalised Profits before Tax bonus pay out.
20% of bonus into shares where there is a and Amortisation NPBTA will pay out for performance restriction on sale for three years target measured over the at threshold, with payment 30%.
The size of both elements financial period.
on a straight line basis is determined by performance between threshold and No more than 20% of the annual in the year.
bonus will be based on personal Until the end of 2013, an performance targets.
For 2014, additional 25% of bonus could this weighting is 20%.
have been voluntarily deferred Payouts under the NPBTA into shares for the Chief element may be reduced to the Executive and 20% for the extent that Group working capital Finance Director.
Targets are set at the beginning The Committee has discretion of the performance year which in exceptional circumstances to runs from the start to the end alter the measures and or targets of each financial period.
during the performance period if Any changes to original targets, it believes the original measures measures or payout levels and or targets are no longer will be fully explained in the appropriate.
relevant Annual Report on The Committee also has Remuneration.
discretion in exceptional On change of control, the bonus circumstances to alter the payout payment will be pro-rated levels of an award at the end for time and an assessment of the performance period if it of performance over the believes this will better reflect appropriate period, with the the underlying performance Committee having discretion of the Company but in no to make adjustments to this circumstances will exceed the figure if appropriate.
90 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements How the element supports our Maximum potential value and Performance metrics used, weighting strategic objectives Operation of the element payment at threshold and time period applicable Bonus shares subject to restriction on sale Bonus converted into shares 30% of the annual bonus paid in 30% of any bonus payable The Bonus shares are subject to a with restriction on sale Bonus respect of the performance year is converted into shares.
restriction on sale for three years.
shares, which supplements the is converted into shares with a No performance conditions apply.
long term elements of pay and restriction on sale.
further aligns executives to the Bonus shares are subject to interests of shareholders.
malus and clawback which enables the Company not to release any bonus shares before the end of the restriction period, or to clawback the relevant value after the restriction period has ended for a period of up to three years.
Malus and clawback may be applied in certain circumstances where there is found to be a material misstatement in the audited accounts of the Group or a Group company accounts, where the executives action or conduct amounts to gross misconduct, or where there is a significant detrimental reputational impact on the Company for which the executive is responsible.
Bonus shares subject to a restriction on sale may vest on a change of control and on certain other corporate events in accordance with the rules of the 2014 LTIP.
Until the end of 2013, shares have been deferred under the rules of the Companys existing Long Term Incentive Plan approved by shareholders in 2004 the Companys LTIP and from 2014, shares would be subject to a restriction on sale under the rules of the Companys proposed new LTIP subject to shareholder approval of the plan at the 2014 AGM the 2014 LTIP.
The ability to voluntarily defer additional shares which has been available under the Companys LTIP, is not included in the 2014 LTIP.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 91 Directors Report: Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Continued How the element supports our Maximum potential value and Performance metrics used, weighting strategic objectives Operation of the element payment at threshold and time period applicable Performance shares see also notes 2 and 3 To incentivise executives to Allows for annual grants of Awards may be made to Performance conditions measured achieve sustained growth performance shares.
Awards vest Executive Directors at the over three financial years.
Vested through superior long term after three years, subject to following levels: shares for Executive Directors are performance and create performance conditions.
Vested then subject to a two year holding Chief Executive: 250%.
shares for Executive Directors period.
are then subject to a two year Other Executive The performance share Performance measures and relative holding period.
awards reward executives weightings are: for performance against key Participants are entitled to dividend 300% of salary may be Earnings per share EPS growth measures which are critical equivalents between award and awarded in exceptional 1 3 weighting.
vesting, paid in additional shares circumstances.
at vesting in respect of awards Relative total shareholder return In 2013, the award level for that vest.
all Executive Directors was Malus and clawback arrangements 100% of salary.
TSR relative to comparator operate in respect of performance group of global engineering Until the end of 2013, awards shares.
These enable the Company companies.
were also made of matching to reduce unvested awards and to Threshold vesting at median.
shares equalling two times clawback the relevant value of the Maximum vesting at upper the number of shares vested shares for a period of up to quintile.
voluntarily and compulsorily three years after the date of vesting.
deferred under the annual Improvement in average return Malus and clawback may be bonus.
The shares were on capital employed ROCE applied in certain situations where subject to performance 1 3 weighting.
there is found to be a material conditions.
Matching shares misstatement in the audited For all three measures, 25% of the will not be granted under accounts of the Group or a Group maximum award vests at threshold the Companys proposed company accounts, where the and 100% at maximum, with vesting 2014 LTIP.
executives action or conduct calculated on a straight line basis.
amounts to gross misconduct, The two measures under which or where there is a significant performance was assessed for detrimental reputational impact performance and matching shares on the Company for which the granted until 2013 were relative EPS executive is responsible.
Awards granted under the LTIP The following performance may vest on a change of control conditions apply to outstanding and certain other corporate events, awards made prior to 2014: assessed unless the Committee in its discretion otherwise decides EPS growth TSR against performance conditions p. a.
50% 50% and on a time pro-rated basis weighting weighting in accordance with the rules of 2011 7% 15% Median the plan.
2012 7% 15% to upper Until the end of 2013, performance quintile 2013 5% 11% shares have been granted under the rules of the Companys LTIP In exceptional circumstances, where and are subject to performance the Committee believes that the conditions and from 2014 would be original performance measures and granted under the rules of the targets are no longer appropriate, Companys proposed 2014 LTIP.
it has discretion to substitute or vary these measures and targets.
The Committee will only take such a course of action where it considers it to be in the best interests of the shareholders.
In these exceptional circumstances, the Committee will make full disclosure of the arrangements and their rationale in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
92 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements How the element supports our Maximum potential value and Performance metrics used, weighting strategic objectives Operation of the element payment at threshold and time period applicable Shareholding guidelines To ensure the interests Executive Directors are required The minimum shareholding of the Executive Directors to build up a shareholding in requirement is as follows: remain aligned with those the Company over a five year Chief Executive: 200% of shareholders.
Under the 2014 LTIP, 30% of Other Executive Directors: the annual bonus is converted 150% of base salary.
into shares with a restriction on sale.
The Company requires The restriction on sale and Executive Directors to retain the shareholding requirement 50% of performance shares will take effect from the date received, after the deduction of approval of the Directors of applicable taxes, from the Remuneration Policy.
2014 LTIP and the bonus shares subject to restriction on sale until the requirements are met.
All shares beneficially owned by an executive and shares subject to a restriction on sale count towards achieving these guidelines.
The Committee reviews share ownership levels annually for this group.
The Committee has flexibility in the application of this policy to take into account particular individual circumstances.
Until 2013, Executive Directors were encouraged to build up a shareholding in the Company of 100% base salary over a five year period.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 93 Directors Report: Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Continued How the element supports our Maximum potential value and Performance metrics used, weighting strategic objectives Operation of the element payment at threshold and time period applicable Non-Executive Directors fees To attract and retain experienced Fees will be reviewed annually Increases are effective The fees paid to the Chairman and skilled Non-Executive by reference to companies of in April and any planned and the Non-Executive Directors Directors.
similar size and complexity, increases in fees will take into are not performance related.
economic and labour account general increases market conditions as well across the Group along with as time commitment and market practice.
The maximum fee level for For 2014, the following fees each Non-Executive Director will apply: would be set within the range of fee levels in our peer group Chairmans fee is 275,000 of companies of a similar size per annum for all of his and complexity.
Non-Executive Directors base fee is 55,000 per annum.
In the event that the Company appoints a Deputy Chairman, an additional fee of up to 10,000 per annum may be paid.
Additional fees of 10,000 per annum are paid to the Audit Committee Chairman and the Remuneration Committee Chairman to reflect their extra responsibilities.
As the Chairman also chairs the Nomination Committee, there are currently no additional fees paid for this role.
However, additional fees may be paid in future years in line with the fees for the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Additional fees of 10,000 per annum are paid to the Senior Independent Director.
Additional allowances are made available to Non-Executive Directors, where appropriate, to reflect the additional time commitment in attending intercontinental Board meetings and operational visits.
Notes to the policy table 1.
Annual bonus performance measures and targets The profit performance measure of Normalised Profit before Tax and Amortisation NPBTA was selected by the Company as profitability is central to the Companys overall strategy.
The performance measure is adjusted to exclude items that are one off in nature, subject to Remuneration Committee approval.
The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee.
The performance targets for the NPBTA performance measure are set in the context of consensus forecasts and the internal budget.
The performance required for maximum payout is typically set at a level that is above the level of the Companys forecasts.
If performance is in line with the forecast then typically part of the annual bonus would pay out.
The performance target of NPBTA is adjusted to match the actual foreign exchange rates during the financial period and is also increased or decreased to reflect the impact of any acquisitions or disposals made in the year that are of a size requiring Board approval.
For acquisitions, the target is increased by the expected NPBTA from the acquired business.
For disposals, the target is reduced by the budgeted NPBTA from the business which was disposed of.
94 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Committee is of the view that the performance target for the financial element under the annual bonus is commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose this before the end of the financial year.
Disclosure of the performance target of the financial element in advance could lead the Company to be at a competitive disadvantage as many competitors are not listed in the UK and would not be subject to this requirement.
The Company would be releasing potentially commercially sensitive information which many of the Companys direct competitors in its three end markets would not be required to disclose.
The personal performance measures relate to achievement of personal and strategic goals.
Personal performance measures and targets are set by the Chairman for the Chief Executive and by the Chief Executive for other Executive Directors.
The Committee discusses and approves these targets for Executive Directors in consultation with the Director of Human Resources and they are linked to the Companys annual appraisal process.
The Committee is of the view that the performance targets for the personal element are commercially sensitive as they relate to internal management projects and personal goals.
The performance targets for the financial elements of the bonus and the main groupings of individual performance measures will be retrospectively disclosed after the end of the relevant financial period in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIP performance measures and targets The Committee selected the performance conditions for the LTIP as these are central to the Companys overall strategy and are intended to link reward to long term sustainable growth.
The performance measures are EPS, TSR and ROCE: EPS is adjusted earnings per fully paid ordinary share in the capital of the Company calculated on such basis as the Committee may specify.
In addition, the EPS figure used to calculate the award may be adjusted for changes in accounting standards to ensure a consistent measurement basis across the performance period.
TSR is the increase in the net return index the index that reflects movements in share price over a period and dividend reinvested net of any associated tax credit in shares on the ex-dividend date for a company as calculated by Datastream or such other financial information provider as selected by the Committee over the performance period.
ROCE is defined as earnings before interest and tax divided by capital employed.
Earnings before interest and tax is taken as Group continuing operations after intangibles amortisation but before exceptional items for the relevant financial year.
Capital employed is taken as the average of opening and closing Group net assets excluding net debt cash and pension deficit net of deferred tax asset for the relevant financial year.
To eliminate the impact of movements in foreign exchange rates over the period of the plan, the average foreign exchange rates for the base year are held constant throughout the plan period.
With regard to acquisitions, those acquisitions made in the base year are included, based on a full years ownership, for the purposes of target setting.
Where acquisitions are made in subsequent years of the plan period, these are excluded from the assessment of performance relative to the target.
Where there are disposals during the plan period, the base and target ROCE calculations will be restated to eliminate the contribution from the disposed business in the period of ownership.
EPS, TSR and ROCE targets are set to ensure they are sufficiently stretching but also motivational and consistent with the Companys remuneration strategy.
In setting targets the Committee considers the Companys operating environment, and internal and external growth forecasts.
The performance required for maximum vesting is typically set at a level that is above the level of the Companys forecasts.
If performance is in line with the forecast then typically part of the award would vest.
EPS, TSR and ROCE targets are disclosed prospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant year.
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees The Company seeks to operate a locally driven approach to pay and benefits in all its locations.
Employees in management roles are also eligible to participate in an annual bonus.
The maximum opportunity available in the annual bonus scheme is based on the seniority and responsibility of the role.
The LTIP seeks to encourage a shared focus on our corporate goals within the senior management and executive populations.
Grants under the proposed 2014 LTIP may be made to around 300 of the most senior managers in the Group.
The nature of the award depends on the individuals location and seniority.
When used, the performance conditions will be the same throughout the Group.
In markets other than the UK, LTIP awards may be made in the form of a combination of performance shares and or either restricted shares or share appreciation rights with a corresponding reduction in award level.
The restricted shares or share appreciation rights are subject to a service condition of continued employment within the Group.
Elements of old policy to continue to apply Deferred bonus, matching shares and other LTIP shares from historical awards made prior to the adoption of this policy will continue to pay out in accordance with the respective rules and guidelines for each award.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Committee in respect of each component.
On the appointment of a new Executive Director through an internal promotion, the Company will honour existing remuneration arrangements made prior to and not in contemplation of promotion, and these will continue to pay out in accordance with the respective rules and guidelines for each element of remuneration as originally set, notwithstanding that this may be inconsistent with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 95 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Area Policy and operation Overall The Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of an Executive Director externally is to take account of the individuals remuneration package in their role prior to joining the Weir Group: the market positioning of the remuneration package against the local market: and not to pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment of the individual in question.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted to an Executive Director in order to facilitate their recruitment will be aligned with bonus and LTIP individual limits as a percentage of salary, as set out in the future policy table of the Remuneration Report.
This excludes the value of any replacement awards.
Service contracts To recruit the best executives, the Committee may in the future agree a contractual notice period with the Executive Director which initially exceeds the standard twelve months, particularly if it is necessary to attract executives who will be required to relocate their families.
This will reduce to a 12 month rolling notice period once the individual is 12 months from the end of their initial notice period.
Base salary The salary level will be consistent with those in the Companys peer group, from similar positions, locations and experience consistent with the policy table.
Salary will be set so as not to pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment of the individual in question.
Benefits The Executive Director shall be eligible for benefits in line with the Companys policy for current Executive Directors.
and pension Pensions arrangements for future recruits will be in line with the market practice at that time.
Annual bonus The appointed Executive Director will be eligible to earn a discretionary annual bonus in accordance with the terms of the Companys Executive Bonus Scheme.
30% of any bonus earned will be converted into shares with a restriction on sale in line with the policy table for existing Executive Directors.
The maximum level of opportunity will be consistent with the opportunity levels for Executive Directors as set out in the policy table.
LTIP The Executive Director will be eligible for performance share awards in such amounts as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion, subject to the rules of the 2014 LTIP and subject to the approval of that plan at the 2014 AGM.
Replacement The Committee will consider what replacement awards if any are reasonably necessary to facilitate the recruitment of an awards Executive Director.
This includes an assessment of the awards and any other compensation and benefit items that would be forfeited on leaving their current employer.
The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards such that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will seek to replicate the value, taking into account, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of remuneration foregone and which the Committee will seek to deliver in Company shares.
The Committee will seek to ensure a meaningful proportion of the replacement awards which are not attributable to long term incentives foregone will be delivered in Company shares, released at a later date and subject to continued employment.
If the Executive Directors prior employer pays any portion of the remuneration that was deemed foregone, the replacement payments shall be reduced by an equivalent amount.
Other The Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain mobility or relocation costs, including but not limited to temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the Companys prevailing mobility policy for senior executives.
The Committee may also agree that the Company meets the cost of relevant professional fees.
The Company shall reimburse the Executive Director for all reasonable expenses incurred as part of their recruitment.
Directors and Officers liability insurance will also be provided in line with the policy for Executive Directors.
Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office The Boards policy on Directors service contracts, letters of appointment and termination arrangements is set out below.
This includes a description of any obligation on the Company contained or proposed to be in all Directors service contracts or letters of appointment.
The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Executive Directors service contracts As an overriding principle, it is the Boards policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules.
96 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with its terms, the Committee, when determining what compensation, if any, should properly be paid by the Company to the departing Executive Director, will give full consideration to the obligation of that Executive Director to mitigate any loss which they may suffer as a result of the termination of their contract.
All the Executive Directors who served during the year have service contracts with the Company.
The table below sets out the Companys policy and, except where noted, these terms also apply to existing service contracts.
Contract Executive Director Contract commencement date commencement Keith Cochrane 2 November 2009 date Jon Stanton 19 April 2010 Unexpired term The unexpired term of all Executive Directors service contracts is 12 months.
It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors have rolling service contracts.
Notice period The Executive Directors who served during the year have service contracts with the Company that provide for a minimum period of notice of: 12 months by Keith Cochrane and six months by Jon Stanton.
The Companys policy on the setting of contractual notice periods for Executive Directors is to set a notice period of 12 months for both parties, although the Committee may in the future agree contractual notice periods which initially exceed 12 months in the circumstances described above in the Companys approach to recruitment remuneration.
Contractual payments Policy for future service contracts Executive Directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination by way of payment in lieu of notice PILON at the Companys discretion.
Neither notice nor a PILON will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
Employment contracts may include PILON clauses potentially including up to 12 months base salary and the cash equivalent of 12 months contractual benefits.
There would be no contractual entitlement to receive annual bonus awards in respect of the notice period any award would be at the Committees absolute discretion, performance-related and capped at the contractual target level.
PILONs would be made where circumstances dictate that the Executive Directors services are not required for the full 12 months of their notice period.
Contracts would also allow for phased payments on termination, which allows for further reduction in payments if the individual finds alternative employment outside of the Group during the notice period.
Policy for existing service contracts The employment contracts for Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton were agreed before 27 June 2012 and contain certain provisions which it is not proposed to include in the contracts of future Directors.
The Committee reviewed the provisions in existing contracts and are comfortable that no amendments have been made to the contracts and therefore the grandfathering provisions for contracts in place prior to June 2012 apply.
The Company may make a PILON equal to 12 months salary and the cost to the Company of providing all other benefits for that period, or a sum equivalent to 10% of the individuals annual salary in respect of other benefits.
PILON will exclude pension, bonus and share related incentives.
The Company may make the PILON in instalments, subject to reduction where the individual commences alternative employment.
In addition, the Company may pay a bonus of up to 12 months subject to performance, as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The amount payable would be consistent with any performance determination made for other employees of broadly similar status or seniority.
If the departing Executive Director commences alternative employment, the Committee may reduce that payment to take account of any performance related bonus that the individual receives from the alternative employment for that period.
If the Group terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with its terms, the Company shall make a payment calculated in the same way as if it had made a PILON.
Additional policy for future and existing service contracts In the event of a compromise or settlement agreement, the Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims, e. g. unfair dismissal or where agreed under a compromise or settlement agreement.
This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions.
It may include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of legal fees in connection with such agreements.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 97 Directors Report: Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Annual bonus plan An Executive Director will only be eligible to receive a bonus under the Groups Executive Bonus Scheme if he is an employee of the Group at the time that the Company authorises payment of the bonus although at the discretion of the Committee, a pro-rated payment may be made to an Executive Director who has retired subject to assessment of the bonus targets.
As part of the Groups Executive Bonus Scheme, Executive Directors have been granted awards of shares in respect of the deferred element of the bonus and matching shares under the Companys LTIP, which is governed by the rules of that plan.
The treatment of awards under that plan is described in the section below entitled LTIP.
Additional shares which Executive Directors have voluntarily invested under the Companys LTIP and in respect of which matching shares have been awarded under the Companys LTIP are not subject to forfeiture.
The Company is seeking shareholder approval for a 2014 LTIP under which bonuses converted into shares with a restriction on sale would be awarded.
The treatment of awards under that plan is also described in the section below entitled LTIP.
LTIP Existing performance share awards and matching share awards have been granted under the Companys LTIP.
It is proposed that future awards of performance shares would be granted under the 2014 LTIP to be put to shareholders for approval in 2014.
The treatment of Executive Directors ceasing to be employees of the Group under both the Companys LTIP and the 2014 LTIP depends on whether they leave for a good leaver reason.
Good leaver reasons include retirement, disability, ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy, on the sale of the individuals employing company or business or in other circumstances that the Committee determines.
In these circumstances, unvested performance shares and matching shares granted under the Companys LTIP normally vest on the normal vesting date assessed against any applicable performance conditions over the normal performance period and with the exception of cessation for retirement pro-rated for time, unless the Committee exercises its discretion to allow vesting following termination where performance is measured over a shortened period and time pro-rated, unless the Committee in its discretion decides otherwise.
In the case of performance shares granted under the 2014 LTIP, it is proposed that for awards to the Executive Directors there would be a three year vesting period followed by a two year holding period.
Where an Executive Director ceases to be an employee for a good leaver reason before the end of the three year vesting period, shares would normally be delivered at the end of the holding period, assessed against any applicable performance conditions over the normal three year vesting period and pro-rated for time, unless the Committee in its discretion decides otherwise.
Where an Executive Director ceases to be an employee for any reason after the three year vesting period but before the end of the holding period, the shares which vested at the end of the three year vesting period will be released to him at the end of the holding period.
Performance shares are subject to the operation of malus or clawback.
The Committee may instead exercise its discretion to release shares before the end of the holding period, and if it permits this to take place during the normal vesting period, performance is measured over a shortened period and time pro-rated, unless the Committee in its discretion decides otherwise.
Under both the Companys LTIP and the 2014 LTIP, where an Executive Directors employment is terminated for a reason other than a good leaver reason, his unvested performance shares and matching shares will lapse.
Awards which are already vested as at the date of termination of employment are exercisable for three months following cessation.
On death, the award vests at the date of death and can be exercised for a period of 12 months by the deceaseds estate.
Awards of compulsory investment shares made under the Companys LTIP which were made in connection with the Groups Executive Bonus Scheme may be exercised in full within three months following the relevant Executive Directors termination of employment or, if the Committee considers appropriate, in full during the period of three months of the third anniversary of the date the awards were granted.
In the case of circumstances warranting dismissal for gross misconduct the award shall lapse.
Bonuses converted into shares with a restriction on sale made under the proposed 2014 LTIP which are made in connection with the Groups Executive Bonus Scheme will have the restriction removed on the third anniversary of the date the awards were granted, or if the Committee considers appropriate, following the relevant Executive Directors termination of employment.
Bonuses converted into shares with a restriction on sale will only lapse in the case of circumstances warranting dismissal for gross misconduct.
Awards with a restriction on sale are subject to malus and clawback.
Change in control No Executive Director has provisions in his or her service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company.
98 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment do not contain any contractual entitlement to a termination payment and the Non-Executive Directors can be removed in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The details, including notice periods, contained in the letters of appointment in relation to the Non-Executive Directors who served during the year are set out in the table below.
Directors are required to retire at each Annual General Meeting and seek re-election by shareholders.
With the exception of the Chairman, the Company policy for notice periods for future Non-Executive Directors is for no notice period by the individual and a notice period of six months by the Company.
This is in line with the details in the table for Non-Executive Directors appointed since 2011.
None of the Chairman or the Non-Executive Directors have provisions in their letters of appointment that relate to a change of control of the Company.
Contract Expiry of Notice period Notice period Non-Executive commencement date current term by the individual by the Company Director Charles Berry 1 January 2014 May 2014 6 months 6 months Alan Ferguson 13 December 2011 May 2014 6 months Melanie Gee 4 May 2011 May 2014 6 months Mary Jo Jacobi 1 January 2014 May 2014 6 months Rick Menell 1 April 2009 May 2014 6 months 6 months John Mogford 1 June 2008 May 2014 6 months 6 months Lord Robertson 1 February 2004 May 2014 6 months 6 months 1 Lord Smith 6 February 2002 Note 1.
Lord Smith resigned as a Director on 31 December 2013.
External appointments The Executive Directors are permitted, with Board agreement, to take up one non-executive appointment provided there is no conflict of interest and that the time spent would not impinge on their work for the Group.
It is the Companys policy that remuneration earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual Executive Director.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 99 Directors Report: Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Illustrations of application of remuneration policy 100% 4,000 A key element of the Companys remuneration policy is to provide a significant part of potential reward through performance based incentive plans.
Set out below is the reward mix for both Executive Directors at minimum performance, on-target performance and maximum 80% 3,000 performance as proposed under the future policy table.
The package is broadly structured so that for maximum performance at least 75% 60% of the overall package is delivered through variable pay.
As such, the aggregate level of remuneration received by the Executive Directors 2,000 demonstrates a clear relationship between reward and performance.
40% 1,000 20% Chief Executive Package make up Package Value 000 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum 100% 4,000 Long term incentive Long term incentive Short term incentive Short term incentive 80% 3,000 Fixed element Fixed element 60% 100% 4,000 2,000 40% 80% 3,000 1,000 20% 60% 2,000 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum 40% 1,000 20% Finance Director Package make up Package Value 000 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum 100% 2,500 Long term incentive Long term incentive Short term incentive Short term incentive 80% 2,000 Fixed element Fixed element 60% 1,500 40% 1,000 20% 500 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Notes 1.
The scenarios presented above demonstrate the amount of each remuneration element at minimum, on-target and maximum performance.
Salary is shown based on current salary.
Benefits are shown based on 2013 benefits received as a percentage of 2013 salary as set out in the single total figure table in the 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension is shown based on the employer contribution or cash allowance of 12% of salary.
Bonus is shown based on opportunity levels as set out in the future policy table and includes both bonus paid in cash and bonus converted into shares with a restriction on sale.
Minimum performance assumes no payout of the bonus.
Target performance assumes 60% payout of the bonus.
Maximum performance assumes 100% payout of the bonus.
LTIP is shown based on opportunity levels as set out in the future policy table.
Minimum performance assumes no vesting under the LTIP.
Target performance assumes 60% vesting under the LTIP.
Maximum performance assumes 100% vesting under the LTIP.
The scenarios presented above demonstrate the proportion of maximum remuneration that is represented by each remuneration element at maximum, on-target, and minimum performance.
On-target performance is defined as performance at which 60% of maximum on the short term and long term incentive would be paid.
The level of annual bonus and bonus converted into shares with a restriction on sale reflects performance achieved in the financial period.
The level of 2014 LTIP reflects performance achieved over multiple financial periods.
Stakeholder considerations Material factors taken into account when setting the remuneration policy The Committee is mindful of a broad range of stakeholders in the business and is keen to engage where appropriate on key areas of policy setting and implementation.
The Committee has considered the following in developing the policy for 2014.
Shareholder engagement The Committee is committed to ongoing dialogue with the Companys shareholder base.
This can take a variety of forms, such as: meetings with major shareholders to consider significant potential changes to policy or specific issues of interest to particular shareholder groups: other dialogue to update shareholders and take their feedback on planned refinements to arrangements: and the annual votes on the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
During 2013, the Chair of the Committee met with and wrote to the Companys largest shareholders and their representative bodies, consulting them on the proposed policy and changes to the Executive Directors remuneration to be implemented in 2014.
The Committee has also considered the feedback provided by shareholders, the Association of British Insurers ABI and the Institutional Shareholder Services ISS from the 2013 AGM and reflected this feedback in carrying out the strategic review of remuneration in 2013.
The high level of support as seen by the results of the advisory vote at the 2013 AGM for the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report 97% votes For and the vote for the previous two years 2011: 96% For, 2010: 99% For indicates strong shareholder support for the Directors Remuneration Reports.
100 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements The wider employee context The Committee is kept regularly updated on pay and conditions across the Group, although when setting the Directors remuneration policy, the wider employee group is not consulted.
In determining the adjustments to the Executive Directors and Group Executive salaries, the Committee considers the increases to pay levels across the broader employee population.
Annual Report on Remuneration Implementation of Directors remuneration policy in 2014 In 2014, the Executive Director and Non-Executive Director remuneration policies will be implemented as follows.
Implementation of Executive Directors remuneration policy Fixed elements Base salary The Committee made the following 2014 base salary decisions which are in line with the disclosed policy on page 88 of this report: 2014 salary 2013 salary Percentage change Keith Cochrane 725,000 725,000 0% Jon Stanton 440,000 440,000 0% Salaries are effective from 1 April each year.
The Committee has considered the broader employee context in determining salaries.
In 2014, the increase in base salary for UK employees was an average of 3%.
Fixed elements Retirement and other benefits The implementation of policy in relation to pension and benefits is in line with the disclosed policy on page 89 of this report.
The auto-enrolment provision for Executive Directors is expected to commence in August 2014.
Short term incentives Annual bonus The implementation of policy in relation to annual bonus is in line with the disclosed policy on page 90 of this report.
The annual bonus is based on in-year performance against targets.
The performance measures are: 80% Group Normalised Profits before Tax and Amortisation NPBTA measured over the financial period and 20% personal performance targets.
Payouts under the NPBTA element may be reduced to the extent that Group working capital targets are not achieved.
Targets are approved by the Remuneration Committee prior to the beginning of the performance year.
As set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Company will be disclosing NPBTA targets and the main groupings of individual performance measures retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance targets will not be disclosed prospectively for commercial reasons.
30% of bonus payable will be converted into shares with a restriction on sale under the 2014 LTIP.
There are no performance conditions on the bonus shares.
Long term incentives performance shares The Committee has determined that the following awards be made for 2014 in line with the disclosed policy on page 92 of this report, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM of the 2014 LTIP rules.
Grants will be made within 42 days from the date of shareholder approval of the plan.
Awards vest after three years subject to performance conditions.
Awards for Executive Directors are then subject to a two year holding period.
Face value of award Face value of award at threshold vesting at maximum vesting 1 Award type Basis on which award made % of 2014 salary % of 2014 salary Performance Period Keith Cochrane Performance shares A grant of shares will be made 62.5% 250% 1 Jan 2014 based on policy opportunity levels, 31 Dec 2016 the salary of the individual, and the Jon Stanton Performance shares 50% 200% 1 Jan 2014 share price on the three days prior 31 Dec 2016 to grant.
The performance period for each LTIP award is based on calendar years.
The TSR performance measure is calculated over calendar years.
The EPS and ROCE measures are calculated over the relevant financial periods.
In all cases, awards will only vest subject to the achievement of the performance conditions and if the Committee determines that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of the awards.
Implementation of Non-Executive Directors remuneration policy Annual fees for 2014 The implementation of the Non-Executive Director policy is in line with the disclosed policy on page 94 of this report.
The fees per annum for Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below.
2014 fees 2013 fees Percentage change Chairman 275,000 275,000 0% Non-Executive Directors base fee 55,000 55,000 0% Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 10,000 10,000 0% Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman 10,000 10,000 0% Additional fee for Remuneration Committee Chairman 10,000 10,000 0% Additional fee for Deputy Chairman 10,000 Fees are effective from 1 April each year.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman Details of the remuneration for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 received by the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman who served on the Board during the 2013 financial period are set out in the table below.
The table and accompanying notes are subject to audit.
Benefits to Lord Smith include Group healthcare for 2012 and 2013.
Charles Berry joined the Board as a Director on 1 March 2013.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman from 1 May 2013.
Melanie Gee became Remuneration Committee Chairman on 9 May 2012.
Lord Robertson became Senior Independent Director on 9 May 2012.
Mary Jo Jacobi joined the Board as a Director on 1 January 2014 and did not receive any remuneration during 2013.
102 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors Details of the remuneration for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 received by the Executive Directors who served on the Board during the 2013 financial period are set out in the table below.
The summary table comprises a number of key components which are set out in further detail in the relevant sections that follow.
Fixed elements Short term incentives Long term incentives Pension Total LTIP performance shares and matching Retirement Base salary i Benefits ii Annual bonus iii shares iv Benefits v Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Keith Cochrane 718,750 687,500 21,656 23,001 108,750 568,584 820,417 2,084,470 1,669,573 3,363,555 Jon Stanton 435,000 415,000 18,334 14,466 44,000 227,433 351,267 659,655 848,601 1,316,554 Notes to the single figure of remuneration for Executive Directors table There were no other payments made during 2012 and 2013 and no Executive Director received remuneration for external appointments during 2013. i Base salary Corresponds to the amounts received during the 2013 financial year Salary is paid monthly to Executive Directors.
Salaries were last increased in April 2013 when Keith Cochranes salary was increased from 700,000 to 725,000 and Jon Stantons salary was increased from 420,000 to 440,000. ii Benefits Corresponds to the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the 2013 financial year.
Keith Cochrane Jon Stanton 2013 2013 Life insurance cover 4,143 3,866 Car allowance 17,015 13,970 Group healthcare 498 498 21,656 18,334 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 103 Directors Report: Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Continued iii Short term incentives Corresponds to the total bonus earned under the annual bonus in respect of 2013 performance and includes both the cash element 70% and the bonus to be converted into shares with a restriction on sale 30%.
The 2013 annual bonus was based on achievement of Group Normalised Profits before Tax and Amortisation NPBTA 80% and personal performance targets 20%.
Executive Directors 2013 performance was assessed relative to both the financial targets and other performance considerations further outlined below.
2013 performance measures for Executive Directors 2013 performance Maximum payout required Actual performance achievable as percentage Payout as a percentage Financial KPI NPBTA m m of total bonus opportunity of maximum Based on the achievement of NPBTA targets Threshold 425 418 80% 0% 1 measured over the financial period.
Target 463 Stretch 503 Maximum payout Actual payout achievable as percentage as a percentage of total Individual performance of total bonus opportunity bonus opportunity Individual performance objectives are robustly set and are customised for each individual.
20% Keith Cochrane: 10% All objectives are measurable and are objectively determined.
Individual objectives for 2013 were built around the Companys key performance indicators.
Objectives covered areas such Jon Stanton: 10% as strategic growth of the Company, innovation, working capital, stakeholder engagement and organisational capability.
The performance measure is Normalised Profit before Tax and Amortisation NPBTA as disclosed in the Groups financial reporting for the relevant financial year.
The targets are set before the start of the period and are subsequently adjusted at the end of the period to ensure comparability.
The adjustments are approved by the Remuneration Committee and include restating targets on a constant currency basis and updating the targets to reflect the expected performance of acquisitions and disposals of a size requiring Board approval made in the year.
2013 short term incentive awards Based on the outcome of 2013 performance as outlined above, the Committee approved the following annual bonus awards under the Executive Bonus Scheme to Executive Directors: Percentage 1 Award Percentage of maximum 2 Executive Director of salary opportunity Keith Cochrane 108,750 15% 10% Jon Stanton 44,000 10% 10% Notes 1.
Includes 30% conversion into shares with restriction on sale over three years.
Bonus percentage is based on salary as at 31 December in the relevant financial year.
Bonus to be paid in March 2014. iv Long term incentives The value represents an estimate of the market value of the 2011 performance and matching share awards at year end.
In accordance with the Regulations, the single total remuneration figure for 2013 includes the value of the performance and matching shares made under the 2011 LTIP Award, with a performance period from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013.
These awards are due to vest in March 2014.
The 2013 values will be restated next year once the share price at date of vesting is known.
Prior year calculations are based on the share price at date of vesting.
The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the performance conditions to reflect significant one-off items which occur during the performance period.
104 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements LTIP awards vesting in 2014 The 2011 performance share and matching share awards for Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton will vest on 17 March 2014.
The table below sets out a summary of the performance conditions, performance against these conditions as well as the resulting gross vesting value using the share price over Q4 of 2013 in accordance with the Regulations.
No discretion was exercised in respect of the awards.
Performance metrics, weighting Resulting 2011 performance Performance conditions Maximum number and period and method of vesting share awards and targets set Maximum potential value of shares granted determining performance Keith Cochrane Performance conditions Shares with value of 41,481 Overall level of 409,227 set out on page 107.
Performance period of 50% of award is based on three years ended on EPS growth.
Actual EPS 31 December 2013 with growth was 13.45% p. a. Jon Stanton 25,526 251,824 1 vesting on 17 March resulting in 85.5% vesting.
50% of award is based Resulting on TSR growth.
Actual 2011 matching vesting TSR growth was 38%, share awards corresponding to below Keith Cochrane Performance conditions Shares with value of 41,680 411,190 median performance set out on page 107.
200% of compulsory relative to peers between and voluntary deferred January 2011 and Performance period of annual bonus on the December 2013, resulting three years ended on date of grant, subject to in 0% vesting.
31 December 2013 with continued employment vesting on 17 March and retention of Dividend equivalents 2014. compulsory investment are paid on vested Jon Stanton 10,080 99,443 shares and voluntary shares based on dividend investment shares where payments over the applicable.
Dividend equivalents will be delivered in shares.
The EPS outcome has been adjusted to remove the impact of IAS19R on the 2013 result to ensure a consistent measurement basis across the performance period.
Share price at vesting was estimated as the average of the Companys share price over the last financial quarter of 2013, giving the price 21.97.
The vesting total includes dividend equivalents of 100.8p per share, being the dividends paid between the date of award and the date of vesting.
Of the total vesting value, the value of dividend equivalents for Keith Cochranes awards is 38,440 and for Jon Stantons awards is 16,459.
Note that compulsory and voluntary investment shares will also be released in 2014 to individuals alongside the matching awards.
The number of shares expected to be released in 2014 is 16,847 for Keith Cochrane and 5,040 for Jon Stanton.
The compulsory investment shares also have the right to receive dividend equivalents in the form of shares to the value of 100.8p per share at the date of vesting.
The value of these shares does not form part of the Single Total Figure Table as they have not been subject to performance measures since they were granted.
v Retirement benefits Represents the cash value of the total Company contributions towards retirement benefit provision The Group made no specific provision for Executive Director pensions in 2012 and 2013.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 105 Directors Report: Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Scheme interests awarded during 2013 The following table sets out the interests of the Executive Directors in the Companys share schemes, comprising awards of performance and matching shares and compulsory investment shares under the LTIP, which were awarded during the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014.
The closing market price of the Companys ordinary shares at 3 January 2014 was 21.09 and the range during the year was 18.33 to 24.90.
Face value Face value Share price of award at of award at Type of on date Number threshold maximum interest Date of of award of shares vesting vesting Date of Performance 2013 LTIP awards Award type awarded award pence Basis of award awarded vesting period Keith Cochrane 100% salary plus Performance Nil cost 200% of compulsory 1 Jan 13 and matching options 11 Mar 13 2,474 investment shares 44,313 274,076 1,096,304 11 Mar 16 31 Dec 15 Compulsory Nil cost investment options 11 Mar 13 2,474 30% of bonus 7,090 175,407 175,407 11 Mar 16 Jon Stanton 100% salary plus Performance Nil cost 200% of compulsory 1 Jan 13 and matching options 11 Mar 13 2,474 investment shares 23,960 148,193 592,770 11 Mar 16 31 Dec 15 Compulsory Nil cost investment options 11 Mar 13 2,474 30% of bonus 2,836 70,163 70,163 11 Mar 16 Notes 1.
The figures shown for performance and matching share awards are maximum entitlements and the actual number of shares if any which vest will depend on the performance conditions being achieved as set out on page 107.
No performance and matching shares will vest for below-threshold performance.
The EPS measure is calculated over financial periods.
The face value of the award is based on the share price.
The exercise price for performance and matching shares and for compulsory investment shares is zero.
Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton did not elect to voluntarily defer any additional portion of their bonus in respect of 2012.
No additional shares were granted other than at the date of award set out above.
106 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Performance conditions for the LTIP 2011 2012 2013 TSR Weighting 50% 50% 50% Target structure Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of Relative TSR the TSR portion Relative TSR the TSR portion Relative TSR the TSR portion Growth against of the award Growth against of the award Growth against of the award comparator group that vests comparator group that vests comparator group that vests Maximum performance Upper quintile 100% Upper quintile 100% Upper quintile 100% Threshold performance Median 25% Median 25% Median 25% Below threshold performance Below median 0% Below median 0% Below median 0% 2 2 2 Comparator group AMEC, Cameron, Crane, AMEC, Cameron, Crane, AMEC, Cameron, Crane, Dover, Dresser Rand, FL Dover, Dresser Rand, FL Dover, Dresser Rand, Fenner, FL Smidth, Flowserve, FMC, Smidth, Flowserve, FMC, Smidth, Flowserve, FMC, Forum 4 Halma, IMI, Joy Global, Meggitt, Halma, IMI, Joy Global, Meggitt, Energy, Halma, IMI, Joy Global, Melrose, Metso, Outotec, Rotork, Melrose, Metso, Outotec, Rotork, Meggitt, Melrose, Metso, Outotec, Smiths Group, Spirax Sarco, SPX, Smiths Group, Spirax Sarco, SPX, Rotork, Smiths Group, Spirax Sarco, 3 3 3 Sulzer, Vesuvius, Wood Group Sulzer, Vesuvius, Wood Group SPX, Sulzer, Vesuvius, Wood Group 1 Growth in EPS Weighting 50% 50% 50% Target structure EPS growth Percentage of EPS growth Percentage of EPS growth Percentage of per annum EPS portion per annum EPS portion per annum EPS portion of the award of the award of the award that vests that vests that vests Maximum performance 15% 100% 15% 100% 11% 100% Threshold performance 7% 25% 7% 25% 5% 25% Below threshold Less than Less than Less than performance 7% 0% 7% 0% 5% 0% Performance Single three year performance period Single three year performance period Single three year performance period periods for both elements for both elements for both elements Notes 1.
Adjusted to exclude intangibles, amortisation and exceptional items.
Charter plc was acquired during 2011 and has been replaced by AMEC in the comparator group.
Cookson Group demerged on 1 November 2012, with the new company Alent Plc being separated from the rest of the business, which has been renamed Vesuvius Plc.
Vesuvius Plc will succeed Cookson Group in the comparator group.
Gardner Denver was acquired and delisted in 2013.
It has been removed from the 2011 and 2012 comparator groups and replaced by Forum Energy Technologies in the 2013 comparator group.
Lufkin was acquired during 2013 and has been removed from the 2011, 2012 and 2013 comparator groups.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 107 Directors Report: Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Directors shareholding and share interests The Committee believes that employee share ownership is an important means to support long term commitment to the Company and the alignment of employee interests with those of shareholders.
The interests of the Executive Directors and other senior executives are closely aligned with those of shareholders in this regard through the operation of the Companys LTIP and the conversion into shares with restriction on sale of 30% of the annual bonus award for a period of three years.
These remuneration elements constitute a significant proportion of individual remuneration packages.
Subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, the shareholding guidelines will apply as outlined in the policy table on page 93.
Until then, the current practice of encouraging Executive Directors to build up a shareholding in the Company of 100% of base salary over a five year period will continue to apply.
All shares beneficially owned by an Executive Director count towards achieving these guidelines.
There is no shareholding requirement for Non-Executive Directors.
Current shareholding levels for Directors are set out in the table below.
Summary of awards Summary of total number of interests in shares in the Company and scheme interests as at 3 January 2014 The table and accompanying notes are subject to audit.
Interests in shares Scheme interests in the Company Scheme interests vested and exercised 1 as at 3 January 2014 as at 3 January 2014 in 2013 2010 grant Total Total Total Total performance compulsory performance compulsory Total shares shares and investment shares and investment contributing matching shares matching shares to Proposed shares options shares options shareholding shareholding Total shares options with without options with without guidelines guidelines % of 2013 performance performance performance performance % of 2013 % of 2014 2 Security type Total shares salary conditions conditions conditions conditions salary salary Keith Cochrane Shares 257,788 750% 211,000 35,275 84,838 10,181 750% 200% Jon Stanton Shares 18,975 91% 93,465 14,039 30,204 91% 150% Charles Berry Shares 2,000 Alan Ferguson Shares 2,730 Melanie Gee Shares 2,500 Mary Jo Jacobi Shares Rick Menell Shares 1,000 John Mogford Shares 11,481 Lord Robertson Shares 10,650 Lord Smith Shares 163,400 Notes 1.
On 15 March 2013, the 2010 Award under the LTIP for Keith Cochrane vested in full and on 9 August 2013, the 2010 Award under the LTIP for Jon Stanton vested in full.
As a result they exercised their awards as set out above, selling 44,914 shares and 14,229 shares respectively to pay the relevant tax and national insurance and retaining the balance.
The market price at date of vesting was 2,457p and 2,184p respectively.
Options exercised in 2013 had zero exercise price.
Awards under the LTIP take the form of nil cost options and have no performance retesting facility.
The share awards granted in 2011 onwards have a right to receive dividend equivalents in the form of shares payable at vesting.
No Director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of any significance in relation to the Groups business, in any debenture stocks of the Company, or in the share capital or debenture or loan stocks of any subsidiary.
No shares lapsed or did not vest during the year.
There are no unexercised vested options held by Executive Directors.
All scheme interests outstanding or vesting in the year were share options rather than shares.
Total shares as a percentage of salary is based on salary as of 31 December in the relevant financial year and on the market price of the Companys ordinary shares at the financial period end.
For 2013, the closing market price at 3 January 2014 was 21.09.
There have been no changes to Directors interests between 3 January 2014 and 26 February 2014.
108 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Performance graph and table The graph below shows the total shareholder return TSR for The Weir Group PLC, the FTSE 100 Index and the 2013 LTIP Comparator Group over the five year period ending 31 December 2013.
This is compared with the total vested and received remuneration for the Chief Executive over the same period.
The Company considers that these are the most relevant indices for a comparison of total shareholder return.
2009 remuneration relates to the ten months Mark Selway was Chief Executive until his resignation in November 2009.
2009 remuneration relates to the two months Keith Cochrane was Chief Executive from November 2009.
Total remuneration is calculated on the same basis as the 2013 remuneration summary in the Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors table on page 103.
In particular, this includes the value of performance shares and matching shares that vest following the end of each financial year, including dividends equivalents where appropriate.
For 2013, the value of the share awards is estimated based on the average share price in the last financial quarter.
This will be restated next year once the share price at date of vesting is known.
Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration Excluding long term incentives, the percentage change in remuneration for the Chief Executive between the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 and the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 is detailed below.
The change in remuneration for UK employees for the same period is also provided.
Chief Executive UK Employees percentage percentage change change Salary & fees 4.5% 4.0% Taxable benefits -5.8% -5.7% Bonus -80.9% -79.0% The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 109 Directors Report: Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Continued For the purposes of this section, remuneration has been calculated in accordance with the Regulations which includes salary, fees, taxable benefits including emoluments and certain performance-related pay for the relevant financial year primarily bonuses but excluding long term incentives.
Pension and retirement benefits are not included.
To help minimise distortions in the data, the UK employee remuneration figures have been prepared on the basis of full-time, permanent employees who were employed by Weir companies whose principal reporting currency was pounds Sterling during 2012 and 2013.
Following the sale of Weir LGE in December 2012, the remuneration of these employees has been removed for 2012 for comparative purposes.
The Chief Executives change in base salary reflects planned increases agreed with shareholders as part of a three-year plan.
The UK employee population has been selected as it reflects a broad sample of employees which includes Head Office employees and other individuals located in the same country as the Executive Directors.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the expenditure of the Company on employee remuneration costs in the 2013 financial year and 2012 financial year.
In addition, it details the disbursements from profit made by way of dividend payments during the same periods.
2013 2012 Percentage m m change Profit distributed by way of dividend 82.6 71.7 15.2% Overall spend on pay for employees 602.0 568.4 5.9% Details of the overall spend on pay for employees can be found in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 135.
Employees include Executive Directors but not Non-Executive Directors.
The Company considers employee remuneration costs in the context of the general financial performance and position of the Company, including when determining the salary increase budget, annual bonus funding, long term incentive grant budget, and pension levels.
# Total pension entitlement The Group made no specific provision for Executive Director pensions in 2013.
# Payments to past directors The following payments were made to Alan Mitchelson in 2013 in relation to his outstanding 2010 LTIP Award set out in the Companys 2012 Remuneration Report: 49,581 Performance and Matching Shares from the 2010 LTIP Award, giving a taxable gain on exercise of 1,210,272.21, based on the closing market share price on 14 March 2013 of 24.41.
The award vested on 15 March 2013 with a closing market share price of 24.57.
5,731 Compulsory Investment Shares from the 2010 LTIP Award, giving a taxable gain on exercise of 139,893.71, based on the closing market share price on 14 March 2013 of 24.41.
Further payments are due in 2014 in relation to the 2011 LTIP.
These will be disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Details of Alan Mitchelsons outstanding share awards at the date of his ceasing employment and the 2012 bonus paid in 2013 were disclosed in the Remuneration Report of the 2012 Annual Report.
Lord Smith received a gift from the Company on retirement to the value of 7,058, on which tax and national insurance contributions were also paid.
# Payments for loss of office No payments were made for loss of office during the year.
110 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration Terms of reference To ensure reward arrangements support the Companys philosophy, strategy and culture, the Committee reviews compensation and benefit plans for the Executive Directors, senior leadership, and the broader employee population.
In December 2013, the Committee reviewed its terms of reference.
The annual performance of the Remuneration Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation in December 2013 and it was concluded that the Board and all its Committees were functioning strongly in accordance with good corporate governance.
More details of the Board evaluation can be found on pages 74 and 75.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Remuneration Committee membership and attendance Current members Name Attendance 2 Melanie Gee Chairman Charles Berry 5 of 5 1 Mary Jo Jacobi Melanie Gee 7 of 7 Rick Menell Rick Menell 6 of 7 Lord Robertson Lord Robertson 7 of 7 Remuneration Committee attendees Lord Smith Group Chairman during 2013 Attends by invitation Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation Keith Ruddock Group Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as secretary to the Committee Pauline Lafferty Director of Human Resources Attends by invitation Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP Attends as adviser to the Committee Notes 1.
Mary Jo Jacobi was appointed to the Committee on 21 January 2014.
Charles Berry was appointed to the Committee on 1 March 2013 and resigned from the Committee on 31 December 2013.
There were seven meetings held during the 53 weeks to 3 January 2014, and the attendance of the individual members of the Committee during that period is detailed in the table above.
All members of the Committee are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors and no Director plays a part in the determination of their own remuneration.
Executive Directors and senior management attend committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee.
Remuneration Committee activities in 2013 In 2013, the Committee discussed the key agenda items set out in the following table: Date Agenda items January Approval of Group Executive bonus payments: noting of remuneration of the Group Executive: approval of bonus measures and targets for year: approval of changes to LTIP comparator group: and review of final draft of the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report.
February Noting of bonus payments to be paid to senior executives: approval of LTIP vesting in respect of 2010: approval of participants and performance conditions of the 2013 LTIP award: and finalisation of the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report.
June Consideration of update on the strategic review of remuneration.
July Approval of LTIP grants for new joiners: approval of changes to the LTIP comparator groups: and consideration of the strategic remuneration review proposals for 2014.
September Consideration of updated proposals under the strategic remuneration review and discussion on Remuneration Committee advisor performance.
October Approval of final proposals for 2014 remuneration structure: consideration of interim updates of bonus and LTIP performance: review of internal operating guidelines for incentives: and review of pension proposals under auto-enrolment.
December Consideration of shareholder feedback to strategic remuneration review: approval of proposed 2014 LTIP performance targets and proposed measures and targets for the 2014 annual bonus plan: review of salaries for Executive Directors for 2014 and initial proposals for the wider Group: review of the Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference and review of the 2014 calendar for the Remuneration Committee.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 111 Directors Report: Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Advisors In discharging its responsibilities in 2013, the Committee was materially assisted by the Director of Human Resources and the Company Secretary.
 LLP PwC was appointed following a review of providers by the Committee in 2011 and continued to serve as independent external advisor to the Committee.
Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2013 totalled 108,000.
This included advice on remuneration policy and practice as well as guidance to the Committee on corporate governance trends and best practice.
PwC is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Voluntary Code of Conduct.
The Committee recognises the need to obtain independent advice and given that PwC provides additional services to the Group, the Remuneration Chairman has discussed this with PwC and management.
The Committee is confident that any potential conflicts are managed appropriately by the Company and PwC.
For information, the additional services provided by PwC include advice on pension schemes, taxation, company secretariat services and global mobility services.
PwC also provided internal audit services, advice in relation to working capital management, and provided due diligence and corporate finance advice in relation to acquisitions.
Statement on voting The Company is committed to maintaining an open shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against the Directors Remuneration Report, the Company would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would set out in the following Annual Report actions implemented in response.
At the Companys last Annual General Meeting on 1 May 2013, the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report as contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 was supported as follows: Voting outcome Votes Votes Votes Votes for Percentage against Percentage total withheld 2012 Directors Remuneration Report 133,236,019 96.81% 4,389,417 3.19% 137,625,436 1,645,175 On behalf of the Board of Directors Melanie Gee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 February 2014 112 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
