1 1 O Ov ver erv vi ie ew w 2 2 D Dir ire ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt a t an nd b d bu us sin ine es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w 3 3 G Go ov ver ern nan ance ce 44 F Fi in nan anc ci ial al s st ta at tem emen ent ts s Governance Remuneration report Remuneration report This report including the letter from the Chairman of the The Committee also received advice from an independent law Committee included on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Report and firm, Allen & Overy LLP, who were appointed by the Company, in to be read as part of this Report has been prepared on behalf of respect of share incentive plans.
Allen & Overy LLP provided the the Board by the Remuneration Committee.
In all its activities, Company with other legal services.
Ian Houghton, Company the Committee has adopted the principles of good governance Secretary, also materially assisted the Committee in carrying out relating to directors remuneration as set out in the UK Corporate its duties, except in relation to his own remuneration.
Stephen Governance Code and complies with the Companies Act 2006, the Clarke and previously Kate Swann attends meetings at the Large and MediumSized Companies and Groups Accounts and invitation of the Committee but is not present during discussions Reports Regulations 2008 and the Listing Rules of the Financial in respect of his own pay.
Henry Staunton absents himself from Conduct Authority.
Part A of the report, which is not subject to discussions about his own pay.
audit, sets out the Companys remuneration policy.
Part B, which Remuneration policy has been audited, provides details of the remuneration, pensions The Company has a wellestablished and clear remuneration and share incentives of the directors for the year ended 31 August policy which, in the view of the Committee, has made an 2013.
As stated in the introductory letter from the Chairman of important contribution to the success of the Company over a the Committee, this is the final report under this legislation and sustained period.
This can be summarised as providing at or next years report will be prepared in accordance with its around the median of market levels of fixed pay but with the replacement legislation and having due regard to appropriate opportunity to earn upper quartile levels of pay if the executives guidance from relevant stakeholders.
deliver superior returns for shareholders.
This policy is set out PART A Unaudited information below in a manner which anticipates the new BIS regulations to which next years report will be subject.
During the year the Committee continued to receive advice from FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT, its external independent adviser, which is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to that groups code of conduct.
FIT has no other relationship with the Company.
FIT was appointed by the Committee in 2011 following the establishment of that firm by the Companys previous lead adviser and the Committee is satisfied that it continues to provide objective and independent advice.
FITs fees in respect of the year under review were 62,000 exclusive of VAT.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 31 Governance Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Are competitive and provide a very clear bias to variable pay General policy with suitable performance measures and conditions: Executive remuneration packages are structured so that they: Do not promote unacceptable behaviours or encourage Are aligned to the Groups strategy: unacceptable risk taking: and Are aligned with the interests of shareholders, with a Take into account Groupwide pay and employment conditions.
significant proportion being performancerelated to areas The Committee is responsible for all discretionary and which impact shareholder value: allemployee share arrangements.
Operation and Element and purpose Policy and opportunity performance measures Implementation of policy in year Base salary This is the basic element of pay While base salaries are Base salary is paid monthly The current salary of Stephen and reflects the individuals role reviewed each year, the incash Clarke is 480,000 which is and position within the Group Companys policy is not to less than that of his Base salaries are reviewed with some adjustment to reflect automatically award an predecessor : and the current annually with any changes their capability and contribution inflationary increase salary of Robert Moorhead is normally taking effect 360,000 Base salaries are from1March although the benchmarked against both executive directors salaries No salary increases are FTSE 250 companies and other were increased from 1 May envisaged for the forthcoming leading retailers and, while the 2013 in view of the changes financial year Committee applies judgement intheir roles rather than setting by reference to a fixed percentile position, its general approach is to constrain base salaries to the lower end of an acceptable market range Benefits To provide other benefits valued Provide market competitive Benefits received by executive No changes were made to this by the recipient benefits in kind directors comprise a car element of remuneration allowance, private medical within the year Values are shown in the table insurance and life assurance of Directors remuneration but may fluctuate without the Executives may periodically Committee taking action host or be invited to corporate events.
All such arrangements The Company may periodically are monitored by the Company amend the benefits available to alongside all expense claims staff and the executive and are not regarded as directors would normally be eligible to receive such benefits amended benefits on similar terms to all senior staff Pension To aid retention and remain Provide a competitive All executive directors are No changes were made to competitive within the employer sponsored pension eligible to participate in a these elements of marketplace plan defined contribution pension remuneration within the year plan and or receive a salary Both executive directors supplement in lieu which is receive a total benefit not taken into account as equivalent to 25 per cent of salary for calculation of bonus, salary LTIP CIP or other benefits with a total value of 25 per cent of salary During the financial year ended 31 August 2013 Stephen Clarke received a pension contribution equal to five per cent of his base salary and Robert Moorhead received a pension contribution equal to 10 per cent of his base salary: with the balance being received as a salary supplement WH Smith PLC 32 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 1 O Ov ver erv vi ie ew w 2 2 D Dir ire ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt a t an nd b d bu us sin ine es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w 3 3 G Go ov ver ern nan ance ce 44 F Fi in nan anc ci ial al s st ta at tem emen ent ts s Operation and Element and purpose Policy and opportunity performance measures Implementation of policy in year Annual bonus To motivate employees and The bonus potential is 150 per Bonus levels and the Paid in one tranche incentivise delivery of annual cent of base salary for Stephen appropriateness of The bonus outturn for the performance targets Clarke which will increase to performance measures are 2013 financial year in respect 160 per cent of base salary reviewed annually to ensure of Stephen Clarke and Robert from 1 September 2014 and they continue to support the Moorhead was 513k and 130 per cent of base salary for Companys strategy 432k being 100 per cent of Robert Moorhead with target Bonus is primarily assessed the maximum amount levels at 48 per cent of their against a sliding scale target of available on a prorata basis respective maxima profit before tax but after Clawback provisions apply to interest and is then moderated the annual bonus plan on a downwards only basis by reference to the achievement of personal objectives Long-term incentives To motivate and incentivise The policy is to award The terms of and the Annual LTIP and CIP awards delivery of sustained executive directors with shares performance measures set at the policy level.
Stephen performance over the longterm, with an initial face value equal applicable to the 2012 LTIP and Clarke was granted a topup the Group operates the Long to 200 per cent of base salary the CIP awards are described LTIP award on 18 April 2013 to Term Incentive Plan LTIP and each year under the LTIP on pages 36 to 37 ensure that his combined the CoInvestment Plan CIP award for the financial year In addition, the policy is to give Vesting of new LTIP awards is ended 31 August 2013 equalled executive directors the determined based on the 200 per cent of his new salary opportunity to invest or following three measures: 40 as CEO no equivalent topup deposit shares with a per cent is based on relative CIP award was made maximum value of 50 per cent TSR: 30 per cent is based on of their annual bonus EPS growth and 30 per cent is The Company will honour the opportunity which are matched based on relative dividend vesting of all awards granted on a twotoone basis growth.
The CIP is entirely under previous policies in applying the market normal subject to an EPS growth accordance with the terms of gross: net approach under the measure such awards CIP The Committee approved The LTIP and CIP do not credit these performance metrics as participants with the benefit of they are directly linked to the accrual for dividends paid over objectives set out in the the performance period so, in Groups strategy: there is a that respect, are less generous direct link with shareholder than normal market practice value and there is a clear line of sight for participants Clawback provisions apply to between performance and the LTIP and the CIP reward Shareholding guidelines To encourage share ownership Executive directors are 175 per cent of salary for the Stephen Clarke and Robert by the executive directors and expected to retain at least 50 Group Chief Executive and 150 Moorhead comply with the ensure interests are aligned per cent net of tax of shares per cent of salary for other guidelines which vest under the LTIP CIP executive directors or any other discretionary Once the shareholding longterm incentive guidelines have been met, arrangement that may be individuals are expected to introduced in the future until maintain these levels as a such time as they hold a minimum.
The Committee will specified value of shares review shareholdings annually in the context of this policy.
The Committee will review compliance with the policy as awards approach maturity WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 33 Governance Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Operation and Element and purpose Policy and opportunity performance measures Implementation of policy in year All-employee share plans To encourage share Executive directors are able to Sharesave individuals may ownership by employees, participate in allemployee save up to a maximum of 250 thereby allowing them to share plans on the same terms each month for a fixed period of share in the longterm as other Group employees three years.
At the end of the success of the Group and savings period, individuals may align their interests with use their savings to buy those of the shareholders ordinary shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the market price set at the launch of each scheme Chairman and non-executive director fees The fees paid to the Chairman Fees are paid monthly in cash Current fee levels are 165,000 for and the fees of the other the Chairman of the Board, 40,000 Fee levels for the Chairman and nonexecutive directors aim to for the role of nonexecutive the nonexecutive directors are be competitive with other fully director with additional fees of: i reviewed periodically the last listed companies of equivalent 5,000 payable for the role of SID: such review being in May 2008. size and complexity.
Fee levels and or ii 6,000 payable where an It is proposed to undertake a are periodically reviewed by the individual also chairs the Audit or review of fees in the current Board for nonexecutives and Remuneration Committee financial year the Committee for the Chairman.
In both cases, the Company does not adopt a quantitative approach to pay positioning and exercises judgement as to what it considers to be reasonable in all the circumstances as regards quantum Additional fees are paid to nonexecutive directors who chair a Board Committee and to the Senior Independent Director SID Nonexecutive directors do not participate in incentive arrangements For external and internal appointments, the Committee may Recruitment remuneration policy agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses The Companys recruitment remuneration policy aims to give the and legal fees as it considers to be appropriate.
Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and It is not envisaged that, ignoring any special recruitment promotion of highcalibre executives to strengthen the arrangements which may prove to be necessary, the annual management team and secure the skill sets to deliver the bonus or longterm incentive compensation arrangements will Companys strategic objectives.
operate differently including the maximum award levels than The following represents guidelines considered reasonable by for the predecessor of any newly appointed executive.
the Committee, but they may need to be interpreted flexibly in Where it is necessary to make a recruitmentrelated pay award relation to securing an appropriate candidate whose appointment to an external candidate, the Company will not pay more than would, in the view of the Board, be in the shareholders best the Committee considers to be necessary and will in all cases seek, in the first instance, to deliver any such awards under the interests.
terms of the existing incentive pay structure.
It may, however, The starting point for the Committee will be to look at the be necessary in some cases to make such awards on terms general policy for executive directors as set out above and that are more bespoke than the existing annual and equity structure a package in accordance with that policy.
based pay structures at the Company in order to secure a For external appointments, the Committee may offer additional candidate.
cash sharebased elements when they consider it is in the best All awards for external appointments, whether under the bonus interests of the Company and, therefore, shareholders.
plan, LTIP, CIP or otherwise, will take account of the nature, For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded timehorizons and performance requirements for any in respect of the prior role may either continue on its original remuneration relinquished by the individual when leaving a terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment, as previous employer, and will be appropriately discounted to appropriate.
ensure that the Company does not, in the opinion of the Committee, overpay.
WH Smith PLC 34 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 1 O Ov ver erv vi ie ew w 2 2 D Dir ire ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt a t an nd b d bu us sin ine es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w 3 3 G Go ov ver ern nan ance ce 44 F Fi in nan anc ci ial al s st ta at tem emen ent ts s The elements of any package for a new recruit and the approach Maximum 000s taken by the Committee in relation to setting each element of the Stephen Clarke 586 720 960 720 2,986 package will be consistent with the executive directors remuneration policy described in this report, as modified by the above statement of principles where appropriate.
Robert Moorhead 457 468 720 468 2,113 Potential rewards under various scenarios Fixed Bonus LTIP CIP The potential total rewards available to the executive directors, ignoring any change in share price are set out below.
The table below shows the potential relative value of the remuneration package for executive directors for the financial The assumptions underlying each scenario are: year ending 31 August 2014: Fixed Fixed element Performance-related elements Consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary Annual Longterm Base salary is current salary.
pension bonus incentives Stephen Clarke 20% 24% 56% Benefits measured at benefits figure in the table of Directors Robert Moorhead 22% 22% 56% remuneration on page 39. a U nder the annual bonus plan, Stephen Clarke can earn up to 150 per cent of his base salary Pension measured at employer pension contribution in the and Robert Moorhead can earn up to 130 per cent of his base salary.
Directors pension table on page 39. b The value placed on annual bonus and long-term incentives assumes maximum performance and the latter comprises the value of shares awarded under both the LTIP and Base salary Benefits Pension Total fixed the CIP.
000 000 000 000 Salary and benefits Stephen Clarke 480 88 18 586 Stephen Clarke and Robert Moorheads salaries were increased Robert Moorhead 360 63 34 457 as a result of the management changes which took place during the year.
Stephen Clarkes salary was increased on 1 May 2013 Threshold from 315,000 to 480,000 in recognition of his promotion to Based on what a director would receive if performance was in Group Chief Executive.
Robert Moorheads salary was increased line with plan.
on 1 May 2013 from 318,000 to 360,000 in recognition that his The threshold award opportunity for the CIP is 37.5 per cent of new combined role as Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating base salary for Stephen Clarke and 32.5 per cent of base salary Officer involves significant additional leadership responsibilities for Robert Moorhead.
given the diverse nature of the functions that now report to him which include finance, logistics, supply chain, property, IT, legal The threshold award opportunity for the LTIP is 60 per cent of and Funky Pigeon.
When reviewing salaries, the Committee base salary.
We have assumed that TSR performance and takesinto account a range of factors including the Groups dividend growth are at median.
performance, market conditions, the prevailing market rates for The target level of performance for the annual bonus plan is similar positions in comparable companies, the responsibilities, 48per cent of maximum annual bonus.
individual performance and experience of each executive director and the level of salary increases awarded to employees Threshold 000s throughout the Group.
Executive directors also receive taxable Stephen Clarke 586 346 288 180 1,400 benefits including a car allowance and private medical insurance.
Any payments made to executive directors other than base salary Robert Moorhead 457 225 216 117 1,015 are not pensionable.
The Chairmans annual fee is 165,000.
Fixed Bonus LTIP CIP The fees paid to nonexecutive directors are determined by the Maximum Chairman and the executive members of the Board and are paid The maximum award opportunity for the CIP is 150 per cent of in cash.
The levels are set to take into account the required time base salary for Stephen Clarke and 130 per cent of base salary commitment and the fee payments for nonexecutive directors of for Robert Moorhead.
Nonexecutive directors do not participate in any bonus or share plans.
The current fees comprise: The maximum award opportunity for the LTIP is 200 per cent ofbase salary.
We have assumed that TSR performance and Basic Annual Fee 40,000 dividend growth are at or above the 75th percentile.
Committee Chairman 6,000 The maximum level of performance for the annual bonus plan is 150 per cent of base salary for Stephen Clarke and 130 per Senior Independent Director 5,000 cent of base salary for Robert Moorhead.
This fee is not paid to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 35 Governance Remuneration report Remuneration report continued The performance conditions for awards granted in the financial Annual bonus plan year ended 31 August 2013 were as follows: Under the annual bonus plan, participants can earn a bonus based on the achievement of a profit before tax and after interest a the performance condition applying to 40 per cent of the award target and a personal rating measured against one or more shares is based on the Companys TSR performance against specific financial and or nonfinancial objectives.
Stephen the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index constituents over Clarkes personal rating is based on the achievement of Group the three years ending 31 August 2015 the Performance profit before tax.
The maximum level of bonus paid to a Period and vesting will occur on the following basis: participant in the plan is dependent on the achievement of both TSR performance ranking at end of the the maximum target for the profit target and the highest personal performance period Proportion exercisable performance rating.
Annual performance targets are set by the Below median Zero Committee based on a range of factors, including consensus Median 30% analysts profit forecasts and the Companys own internal budgets.
The Committee sets a threshold payout target and Upper quartile 100% amaximum payout target with straightline vesting between Between median and upper quartile On a straightline basis thetargets.
between 30% and 100% No bonus is paid unless both the threshold profit target and at least an acceptable personal rating are achieved.
For ontarget b the performance condition applying to 30 per cent of the award achievement of the profit target and a good personal rating, an shares is based on growth in the adjusted diluted EPS of the executive would earn approximately 48 per cent of the maximum Company over the performance period and vesting will occur bonus available under the plan.
No changes to the structure of on the following basis: the bonus plan are proposed for the forthcoming financial year.
Annual rate of growth in adjusted diluted For the year under review, Stephen Clarke had the opportunity to EPS of the Company compounded annually over the performance period Proportion exercisable receive an annual bonus up to a maximum of 150 per cent of his Below 7% Zero base salary and Robert Moorhead had the opportunity to receive an annual bonus up to a maximum of 130 per cent of his base 7% 30% salary.
The Companys performance of 108m was in line with the 12% or more 100% maximum target set for financial performance and, therefore, the Between 7% and 12% On a straightline basis Committee approved maximum bonus payments under this between 30% and measure for the financial year ended 31 August 2013.
The overall 100% bonuses earned in the year were 513k in the case of Stephen Clarke and 432k in the case of Robert Moorhead.
For these purposes EPS will be determined by reference to fully diluted EPS before exceptional items and will exclude IAS 19 During the year the bonus plan rules were amended to include pension charges from the calculation, adjusted as considered provision for clawback if the Committee discovers information appropriate by the Committee to ensure consistency.
The which leads it to conclude that any bonus awarded is greater than Committee will adjust the EPS performance target for awards it should have been or if it concludes that circumstances arose granted in November 2012 by excluding the impact of any during the bonus year which would have warranted summary changes in Government tax policy during the performance dismissal of the individual concerned.
period to ensure that the target operates as originally intended: and WH Smith LTIP Under this plan, executive directors and senior executives may be c the performance condition applying to the remaining 30 per awarded each year conditional entitlements to ordinary shares in cent of the award is based on the Companys dividend growth the Company up to a value of 200 per cent of their base salary.
For against the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index the awards granted in the financial year ended 31 August 2013, constituents over the Performance Period and vesting will the Committee adopted a combination of financial and market occur on the following basis: based measures as the basis for the performance targets in Dividend growth ranking at end of the order to reward longterm sustained performance.
It believes performance period Proportion exercisable that this combination of targets is best suited to the needs of the Below median Zero Company and its shareholders.
Median 30% Upper quartile 100% Between median and upper quartile On a straightline basis between 30% and 100% WH Smith PLC 36 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 1 O Ov ver erv vi ie ew w 2 2 D Dir ire ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt a t an nd b d bu us sin ine es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w 3 3 G Go ov ver ern nan ance ce 44 F Fi in nan anc ci ial al s st ta at tem emen ent ts s For these purposes the percentage increase in the Companys The performance conditions for awards granted in the financial dividends in pence paid in respect of the base year i. e. the year ended 31 August 2013 require the Companys EPS financial year ended 31 August 2012 so the interim dividend determined in the same way as for the LTIP to increase over the paid on 8 July 2012 together with the final dividend declared on three financial years commencing on 1 September 2012 as 11 October 2012 and paid on 31 January 2013 of 26.9p in total follows: will be compared with the equivalent dividends paid in respect Annual rate of growth in adjusted diluted of the financial year ending 31 August 2015 and the percentage EPS of the Company compounded annually increase compared and ranked with dividends paid by the same over the performance period Proportion exercisable companies in the TSR comparator group using as a base year Below 7% Zero the financial year last ended on or before 31 August 2012 7% 25% except that any company which paid no dividend in respect of 12% or more 100% the base year will be excluded and companies within the FTSE Between 7% and 12% On a straightline basis AllShare Food and Drugs retailers will be added to replace between 25% and them.
The Committee has discretion to assess whether a 100% companys dividend is paid otherwise than out of operating profits or otherwise than supported by its normal levels of The CIP rules have been amended to include provision for cover and therefore should be excluded and will report any clawback of the value of vested awards if, following vesting, the such adjustments in subsequent remuneration reports.
Committee discovers information which leads it to conclude that an award vested to a greater extent than it should have, or if it It is envisaged that the 2013 awards which are likely to be made in concludes that circumstances arose during the vesting period October 2013 will be made on a similar basis and with the same which would have warranted summary dismissal of the individual target ranges except that, consistent with market practice and in concerned.
line with some comments received through our engagement with shareholders, the 2013 awards and going forward will simply Again, it is envisaged that the 2013 awards which are likely to be use the reported tax position for the EPS condition without made in October 2013 will be made on a similar basis and with the adjustment.
same target range except for conforming to the market norm in assessing the tax position within the EPS calculation.
FIT independently carries out the relevant TSR and dividend growth calculations for the Company.
WH Smith Sharesave Scheme The Company operates a SaveAsYouEarn share option scheme The LTIP rules have been amended to include provision for the Sharesave Scheme.
The Sharesave Scheme is open to all clawback of the value of vested awards if following vesting the UK employees who have completed one years service and who Committee discovers information which leads itto conclude that enter into an approved savings contract for a fixed threeyear any award vested to a greater extent than it should have done or if term.
The maximum amount which can be saved is 250 per it concludes that circumstances arose during the vesting period month.
The total savings at the end of the term can be used to which would have warranted summary dismissal of the individual purchase shares at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the market concerned.
value of the shares in the Company at the beginning of the term.
WH Smith 2012 Co-Investment Plan CIP There are no performance conditions applicable to options This plan was introduced to replace the previous coinvestment granted under the Sharesave Scheme as they are not permitted plan, the Management Investment Plan under which no new under the relevant legislation.
To receive an award under the CIP, an Personal shareholdings executive must purchase shares or designate shares from Under the Companys formal share ownership requirements, existing holdings of such value as the Committee determines, not Stephen Clarke is required to build and maintain a shareholding exceeding the aftertax equivalent of 50 per cent of the executives in the Company with a value of at least 175 per cent of his base maximum bonus potential.
Matching awards are then made, the salary and Robert Moorhead is required to build and maintain a vesting of which is contingent both on continued employment shareholding in the Company with a value of at least 150 per cent subject to the usual good leaver provisions and suitable of his base salary.
The share ownership requirements require performance conditions.
The maximum number of shares over executives to retain 50 per cent net of tax of any shares acquired which matching awards may be granted is that number with a under any incentive plans until such time as this requirement is value equal to two times the gross amount of the bonus that was met.
The directors have met their required holding given that as used to purchase the related investment shares.
at 31 August 2013, Stephen Clarke held 169,731 shares with a The maximum matching award which Stephen Clarke may value of 1,438,470 and Robert Moorhead held 500,391 shares receive following the announcement of the Companys results in with a value of 4,240,814.
October 2013 will be 150 per cent of his base salary and the maximum matching award which Robert Moorhead may receive will be 130 per cent of his base salary.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 37 Governance Remuneration report Remuneration report continued a The graph illustrates the TSR performance on a cumulative Contracts of service basis with dividends reinvested as at the end of each of the The contract dates and notice periods for each executive director last five financial years compared with the FTSE All Share are as follows: General Retailers Index over the same period.
Date of Notice period Notice period contract by Company by director b WH Smith PLC is a member of the FTSE All Share General Stephen Clarke 18 April 2012 12 months 12 months Retailers Index and, as such, this sector was considered to be Robert Moorhead 1 December 12 months 9 months the most appropriate comparator group upon which a broad 2008 equity market index is calculated.
Stephen Clarkes service contract provides for notice of 12 Relative spend on pay months from either party, permits summary dismissal with no The graph below shows the total cost of remuneration in the compensation in appropriate cases, has no special provisions in Group as well as dividends share buybacks made during the the event of a change of control and limits the maximum sum due financial year ended 31 August 2013. on termination to base salary only for the notice period.
Robert 200 Moorheads service contract provides for notice of 12 months 191 from the Company and nine months notice from Robert 186 Moorhead.
In the event of a change of control of the Company 150 there is a provision in Robert Moorheads contract which provides for a payment of liquidated damages of 95 per cent of salary and benefits if the contract is terminated in breach of the notice 100 period.
Robert Moorhead has agreed to align the terms of his service contract to Stephen Clarkes from 1 September 2014 84 81 except that notice from him will remain at nine months.
50 In other circumstances, any question of compensation will be decided on at the appropriate time rather than in advance so that 2012 2013 2012 2013 the principle of mitigation is properly applied in the particular circumstances.
Dividends share buyback m Total cost of remuneration m The Chairman, who has a letter of appointment, is appointed for WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust an initial term of three years.
His appointment may be terminated The WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust the Trust is used to at any time by either the Company or the Chairman without facilitate the acquisition of ordinary shares in the Company to notice.
satisfy awards granted under the Companys share plans.
The The nonexecutive directors, who have letters of appointment, are Trust is a discretionary trust, the sole beneficiaries being appointed for an initial term of three years.
These appointments employees including executive directors and former employees can be terminated by either the Company or the nonexecutive of the Group and their close relations.
The Trustee is director without notice.
Limited, an independent professional trustee company based in Jersey.
The Company Under the Companys Articles of Association, all directors are intends to use the ordinary shares in the Trust to satisfy all required to retire and submit themselves for reelection every outstanding awards and options made under the Companys three years.
However, in accordance with the Code, the Board has share plans.
agreed that all directors will stand for election or reelection at the AGM to be held on 22 January 2014.
Following share purchases of 349,947 shares in the financial year ended 31 August 2013, the number of WH Smith shares held in Assessing pay and performance the Trust at 31 August 2013 was 4,532,695.
The Groups Total Shareholder Return performance since 31 August 2008 accounting policy with respect to the Trust is detailed within Note 1 of the Accounts and movements are detailed in the Group 300 statement of changes in equity on page 48.
250 Dilution limits Awards of longterm share incentives are satisfied using market 200 purchase shares.
WH Smiths share plans comply with 150 recommended guidelines on dilution limits, and the Company has always operated within these limits.
100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Accounting year end WH Smith PLC FTSE All Share General Retailers Index WH Smith PLC 38 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 1 O Ov ver erv vi ie ew w 2 2 D Dir ire ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt a t an nd b d bu us sin ine es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w 3 3 G Go ov ver ern nan ance ce 44 F Fi in nan anc ci ial al s st ta at tem emen ent ts s Pensions For the year under review, the Company operated a defined contribution pension scheme, the WH Smith Retirement Savings Plan.
Under this scheme an executive director may contribute up to an amount equivalent to five per cent of base salary which amount is then matched by the Company.
In addition, a pension supplement is also payable which may be taken as an additional pension contribution or as an addition to basic pay.
For the financial year ended 31 August 2013 the total contribution to the pension scheme for Stephen Clarke was five per cent of salary and for Robert Moorhead it was 10 per cent of salary while the supplements were 20 per cent and 15 per cent of salary respectively.
External appointments Each executive director may accept up to two nonexecutive directorships provided they are not both appointments to companies in the FTSE 100 or are chairmanships of a FTSE 250 company.
Nonexecutive directorships must not conflict with the interests of the Company.
Executive directors may retain fees from one of their external directorships.
Neither of the executive directors hold any external appointments.
PART B Audited information Directors remuneration The remuneration of the directors for the financial year ended 31 August 2013 was as follows: Benefits, pension Annual supplement Year to performance and other 31 August Salary fees bonus payments Total 2012 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Walker Boyd 165 165 165 Stephen Clarke 370 513 88 971 200 Robert Moorhead 332 432 63 827 778 Suzanne Baxter 27 27 Annemarie Durbin 30 30 Drummond Hall 46 46 46 Henry Staunton 45 45 41 Directors who resigned during the year Mike Ellis 18 18 46 Kate Swann 437 871 163 1,471 1,756 Former directors 39 Total 000s 1,470 1,816 314 3,600 3,071 a Walker Boyd resigned as a director of the Company on 31 August 2013. b Stephen Clarkes salary increased to 480,000 per annum on 1 May 2013. c Robert Moorheads salary increased to 360,000 per annum on 1 May 2013. d Suzanne Baxter was appointed as a director of the Company on 4 February 2013. e Annemarie Durbin was appointed as a director of the Company on 3 December 2012. f Mike Ellis resigned as a director of the Company on 23 January 2013. g Kate Swann resigned as a director leaving the Company on 30 June 2013.
She did not receive any payments in lieu of notice but was eligible to receive her normal time pro-rated bonus and was treated as a good leaver under the MIP and LTIP with the normal rules for pro-rating applying and remaining subject to the performance conditions applicable to all other participants.
h Benefits, pension supplement and other payments relate mainly to the provision of a company car, private medical insurance and any salary supplement paid in respect of pension entitlement.
Directors pensions The executive directors were members of the Companys defined contribution scheme during the year ended 31 August 2013: Employee contribution Employer contribution % of salary 000s % of salary 000s Stephen Clarke 5 18 5 18 Robert Moorhead 5 16 10 34 a Executive directors receive a pension supplement which may be taken as an additional pension contribution or as an addition to base salary.
If this payment is taken as an addition to base salary, it is included in the table of Directors remuneration under the heading Benefits, pension supplement and other payments.
If so taken, it does not impact base salary for insurance or variable pay purposes.
b Kate Swann did not make any contributions into the Companys defined contribution scheme as she has fixed protection.
c The dependants of executive directors are eligible for payment of a lump sum in the event of death-in-service equivalent to four times salary.
b The Company achieved 90 per cent of its performance targets for awards granted on 5 November 2009 under the LTIP.
c In respect of the award granted on 5 November 2009 under the LTIP held by Stephen Clarke, 54,285 shares vested and 6,032 shares lapsed.
The value of the 54,285 shares on the date ofvesting was 395,877.60 729.2578p per ordinary share.
d In respect of the award granted on 5 November 2009 under the LTIP held by Robert Moorhead, 95,000 shares vested and 10,555 shares lapsed.
The value of the 95,000 shares on the date ofvesting was 586,568.57 617.4406p per ordinary share.
e In respect of the award granted on 5 November 2009 under the LTIP held by Kate Swann, 189,999 shares vested and 21,111 shares lapsed.
f Kate Swann resigned as a director of the Company on 30 June 2013.
Her MIP and LTIP awards were reduced on a pro-rata basis to reflect the time elapsed from the commencement of the performance period until her ceasing to be an employee of the Company.
g No price is payable on either the grant or exercise of any award.
h No awards have been granted to directors or have vested between 1 September 2013 and 10 October 2013.
WH Smith PLC 40 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 1 O Ov ver erv vi ie ew w 2 2 D Dir ire ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt a t an nd b d bu us sin ine es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w 3 3 G Go ov ver ern nan ance ce 44 F Fi in nan anc ci ial al s st ta at tem emen ent ts s i Matching awards under the 2008 MIP will only vest to the extent that the following performance targets are met: i Eighty per cent of the matching award is dependent on the satisfaction of an adjusted fully diluted growth in EPS target which is measured over the three years ended 31 August 2013.
Threshold performance, which results in the vesting of 30 per cent of the shares subject to the EPS growth target, requires EPS growth at a compound rate equal to seven per cent per annum.
Maximum performance, which results in the vesting of 100 per cent of the shares subject to the EPS growth target, requires EPS growth at a compound rate equal to or above twelveper cent per annum: and ii The remaining 20 per cent of the matching award is dependent on the satisfaction of a TSR target which compares the TSR on an investment in the Companys ordinary shares with the TSRon a notional investment in the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index constituents over the period between 14 October 2010 and the announcement of the Companys results on 10October 2013 for the year ended 31 August 2013.
Threshold performance, which results in the vesting of 30 per cent of the shares subject to the TSR target, requires that the Companys TSR is at the median position relative to the comparator group.
Maximum performance, which results in the vesting of 100 per cent of the shares subject to the TSR target, requires the Companys TSR tobe at or above the 75th percentile of the comparator group.
For performance between the threshold and maximum performance levels a matching award will vest on a straight-line basis.
The performance conditions are tested separately.
The EPS performance target was met with 100 per cent of the award dependent on the satisfaction of the EPS performance target vesting.
The end of the TSR Performance Period is one month after the date of the announcement of the Companys results on 10 October 2013.
The Remuneration Committee must also be satisfied that there has been an improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance in determining whether any payment should be made in respect of the satisfaction of the TSR performance condition.
The Committee adjusted the EPS performance target by excluding the benefit of any changes in Government tax policy since the commencement of the performance period.
The Committee ensured that the performance targets were no less challenging to achieve than originally intended.
j The awards granted in the financial year ended 31 August 2013 under the LTIP will only vest to the extent that the performance targets as set out on pages 36 and 37 are satisfied.
Previousawards only vest as follows: The performance conditions for awards granted in the financial year ended 31 August 2012 were as follows: i the performance condition applying to 60 per cent of the award shares is based on growth in the adjusted diluted EPS of the Company over the three years ending 31 August 2014 thePerformance Period and vesting will occur on the following basis: Annual rate of growth in adjusted diluted EPS of the Company compoundedannually overthe performance period Proportion exercisable Below 5% Zero 5% 30% 10% or more 100% Between 5% and 10% On a straight-line basis between 30% and 100% ii the performance condition applying to the remaining 40 per cent of the award shares is based on the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index constituents over the Performance Period and vesting will occur on the following basis: TSR performance ranking at end of the performance period Proportion exercisable Below median Zero Median 30% Upper quartile 100% Between median and upper quartile On a straight-line basis between 30% and 100% The performance conditions for awards granted in the financial year ended 31 August 2011 are the same as those performance conditions for awards granted in the financial year ended 31August 2012.
The performance conditions for awards granted in the financial year ended 31 August 2011 were substantially met with 90 per cent of the shares subject to the awards vesting and the remainder lapsing.
The Committee adjusted the EPS performance target by excluding the benefit of changes in Government tax policy during the performance period.
The Committee confirmed it was satisfied that the Companys TSR was reflective of its underlying financial performance and that nothing occurred to negatively impact the performance achieved during theperformance period.
The Committee, therefore, ensured that the performance targets were no less challenging to achieve than originally intended.
k Matching awards under the CIP will only vest to the extent that the performance targets as set out on page 37 are satisfied.
Share option schemes Details of the options to acquire ordinary shares of the Company granted to executive directors are as follows: Shares Shares Shares subject to subject to Shares subject to options options Shares subject to options which were which subject to options at granted exercised lapsed options at Date of 31 August during the during the during the 31 August Option price grant 2012 year year year 2013 pence Exercise period Robert Moorhead SAYE 02.06.10 2,266 2,266 400.40 01.08.13 31.01.14 Total 2,266 2,266 a The middle market price of an ordinary share at the close of business on 31 August 2013 was 847.50p 31 August 2012: 600.50p.
b The high and low middle market prices of an ordinary share during the year were 850.50p and 598.50p respectively.
c In respect of the option granted on 2 June 2010 under the Sharesave Scheme held by Robert Moorhead, the value of the 2,266 Company shares on the date of exercise was 17,663.47 779.50pper ordinary share.
d No options have been granted to or exercised by directors between 1 September 2013 and 10 October 2013.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 41 Governance Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Directors interests in shares The beneficial interests of the directors and their immediate families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below: 31 August 2012 or date of 31 August 2013 appointment Suzanne Baxter Stephen Clarke 169,731 140,974 Annemarie Durbin Drummond Hall 10,000 10,000 Robert Moorhead 500,391 498,125 Henry Staunton 10,000 10,000 a Suzanne Baxter was appointed as a director of the Company on 4 February 2013. b Annemarie Durbin was appointed as a director of the Company on 3 December 2012.
There has been no change in the directors interests shown above between 1 September 2013 and 10 October 2013.
Shareholder approval A resolution to approve the Remuneration report is being proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Drummond Hall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10 October 2013 WH Smith PLC 42 Annual report and accounts 2013
