76 Governance Remuneration Report Letter from the Remuneration Committee chairman Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees annual report on directors remuneration.
I have now completed my first full year as chairman of the Committee and I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for their support during the year.
We remain mindful of the continued attention the subject of executive remuneration is receiving and have continued to balance carefully shareholder requirements with appropriate incentivisation and motivation of executive management.
Reviewing the performance of the past year, the Group has delivered another year of good results in worldwide markets that continue to be challenging.
In particular, it is pleasing to see the increase in our underlying profit before tax on revenue that was broadly the same as last year.
Our success over the last 75 years has been due to the expertise, hard work, dedication and quality of our people and appropriate remuneration plays a key role in ensuring we are able to recruit and retain these individuals at all levels of the organisation.
The Committee concluded a comprehensive review of remuneration during the year and implemented a new framework that sought to: improve strategic alignment provide the right balance between short and long term incentives align senior management remuneration with that of the executive directors recognise that we operate a people business, where reward and incentive structure is critical to our success achieve this whilst not increasing quantum for executive directors.
During the consultation exercise we undertook with shareholders following this review, we identified the pertinence of incorporating a cash flow measure into the annual bonus scheme, as this is a key indicator by which the Company and its shareholders measure the performance of the business.
We have worked on this proposal over the last year and I am pleased to report that a cash conversion target has been included in the annual bonus for the executive directors and other senior management for 2013 14.
Further details are available in this report page 83 but, in summary, 25% of executive directors bonuses in 2013 14 will be based on the cash conversion measure.
The changes to the remuneration framework were explained in detail in last years report and so are not covered in the same level of detail this year.
Instead, the report this year focuses on the implementation of the framework and how this achieves the stated objectives.
In June 2012 the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills BIS published draft remuneration reporting regulations the Directors Remuneration Regulations.
Consultation on the Directors Remuneration Regulations has continued throughout the year and a further draft was published in March 2013.
The Committee had already taken significant steps last year to increase the transparency of its reporting, including: the disclosure of a single figure for executive director remuneration: and an illustration of the value of executive director packages under different performance scenarios.
The Committee continues to keep the disclosures required under the Directors Remuneration Regulations under review and has taken the decision this year to enhance disclosures in line with the anticipated content of the Directors Remuneration Regulations where considered appropriate and helpful to shareholders in understanding our remuneration structure.
In line with current requirements, we will put the remuneration report to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming annual general meeting AGM.
Last year, we achieved a vote of 97.03% in favour of the report, 2.97% against and 3,331,060 abstentions.
I very much hope you will show the same support for this years report.
Dr Raj Rajagopal Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 12 June 2013 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 77 View the Remuneration Committees terms of reference at www.
com investors tor The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Board.
Its terms of reference are available on the Companys website: www.
com or on request from the company secretary.
The Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration policy and structure for the Companys chairman and executive directors.
The Committee also has oversight of remuneration practice across the Group, including the senior leadership team.
Committee membership The independent non-executive directors who served on the Committee during the year are shown in table 1.
Table 1: Members of the Committee during the year Member From To Admiral the Lord Boyce 5 May 2004 To date Fiona Clutterbuck 15 June 2009 To date Raj Rajagopal 1 March 2009 To date Rodney Slater 9 September 2011 To date The Committee met six times during the year 2012: nine.
Details of the attendance of members at meetings can be found in the Corporate Governance Report page 67.
The diversity of thought and perspective represented by members of the Committee, drawing on insights into both the public and the private sectors, is particularly valued by the Board.
Committee meetings are attended by the Group HR director, Alun Griffiths.
The chairman of the Board and the chief executive officer also attend meetings at the discretion of the Committee chairman.
The company secretary or deputy company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
No director or other attendee, including the company secretary, participates in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Advisors to the Committee Last year, the Committee appointed Deloitte LLP Deloitte as the provider of advice on remuneration policy and structure, replacing New Bridge Street Consultants NBSC.
Deloitte subsequently supported the executive remuneration review that developed the remuneration framework implemented with effect from the start of the current financial year.
During the year, the Committee received independent advice from Deloitte on remuneration policy and structure.
Deloitte also monitored the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance.
Deloitte did not provide any other material services to the Group.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group the RCG, which was formed in 2009 with the aim of the stewardship and development of a voluntary code of conduct the RCG Code of Conduct that clearly sets out the role of executive remuneration consultants and the professional standards by which they advise their clients, whether their clients be remuneration committees or executive management.
Deloitte adheres to the RCG Code of Conduct and, as a member of the RCG, contributes to its periodic review.
Tapestry LLP Tapestry provided legal advice with respect to share plans.
It did not provide any other material services to the Group.
The Committee also consulted the chairman of the Board, the chief executive officer, the Group HR director and the company secretary regarding remuneration policy.
Committee activities In addition to considering remuneration matters as they arise, such as the new Directors Remuneration Regulations currently being developed by BIS, the Committee uses a schedule of standing agenda items to help structure the agendas for its meetings.
This schedule is aligned to the reward communication programme for all employees within the Group, which is in turn aligned with the Companys financial year.
It commences in April with the confirmation to employees of their remuneration for the year ahead.
This is followed by notification of their bonuses for the prior financial year after the announcement of the Groups preliminary results for that year in June.
Remuneration policy and market practice are kept under review throughout the year.
The key matters discussed during the year included: WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 78 Governance Further information Remuneration Report on strategy is given continued in Our Strategy Our Strategy.
Pages 10 to 13 Theme Agenda items Best practice Consideration of latest remuneration best practice guidance Review of the performance of the remuneration advisor Remuneration Conclusion of first principles review of executive remuneration including link to strategy, objectives of the review long term incentive, short term and long term incentive structure, performance measures and time horizons Development of revised remuneration framework based on first principles review of executive remuneration Shareholder consultation in connection with first principles review of executive remuneration Directors Consideration and approval of bonus scheme payments to the executive directors for 2011 12 and company Consideration of executive directors salaries secretarys Consideration and approval of bonus scheme payment to the former chief executive as disclosed in last remuneration years report Approval of the personal key performance targets for executive directors in connection with their bonuses for 2012 13 and 2013 14 Interim review of executive directors performance against personal key performance targets for 2012 13 Consideration and approval of remuneration, bonus principles and quantum for the executive directors and company secretary for 2013 14 Approval of the chairmans fee for 2013 14 Employee Reward policy for the Group remuneration Review of bonus scheme payments to the senior leadership team in light of wider remuneration of Group including senior staff for 2012 13 management Review of proposed remuneration and bonus opportunity for the senior leadership team for 2013 14 in light of remuneration and bonus opportunities throughout the Group and within its businesses and regions Share plans Consideration and approval of performance condition outturn in respect of LTIP awards made during 2009 Review of share plan hedging arrangements and dilution Consideration and approval of LTIP and DSP awards Performance monitoring of LTIP awards Approval of all employee share plans Approval of new LTIP and LGU plan Approval of non-material share plan rule changes Approval of share plan policy Approval of share awards to be granted to the executive directors and senior leadership team under the new LTIP and LGU Reporting Consideration and approval of the remuneration report for 2011 12 Remuneration policy and structure Alignment with our strategy The remuneration framework was comprehensively reviewed in the previous financial year and a revised framework was implemented with effect from the current financial year.
The principal aim of the review was to improve the alignment of remuneration with strategy.
Our strategic direction continues to be to deliver long term shareholder value through a focus on core growth sectors in engineering and design.
As set out in Our Strategy pages 10 to 13, this strategy has three principal priorities over the medium term: operational excellence portfolio optimisation sector and regional focus.
The overall objective of our strategy remains to create shareholder value through: driving margins above 8% reducing dependence on the UK with our long term aspiration being to have more than 75% of our business outside the UK growing organically and through acquisition.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 79 The following key themes provide the basis for the framework: as a people business, the remuneration framework must retain and incentivise the right people the framework must be based on simple principles, aligned with our key performance indicators page 15, and provide clear line of sight for participants and alignment with shareholders interests a significant portion of the package should be performance related on both a short and long term basis and delivered in the form of Atkins shares growth in earnings per share EPS is a key metric for measuring the performance of our business and should be balanced with a focus on long term share price growth and performance against strategic objectives.
Figures 1 a, 1 b and 1 c illustrate the key elements of fixed and variable remuneration, provide an analysis of the remuneration package, and show indicative timelines for executive director remuneration under the framework.
Figure 1 a : Key remuneration elements for executive directors Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Market competitive fixed Short term Long term remuneration to attract Executive Bonus Scheme LTIP 3 years LGU 4-6 years talent and reflect skills and experience To incentivise and reward Our primary long term To provide direct alignment the delivery of stretching incentive is designed to with shareholders through annual financial performance incentivise and reward the sustained share price growth and key strategic objectives creation of long term over the long term shareholder value based on the delivery of growth in EPS over a three year period Base salary Up to 125% of salary for Annual awards of shares Annual awards of units Monthly in arrears the chief executive officer with a value of 75% of with a face value of 50% Cash and 100% of salary for base salary of base salary Reviewed annually other executive directors Based on EPS growth over Delivers value based Two thirds cash a three year period: 25% on sustained growth in Pension One third deferred into vests for growth of 5% per average share price Monthly payments into shares for three years, with annum, full vesting for Vests in three equal defined contribution plan dividend accrual, subject to 12% per annum tranches after four, five or cash allowance in lieu malus provisions Operation of safeguards in and six years Up to 25% of salary 75% based on Group relation to cash conversion No more than 50% of any financial performance of earnings, acquisitions award can be exercised Other fixed benefits profit after tax and cash and inflation in any 12 month rolling For example: conversion Dividend accrual period Car or allowance 25% based on individual Subject to malus provisions Subject to a financial Life assurance strategic measures subject underpin Medical insurance to threshold financial Subject to malus provisions Income protection performance Shareholding guideline Equal to 100% of base salary WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 80 Governance Further information about Remuneration Report reward within the Group is continued given in our Human Resources Review Human Resources Review.
Pages 44 to 49 Figure 1 b : Analysis of remuneration package The following charts show the balance of the packages for the chief executive officer, Group finance director and Group HR director, highlighting the significant proportion of the package which is performance related.
The composition of the package is shown for two indicative levels of performance target and stretch taking into account an assumed level of vesting and share price performance over the vesting period.
Chief executive officer Group finance director and Group HR director Target Target Stretch Stretch 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Salary Bonus cash Bonus deferred shares Salary Bonus cash Bonus deferred shares LTIP LGUs LTIP LGUs Figure 1 c : Timeline for receipt of remuneration earned awarded in relation to the year ending 31 March 2014 Current year Y Y 1 Y 2 Y 3 Y 4 Y 5 Y 6 Element of remuneration 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 2018 19 2019 20 Salary 100% cash Pension and benefits 100% cash Performance 2 3 paid Deferred Bonus 1 3 deferred for three years assessed in cash shares vest Award LTIP Award made Performance period EPS vests Tranche 1 1 3 vests Tranche 2 LGU Award made 1 3 vests Tranche 3 1 3 vests Remuneration in the context of the wider Group As a people business our reward and incentive structure is critical to the success of our business.
The principles that underpin our executive remuneration philosophy also cascade throughout the organisation.
Participation in the success of the Group, both through bonus arrangements and, for the senior leadership team, through long term share-based awards, is a cornerstone of our remuneration framework.
In determining salary increases for the executive directors, the Committee looks at salary increases across the Group.
It also oversees the remuneration of members of the senior leadership team.
The Committee does not formally consult with employees regarding executive remuneration but regularly reviews the remuneration of staff throughout the Group to ensure that it is attuned to general pay and conditions when considering the remuneration of executives.
For the year ending 31 March 2014, the average salary increase across the Group was just above 3% compared to 3% for the chief executive officer and 3.5% for the Group HR director.
The Group finance director received a salary increase of 7.4% and the reasons for this increase are provided later in this report page 81.
The executive remuneration framework set out in this report also applies to the senior leadership team below the executive directors to ensure our executive team is rewarded on a consistent basis.
The Committee also recognises the importance of having reward structures that create a sense of ownership and participation in the long term growth of our shares.
Around 1,150 Group employees participate in some form of share-based incentive arrangement.
In addition, we offer a Share Incentive Plan to UK employees and, at the 2013 AGM, we obtained approval for new all employee share plans in the UK, the US and other major jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Further details on these all employee plans are provided later in this report page 93.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 81 Remuneration received by directors during the year ended 31 March 2013 Table 2 summarises amounts earned by the current directors in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013.
Salary fees received in the year.
Value of benefits received in respect of the year including such items as company cars or allowances, fuel and medical insurance for the executive directors, payments equal to the dividends declared on shares subject to awards made under the terms of the Companys share plans following the vesting and exercise of the underlying awards and expenses chargeable to income tax.
Cash value of defined contribution or cash allowance in lieu thereof.
Value of total bonus two thirds cash and one third shares earned in respect of the year.
Vested value of 2010 LTIP award, the performance period for which ended in the year.
Includes an aggregate allowance for travel expenses incurred between his home and the UK during the first five years following appointment of 39,000 a direct replacement for the rental allowance disclosed in 2011 and an allowance for the provision to him of professional advice in addition to other benefits received.
Rodney Slater was appointed as a director on 9 September 2011.
This remuneration relates to the proportion of the year for which he held office.
Fixed elements of reward Salary Purpose Market competitive fixed remuneration to attract talent and reflect skills and experience Delivery Monthly Cash Policy Reviewed annually with changes normally effective from 1 April and further reviews following changes in responsibilities Benchmarked periodically against published salary data for companies of similar size and complexity, bespoke comparator groups as appropriate, and for those below Board level local market surveys to ensure that salaries remain market competitive Considered in light of the economic climate, market conditions, Company performance, pay and conditions across the wider workforce, the individuals role and the level of salary awards in the rest of the business The executive directors salaries have been increased with effect from 1 April 2013.
Uwe Kruegers and Alun Griffiths salaries increased by 3% and 3.5% respectively, in line with the average salary increase across the Group of just above 3%.
Heath Drewett received a salary increase of 7.4%.
This increase, which is above the average salary increase across the Group, reflects the expanded remit of his role, which now encompasses several areas traditionally carried out by a chief operating officer and includes delivery of operational improvement programmes and increased involvement in the development of strategy.
The Committee has not undertaken a detailed benchmarking exercise since that undertaken as part of last years review of the remuneration framework.
Based on a high level update to this previous benchmarking exercise, it believes executive director salaries are in line with companies of a similar size and complexity.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 82 Governance Remuneration Report continued The salaries of the executive directors for the forthcoming financial year and for the previous year are shown in table 3.
Table 3: Executive director salaries Increase in Salary from Salary from salary from Name 1 April 2013 1 April 2012 prior year Heath Drewett 335,000 312,000 7.4% Alun Griffiths 235,000 227,000 3.5% Uwe Krueger 566,500 550,000 3.0% Pension Purpose Market competitive fixed remuneration to attract talent and reflect skills and experience Delivery Defined benefit entitlements, closed to future accrual from 30 September 2007 and link to final salary broken with effect from 1 February 2012 Monthly payments into defined contribution pension plan or cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution Policy Defined contribution pension or cash allowance Defined contribution pension contributions or a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution for the executive directors are shown in table 4.
Table 4: Defined contribution pension contribution or cash allowance Pension contribution Name as a % of salary Heath Drewett 25 Alun Griffiths 12 Uwe Krueger 25 The maximum Company contribution to the defined contribution pension of other UK based staff is 10% of salary, except for those affected by the removal of the link to final salary, as discussed further below.
Heath Drewett and Uwe Krueger receive higher contributions reflecting their roles as executive directors.
Alun Griffiths retains an entitlement to a defined benefit pension on the same basis as other long serving UK employees.
During 2011 a consultation was held with staff with a defined benefit pension entitlement to remove the link to final salary via an amendment to their contracts of employment.
From 1 February 2012 this final salary link was removed and transitional relief is being paid to all employees including Alun Griffiths affected by the contractual change.
The transitional relief is 2% of salary until 2015 and a further 3% from 2015 to 2018.
This is in addition to the maximum Company contribution of 10% of salary.
The contributions made to a pension plan on behalf of the executive directors or, where applicable, taxable allowance in lieu of pension during the year ended 31 March 2013 are set out in table 16 page 94.
Alun Griffiths defined benefit pension entitlements are set out in table 17 page 94.
Other fixed benefits The Company provides a number of other fixed benefits to ensure that this element of the remuneration package of the executive directors is competitive with those provided by other organisations.
Details of these benefits are shown in table 5.
Table 5: Other fixed benefits Benefit Details Car An annual cash car allowance or a car Life assurance Ranging between four and seven times salary Medical insurance Each executive director receives private medical insurance or an allowance for themselves and their family Income protection Income protection in the event that executives are unable to work due to long term ill health Travel allowance and Uwe Krueger receives an aggregate allowance for travel expenses between his home and the UK during professional advice the first five years following appointment a direct replacement for the rental allowance disclosed last allowance year and an allowance for the provision to him of professional advice WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 83 Variable elements of reward Annual bonus Purpose To incentivise and reward the delivery of stretching annual financial performance and key strategic objectives Delivery Annual award Two thirds in cash One third deferred into shares for three years Dividend equivalent payment on deferred share award Policy Total bonus opportunity of 125% of salary for the chief executive officer and 100% of salary for other executive directors 75% of the total bonus is based on achieving a Group financial target 50% of the total bonus based on profit after tax and 25% of the total bonus based on cash conversion 25% of the total bonus is based on individual objectives directly linked to our strategic priorities.
Any amounts due on this component are also subject to achieving the threshold Group financial target Deferred shares awarded in respect of financial years ending on or after 31 March 2013 will be subject to malus provisions Non-pensionable and non-contractual The Committee may override the amount awarded based on achievement of individual and Group targets if there has been a material quality, safety or environmental failure Annual bonus payments via our Executive Bonus Scheme EBS reward in-year performance.
Executive directors are required to defer one third of any bonus they receive in the form of an award of shares under the terms of the Atkins Deferred Share Plan DSP.
The DSP: provides a direct link to the Companys share price and dividend performance seeks to aid retention, as awards are subject to forfeiture on resignation within three years of grant.
For awards in respect of financial years ending on or after 31 March 2013, the deferred shares will be subject to malus provisions which allow the Committee to reduce deferred awards in certain circumstances, as described in more detail later in this report page 89.
Bonus framework for 2013 14 For the financial year ending 31 March 2014, 50% of the bonus for executive directors will be based on Group profit after tax performance.
50% of the maximum will be paid for meeting the budgeted profit after tax target and 100% for meeting a stretch target.
The stretch target is set annually by the Committee at a level which is considered to be very challenging.
In reaching a decision on the stretch target, the Committee is also mindful of the need to deliver shareholder value after payment of bonuses.
As discussed with shareholders during the review of executive remuneration undertaken in 2012, from this year we are introducing a cash conversion measure on which 25% of the bonus will be based.
We believe that cash conversion is a key measure of business performance.
This measure will apply to the executive directors, the senior leadership team and the regional management teams a team of the 50 most senior managers across the Group.
The profit after tax target and cash conversion targets are considered commercially sensitive so will not be disclosed, although the Committees assessment of performance against these targets will be confirmed in next years report.
The remaining 25% will be based on individual objectives aligned to areas which underpin our strategic priorities over the coming years.
For the year ending 31 March 2014, objectives have been set in relation to the following key strategic areas which relate to the specific role of each executive director.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 84 Governance Remuneration Report continued Name Strategic areas included in 2013 14 bonus framework Heath Drewett Pension deficit reduction plan Operational and financial improvement programmes Alternative budget structure and process Alun Griffiths Regional management team development and talent pipeline Leadership capability model Succession planning Uwe Krueger Implementation of the Companys growth strategy agreed as a target to be measured over two years Raising the profile and recognition of the Group agreed as a target to be measured over two years Succession planning The above provides the headline strategic areas under which performance targets have been set.
The performance targets that apply to these areas are measurable, challenging and subject to rigorous review by the Committee, both at the time they are set, during the year and at the year end when performance is assessed.
Subject to commercial sensitivity, we intend to provide an overview of the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying targets in next years report.
Executive directors will only receive bonus payments in relation to the achievement of their individual objectives if the threshold Group financial performance target is also met.
Bonus assessment for 2012 13 The Committees assessment of performance in the financial year ended 31 March 2013 is shown in table 6.
Table 6: Assessment of performance and bonus payout Component Overview of performance in 2012 13 Group financial As explained in the chairmans statement pages 6 and 7, the Company has delivered another year of good target 75% results in worldwide markets that continue to be challenging and this is reflected in bonus payments.
The reported profit after tax of 88.4m was above budget and exceeded the stretch financial target resulting in full payment of this component of bonus.
The Committee considered quality, safety and environmental performance when making the bonus awards and determined that no adjustment was necessary.
Individual Heath Drewett performance 25% Payment of 95% achieved following the effective introduction of new and improved management reporting, controls and risk management processes, and the successful execution of the Groups debut issue in the US private placement market.
Alun Griffiths Payment of 95% achieved for the successful recruitment of key personnel and improvements to recruitment systems and processes, and the development and implementation of a comprehensive senior management development programme including initiatives to increase gender diversity.
Uwe Krueger Payment of 72% achieved as a result of the successful implementation of initiatives to increase the influence and recognition of the Company, the development and implementation of a comprehensive senior management development programme including initiatives to increase gender diversity, and good progress on the execution of the Companys growth strategy.
Annual bonuses payable to the executive directors for the financial year ended 31 March 2013 are shown in table 7.
Two thirds will be paid in cash and one third deferred into shares for three years.
Uwe Kruegers bonus opportunity was pro rated to reflect his appointment with effect from 14 June 2011.
The percentage stated is of annualised salary, not salary paid.
T he increase in absolute bonus compares the pro rated bonus paid for the year ended 31 March 2012 with the full year bonus for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The increase in annualised bonus compares the equivalent full year bonus paid for the year ended 31 March 2012 with the full year bonus for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Other senior management will receive a bonus payment through the EBS, reflecting achievement against a combination of targets comprising Group financial performance, business financial performance and personal objectives.
These employees are also required to defer one third of this bonus into a share award granted under the terms of the DSP, in line with the requirement for executive directors.
In addition, around 38% of other Group employees will receive a discretionary cash bonus based on individual performance, for which there is no deferral.
Long term incentives As a result of the review of the remuneration framework, the Committee concluded that the long term incentive framework should provide an element of reward that acts as an incentive to management to deliver long term performance and that it should be built around two performance measures, both of which are simple in design and fundamentally aligned to the creation of shareholder value, as illustrated in figure 2: Growth in EPS.
This was identified as the primary metric for measuring the delivery of our growth objective over the medium to long term.
It is incorporated into the long term incentive framework via the LTIP, which is described in more detail later in this report page 86 and is our primary long term incentive vehicle, reflecting the importance of EPS growth to our strategy Sustained growth in the share price.
This ensures alignment between executive reward and sustained share price growth over the long term, representing the ultimate measure of performance for our shareholders, and is incorporated into the long term incentive framework via the LGU, which is described in more detail later in this report page 88.
Figure 2: Long term incentive framework Performance measure EPS Share price growth Delivery mechanism LTIP LGU Vesting period 3 years 4, 5 and 6 years WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 86 Governance Remuneration Report continued Potential value of 2013 long term incentive awards Table 8 shows the potential value of the long term incentive awards to be made to executive directors in 2013, including both LTIP and LGU awards, under four indicative share price and EPS growth performance scenarios.
1,2 Table 8: Potential value of 2013 long term incentive awards LTIP and LGU As % Heath Drewett Alun Griffiths Uwe Krueger Share price EPS growth scenario Component of salary 000 000 000 0% per annum LTIP 0 0 0 0 LGU 0 0 0 0 5% per annum LTIP 24 80 56 136 LGU 14 46 33 79 10% per annum LTIP 86 289 202 488 LGU 31 103 72 174 15% per annum LTIP 125 418 293 707 LGU 51 172 120 290 1.
V alue calculated at the end of the vesting period taking into account share price growth in each scenario LTIP three years: LGU three tranches over four, five and six years.
LTIP value includes assumed value of dividend equivalents over the period.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose Our primary long term incentive is designed to incentivise and reward the creation of long term shareholder value based on the delivery of growth in EPS over a three year period Delivery Annual award Shares Value variable dependent on performance over a three year period Dividend equivalent payment Policy Annual award of 75% of salary Maximum award under the LTIP is 150% of salary reduced to 125% of salary if the maximum LGU award is made Subject to the Groups growth in absolute EPS Additional safeguards apply in relation to cash conversion, inflation and the impact of acquisitions Subject to malus provisions LTIP award policy for 2013 14 At the 2012 AGM, shareholders approved the terms of the LTIP, which were substantially unchanged from the previous LTIP and are in line with established best practice principles.
Under the LTIP, the maximum award which may be granted to an individual within any 12 month period is 150% of salary.
However, this limit also takes into account any awards made under the LGU plan within the same 12 month period.
If no LGU award is made, the LTIP limit will remain at 150% of salary.
If the maximum LGU award of 50% of salary is made, then the maximum LTIP award that can be made is reduced to 125% of salary.
This is to ensure we maintain a broadly equivalent value for the individual limit recognising that the face value of LTIP and LGU awards, as a percentage of salary, is not a like-for-like comparison.
For LGU awards between 0% and 50%, the LTIP limit varies from 150% to 125% on a straight line pro rata basis.
While the terms of the LTIP allow awards of up to 150% of salary, our stated policy is that each executive director will receive a LTIP award of 75% of salary.
The Committee intends to continue to apply this award policy for the foreseeable future, including in 2013 14.
The vesting of these awards will be subject to the EPS targets described in table 9.
Table 9: LTIP performance measure for awards to be made in 2013 Atkins EPS growth % of award that vests 12% or greater per annum 100 Between 5% and 12% per annum Pro rata between 25 and 100 on a straight line basis 5% per annum 25 Below 5% per annum 0 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 87 The Committee believes that these EPS targets are appropriate and stretching in the current environment.
Performance against the EPS targets will be measured over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2016.
The lack of a relative total shareholder return TSR measure within the long term incentive framework reflects the Committees view that this measure is not appropriate for our business given the difficulties in determining a fair and appropriate group of listed peers, and the arbitrary outcomes that can arise when using a broad index, due to cyclical factors.
As part of the 2012 review, the Committee also developed a number of additional safeguards which apply alongside the targets above.
The Committee has discretion to adjust vesting to take account of any of the following: the impact of any significant acquisitions in the period on the level of challenge in the targets set out in table 9 the level of inflation during the performance period, if it deems that this has had a significant impact on the level of challenge presented by the targets, in the context of Atkins business model cash conversion over the performance period to ensure that the achieved EPS growth is suitably underpinned by cash generation over the period the potential application of malus provisions page 89.
LTIP awards made in 2012 13 During the financial year ended 31 March 2013, following shareholder approval of the LTIP and in line with the Committees stated policy, executive directors received LTIP awards of 75% of salary as shown in table 18 pages 95 and 96.
These awards were subject to the EPS targets described in table 9.
LTIP awards vesting in 2012 13 LTIP awards made to executive directors in 2010 were based on EPS and TSR growth in the three years to 31 March 2012, measured against the performance conditions shown in tables 10 a and 10 b below.
The Committee has determined that neither of the performance targets were met and therefore this award will lapse in full.
Table 10 a : LTIP TSR performance measure for 2010 awards 50% Atkins TSR relative to the comparator group % of award that vests Upper quartile 100 Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 30 and 100 on a straight line basis Median 30 Below median 0 Table 10 b : LTIP EPS performance measure for 2010 awards 50% Atkins EPS growth above RPI % of award that vests 10% or greater per annum 100 Between 4% and 10% per annum Pro rata between 30 and 100 on a straight line basis 4% per annum 30 Below 4% per annum 0 For information, the full vesting history of past LTIP awards is shown in table 11.
Table 11: Vesting history of LTIP awards % of award vested EPS TSR Year of grant Performance period element element Total 2006 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2009 100 65.6 82.8 2007 1 April 2007 to 31 March 2010 91.5 0 45.7 2008 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2011 0 0 0 2009 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2012 0 0 0 2010 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2013 0 0 0 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 88 Governance Remuneration Report continued Long-term Growth Unit LGU plan Purpose To provide direct alignment with shareholders interests through sustained share price growth over the long term four to six years Delivery Annual award Shares Value dependent on long term average share price performance at exercise, following a four, five and six year vesting period Policy Maximum annual award with a face value of 50% of salary Vest in three equal tranches, four, five and six years from grant Vest subject to a financial underpin No more than 50% of the total award may be exercised in a year Subject to malus provisions While the LTIP focuses executives on achieving strong EPS growth over a three year period, the LGU was developed by the Committee to reflect its belief that it is important to have an element of the long term incentive that is directly linked to sustainable long term increases in share price.
The terms of the LGU were approved by shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
The key features of the LGU plan are as follows: Awards of units that deliver value based on the increase in the Companys average share price over the long term.
The Committees policy is that awards to executive directors have a maximum face value of 50% of salary and an expected value of around 10% of salary The awards vest in three equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of grant The vesting of each tranche is subject to the Committees determination that share price performance over the period is suitably underpinned by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the period Following vesting, the units can be exercised at the discretion of the participant On exercise, the value of each unit is equal to the difference between the six month average share price at exercise and the six month average share price at grant.
This value is delivered in the form of Atkins shares No more than 50% of any award can be exercised in any rolling 12 month period There is no entitlement to dividends: participants benefit from capital growth only Awards are subject to malus provisions as described later in this report page 89.
The basic concept behind the LGU plan is simple: it delivers value based on the long term growth in Atkins share price.
LGU awards provide no value if the share price does not increase on a sustained basis.
Therefore it is directly aligned with the value delivered for our shareholders.
The awards are intended to create a sense of ownership and participation in the long term performance of our shares, as we seek to retain the people we need to deliver our strategy over the coming years.
They therefore vest over a longer time period than the LTIP and most conventional long term incentive plans.
Vesting of each tranche will be subject to the Committee being satisfied that share price performance is suitably underpinned by appropriate financial performance.
Prior to the vesting of each tranche, the Committee will explicitly consider the Groups progress against its strategy which may include consideration of: margin expansion of international revenues organic growth.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 89 An illustration of a LGU award is shown in figure 3.
Figure 3: Illustration of LGU awards Share Cannot be exercised Illustrative share price price in this period Six month averaging period grant and exercise Base price based on average price Gain on exercise based on six month average price at exercise Units are granted with On exercise of a tranche, a base price based on the value of each LGU is based the six month average on the difference between share price at grant the six month average share price at that point and the base price Restrictions on exercise mean that LGUs only deliver for Year sustained shareholder returns 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Grant Vests in thirds LGU award policy for 2013 14 The terms of the LGU allow awards of up to 50% of salary and it is our stated policy that each executive director will receive the maximum LGU award possible.
The Committee intends to apply this award policy for the foreseeable future, including in 2013 14.
LGU awards made in 2012 13 During the financial year ended 31 March 2013, following shareholder approval of the LGU and in line with the Committees stated policy, executive directors received the maximum LGU award of 50% of salary.
Malus provisions As a result of the remuneration review, the Committee has determined that malus provisions will be included in the LTIP and LGU and will apply for awards made in 2012 onwards and to deferred bonus awards granted under the DSP in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2013 onwards.
These provisions will allow the Committee to reduce the number of shares to which an award relates including to zero in circumstances in which the Committee considers such action is appropriate.
Such circumstances include, but are not limited to: a material misstatement of the Companys audited results a material downturn in the financial performance of the Company a material failure of risk management by the Company serious reputational damage suffered by the Company the participants misconduct.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 90 Governance Remuneration Report continued Executive directors contracts The service agreements of executive directors who served during the year are summarised in table 12.
Table 12: Executive directors service agreements Notice period Contract Effective date Unexpired term months date of contract of contract Heath Drewett 12 17 April 2009 15 June 2009 Rolling contract Alun Griffiths 12 18 April 2007 13 March 2007 Rolling contract Uwe Krueger 12 1 June 2011 14 June 2011 Rolling contract The executive directors service agreements include provision for the Company to make phased payments in the event that the agreement is terminated on giving 12 months notice.
They also include a duty for the executive director to mitigate loss where the agreement is terminated and any payment in lieu of notice may be reduced to take account of such mitigation.
No service agreement provides for predetermined amounts of compensation in the event of early termination of service contracts or any change of control provisions.
The service agreements are terminable on giving 12 months notice.
Copies of each directors service agreement will be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM and are also available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
External appointments The Board and the Committee recognise the benefit we can obtain if our executive directors serve as non-executive directors of other companies.
Subject to review in each case, the Boards general policy is that each executive director may accept one non-executive directorship with another FTSE 350 company from which any fees received may be retained.
At present no executive director holds such an appointment with a FTSE 350 company, although Uwe Krueger and Alun Griffiths are currently non-executive directors of the companies listed in table 13 and retain the fees payable, as outlined in respect of these appointments.
Table 13: Non-executive remuneration for executive directors Executive director Organisation name Remuneration basis Uwe Krueger ONTEX S. A. Zele, Belgium 60,000 per annum STR Holdings, Inc. Connecticut, USA Until 31 December 2012, annual retainer of US$50,000 to 14 May 2013 in cash: from 1 January 2013, annual grant of ordinary shares in STR Holdings, Inc. to the value of US$52,500 Fee of US$2,000 for each scheduled quarterly board and committee meeting attended Annual grant of restricted stock to the value of US$45,000, which will vest on the day immediately preceding the day of the next annual meeting of stockholders SUSI Partners AG 1% of the companys value relating to three years service Zurich, Switzerland on the board Alun Griffiths The McLean Partnership Limited 10,000 per annum WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 91 Chairman and non-executive directors Purpose Market competitive fixed fees commensurate with time commitment and responsibilities Delivery Monthly Cash Policy Reviewed annually with changes normally effective from 1 April and further reviews following changes in responsibilities Benchmarked periodically against published fee data for companies of similar size and complexity and bespoke comparator groups as appropriate to ensure that salaries fees remain market competitive Considered in light of the economic climate, market conditions, Company performance, pay and conditions across the wider workforce, the individuals role and the level of salary awards in the rest of the business Basic fixed fee for chairman and non-executive directors Additional fixed fee paid for membership chairmanship of Audit and Remuneration Committees and to senior independent director The chairman and non-executive directors have letters of appointment stating their annual fee.
Their appointment is for an initial term of three years subject to satisfactory performance and their re-election at forthcoming AGMs.
In accordance with best practice and the UK Corporate Governance Code all of the directors will stand for re-election at the AGM to be held on 31 July 2013.
Their appointment may be terminated with six months written notice at any time.
Table 14 summarises the dates of appointment and most recent re-election dates for the chairman and each of the non-executive directors.
Table 14: Dates of appointment and most recent re-election dates for the chairman and each of the non-executive directors Date of appointment as a non-executive Date of last election Name of director director re-election at AGM Lord Boyce 5 May 2004 1 August 2012 Fiona Clutterbuck 13 March 2007 1 August 2012 Allan Cook 10 September 2009 1 August 2012 Joanne Curin 10 February 2009 1 August 2012 Raj Rajagopal 24 June 2008 1 August 2012 Rodney Slater 9 September 2011 1 August 2012 Copies of the letters of appointment of the chairman and non-executive directors will be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM and are also available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
The remuneration of the chairman is determined by the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the chairmans remuneration during the year and awarded an increase of 3%, in line with the average salary increase across the Group of just above 3%.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is reviewed annually by the executive directors in line with the schedule for the review of the remuneration of the chairman, the executive directors and all employees in the Group.
The executive directors recommendation is made in light of remuneration levels within the Group, independent advice and on the basis of periodic benchmarking of the level of fees paid to non-executive directors of comparator companies.
The Board, on the recommendation of the executive directors, approved the following, as disclosed in table 15 page 92 : an increase of 3.2% in the basic annual fee paid to non-executive directors, in line with the salary increase budgeted for the Group no increase to the annual fee paid to the chairmen and members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees no increase to the annual fee paid to the senior independent director.
The fees for both the chairman and the UK based non-executive directors are inclusive of normal travel expenses for travelling to and from the Groups Epsom or London offices.
Expenses are payable on all travel and subsistence to offices outside these areas in accordance with the Groups normal policy.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 92 Governance Remuneration Report continued The annual fees paid are specific to each director, reflecting their individual commitments to the Board and various Board committees.
The current fees are shown in table 15.
Table 15: Chairman and non-executive directors fees Increase in Fee as at Fee as at fee from Fee description 1 April 2013 1 April 2012 prior year 1 Chairman fee 195,750 190,000 3.0% Non-executive director fees Basic annual fee 42,500 41,200 3.2% 1 Committee chair annual fee 7,500 7,500 1 Committee annual fee 4,000 4,000 Senior independent director fee 5,000 5,000 1.
No fee is paid in respect of chairmanship or membership of the Nomination Committee.
The chairman and the non-executive directors are not eligible for pensions, share incentives, annual bonus or any similar payments other than out-of-pocket expenses in connection with the performance of their duties.
The chairman and the non-executive directors do not participate in any discussions in respect of matters, including remuneration, relating to their own position.
Share ownership Shareholding guideline Purpose To strengthen alignment with shareholders further Delivery Shares purchased in the market Vested shares awarded under a share plan Policy One times salary During its review of executive remuneration, the Committee considered carefully the shareholding guidelines for executive directors.
Previously each executive director was encouraged to hold shares in the Company either directly or through share awards made in connection with annual bonuses equivalent to the level of their annual salary, based on the value of such shares at the time of their acquisition or award, or their current market value from time to time, whichever is the higher.
With effect from 1 April 2012, executive directors are ordinarily expected to build up an interest in the Companys shares equivalent to one times their salary, based on the value of such shares at the time of the acquisition or their current market value, whichever is the higher.
Such an interest would normally be expected to be built up within a five year period following the adoption of this policy.
The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of 0.5p each in the Company as at 31 March 2013 are shown in table 19 page 96.
As the shareholding guideline only came into effect on 1 April 2012 and allows five years to build up an interest, it is not yet possible to determine whether or not it has been met, although it can be seen that all executive directors have increased their shareholdings during the year.
Details of the share options and long term incentives of each executive director as at 31 March 2013 are given in table 18 pages 95 and 96.
For each share under option that had not expired at the end of the financial year, the mid market price on 28 March 2013 being the last trading day before 31 March 2013 was 912p and the highest and lowest mid market prices during the financial year were 940p and 628.5p respectively.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 93 Performance graph Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 requires the Company to provide a graph comparing a hypothetical holding of shares in the Company with a broad equity market index over a five year period.
The Companys performance, measured by TSR, can be compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the past five years.
This index is considered the most appropriate index against which to measure performance as the Company has been a member of the FTSE 250 for the whole of the five-year period.
This is illustrated in figure 4.
Figure 4: Total shareholder return 180 FTSE 250 160 140 120 Atkins 100 80 60 Source: Datastream 40 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 TSR is defined as the return shareholders would receive on a notional holding of shares including dividends received on those shares over a period of time.
Assuming dividends are reinvested into the Companys shares, it measures the percentage growth in the Companys share price together with the value of any dividends paid.
All employee share plans The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan, as approved by HM Revenue & Customs, which is offered to all eligible UK employees, including the executive directors.
In addition, at the AGM held in August 2012, the Company obtained approval of all employee share plans in countries where the Group has a significant presence.
These took the form of: a Save As You Earn SAYE or Sharesave plan in the UK a 423 plan, an American tax-favoured employee share plan also known as a tax-qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan similar in operation to a UK SAYE a worldwide all employee plan in other jurisdictions where the Group has a significant presence such as the Middle East and Asia.
While there was no intention to implement these plans immediately upon approval, the Committee believed that it was in the best interests of the Company to have the flexibility to do so in the future.
In consultation with executive management, it continues to keep under review plans to implement them in the future.
As a result, work continues to obtain the necessary approvals other than shareholder approval to enable such plans to be put in place.
The Committee will need to approve the launch of any proposed all employee share plan.
Dilution DSP share awards can only be satisfied using market purchase shares held in the employee benefit trust EBT.
LTIP and LGU share awards can be satisfied using new issue shares, shares held in treasury or market purchase shares held in the EBT.
The Committee reviews the hedging and dilution position of the Company at least bi-annually prior to making grants of share awards.
Both the LTIP and LGU operate 5% in 10 years executive schemes and 10% in 10 years aggregate dilution limits in line with best practice.
At 31 March 2013 the EBT held 2,614,972 shares to hedge outstanding awards over 4,050,737 shares and 209,768 units.
Using an approximation of one unit to one share, at this date the EBT held shares to satisfy 61.4% of all outstanding awards.
No new issue shares have been used to satisfy share awards since 2005 and, to date, no treasury shares have been used.
Remuneration paid to directors during the year The remuneration of each director, excluding long term share based incentive awards, during the year ended 31 March 2013 compared with 2012 is set out in table 16 page 94.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Dr Raj Rajagopal Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 12 June 2013 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 94 Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration paid to directors during the year audited Table 16: Remuneration paid during the year Defined Contribution pension Other payments Other Non-cash Total Total 1 2 3 Salary fees Bonus benefits allowance payments emoluments 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors 4 Keith Clarke n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 289.4 5 5 Heath Drewett 312.0 205.4 15.0 78.0 102.7 713.1 633.0 6 7 6,7 Alun Griffiths 227.0 149.5 14.8 22.7 19.4 74.7 508.1 430.5 8 8 Uwe Krueger 550.0 426.3 25.1 137.5 27.6 213.1 1,379.6 986.8 Total executive directors 1,089.0 781.2 54.9 238.2 47.0 390.5 2,600.8 2,339.7 Chairman and non-executive directors Lord Boyce 50.2 50.2 43.0 Fiona Clutterbuck 49.2 49.2 46.0 Allan Cook 190.0 2.4 192.4 191.9 Joanne Curin 48.7 48.7 46.0 Raj Rajagopal 52.7 52.7 46.4 Rodney Slater 45.2 45.2 24.3 9 Sir Peter Williams n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 21.5 Total chairman and 436.0 2.4 438.4 419.1 non-executive directors 1.
Other benefits include such items as company cars or allowances, fuel and medical insurance for the executive directors and expenses chargeable to income tax.
H eath Drewett, Alun Griffiths and Uwe Krueger are required to take a minimum of one third of their bonus payment in the form of a right to acquire shares under the DSP.
Awards of shares to these values will be made following the announcement of the preliminary results pursuant to the rules of the DSP to Heath Drewett, Alun Griffiths and Uwe Krueger.
These awards will be disclosed in the directors share options and long term incentives table in the 2014 Remuneration Report.
Keith Clarke retired as a director on 31 July 2011.
This relates to his qualifying service as a director.
H eath Drewett was entitled to receive a defined contribution pension or pension allowance equivalent to 25% of salary.
He elected to receive a defined contribution pension until 31 December 2011 and then received a pension allowance as a taxable payment from 1 January 2012 to 31 March 2012.
In the year ended 31 March 2013 he received part of his entitlement as a defined contribution pension and part as a pension allowance received as a taxable payment.
Alun Griffiths was entitled to receive a pension contribution or pension allowance equivalent to 10% of salary until 31 January 2012 and 12% of salary from 1 February 2012, due to transitional relief in connection with the removal of the link to final salary for his defined benefit entitlement.
He elected to receive a pension contribution until 31 December 2011 and then received a pension allowance as a taxable payment from 1 January 2012 to 31 March 2012.
He received a pension allowance as a taxable payment for the whole of the year ended 31 March 2013.
In the year ended 31 March 2012, in addition to the Companys contributions of 18,670, the Company made additional contributions of 1,645 in respect of national insurance contributions the Company would have paid had Alun Griffiths not chosen to make his contributions via salary sacrifice.
Alun Griffiths was entitled to a transitional payment of 2% of salary, on the same basis as other staff, following the removal of the link to final salary for his defined benefit pension entitlement.
This also includes payments equal to the dividends declared on shares subject to awards made to Alun Griffiths under the terms of the Companys share plans following the vesting and exercise of the underlying awards.
U we Krueger receives an aggregate allowance for travel expenses incurred between his home and the UK during the first five years following appointment of 39,000 a direct replacement for the rental allowance disclosed in 2011 and an allowance for the provision to him of professional advice.
Sir Peter Williams retired as a director on 8 September 2011.
Table 17: Executive directors pension benefits defined benefit Alun Griffiths Accrued annual pension at 31 March 2012 77,844 p. a.
Accrued annual pension at 31 March 2013 79,809 p. a.
Gross increase decrease in accrued pension over the year 1,965 Increase decrease in accrued pension net of inflation over the year Transfer value as at 31 March 2012 1,853,919 1 Transfer value as at 31 March 2013 2,320,463 1 Increase in transfer value, less any contributions made, during the year 466,544 Employee contributions during the year Company contributions during the year 1.
T he Trustee of the Atkins Pension Plan the Plan amended the cash equivalent transfer value basis of defined benefit pensions held within the Plan with effect from 1 February 2013.
In light of changes in market conditions and views on longevity, the Trustee, after receiving actuarial advice, made changes that had the effect of increasing cash equivalent transfer values by 15%.
In the case of Alun Griffiths, this means that the transfer value at 31 March 2013 would have been 302,669 lower i. e. 2,017,794 had the change in basis not been made from 1 February 2013.
Plan names: LTIP A Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP B WS Atkins plc Long Term Incentive Plan DBP Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan DSP Atkins Deferred Share Plan 2.
The awards granted under the terms of the LTIP, DBP and the DSP are structured as options, for which the exercise price is nil.
Subject to performance criteria described in note 33 to the Financial Statements.
I n 2009 the Remuneration Committee considered the impact of the 7.0m tax benefit from the purchase of prior year consortium relief from the Metronet companies and concluded that the non-trading nature of this benefit was not a fair reflection of underlying earnings.
Pursuant to the rules of the plan, the Remuneration Committee considered it was appropriate to remove the benefit of this item and that the EPS for the financial year ending immediately before the commencement of the performance period for the 2009 award was 76.4p.
This lower EPS was also used to calculate the vesting of LTIP awards made in 2006.
In 2010 the Remuneration Committee considered the impact of the expiry of a letter of credit in respect of the Metronet enterprise and the related provision giving rise to a one-off, non-cash pre-tax credit of 25m in the Groups income statement for the year.
It concluded that the non-trading nature of this benefit was not a fair reflection of underlying earnings.
It was therefore excluded and the lower normalised basic EPS for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 79.4p was used to calculate the vesting of LTIP awards made in 2007 and was also used as the EPS for the financial year immediately before the commencement of the performance period for the 2010 awards.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 96 Governance Remuneration Report continued Table 18b: Directors long term incentives LGU plan units Number Number MidFirst of units of units market date of under under Market price at exercise Date option at option at price on date of Gain on end of of lapse Plan Award 1 April 31 March exercise grant exercise performance expiry 1 3 name date 2012 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2013 pence pence condition of option 2 Heath Drewett LGU 13 08 12 21,705 21,705 672.0 13 08 16 13 08 22 Total 21,705 21,705 2 Alun Griffiths LGU 13 08 12 15,792 15,792 672.0 13 08 16 13 08 22 Total 15,792 15,792 2 Uwe Krueger LGU 13 08 12 38,263 38,263 672.0 13 08 16 13 08 22 Total 38,263 38,263 Aggregate gains on units 2013 Aggregate gains on units 2012 1.
Plan names: LGU WS Atkins plc Long-term Growth Unit Plan.
The awards granted under the terms of the LGU are structured as units.
Subject to financial underpin described in note 33 to the Financial Statements.
Changes in interests of Heath Drewett and Uwe Krueger between 31 March 2013 and 12 June 2013 relate to shares acquired via the Atkins Share Incentive Plan.
Changes in interests of Alun Griffiths between 31 March 2013 and 12 June 2013 relate to shares acquired via the Atkins Share Incentive Plan and automatic dividend reinvestment within an ISA.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013
