GOVERNANCE RemuneRation Committee RepoRt Dear Shareholders, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to Carl Symon present the Remuneration Committees Chairman of the reportfor 2013, for which we will be seeking Remuneration Committee shareholders approval at the 2014 AGM.
Since I last reported to you on the work undertaken by the Remuneration Committee, there has been a good deal of change in the regulations concerning directors remuneration.
The changes were preceded by a wide-ranging Members debate, which engaged many stakeholders Carl Symon Chairman and considered important issues, including Chris Grigg the impact that executive incentives can have Nick Rose on the creation of sustainable long-term value for shareholders and the wider economy, the Governance balance of risk and reward between The Remuneration Committee was in place throughout 2013 and held eight meetings.
shareholders and executives and, closer to ChrisGrigg joined the Committee on 1 July 2013 and Lee McIntire served on the Committee home, the effectiveness of remuneration until he stepped down from the Board on 20 August 2013.
All its members are independent committees.
All members of the Remuneration inaccordance with the provisions of the Code.
Committee have followed this debate and the The Chief Executive and the Companys Chairman attend Committee meetings by invitation evolution of the new regulations closely.
They do not attend where their individual remuneration is discussed and no director is are therefore keenly aware of the important involved in deciding his own remuneration.
governance role that the Committee plays and the regulatory and governance requirements Summary of responsibilities to which we are required to adhere.
Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, members of the Executive Committee EC, the Company Secretary and other senior executives The remuneration policy that we have set out in this report is the result of a detailed review Within the agreed policy, determining individual remuneration packages for the Chairman, that began with a broad discussion and executive directors and EC members analysis of what we wished to achieve and thevarious remuneration structures that could Agreeing the policy on terms and conditions to be included in service agreements for the be employed.
The views of our shareholders Chairman, executive directors, EC members, the Company Secretary and other senior informed us throughout our deliberations executives, including termination payments and compensation commitments, where andthe views of our major shareholders applicable weresought directly once the policy had Approving any employee share-based incentive schemes and any performance conditions takenshape.
Ultimately, the work of the to be used for such schemes Remuneration Committee is informed by the wider role we have as non-executive directors Determining any share scheme performance targets in understanding and overseeing the performance of the Company, including the markets in which it operates and the strategy agreed by the Board.
BAE Systems remuneration philosophy The Committees overall approach remains unchanged: we aim to recognise the challenging business environment in which we operate, whilst fostering a Total Performance culture atall levels of the Group.
Our remuneration strategy provides incentives for executives to deliver on the Company goals and rewards them for the achievement of the Groups strategy through a combination of short-term We believe that it is of the incentives targeted at Group, business segment and personal performance as well utmostimpoRtanCe to ensuRe as leadership behaviours, and long-term incentives which are targeted at Group a stRong link betWeen aCtual performance.
We ensure that executive pay RemuneRation ReCeived and the isaligned with Company results and that the interests of our executives are strongly aligned aChievement of ouR stRategiC to those of our shareholders by delivering long-term reward in shares.
Our aim is to andbusiness objeCtives.
provide a total remuneration package that 80 BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Governance GOVERNANCE isfair and transparent and whichbalances EPS performance metric for 2014 Performance In implementing this umbrella plan, there overall commonality of designwith appropriate Share Plan PSP awards will be assessed.
isno intention to change how the total LTI tailoring to  in our quantum is determined, how the various Key Committee decisions different principal markets.
LTIelements are used by geography or the During 2013, the Committee continued to underlying design or operation of the Context to the Committees decisions focus on tackling complexity and ensuring different types of equity award.
The current Our remuneration strategy is to ensure we alignment with key drivers of business LTI opportunity applicable to each of the areable to attract, retain and reward the performance.
Key decisions made by the executive directors remains unchanged.
keytalent we need to realise the Companys Committee during the year were: strategic objectives, deliver on customer Subject to formal shareholder approval The salaries of the Chief Executive and the commitments, lead and inspire employees ofthe new umbrella plan at the AGM in Group Finance Director remain unchanged in and to drive value for our shareholders.
For the second successive year, there Itrecognises the need to be competitive makeawards under this new plan for the will be no increase in base compensation inthose markets in which we operate and first time in Spring 2015.
LTI awards in and no increase in earnings opportunity compete for talent.
A core design objective 2014 will continue to bedelivered under the flowing through to the rest of the package.
isan appropriate balance of short-term and current incentive framework and plan rules The President and Chief Executive Officer of long-term incentives, focused on Group previously approved by shareholders.
BAE Systems, Inc. has been newly appointed performance, business segment performance effective 1 February 2014 and the detail of In the case of the President and Chief and leadership behaviours that underpin a his remuneration package is set out in the Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. Total Performance culture.
50%of the PSP has previously been based The focus of changes to our reward framework on a measure relating to operating cash Annual bonus pay-outs for the executive in recent years has been to improve alignment performance of the US businesses with directors under the annual incentive plan with shareholder value creation and address the other 50% being subject to the same ranged from 48.9% to 54.6% of maximum.
the perceived complexity of our long-term EPS performance condition as applies to incentive arrangements by simplifying our EPS performance over the three-year other executive directors.
In order to create arrangements.
The Committee believes that periodfor awards made in 2011 under stronger alignment of focus and reward the introduction of share options in 2012 thelong-term incentive plans was below outcomes across the entire executive without increasing the expected value of theminimum 5% per annum average leadership team, awards of performance theoverall package has created a direct growthrequirement.
Consequently: shares will be based 50% on EPS growth relationship with absolute share price and 50% on relative TSR for all executive the SMP award granted in 2011 earned performance and a clear line of sight for directors, irrespective of geography.
And with approval at the AGM in The Remuneration Committee has May 2013, we simplified our framework by of the 50% of the awards of shares granted maintained the EPS performance conditions eliminating our Share Matching Plan SMP in May 2011 under the EPS portion of forPSP awards in 2014 at a challenging which was regarded as overly complex.
The the PSP, none will vest.
The performance growth targetof5% to11% per annum.
pay-out experience under our incentive plans outcome against the Total Shareholder provides confidence that the choice and Return TSR condition which applies to We are retaining our requirement for weighting of the performance metrics in our the other 50% of PSP awards granted in executive directors to build up a meaningful incentive plans are appropriately rewarding our May2011 cannot be tested until after personal shareholding, which was increased executive team only when their performance the date of publication of thisreport.
in 2013 for the Chief Executive from 200% delivers tangible business results in line with to 300% of salary and now stands at350% Whilst the Committee considers the award the Groups strategy.
Against this background, for the President and Chief Executive of performance shares, share options and the Committee has continued to consider Officer of BAESystems, Inc. and at 200% restricted stock as essential to provide whether more can be done to reduce for the Group Finance Director.
incentives and reward executives complexity and provide even greater clarity appropriately and ensure competitiveness We intend in practice to operate the Directors and transparency for shareholders.
of design in our different major markets, remuneration policy from the 2014 AGM.
For In 2013, our performance against annual weare proposing the introduction of a the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, the incentive targets was as follows: Our adjusted single umbrella plan.
If this is approved by legally binding restrictions under such policy underlying earnings per share EPS of 42.1p shareholders at the 2014 AGM, it will will only take legal effect from 1 January 2015 was between threshold and target, driven replace the three current separate subject to shareholder approval.
predominantly by the impacts of Sequestration long-term incentive plans with a single On behalf of the Board on the performance of BAE Systems, Inc. long-term incentive framework with flexibility andthe contract losses in our US Support of delivery vehicles such that Long-Term Carl Symon Solutions business.
Order intake was in line Incentive LTI awards may begranted using Chairman Remuneration Committee with target and the performance for both a mix of performance shares, share options year-end and average net debt was between and restricted stock, underpinned by a target and stretch.
The reported diluted common set ofrules and terms relating to underlying EPS of 41.8p was below the level eligibility and participation, treatment on required for any vesting against the EPS leaving, change of control and exercise of metric applicable to any long-term incentives discretions by the Committee which in awarded in 2011.
This result of 41.8p will turn will be clearer for shareholders when form the baseline figures against which the considering our remuneration policy.
