GOVERNANCE diReCtoRs RemuneRation poliCY It is intended in practice to operate the in the absence of exceptional or unexpected directors which provides an appropriate Directors remuneration policy the Policy circumstances which may necessitate a balance between short-term and long-term from the 2014 AGM.
For the purposes of the change to the Policy, there is currently no reward and between fixed and variable reward Companies Act 2006, the Policy will only take intention to revise the Policy more frequently as described in the table below.
legal effect on 1 January 2015 subject to than every three years.
We use target Whilst our long-term incentive plans provide shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
performance to estimate the total potential the Committee with discretion in respect of reward and benchmark it against reward The Policy will be displayed in the Investors vesting outcomes that affect the actual level packages paid by BAE Systems competitors.
section of the Companys website, immediately ofreward payable to individuals, such after the 2014 AGM.
Our Policy is to set base salary with reference discretion would only be used in exceptional to the relevant market-competitive level.
circumstances and, if exercised, disclosed The Committee considers remuneration policy Actual total direct reward reflects the atthe latest in the report on implementation annually to ensure that it remains aligned performance of the individual and the of the remuneration policy i. e. the Annual withbusiness needs and is appropriately Company as a whole.
The aim is to deliver an remuneration report for the year inquestion.
positioned relative to the market.
However, overall remuneration package for executive Executive directors policy table Element Purpose and link to strategy Base salary Recognise market value ofrole and individuals skills, experience and performance to ensurethe business can attract and retaintalent.
Performance metrics used, weighting and Operation Maximum opportunity time period applicable Salaries are reviewed annually.
Business and individual When considering salary increases for the None.
performance, skills, the scope of the role and the executive directors in their current roles, the individuals time in the role are taken into account when Committee considers the general level of salary assessing salaries, as is market data for similar roles in increase across the Group and in the relevant the relevant market comparator group.
The comparator group for UK executive directors is Actual increases for the executive directors in comprised of selected companies from the top 70 of the their current roles will generally not exceed the FTSE100 and is constructed to position BAESystems average percentage increase for employees as a around the median in terms of market capitalisation.
For whole, taking account of the level of movement the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAESystems, within therelevant UK US comparator group.
Inc. the comparator group is drawn from companies in As a maximum, in exceptional circumstances such the US aerospace and defence sectors, together with as a material increase in job size or complexity, or similar organisations in the general industry sector arecently appointed executive director where the where BAESystems, Inc. is positioned at the median salary is positioned low against the market, the ofthe comparator group by reference to revenue size.
increase will not exceed 10% in any single year.
82 BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Governance GOVERNANCE Executive directors policy table continued Element Purpose and link to strategy Annual incentive Drive and reward annualperformance ofindividuals and teams on both financial and non-financial metrics, including leadership behaviours in order to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value.
Compulsory deferral into shares increases alignment with shareholder interests.
Performance metrics used, weighting and Operation Maximum opportunity time period applicable 7580% of the annual incentive is driven off in-year Chief Executive and the President and Chief Metrics and weightings applicable financial performance, and 2025% is based on driving Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. : 225% in2014: performance and improvement in the area of corporate ofsalary Group earnings per share EPS responsibility and other non-financial objectives 40% Group Finance Director: supporting the Groups strategy.
Group cash 25% 160% of salary Order intake 15% One-third of the total annual incentive amount is subject The pay-out for maximum performance is 200% Safety 5% to compulsory deferral for three years in BAESystems ofon-target.
The pay-out for achieving a threshold Personal objectives 15% shares without any matching.
performance is 40% of the target, with no pay-out Performance is assessed on an A clawback mechanism exists under which part or all of for achieving less than this.
Pay-out for performance annual basis, using a combination the deferred bonus can be recovered if performance for between targets is calculated on a straight-line basis.
ofthe Groups main performance which the bonus was awarded is subsequently restated indicators for the year.
The measures orshown to be materially inaccurate or misleading or include financial and non-financial where the executives employment can be terminated metrics as well as theachievement forcause.
Measures will Cash dividends are payable to the participants on the be weighted each year according to shares during this three-year deferral period.
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87 regarding the selection and weighting of performance metrics.
Notwithstanding performance against the above metrics, all bonus payments are at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which will be based on an assessment of the individuals personal contribution to business performance over the relevant year and leadership behaviours demonstrated in making that contribution, relative to others.
BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 83 GOVERNANCE DIRECtORS REMUNERAtION POLICy Executive directors policy table continued Element Long-term Incentives LtI Performance metrics used, weighting and Operation Maximum opportunity time period applicable All awards are granted based on a percentage of salary See notes 4 and 5 on page 87 and share price at the date of grant.
regarding the selection and weighting of performance metrics.
Dividend equivalents in respect of vested shares are paid at the time of vesting and are not taken into account when determining individual limits.
Pre-vesting clawback provisions apply to all awards and are intended to cover situations, for example, where results are restated or otherwise turn out to be materially inaccurate or where the executives employment can be terminated for cause.
The Committee will establish the targets for each measure at the start of each performance period based on Group projections and market expectations for the business.
The performance conditions for previous awards are described in the Annual remuneration report.
Awards and performance conditions can be adjusted totake account of variations of share capital and other transactions or events.
On a change of control or similar transaction, awards generally will vest to the extent performance conditions are then satisfied ifapplicable and then be pro-rated to reflect the acceleration of vesting unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Alternatively, awards may be exchanged forequivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company.
The share plan rules may be amended from time-to-time by the Committee in certain circumstances including minor changes for administrative, tax or otherregulatory purposes.
Subject to this Policy, performance conditions may be amended in other circumstances if the Committee considers it appropriate.
Performance metrics used, weighting and Operation Maximum opportunity time period applicable It is proposed to consolidate the three long-term Subject to shareholder approval of the proposed See below in relation to Performance incentive plans described below into a single umbrella umbrella plan at the 2014 AGM, over the lifetime Shares and Share Options.
plan with effect from 1 January 2015, subject to ofthis remuneration policy, the Committee will See notes 4 and 5 on page 87. shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
have discretion to vary the weighting and mix of different types of awards within the following limits: a Performance Shares: UK executive directors: Between 50% and 75% of overall LTI Expected Value EV US executive directors: Between 25% and 50% of overall LTI EV b Share Options: Between 25% and 50% of overall LTI EV c Restricted Shares: Applicable to US executive directors only.
Nomore than one-third of overall LTI EV The maximum opportunity in respect of each element is as set out below.
84 BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Governance GOVERNANCE Executive directors policy table continued Element Purpose and link tostrategy Long-term Incentives continued Drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS and Total Shareholder Return Performance Shares TSR performance aligned to the interests of shareholders.
Performance metrics used, weighting and Operation Maximum opportunity time period applicable Awards, typically in the form of nil-cost options, vest and Chief Executive: 250% of salary Metrics and weightings applicable become exercisable in three tranches on the third, to2014 awards: Group Finance Director: 215% of salary fourth and fifth anniversary of grant, subject to 50% of award based on TSR growth performance conditions.
President and Chief Executive Officer of relative to a comparator group of BAESystems, Inc. : 242% ofsalary atleast 12 companies over the For US participants, awards are delivered as conditional three-year performance period.
share awards RSUs which vest automatically on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant, subject to Nil vesting if TSR ranked below performance conditions.
median in the peer group: 25% exercisable if TSR ranked at the median: 100% exercisable if TSR ranked in the upper quintile: pro-rata vesting for performance between median and upper quintile.
Award subject to a secondary financial measure as set out on page 100.
50% of award based on average annual EPS growth over the three years with nil vesting at average annual EPS growth of 5% and 100% vesting at 11% growth.
Pro-rata vesting for intermediate performance.
50% of awards made in 2012 and 2013 for US participants were based on long-term operating cash performance measured at the level of the US businesses in place of TSRgrowth.
Element Purpose and link tostrategy Long-term Incentives continued Drive and reward delivery of TSR performance and sustained improvement in the Share Options Companys share price.
Performance metrics used, weighting and Operation Maximum opportunity time period applicable Subject to a TSR performance condition.
Market value Chief Executive: 300% of salary For share option awards made to options are normally exercisable between the third and theexecutive directors only, exercise Group Finance Director: 300% of salary tenth anniversary of their grant.
is subject to a TSR performance President and Chief Executive Officer of condition as set out above.
BAESystems, Inc. : 390% of salary See notes 4 and 5 on page 87.
Element Purpose and link tostrategy Long-term Incentives continued Provide long-term reward through time-vesting awards principally in the Companys Restricted Shares USmarket.
Performance metrics used, weighting and Operation Maximum opportunity time period applicable The shares are subject only to the condition that the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director: None.
participant remains employed by the Group on the vesting Noteligible See notes 4 and 5 on page 87. date three years after the award date.
These awards are President and Chief Executive Officer of not subject to a performance condition as it is designed BAESystems, Inc. : 100% of salary to address retention issues principally in the US.
BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 85 GOVERNANCE DIRECtORS REMUNERAtION POLICy Executive directors policy table continued Element Purpose and link tostrategy Benefits Provide employment benefits which ensure that the overall package is market competitive when these elements are taken into account.
Performance metrics used, weighting and Operation Maximum opportunity time period applicable Benefits include provision of a company car or cash Benefits are set at a level which the Remuneration None.
equivalent, life assurance and ill-health benefit cover Committee considers to be appropriate against which are provided directly or through membership of comparable roles in companies of similar size in the Companys pension schemes.
Opportunity for UK executive directors to participate in Relocation assistance comprises reimbursement the Share Incentive Plan, a tax approved all-employee for direct items of expenditure, such as legal, estate plan.
agency, removals and temporary accommodation, based on actual costs incurred which are linked to Additional benefits such as relocation assistance may the size and value of the property, plus a also be provided in certain circumstances if considered maximum relocation allowance of 2,500. reasonable and appropriate by the Committee.
Benefits are as reported and itemised within the single total figure shown as part of the Annual remuneration report on page 93.
The main benefits in the UK include a car allowance 16,000 per annum and private use of a chauffeur-driven car, plus life assurance and ill-health benefit cover provided through membership of the Companys pension schemes.
In the US, the benefits include a cash allowance for car and parking $20,900 per annum and private use of a chauffeur-driven car, medical and dental benefits, and insured life and disability benefits.
The maximum cost of such benefits will reflect the associated marketcompetitive cost ofprovision.
Participation limits for the Share Incentive Plan are those set by the UK tax authorities from time-to-time.
Element Purpose and link tostrategy Pension Provide competitive post-retirement benefits or cash allowance equivalent.
Performance metrics used, weighting and Operation Maximum opportunity time period applicable For any new externally appointed executive directors in Company contribution of 19% in addition to the UK, membership of the Companys executive defined employee contribution of 6% of base salary only.
contribution plan is offered with Company contributions Under the existing defined benefit scheme, a set as a percentage of base salary.
Individuals may elect maximum of two-thirds of FPE accrued at 1 30th to receive some or all of their pension contribution as a for each year of service.
The US defined contribution plan provides Current UK executive directors are members of the 100%company matching contributions upto BAESystems Executive Pension Scheme and members amaximum of 6% of base salary, subject of the underlying employee pension plan, which provide toUSstatutory limits.
a target benefit for executive directors payable at normal retirement age 62 of 1 30th of final pensionable earnings FPE for each year of service up to a maximum of two-thirds of FPE.
Further detail is provided on page 96 as part of the Annual remuneration report.
Any new externally appointed US executive directors would be offered membership of the US defined contribution plan.
86 BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Governance GOVERNANCE Executive directors policy table continued Element Pension continued Performance metrics used, weighting and Operation Maximum opportunity time period applicable Where executive directors pension entitlement or The difference between the value of the registered accrual is restricted to the Lifetime Allowance and or pension scheme benefits as restricted to the theAnnual Allowance under the relevant pension Lifetime Allowance and Annual Allowance and the scheme the Company may offer an unfunded pension full value of those registered pension scheme promise to offset the impact of these restrictions.
benefits that would be payable if there were no Annual Allowance or Lifetime Allowance restrictions.
Notes to the executive directors policy table Remuneration policy for other employees 1 The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, performance and market data for similar roles in other companies.
2 All leaders may participate in an annual bonus scheme with similar metrics to those used for the executive directors.
Other employees may participate in performance-based incentive plans which vary by organisational level and with relevant metrics for the particular area of the business.
3 Long-Term Incentive grants may be made to the most senior managers in the business approximately 250 individuals globally.
The nature of the awards depends onthe individuals location, roles and responsibilities, in particular: performance measures and targets for performance share grants are made in line with those applying to executive directors: there are no performance conditions attached to share option grants below executive director level: and Restricted Share grants are currently made to the most senior managers in the US reflecting competitive market practice.
Performance measures and targets 4 The Committee selected the performance conditions because these are central to the Companys overall strategy and are the key metrics used by the executive directors to oversee the operation of the business.
The non-financial performance targets are determined by the Committee in consultation with the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
5 The performance measures and targets are determined annually by the Committee, taking account of the Groups strategic objectives, the internal business planand budgets, aswell as external market expectations and general economic conditions.
The Committee is of the view that the performance targets for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them before the start of the financial year.
The targets will be disclosed retrospectively after the end of the relevant financial year.
Minimum Shareholding Requirement MSR 6 The Committee has agreed a policy whereby the executive directors are required to establish and maintain a minimum personal shareholding equal toa set percentage of base salary.
An Initial Value must be achieved as quickly as possible using shares vesting or options exercised through the executive share option schemes and other Long-Term Incentive schemes by retaining 50% of the net value i. e. the value after deduction of exercise costs and tax of shares acquired under these schemes.
Once the Initial Value is achieved, a Subsequent Value must be achieved in the same way, except that a minimum of 25% of the net value must be retained on each exercise or acquisition.
Shares owned beneficially by the director and his her spouse count towards the MSR.
The MSR does not apply after the individual has ceased to be a director.
Any case of non-compliance would be dealt with by the Committee.
The following table sets out MSR Initial Value and Subsequent Value: Initial Value Subsequent Value Chief Executive 150% 300% Group Finance Director 100% 200% President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. 175% 350% BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 87 GOVERNANCE DIRECtORS REMUNERAtION POLICy Illustration of application of remuneration policy The following charts show the value of the package each of the executive directors would receive based on 2014 base salaries, remuneration and2014 LTI awards assuming the following scenarios: minimum fixed pay including salary, benefits and pension as provided in the single figure table on page 93 : pay receivable assuming on-target performance is met: and maximum pay assuming variable elements pay out in full.
Thescenarios below exclude any share price appreciation and dividends.
UK legislation requires that these charts are given in relation to the first year in which the remuneration policy takes legal effect.
Rather than providing further charts for assumed 2015 remuneration and awards, we invite shareholders to assume similar levels for 2015 and we will report on actual levels in 2015.
President and Chief Executive Of cer of Chief Executive 000 Group Finance Director 000 BAE Systems, Inc. $000 Chief Executive 000 Maximum 20% 33% 47% 6,643 Maximum 35% 23% 42% 3,746 Maximum 27% 29% 44% 7,321 Maximum 20% 33% 47% 6,643 On-target 38% 31% 31% 3,513 On-target 57% 19% 24% 2,268 On-target 47% 26% 27% 4,121 On-target 38% 31% 31% 3,513 Minimum 100% 1,346 Minimum 100% 1,289 Minimum 100% 1,959 Minimum 100% 1,346 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 Value of package $000 Value of package 000 Value of package 000 Value of package 000 Fixed elements of remuneration Fixed elements of remuneration Fixed elements of remuneration Fixed elements of remuneration Annual bonus PSP and Share options Annual bonus Annual bonus Annual bonus NoPSP and ExSOP n-executive directors NEDs policy table PSP and ExSOP PSP and ExSOP Element Purpose and link tostrategy Fees To attract NEDs who have a broad range of experience and skills to provide independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
Performance metrics used, weighting and Operation Maximum opportunity time period applicable NEDs fees are set by the Non-Executive Directors Actual fee levels are disclosed inthe Annual None.
remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
NEDs receive a basic fee with an additional fee for those The current Chairmans fee has been set at who are chairmen of committees and or undertake the 650,000 and fixed at this level for three years role of Senior Independent Director.
from the date of appointment 1February 2014.
NEDs also receive a travel allowance per meeting on each The aggregate cost of fees and benefits paid to occasion that a scheduled Board meeting necessitates NEDs including the Chairman will not exceed an air travel of more than five hours one way to the annual limit of 2.5m.
meeting location, subject to a maximum of six travel allowances per year.
Fees are typically reviewed annually, taking into account time commitment requirements and responsibility of the individual roles, and after reviewing practice in other comparable companies.
The Chairmans fees are set by the Remuneration Committee on a three-year basis and not normally subject to review during that period.
Element Purpose and link tostrategy Benefits Reimbursement for reasonable and documented expenses incurred in the performance ofduties.
Performance metrics used, weighting and Operation Maximum opportunity time period applicable NEDs are not eligible to participate in any pension benefits See the aggregate limit under Fees above.
provided bythe Company, nor do they participate in any performance-related incentives.
The Chairman is provided with a chauffeur-driven car.
This may be used for non-Company business, but the cost of the benefit of such usage shall be paid by the Chairman.
Reimbursement of travel and subsistence costs including payment of the associated tax cost incurred by the director or his her spouse whilst undertaking duties on behalf of the Company that may be assessed as a benefit for tax purposes.
88 BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Governance GOVERNANCE Prior commitments The Company will honour any commitments made in respect of executive director and non-executive director remuneration before the date on which either: i the Directors remuneration policy becomes effective or ii an individual becomes a director, even where such commitments are not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time any such commitment isfulfilled.
This includes without limitation all existing share awards 2012 as detailed on page 102 under the PSP, SMP, RSP, ExSOP and ExSOP, Linda Hudsons leaving arrangements as detailed on page 98 and Peter Lynas second residence allowance as detailed on page 93.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The recruitment policy provides an appropriate framework within which to attract individuals of the required calibre to lead a company of BAESystems size, scale and complexity.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for any appointment to anexecutive director position, either from within or outside BAE Systems.
Operation The Remuneration Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors, including overall total remuneration, the type of remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited, and will operate in order to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary to secure the individual of the required calibre.
The fees and benefits applicable to the appointment of any new non-executive directors will be in accordance with the policy table onpage 88.
Opportunity The Committee seeks to align the remuneration package offered with the policy set out in the executive directors policy table above recognising that participation under the policy above varies by geography.
For UK and other non-US executive director appointments, participation in annual incentive plans will not exceed 225% of annual salary and long-term awards under this policy will not exceed 550% of annual salary.
For US executive director appointments, participation in annual incentive plans will not exceed 225% of annual salary and long-term awards under this policy will not exceed 750% of annual salary.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out existing equity or, in exceptional circumstances, otherelements of remuneration forfeited on leaving the previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the time over which they would have vested.
Buy-out awards would be capped to be no higher, on recruitment, than the fair value of those forfeited.
Full details will be disclosed in the next Annual remuneration report following recruitment which will include details ofthe need to grant a buy-out award.
Fixed The salary level will be set in accordance with the policy described in the executive directors policy table above.
elements The executive director shall be eligible to participate in applicable BAE Systems employee benefit plans, including coverage under base salary, applicable executive and employee pension and benefit programmes in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plans, retirement asmay be amended by the Company in its sole discretion from time to time.
and other benefits In the case of promotion of an existing Group employee to an executive directorship on the Board, commitments made before such promotion will continue to be honoured whether or not they are consistent with the remainder of this policy.
Annual The appointed executive director will be eligible to earn a discretionary annual bonus in accordance with the Annual Incentive Incentive framework as described in the executive directors policy table above.
Plan The level of opportunity will be consistent with the policy disclosed in the executive directors policy table in this report and subject tothe maximums referred to therein.
Long-term The executive director will be eligible for equity awards in such amounts as the Committee may determine in itssole discretion, Incentive subject to this policy and the rules of the Long-Term Incentive Plans.
Plans The level of opportunity will be consistent with the policy set out in the executive directors policy table above and subject to the maximums referred to therein.
Other For internal and external appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses inaccordance with the provisions described under the Benefits section of the policy table on page 86.
BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 89 GOVERNANCE DIRECtORS REMUNERAtION POLICy Service contracts Executive directors Operation In accordance with long-established policy, all executive directors have rolling service agreements which may be terminated in accordance with the terms of these agreements.
Dates of appointment for executive directors Name Date of appointment Notice period Ian King 27 June 2008 12 months either party Peter Lynas 1 April 2011 12 months either party 1 Jerry DeMuro 1 February 2014 90 days either party Notice period The Committees policy is that the service contracts of executive directors will not exceed 12 months.
In exceptional circumstances, in relation to newly recruiting an executive director operating in a US environment, the notice period may be extended to a maximum of24 months and structured such that it automatically reduces to 12 months at the end of the first complete year of service.
Change of No executive director has provisions in his service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company.
control 1 Jerry DeMuros contract of employment automatically renews for one-year periods from 31 December each year, unless one party gives at least 90 days notice ofnon-renewal.
Chairman The Chairmans appointment is documented in a letter of appointment and he is required to devote no fewer than two days a week to his duties as Chairman.
His appointment as Chairman will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a director of the Company.
His appointment is for a term of three years from 1 February 2014 unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association or by the Company or the Chairman giving not less than six months notice.
The Chairmans appointment is to be reviewed by the Nominations Committee prior to the end of the three-year term and the Chairman may be invited to serve for an additional period.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do have letters of appointment detailing the basis of their appointment.
Thedates of their original appointment are shown below: Expiry of current Name Date of appointment three-year term Paul Anderson 08.10.2009 07.10.2015 Harriet Green 01.11.2010 30.06.2014 Chris Grigg 01.07.2013 30.06.2016 Paula Rosput Reynolds 01.04.2011 30.06.2014 Nick Rose 08.02.2010 07.02.2016 Carl Symon 11.06.2008 10.06.2014 Ian Tyler 08.05.2013 07.05.2016 The non-executive directors are normally appointed for an initial three-year term that, subject to review, may be extended subsequently for further such terms.
Any third term of three years is subject to rigorous review, taking into account the need progressively to refresh the Board.
They do not have periods of notice and the Company has no obligation to pay compensation when their appointment terminates.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are subject to annual election or re-election at the Companys AGM.
90 BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Governance GOVERNANCE Policy on payment for loss of office Operation The policy on payment for loss of office provides a clear set of principles that govern the payments that will be made for loss of office, and take account of the need to ensure a smooth transition for leadership roles during times of change.
The policy that will apply for aspecific executive directors payment for loss of office will be the policy that was in place at the point when the payment for loss of office was agreed for the executive director inquestion.
Notice and Executive directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from either party or termination by way of payment inlieu pay in lieu ofnotice, at the Companys discretion.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
ofnotice Inthe event of the termination of an executive directors contract, it is the Committees policy to seek to limit any payment made in lieuof notice to a payment of not more than one years base salary.
Any compensation payment made in connection with the departure of an executive director will be subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee, having regard to the terms of the service contract and the specific circumstances surrounding the termination, including whether the scenario aligns to an example under the approved leaver criteria, performance, service and health or other circumstances that may be relevant.
Jerry DeMuros contract of employment automatically renews for one-year periods from 31 December each year, unless one party gives at least 90 days notice ofnon-renewal.
If the employment is a terminated by the Company other than for cause as defined inthe contract or b he resigned for a Good Reason asdefined in his contract, he is entitled to a termination payment equal to i one years base salary and ii a pro-rated bonus for the relevant financial year.
Hewill also be entitled to a continuation of medical benefits for 18 months or a cash payment in lieu.
Retirement As governed by the rules of the relevant pension plan.
No enhancement for leavers will be made.
benefits Annual The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to make an annual incentive payment as part of the termination package.
Incentive Where an executive directors employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the Plan executive director will remain eligible for an annual incentive award for that performance year subjectto an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event ofgross misconduct.
Where an executive director leaves by reason of death, ill-heath, retirement, a transfer of business or redundancy, the Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to determine that an executive director is entitled to receive abonus subject to an assessment based on performance over the period and pro-rated for time in respect of the financial year in which the individual ceased employment.
If the Remuneration Committee regards it necessary to use their discretion, it must be shown how this is in the interests of the Company and itsshareholders.
The Committees policy is not to award an annual incentive for any portion of the notice period not served.
Long-term The treatment of outstanding share awards in the event that an executive director leaves is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
Incentive Under the Long-Term Incentive Plans, awards and options generally vest and or become exercisable where an executive director Plans leaves by reason of ill-health, injury, disability, retirement with the agreement of the Company, redundancy or leaving in such circumstances as the Committee determines each an approved leaver.
Awards and options generally continue and vest on the normal vesting date or, in the case of Performance Shares, the first normal vesting date, unless the Committee determines that theawards should vest on cessation.
Any performance conditions will be applied at the time of vesting.
In the event of death, awards generally vest at the time of death subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions atthat time.
Awards are then pro-rated as set out below.
On the vesting and or exercise of awards and or options as set out above, the number of shares received will, unless the Committee decides otherwise, be reduced pro-rata to reflect the period in which the executive director was in employment asa proportion of therelevant vesting or performance period as applicable.
Where an executive directors employment is terminated for any other reason, his awards and options will lapse.
If the Remuneration Committee regards it necessary to exercise its discretion as permissible under the share plan rules, then disclosure will include an explanation of how the application of discretion was in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Where an executive directors employment is terminated or an executive director is under notice of termination for any reason at the date of award of any Long-Term Incentive awards, no Long-Term Incentive awards will be made.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Committee does not consult directly with employees as part of the process for reviewing executive pay.
When considering salary increases for the executive directors, the Remuneration Committee considers the general level of salary increase across the Group and inthe external market.
Stakeholder considerations The Remuneration Committee conducts an annual programme of consultation with major shareholders in order to seek their input to the development of remuneration policy or plans.
