Directors remuneration report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT A remuneration policy that is aligned with shareholders interests Ian Henderson, Chairman of Remuneration Committee bring about this transformation, including the ANNUAL STATEMENT securing of planning consent for the Earls Court Dear Shareholders Masterplan, the nalisation and exercise of the CLSA, This report covers the work of the Remuneration the continued letting success at Covent Garden and Committee in the past year.
The key objective for the the securing of a resolution to grant planning consent Committee, as in previous years, is to ensure that the for the Kings Court and Carriage Hall proposals, the executive team are appropriately incentivised, and Committee has exercised an existing discretion to that the remuneration arrangements are fully aligned award a 2:1 match on the deferred element of the with the Companys strategy to provide long-term Executive Directors 2013 annual bonuses.
This market-leading returns to shareholders.
additional award is subject to more stretching performance conditions which are set out on page 75, Management incentives are linked to the KPIs which and to a two-year post-vesting holding period.
the Company uses to create and grow value for shareholders.
These KPIs are set out on page 11.
I reported last year that the Committee felt that the In 2013 Capco signi cantly exceeded each of its KPI salary of the Chief Executive remained below the level performance targets, delivering total shareholder that re ected the Companys performance.
At present, return of 36.6 per cent, total property return of the Chief Executives salary is some 12 per cent below 21.9 per cent and total return of 23.1 per cent.
the median for FTSE350 property companies, taking The remuneration of the Executive Directors into account Capcos relative market capitalisation.
Accordingly, following both further excellent performance and corporate growth, which brings an There has been much public comment about the new inherent increase in responsibility, the Committee remuneration reporting regulations introduced by has awarded a 6 per cent salary increase to the Chief BIS, and this report follows these requirements.
The Committee is minded to keep The single gures of remuneration set out on page 71 the Chief Executives salary under review in 2014 and, re ect the strong alignment of Capcos remuneration if appropriate, consider a similar level of increase in policy with shareholders interests: the signi cant 2015, depending on circumstances at that time.
impact on Directors remuneration of the share price growth that has bene ted all shareholders is The Committee believes that its remuneration policy illustrated on page 77. has been successful in incentivising management to deliver value for shareholders, and therefore hopes to The remuneration policy in the policy report, which receive your support at our AGM.
we wish to apply from our 2014 AGM, will be subject to a binding vote at the 2014 AGM.
The annual report on remuneration, which explains how the Remuneration Committee has implemented the remuneration policy over the last year and how it intends to implement the remuneration policy this Ian Henderson year, the second year of a three-year cycle, will also be Chairman of Remuneration Committee put to a shareholder vote.
25 February 2014 The Executive Directors have led a transformation of Capco since its establishment in 2010.
This year, Members: in recognition of the Companys transition and the Ian Henderson Chairman Henry Staunton achievement of numerous milestones required to Andrew Huntley Andrew Strang 62 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements COMPLIANCE STATEMENT This report has been prepared by the Remuneration proposed at the Annual General Meeting AGM of Committee on behalf of the Board and complies with the Company to be held on 2 May 2014.
The Committee the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing intends that the policy will come into eff ect from the Authority, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized date of the 2014 AGM.
Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports The information in this report subject to audit Amendment Regulations 2013 and the UK Corporate comprises the single gure of remuneration and Governance Code.
In accordance with Section 439 of associated detail, the incentive achievement for 2013, the Companies Act, an advisory resolution to approve the incentives to be awarded in 2014 and the details the Annual Report on Remuneration for 2013 and a of Directors shareholdings and share interests.
binding vote on the remuneration policy will be The Committee aims to achieve an 1.
POLICY REPORT appropriate balance between xed and This section of the Directors Remuneration variable remuneration, and between Report sets out Capcos future variable remuneration based on short-term remuneration policy.
Details of actual and longer-term performance.
Fixed remuneration paid, share awards made, remuneration includes base salary, bene ts and the associated performance conditions and pension.
Variable remuneration are set out within the annual report on includes an annual bonus, half of which remuneration which starts on page 70. is deferred in shares and may be matched 1.1 Remuneration policy via the Matching Share Plan MSP, The key objectives of the Companys co-investment under the MSP and awards remuneration policy are to: under the Performance Share Plan PSP.
Strongly align executive and The remuneration policy is aligned to the shareholder interests strategy and nature of the Company, and re ects the importance of total return and Underpin an eff ective pay-forthe long-term nature of Capcos business, performance culture rewarding the Executive Directors for Support the retention, motivation and delivering strong performance against recruitment of talented people who are the Companys Key Performance commercially astute Indicators KPIs.
Encourage executives to acquire The Remuneration Committee is not and retain signi cant holdings of proposing any material amendments to the Capco shares Companys existing remuneration policy.
Details of each element of remuneration, their operation, purpose, link to strategy and performance metrics are set out in this section.
com 63 Directors remuneration report continued 1.2 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR POLICY TABLE The table below summarises each of the components of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Base Salary To provide an appropriately Base salaries are reviewed on an annual basis, with any increase taking eff ect from 1 April.
competitive base salary, whilst placing The Committee reviews base salaries with reference to: emphasis on the performance related other property companies including the constituents of the long-term incentive plans comparator group elements of remuneration.
UK companies of a similar size The Committee believes base salary each Executive Directors performance and contribution during the year for high-performing experienced scope of each Executive Directors responsibilities Executive Directors should be at changes to the remuneration and overall conditions of other employees least median.
When reviewing base salaries, the Committee is mindful of the gearing eff ect that increases in base salary will have on the potential total remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Bene ts To be appropriately competitive with Bene ts will be in line with those off ered to some or all employees and may include private dental and those off ered at comparator companies.
healthcare, life insurance, personal accident cover, travel insurance, income protection and a car allowance, currently paid in cash.
Other bene ts may be introduced from time to time to ensure the bene ts package is appropriately competitive and re ects individual circumstances.
For example, Directors may be off ered relocation and or expatriate bene ts should a Director be required to relocate as a result of emerging business requirements.
Pension To be appropriately competitive with Capco off ers a fide ned contribution pension scheme.
that off ered by comparator companies.
Executive Directors may elect to be paid some or all of their entitlement in cash.
Annual Bonus To incentivise and reward performance.
The annual bonus arrangements are reviewed prior to the start of each financial year to ensure performance measures and weightings are appropriate and support the business strategy.
The Committee selects performance measures and targets each year to The Committee reviews performance against the annual bonus targets but has the ability to take into account reinforce the strategic business broader factors and may exercise two-way discretion to ensure that the annual bonus awarded properly re ects priorities for the year.
the performance of the Company and each Director.
The deferral of half of the bonus into Adjudication of bonuses will be explained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
shares is designed to further align 50 per cent of any bonus earned is deferred in Capco shares or nil-cost options for three years under the MSP executives with shareholders interests.
subject to risk of forfeiture should an Executive Director leave the Company.
Alternatively the Committee may invite Executive Directors to use 50 per cent of their net bonus to purchase shares in the Company which will be matched under the MSP and held for three years subject to equivalent restrictions.
Performance Share Plan PSP To incentivise and reward long-term Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards under the PSP, which may be made as market value share outperformance, and help retain options, shares, or nil-cost options, at the discretion of the Committee.
Executive Directors over the In assessing the outcome of the performance conditions, the Committee must satisfy itself that the gures are longer term.
a genuine re ection of underlying financial performance, and may exercise discretion when determining the proportion of an award that will vest.
Matching Share Plan MSP To further align the interests of A matching award may be made in respect of deferred bonus described above.
Executive Directors with those Executive Directors may also be off ered the opportunity to co-invest up to 150% of salary in aggregate across of shareholders.
outstanding award cycles under the MSP.
To enable participants to enhance their In assessing the outcome of the performance conditions, the Committee must satisfy itself that the gures are long-term incentive opportunity by a genuine re ection of underlying financial performance, and may exercise discretion when determining the committing to signi cant long-term proportion of an award that will vest.
To provide a link between short-term and long-term remuneration.
All Employee Share Schemes The Company does not currently operate any All Employee Share Schemes, however if such a scheme were introduced the Executive Directors would be able to participate on the same terms as other employees.
64 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of the The Committee considers individual and Company performance when setting annual review and will normally be in line with increases awarded base salary.
However, the Committee may make additional adjustments in certain circumstances to re ect, for example, an increase in scope or responsibility, to address a gap in market positioning and or to reward the long-term performance of an individual.
The Chief Executive will have the highest base salary of all Executive Directors, and the maximum base salary for the Chief Executive will be within the top quartile of the Chief Executive salaries for the constituents of the long-term incentive schemes comparator group current constituents listed on page 75.
Set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate in light of N A relevant market practice for the role and individual circumstances.
The cost of all bene ts will not exceed 10 per cent of base salary, with the exception of any future expatriate and or relocation bene ts, which would be disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
The maximum and current contribution rate for Executive N A Directors is 24 per cent of base salary.
The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is Executives performance is measured relative to challenging targets in key financial, 150 per cent of annual salary with a bonus of 75 per cent of salary operational, and strategic measures.
The measures selected and their weightings vary payable for achieving target levels of performance.
No bonus is each year according to the strategic priorities.
payable for below threshold performance.
The payment for At least 75% of the bonus will be measured against financial performance.
threshold performance will not exceed 10 per cent of maximum.
Measures and respective weightings used for the current annual bonus, and proposed Awards are made on a straight-line basis for performance between for next years annual bonus are set out in the annual report on remuneration on threshold and target, and on a separate straight-line basis for pages 72 and 73. performance between target and maximum.
An explanation of how the performance measures were chosen and how the performance targets are set is given on page 66.
Each year participants may be granted up to 150 per cent of salary in PSP awards vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, however the additional shares or nil-cost options or up to 300 per cent of salary in market element of an exceptional award is subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period.
The vesting of awards is subject to continued employment and the Companys In exceptional circumstances the Committee can make awards of Performance over a three-year performance period based: up to 200 per cent of salary in shares or nil-cost options or up to 50% on relative Total Return Net Asset Value growth plus dividends 400 per cent of salary in market value share options.
50% on relative TSR The Committees policy is to consider exceptional executive For both measures, performance is measured relative to a comparator group performance in the year prior to grant as a circumstance that could comprising the largest FTSE350 property companies.
warrant the granting of exceptional awards under incentive plans.
The performance measures and weightings which apply to the PSP are reviewed by For awards made under the usual scheme limit, 33 per cent vests the Committee annually, and the Committee may make non-signi cant changes to for median performance.
Where an exceptional award is made, the weightings and or comparator group to ensure that they remain relevant to the 25 per cent vests for median performance.
Company strategy and suitably stretching.
Details of the performance conditions for previous years awards, and those proposed for 2014 awards are set out in the annual report on remuneration on pages 74 to 75.
Participants may earn up to one matching share for each invested MSP awards vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, however the additional share, in normal circumstances.
element of an exceptional award made in respect of deferred bonus is subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee can award two matching shares for each invested share.
The vesting of awards is subject to the same conditions as the PSP.
The Committees policy is to consider exceptional executive Details of the performance conditions for previous years awards, and those proposed performance in the year prior to grant as a circumstance that could for 2014 awards, are set out in the annual report on remuneration on pages 74 to 75. warrant the granting of exceptional awards under incentive plans.
An explanation of how the performance measures were chosen and how the For awards made under the usual scheme limit, 33 per cent vests performance targets are set is given on page 66. for median performance.
Where an exceptional award is made, 16.5 per cent vests for median performance.
In line with HMRC approved limits.
com 65 Directors remuneration report continued provides an appropriately objective and been met, the Committee consults with its 1.3 NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE relevant measure of Capcos success independent remuneration adviser.
The Performance measurement selection which is strongly aligned with calculation of the returns is also reviewed Annual Bonus Scheme shareholders interests.
by the Companys auditors as appropriate.
Executive Directors may earn bonuses depending on the Companys financial The Committee believes that NAV growth The performance targets are set by the performance and their own individual is the most important internal measure of Committee following an analysis of internal performance.
The current structure of the success for Capco at this time.
Accordingly, and external expectations, and are believed annual bonus performance conditions is the Committee considered it appropriate to to be appropriately stretching.
illustrated within the annual report on reward NAV performance in both the short The current structure of the long-term remuneration on page 72.
The financial and long-term incentive arrangements, incentive performance conditions is performance measures and the importance with 1-year absolute NAV growth being illustrated within the annual report on of each are set out in the table below.
used in respect of the annual bonus remuneration on page 75. arrangements and 3-year relative NAV as The annual financial performance targets the main component of 3-year Total Return Payments resulting from existing are set by the Committee in the first being used in respect of the long-term arrangements quarter of each year following an analysis incentives.
NAV is used as a performance Executive Directors are eligible to receive of external and internal expectations measure by over half of FTSE350 property payment resulting from contractual compiled by the Committees independent companies in their long-term incentive arrangements entered into or the vesting of adviser, Kepler Associates.
any award made prior to the approval and sets targets it believes to be appropriately implementation of the remuneration policy stretching, but achievable.
Relative TSR helps align the interests of detailed in this report.
Executive Directors with shareholders Long-term incentives by incentivising share price growth and, As mentioned above, the performance Bonus malus in the Committees view, provides an conditions are consistent for the MSP and Awards granted from 2013 other than objective measure of the Companys PSP, which ensures that the interests of awards made in respect of the 2012 financial long-term success.
participants in diff erent plans are aligned, year are subject to bonus malus in the event and comprise two measures: of gross misconduct of a Director which Performance is measured relative to a is considered to have had a material comparator group comprising the largest Three-year relative Total Return TR, detrimental impact on the business of any FTSE350 property companies and Capco.
growth in NAV per share plus dividends group company or to have brought the The members of the comparator group are Three-year relative Total Shareholder business of such company into signi cant shown in gure 4 on page 75.
Return TSR, increase in price of an disrepute, or in the event that the prior In order for any awards to vest, the ordinary share plus dividends financial statements of any group company Committee must also satisfy itself that or any business unit or division of any The Committee believes that these two the TR and TSR gures are a genuine group company are materially restated, measures are the most appropriate re ection of underlying financial corrected or amended.
The application measures of long-term success for performance.
In assessing the extent to of any malus is at the discretion of the Capco as long-term relative performance which the performance conditions have Remuneration Committee.
Why is each performance measure appropriate for Capco?
Measure Reason Growth in Net Asset Value Considered by the Committee to be the most important driver of value creation for Capco at the present time.
per share Relative Total Property Return Rewards the additional portfolio value created by management over and above any changes in value from tracking the property market as a whole, as measured by IPD.
Earnings Per Share Rewards value growth in net rental income as well as the management of nancing and other costs.
However, given the current stage of the Companys development, the Committee considers EPS to be less relevant as an indicator of value creation than growth in Net Asset Value per share.
66 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Venues business has separate future reward opportunity for each Remuneration of employees below remuneration arrangements appropriate Executive Director, and the potential the Board for that business.
These comprise salary, split between the diff erent elements of The policy and practice with regard to the separate pension arrangements and remuneration under three diff erent remuneration of head offi ce and Covent discretionary bonuses.
performance scenarios: Below Threshold, Garden employees below the Board is Target and Maximum.
consistent with that for the Executive Shareholding guidelines Directors, except as set out below.
The Below Threshold scenario includes The Chief Executive is required to achieve base salary, pension and bene ts xed pay.
a shareholding in the Company equivalent Employees below Board level have not, No annual bonus or PSP and MSP elements to 300 per cent of salary and the other to date, participated in the MSP but do are included variable pay.
The Target Executive Directors are required to achieve participate in the PSP with awards being scenario includes xed pay, on target bonus a shareholding in the Company equivalent subject to the same performance conditions and threshold vesting of PSP and MSP to 200 per cent of base salary, to be achieved as apply to awards made to Executive awards.
The Maximum scenario includes by retaining at least 50 per cent of any Directors with the exception of the xed pay, maximum bonus and full vesting vested share awards net of tax and or conditions that apply to any exceptional of PSP and MSP awards.
The Committee believes portion of an award made to an Executive that these shareholding requirements are Director.
The 2014 awards for employees For variable pay, the amounts illustrated the most stringent in the listed property below the Board will be subject to the same are the normal maximum opportunities, sector in the UK.
The current shareholdings performance conditions as previous years except for the 2013 MSP co-investment of the Executive Directors are set out on awards.
In exceptional circumstances, such matching opportunity which is based on page 79.
The Chairman is required to as recruitment, long-term incentive awards an exceptional match on an annualised maintain a shareholding in the Company may be granted without performance co-investment of 50 per cent of salary.
equivalent to 100 per cent of his base fee.
conditions to participants below the Board.
It should be noted that the PSP and MSP awards granted in a year do not normally The pension contribution rate for 1.4 Performance scenario charts vest until the third anniversary of the date employees below the Board is lower The potential reward opportunities of grant.
The projected values of long-term than that for Executive Directors.
illustrated in gure 1 are based on the policy incentives shown here exclude the impact which will apply in 2014, applied to the base Employees below the Board are not of share price movement and dividends.
salary at the salary review date, 1 April 2014, subject to any minimum shareholding and provide estimates of the potential requirement.
Figure 1 Chief Executive Investment Director Finance Director 000 000 000 4,000 4,000 4,000 3,167 54% 2,763 3,000 3,000 3,000 54% 2,264 54% 2,000 2,000 2,000 1,478 1,291 28% 25% 1,060 28% 25% 28% 26% 25% 1,000 673 1,000 1,000 26% 589 486 26% 100% 46% 21% 46% 21% 100% 46% 21% 100% 0 0 0 Below Target Maximum Below Target Maximum Below Target Maximum Threshold Threshold Threshold Fixed Annual bonus Long-term incentives Fixed Annual bonus Long-term incentives Fixed Annual bonus Long-term incentives Salary for Chief Executive assumes a 6% increase Salary for Investment Director assumes a 3.99% increase Salary for Finance Director assumes a 3.99% increase on prior year on prior year on prior year www.
com 67 Directors remuneration report continued 1.5 Approach to recruitment remuneration When hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Element of remuneration Policy on recruitment Maximum opportunity Salary Based on scope and nature of responsibilities of the proposed role: the n a candidates experience: implications for total remuneration positioning vs. market pay levels for comparable roles: internal relativities: and the candidates current salary.
Pension On a similar basis to other Executive Directors.
Bene ts Appropriate bene ts will be provided, which may include the continuation of bene ts received in a previous role.
Annual Bonus New Executive Directors will participate in the annual bonus scheme on Normal policy table limits may the same basis as existing Executive Directors, pro-rated for proportion of be exceeded on recruitment year served.
The maximum additional bonus opportunity will be limited to 50 per cent of salary.
Matching Share Plan New Executive Directors may participate in the MSP on similar terms to As per the normal policy table.
Performance Share Plan New Executive Directors may be granted awards under the PSP on similar terms As per the normal policy table.
Other In determining appropriate remuneration for new Executive Directors, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and where the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of Capco and its shareholders.
Remuneration may include: An award made in respect of a new appointment to buy out existing incentive awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In such cases the compensatory award would typically be a like-for-like award with similar time-to-vesting, performance conditions and likelihood of those conditions being met.
The fair value of the compensatory award would not be greater than the awards being replaced.
To facilitate such a buyout, the Committee may use an award under a diff erent structure or an additional award under the PSP or MSP.
A relocation package, should this be required.
In the event that an employee is promoted to the Board, the Company would honour any existing contractual arrangements.
Awards are subject to performance conditions.
1.6 Service contracts and exit payment policy The service contracts of Executive Directors are approved by the Remuneration Committee and are one-year rolling contracts.
The current contracts commenced on 17 May 2010.
The service contracts may be terminated by either party giving one years notice to the other.
It is the Companys policy that termination payments should not exceed the Directors current salary and bene ts for the notice period.
Where a Director may be entitled to pursue a claim against the Company in respect of his her statutory employment rights or any other claim arising from the employment or its termination, the Committee will be entitled to enter into a settlement agreement with the Director.
The Company may pay a Directors legal fees in relation to any settlement agreement.
When considering exit payments, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants.
Any annual bonus payment in respect of the year of termination is subject to the discretion of the Committee.
Commencement date Notice period Ian Hawksworth 17 May 2010 12 months Soumen Das 17 May 2010 12 months Gary Yardley 17 May 2010 12 months 68 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The table below summarises how MSP and PSP awards are typically treated in speci c leaver circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion: Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards Good leaver Normal vesting date, although Payments are pro-rated for time and remain subject to outstanding performance the Committee has discretion conditions.
Where vesting is accelerated, payments are further pro-rated to re ect the to accelerate extent to which the performance conditions had been satis ed at the date of leaving.
Change of control Immediately Except in certain cases which were set out in full in the Companys prospectus dated 12 March 2010, vesting will be pro-rated for time and remain subject to performance conditions.
However the Committee has discretion to allow awards to vest in full in such circumstances if it deems this to be fair and reasonable Any other reason Awards lapse An individual would generally be considered a good leaver if they left the Groups employment by reason of injury, ill-health, disability approved by the Committee, redundancy or retirement with the agreement of the employing company.
The table above summarises how MSP and PSP awards are typically treated in speci c leaver circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion, for example an individual may be considered a good leaver for any other reason at the absolute discretion of the Committee, and the vesting of awards may be reduced for good leavers.
There are no obligations on the Company contained within the existing Directors service contracts which would give rise to payments not disclosed in this report.
The service contracts of any future-appointed Directors will provide for mitigation in the event of termination.
1.7 Non-executive Director Policy Table The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but instead have letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are reviewed by the Board annually and contain a one month notice period.
The Chairmans letter of appointment contains a twelve month notice period.
Non-executive Directors dates of appointment and unexpired terms: Date of most recent letter of Date of appointment appointment Unexpired term Graeme Gordon 23 Feb 2010 7 May 2013 27 months Ian Henderson 23 Feb 2010 7 May 2013 3 months Andrew Huntley 23 Feb 2010 7 May 2013 3 months Demetra Pinsent 1 May 2012 7 May 2013 15 months Henry Staunton 2 June 2010 7 May 2013 27 months Andrew Strang 23 Feb 2010 7 May 2013 27 months The table below summarises each of the components of the remuneration package for the Non-executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors do not receive any pension, bonus or long-term incentive bene ts from the Company.
Performance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity metrics Fee To recruit and retain The Chairman and Non-executive Director fees Non-executive Director fees may include N A appropriately quali ed are reviewed on an annual basis, with any increase a basic fee and Committee SID fees Non-executive Directors.
as disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
These are set at a level that The Board and Committee review fees with is considered appropriately competitive reference to: in light of market practice, and will not other property companies exceed the aggregate fees permitted by UK companies of a similar size the Companys articles of association.
the time that Non-executive Directors are required to devote to the role Bene ts To be appropriately competitive The Chairmans bene ts include private healthcare The maximum value of the bene ts N A with those off ered at and personal accident and travel insurance provided to Non-executive Directors will be comparator companies the cost of purchasing them in the market.
Other Non-executive Directors will be covered by the Companys travel insurance policy should they be required to travel on Company business.
com 69 Directors remuneration report continued Committee considers the remuneration 1.8 External Directorships 1.10 Consideration of shareholder views and overall conditions of all employees.
The Companys policy is to encourage each It is the Committees policy to consult The Committee does not consult with Executive Director to take up one or more with major shareholders as appropriate employees when deciding remuneration Non-executive Directorships, subject to e. g. prior to nalising any major changes policy, but it receives regular updates from Board approval.
Fees received for serving to its executive remuneration policy.
the HR Director on salary increases, bonus as a Non-executive Director of a company The shareholder engagement undertaken and share awards made to Group employees outside the Capco Group are retained by by the Committee Chairman and Company and is aware of how the remuneration the Executive Director.
Details of current Chairman during 2013 and early 2014, and of Directors compares to that of other external appointments are set out on its conclusions, are described in section 2.3 employees, for example, salary increases page 50. of this report.
are generally in line with increases 1.9 Consideration of conditions awarded to other employees, which are elsewhere in the Company set with reference to market data.
When setting Executive Director pay the and target setting.
Kepler Associates is a It is the Committees policy to consult with 2.
ANNUAL REPORT ON member of the Remuneration Consultants major shareholders prior to any major REMUNERATION Group and adheres to its code of conduct.
changes to its executive remuneration This section of the Directors Remuneration The Committee has received con rmation structure.
The Chairman of the Committee Report explains how Capcos remuneration of independence from Kepler, and is wrote to the Companys 20 largest policy has been implemented during satis ed that the advice received was shareholders, the Association of British the year.
In addition to Insurers ABI and Institutional 2.1 Remuneration Committee advice provided to the Committee, Kepler Shareholder Services ISS regarding the The Remuneration Committee is also provided share award valuation Committees proposals for executive responsible for determining and services to the Company.
During 2013 the remuneration in 2014 and a number of recommending to the Board the policy Company paid a total of 83,031 to Kepler discussion meetings were held.
for the remuneration of the Executive Associates in respect of advice to the Directors, setting targets for the Companys Committee, Keplers fees were charged incentive schemes and determining the on a time basis.
Matters considered by the total individual remuneration package for Committee over the past year 2.3 Statement of shareholder voting each Executive Director.
include: The table below shows the results of the Membership of the Committee as at 31 advisory vote on the 2012 Directors Remuneration policy and Executive December 2013 and the date of this report Remuneration Report at the 3 May 2013 Director remuneration is set out on page 62.
Shareholder discussion meetings Company Chairman, Chief Executive, Although a signi cant number of votes Company Secretary and the Director of New disclosure requirements and were cast against the 2012 Directors HR & CR are invited to attend Committee shareholder rights Remuneration Report, it is worth noting meetings and contribute, except on matters that the report was supported by the Directors Remuneration Report relating to their own remuneration.
The Committee terms of reference Attendance at the five meetings held during reasons for the voting of shareholders who the year is shown in the table on page 56 Institutional investor voting reports voted against the report were not uniform, and a summary of the matters considered however they included: Setting of and evaluation of by the Committee during the year is set out performance against Executive Size of salary increases awarded to in the adjacent shaded box.
Directors performance targets Executive Directors 2.2 Remuneration Committee and Annual bonus structure and Off er of exceptional 2:1 co-investment its advisers application across the Group opportunity to Executive Directors The Committee appointed Kepler Share scheme awards and Exceptional PSP award made to Associates as its independent remuneration performance targets Executive Directors adviser following a selection process on the Companys establishment.
The Committee Chairman and Chief Executives No binding vote on remuneration policy has received advice on matters including expenses in 2012 remuneration structure, incentive design Voting on Remuneration Report at 2013 AGM Votes withheld Votes for % For Votes against % Against Total votes cast abstentions Approval of Remuneration Report 465,242,480 77.97 131,451,965 22.03 600,928,079 4,233,634 70 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committee received indications of 2.4 Single gure of remuneration support from the largest of its shareholders The tables below show the single gures of but a small proportion of shareholders total remuneration paid to each Director did not fully endorse the proposals in in 2013 and 2012.
The charts in gure 2 on the Directors Remuneration Report.
page 72 illustrate the contribution that The Committee acknowledges that some each element of remuneration made to shareholders do not consider exceptional the total remuneration of the Executive performance to be a circumstance Directors, including the substantial warranting exceptional incentive awards, proportion of remuneration that has and, should the Committee wish to make resulted from the share price growth from an exceptional award in a future year, it which all shareholders have bene ted.
would expect to consult with shareholders.
2 Comprises payments in lieu of pension contributions.
3 In the 2012 gures, this comprises the value on vesting of PSP and MSP awards which had a performance period that ran from 2010 to 2012, and either vested during 2013 or are expected to vest during 2014.
The value on vesting of the 2010 awards has been included in the 2012 single gure as the performance conditions relating to these awards had been substantially but not fully completed during 2012.
On the same basis, the expected value of the 2011 MSP and PSP awards which are expected to vest in early 2014 has been disclosed in the 2013 single gures.
The value of these awards has been calculated using the share price on the date when each award vested, except for share options where the performance conditions have been satis ed but the option is not yet exercisable: for these awards, 3.368, being the average share price for the last three months of 2013 has been used.
100 per cent vesting of the 2011 awards has been assumed.
4 Comprises the value on vesting of the matching share award made to the Chairman in 2010 following his investment of 150 per cent of his annual fee in Capco shares.
Further information on this award can be found on page 77 and in the 2010 to 2012 Directors Remuneration Reports.
com 71 Directors remuneration report continued Figure 2 The gures on the left illustrate the contribution Composition of 2013 single gures that each element of the Executive Directors Remuneration, including share price Ian appreciation, made to the single gure Hawksworth disclosures.
Soumen Das Gary Yardley 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Salary Benets in kind Pension Bonus MSP & PSP Original value Share price growth Composition of 2012 single gures Ian Hawksworth Soumen Das Gary Yardley 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Salary Benets in kind Pension Bonus MSP & PSP Original value Share price growth the long-term incentives are disclosed, the These KPIs include: 2.5 Incentive outcomes in respect of the Committee has decided that disclosing Corporate objectives: enhancing Capcos year ended 31 December 2013 speci c short-term NAV and EPS targets position and reputation in the market: Annual Bonus Scheme would provide a level of information to progress towards meeting medium-term Executive Directors may earn bonuses counterparties that could prejudice the corporate objectives depending on the Companys financial Companys commercial interests.
The Financial objectives: optimising liquidity performance and their own individual Committee expects to publish these and nancing: eff ective cost and capex performance.
Awards are based 75 per cent performance targets once they cease to management: other budgeted KPIs on financial performance, and 25 per cent be commercially sensitive.
Investment objectives: strategic In respect of the year ended 31 December investment initiatives: launch of The financial performance element for the 2013, the Company performed strongly marketing initiatives year ended 31 December 2013 was based on against its financial targets, for example growth in absolute NAV per share NAV, NAV per share was over 9 per cent higher CR HR objectives: optimisation of Total Property Return relative to the IPD than the top end of the target range set by divisional structure: nurturing Total Return All Property Index TPR, and the Committee, and Total Property Return of future leaders: evolution of adjusted EPS EPS.
In determining the at 21.9 per cent compares to 10.9 per cent for environmental targets.
annual targets for these measures in 2013, the IPD index.
The Committee exercised The performance of the Executive the Committee recognised the long-term discretion to modify the EPS outcome to Directors in 2013 was considered to have nature of some aspects of the Companys adjust for the impact of the strong share been excellent, including the continued strategy, and the extent to which this price growth in 2013 that had a material transformation of Covent Garden into a would be re ected in these measures on impact on the measure.
The modi ed world class address, securing resolutions to a 12-month horizon.
The performance EPS gure was within the target range.
grant planning permission for the Kings measures, weightings and targets that Accordingly awards of 107 per cent of Court and Carriage Hall proposals, the applied in respect of the 2013 annual bonus salary were made to each Executive nalisation and exercise of the CLSA, are summarised in the table on page 73.
Director in respect of the financial securing planning consent for the Earls performance measures.
The TPR target is included in the Court Masterplan and the acquisition of Companys KPIs on page 11.
The KPIs are The Committee assessed individual the Empress State Building.
Accordingly, in part dependent upon the occurrence of performance against a set of KPIs which awards of 35 per cent of salary were made certain discrete events.
Therefore, whilst align with the Companys objectives to each Executive Director in respect of the out-performance targets that apply to outlined on page 10 of the Annual Report.
72 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Outcome of 2013 Annual Bonus performance measure Audited Performance Measure Weighting Performance Outcome Chief Investment Finance Chief Investment Finance Executive Director Director Executive Director Director Financial performance % of max 75% Absolute Net Asset Value 9% higher than the top end of per share 55% the target range Maximum Relative Total Property 21.9% compared to IPD index Return 35% return of 10.9% Maximum Adjusted Earnings per Share 10% Within the target range 50% of maximum Individual performance % of max 25% 23% 23% 23% Total performance outcome % of salary 142% 142% 142% Summary of Executive Directors Bonuses in 2013 Executive Director Cash Deferred shares Total Ian Hawksworth 351,450 351,450 702,900 Soumen Das 255,600 255,600 511,200 Gary Yardley 312,400 312,400 624,800 the Committee has awarded an exceptional performance.
The Committee considered Long-term Incentive Arrangements 2:1 matching opportunity in respect of that the MSP had been highly successful Matching Share Plan MSP Directors deferred bonus shares for 2013. and had played a crucial role in motivating The operation of, and the maximum Any additional matching shares will only and retaining management.
Accordingly, opportunities under, the MSP are explained be earned for performance above the and in light of the Companys strong in the remuneration policy on page 65. normal stretch targets, and will be subject performance since 2010, which signi cantly Details of the awards made to Executive to a two-year post-vesting holding period.
exceeded the maximum level of Directors under the MSP in 2013 and in performance rewarded under the original Co-investment opportunity: In 2010 the past years are set out in tables on page 80 performance conditions, the Committee inception year of Capco, Executive and 81.
These awards include deferred off ered the Executive Directors an Directors were invited to co-invest up to bonus shares, and matching awards opportunity to invest up to 150 per cent of 150 per cent of salary in the Companys made in respect of deferred bonus and 2013 salary between 2013 and 2016 when shares during the first 12 months of co-investment, in accordance with the permitted by scheme headroom with an inception subsequently extended to 24 remuneration policy.
exceptional matching opportunity of 2:1. months as the Company was subject to The additional matching opportunity can Annual bonus: In previous years the extended restricted periods during which only be earned for performance above the Committee has awarded a 1:1 match under Directors were unable to purchase Capco normal stretch targets, as illustrated in the MSP in respect of deferred bonus shares in return for the opportunity to gure 4 on page 75.
The MSP awards made shares.
In light of the executive teams receive up to two shares for each share in respect of co-investment under this exceptional performance during 2013, purchased, subject to three-year invitation to date are set out on page 81.
Figure 3 Outcome of 2013 bonus performance objectives Chief Executive Investment Director Finance Director 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% Financial objectives Personal objectives NAV per share Investment objectives CR HR objectives Total property return Corporate objectives Other Adjusted EPS Financial objectives www.
com 73 Directors remuneration report continued Performance Share Plan PSP 2.6 Long-term incentive performance 2.7 Vesting of 2010 and 2011 MSP and The operation of, and the maximum conditions PSP awards opportunities under, the PSP are explained As explained in the policy report, the In 2013 the Committee determined that in the remuneration policy on pages 64 and current performance conditions are the Capcos Total Return had outperformed the 65.
Details of the awards made to Executive same for both the MSP and PSP and median of the comparator group by 3.3% Directors under the PSP in 2013 and in past comprise two equally weighted measures: p. a. vs. an outperformance target of 2.5%, years are set out in the tables on pages 80 and that Capcos Total Shareholder Return Three-year relative Total Return TR, and 81.
Since 2011, in line with common had outperformed the comparator group growth in NAV per share plus dividends market practice, the Committee has made median by 20% p. a. vs. an outperformance awards to Executive Directors in nil cost Three-year relative Total Shareholder target of 4% p. a., and as such the options which utilise a lower proportion of Return TSR, increase in price of an performance conditions relating to the the Companys share capital than market ordinary share plus dividends 2010 PSP and MSP awards had been met in value share options.
Accordingly the 2010 PSP and MSP The Committee has reviewed the awards vest in full subject to continued Following the review of executive performance conditions for the PSP and employment on the third anniversary remuneration in 2012 the Committee made MSP and concluded that the existing of grant.
an exceptional award of 200 per cent of performance measures are believed to be salary in nil cost options to Executive appropriately stretching and remain In 2014 the Committee determined that Directors in 2013 in light of the Companys appropriate.
The Committee believes Capcos Total Shareholder Return had strong performance since demerger which relative TSR outperformance of 4 per cent outperformed the median of the signi cantly exceeded the maximum level per annum to be broadly equivalent to an comparator group by 14.3% p. a. vs. an of performance rewarded under the current upper quartile level of performance.
outperformance target of 4%, and that performance conditions.
The Committee Capcos Total Return was expected to The performance conditions for the MSP has decided that an award of 150 per cent of outperform the median of the comparator and PSP awards made previously which salary in nil-cost options will be made to group by approximately 8.1% p. a. vs. an will continue to apply to MSP awards Executive Directors in 2014. outperformance target of 2.5%p.
a. and made in respect of deferred bonus and as such, subject to final determination In 2013 the Committee determined that the performance conditions for MSP of Capcos relative Total Return the performance conditions relating to co-investment and PSP awards made from outperformance, the 2011 PSP and MSP the market value options awarded under 2013 are illustrated in gure 4 on page 75. awards are expected to vest in full, subject the PSP in 2010 had been satis ed and to continued employment on the third accordingly the awards vested in full.
Details of the performance conditions that apply to awards made under the PSP are set out in gure 4 on page 75.
The potential additional 50 per cent of salary awarded in 2013 can only be earned for performance above the normal stretch targets, as illustrated in gure 4 and is subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period.
The Committee continues to explore ways of structuring future awards under the long-term incentive arrangements in a potentially more tax effi cient manner for participants.
The Committee will ensure that any changes are cost neutral to Capco.
No changes are proposed at this time.
74 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Figure 4 Performance measures for the MSP The graphs below illustrate the proportion of a Matching Share Plan award that will vest at diff erent levels of performance.
3-year TR outperformance 3-year TSR outperformance Exceptional awards All other awards Exceptional awards All other awards Performance conditions for the PSP The graphs below illustrate the value as a percentage of salary, based on the share price at the time of grant of a Performance Share Plan award that will vest at diff erent levels of performance.
3-year TR outperformance 3-year TSR outperformance 2013 2014 and other years 2013 2014 and other years TR and TSR Comparator Group for the PSP and MSP British Land Intu Properties Capco Land Securities Derwent London Segro Great Portland Estates Shaftesbury Hammerson www.
com 75 Matching award as a percentage of the % salary vesting number of shares committed to the MSP % salary vesting Matching award as a percentage of the number of shares committed to the MSP Directors remuneration report continued Scheme interests awarded during the financial year MSP NIL COST OPTIONS AUDITED Market price on Face value Number Performance Exercisable 1 Basis of award date of grant Exercise price of award awarded period between Ian Hawksworth Value of 268.1p Nil 320,623 119,591 2013 2016 02 04 16 Deferred Bonus 01 04 23 Soumen Das Value of 268.1p Nil 249,998 93,248 2013 2016 02 04 16 Deferred Bonus 01 04 23 Gary Yardley Value of 268.1p Nil 284,998 106,303 2013 2016 02 04 16 Deferred Bonus 01 04 23 Ian Hawksworth Match of 268.1p Nil 320,623 119,591 2013 2016 02 04 16 Deferred Bonus 01 04 23 Soumen Das Match of 268.1p Nil 249,998 93,248 2013 2016 02 04 16 Deferred Bonus 01 04 23 Gary Yardley Match of 268.1p Nil 284,998 106,303 2013 2016 02 04 16 Deferred Bonus 01 04 23 Ian Hawksworth Match of 317.2p Nil 793,088 250,028 2013 2016 10 09 13 Co-investment 09 09 23 Soumen Das Match of 317.2p Nil 585,989 184,738 2013 2016 10 09 13 Co-investment 09 09 23 Gary Yardley Match of 317.2p Nil 651,700 205,454 2013 2016 10 09 13 Co-investment 09 09 23 PSP NIL COST OPTIONS AUDITED Market price on Face value Number Performance Exercisable 1 Basis of award date of grant Exercise price of award awarded period between Ian Hawksworth 200 per cent 268.1p Nil 989,999 369,265 2013 2016 02 04 16 of salary 01 04 23 Soumen Das 200 per cent 268.1p Nil 719,999 268,556 2013 2016 02 04 16 of salary 01 04 23 Gary Yardley 200 per cent 268.1p Nil 879,998 328,235 2013 2016 02 04 16 of salary 01 04 23 1 Average closing share price on three business days preceding the date of grant.
2014 which is an increase within the range 2.8 Payments for loss of of ce and 2.11 Statement of implementation of of the expected increases for the rest of the payments to previous directors policy for 2014 workforce.
In addition, the Committee There were no payments for loss of offi ce Salary is minded to keep the Chief Executives or payments to previous Directors The Executive Directors salaries are salary under review during 2014 and, if made during 2013. reviewed annually.
appropriate in 2015, to consider a similar 2.9 Total pension entitlement level of increase to a competitive level, The current salary positioning of the Chief No Director participates in a fide ned bene t depending on the circumstances at the Executive remains below the level that the pension scheme.
The salaries of the Investment Committee believes to be appropriate for Director and Finance Director will be 2.10 External Non-executive the contribution and experience of the increased in line with the average increase individual concerned.
The Committee Directorships for the rest of the workforce, which believes that the Chief Executives salary During the year Ian Hawksworth received is expected to be in the range of 4 to is currently approximately 12 per cent a fee of 25,000 in respect of his Non- 6 per cent.
below the median for FTSE350 property executive Directorship of AIM-listed companies, taking into account Capcos Japan Residential Investment Company The proposed revised salaries for the relative market capitalisation.
No other Executive Director Executive Directors are set out in the Remuneration Committee is proposing to currently serves as a Non-executive table below: raise the salary by 6 per cent to 525,000 in Director elsewhere.
Executive Director Salaries 2013 and 2014 2013 2014 % Increase Ian Hawksworth 495,000 525,000 6.06 Soumen Das 360,000 374,364 3.99 Gary Yardley 440,000 457,556 3.99 76 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements renewal of his appointment.
In addition, Pension and bene ts Matching Share Plan the Company made a matching award of As described in the Policy Table on pages 64 The MSP awards to be made in 2014 are deferred shares comprising 200 per cent of and 65. described on page 73. the number of invested shares in respect Annual bonus Performance Share Plan of each Capco share he purchased within The annual bonus opportunity will remain PSP awards of 150 per cent of salary will be the first 12 months of inception of Capco unchanged for 2014. made in 2014 2013: 200 per cent.
up to 150 per cent of his base fee.
This represented a 1:1 match, grossed up on the The financial performance targets for the The Committee believes that the Executive basis of an income tax rate of 50 per cent.
year ended 31 December 2013 were based on Director remuneration proposed for 2014 This award vested on 10 May 2013. growth in absolute NAV per share, Total is appropriate given performance over the Property Return relative to the IPD Total last year and the importance of the current The remuneration of the Non-executive Return All Property Index, and adjusted management team continuing to deliver Directors is considered by the Chairman EPS.
The Committee has decided that these Capcos ambitious strategy.
and the Chief Executive, with regard to measures remain appropriate for 2014 as market comparatives, and recommended to Chairman and Non-executive Director they re ect the KPIs by which the Company the Board as a whole.
The Non-executive remuneration measures its success.
Further information Director fees are reviewed annually.
The Chairman has been appointed for on the Companys KPIs can be found on Following the 2013 review it was agreed a three-year term, subject to annual page 11.
The weightings of each financial that the Non-executive Director fees would re-election by shareholders, which will measure are unchanged from 2013 and be increased as set out in the table below expire at the 2016 AGM.
The Chairmans re ect the Committees view of their with eff ect from 1 May 2014. annual base fee for 2013 was 225,000, relative importance for 2014 given the however this was varied such that a Non-executive Director fees 2013 and current stage in the execution of Capcos proportion of the fee was paid into a strategy.
The key area of focus for 2014 2014 SIPP arrangement.
continues to be capital growth.
2013 2014 The remuneration of the Chairman is The Committee has decided that the 2014 reviewed annually.
Following the 2013 Basic fee 44,000 45,760 annual bonus targets should not be review it was agreed that the Chairmans Committee disclosed prospectively due to commercial annual base fee would be increased to member 5,500 5,720 sensitivity.
The Committee expects to 234,000 with eff ect from 1 May 2014.
Committee publish the performance targets During his first three years the Chairman Chairman 11,000 11,440 retrospectively once they have ceased also received a car allowance and a to be commercially sensitive.
Senior supplement of 15 per cent of his base fee in Independent lieu of any pension contributions, however Director 11,000 11,440 these transitional bene ts ceased on the 2.12 Chart of single gure vs. TSR Figure 5: Total shareholder return This graph shows the total return at 31 December 2013 350 of 100 invested in Capital & Counties Properties PLC on the first day of trading in its shares following its 300 establishment on 10 May 2010, compared to the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
The Committee considers this benchmark to be the most appropriate for illustrating 250 the Companys performance.
com 77 Directors remuneration report continued 2.13 Percentage increase of Chief Executive Remuneration Audited The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for head offi ce and Covent Garden employees, who have been selected as the comparator as they participate in similar remuneration arrangements to the Executive Directors.
To allow a meaningful comparison, the analysis for employees is based on a consistent group of individuals.
Chief Executive Employees 2012 2013 % change % change Salary 450,000 483,750 7.5 7.7 Taxable bene ts 21,411 21,812 1.9 -3.6 1 Single-year variable 641,250 702,900 9.6 36.6 Total 1,112,661 1,208,462 1 As the 2013 bonus awards are currently being nalised, with the exception of the Executive Directors, the 2011 and 2012 annual bonus gures have been used in the single-year variable analysis.
2.14 Distribution statement The graphs in gure 6 below illustrate Capcos pro t after tax, dividends, and total employee pay expenditure this includes pension, variable pay, and social security for the financial years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013, and the percentage change in each.
The measures above are those prescribed by the remuneration disclosure regulations, however they do not re ect Capcos KPIs, which are explained on page 11.
Accordingly, graphs showing Capcos one-year Total Property Return and Total Return are also included below.
Figure 6 Total property return Total return profit after tax Dividends Employee costs 35 25 25 400 12 23.1% 22.6% 30.8m 21.9% 10.5m 30 21.7% 337.4m 20 20 9.7m 300 9 25.9m 25 15 15 240m 20 200 6 15 10 10 10 100 3 5 5 5 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 0 0 0 0 0 0.2% change from 2012 to 2013 0.5% change from 2012 to 2013 40.6% change from 2012 to 2013 8.2% change from 2012 to 2013 18.9% change from 2012 to 2013 78 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2.15 Statement of Directors shareholdings and Share Interests a Directors Shareholdings The bene cial interests in the shares of the Company for each Director who served during the year are set out in the table below.
The Chief Executive is required to achieve a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 300 per cent of salary and the other Executive Directors are required to achieve a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 200 per cent of base salary, to be achieved by retaining at least 50 per cent of any vested share awards net of tax and or within three years.
The Chairman is required to maintain a shareholding equivalent to 100 per cent of his base fee.
The Committee believes that these shareholding requirements, which have been met, are the most stringent in the UK property sector.
The current shareholdings of the Chairman and Executive Directors are illustrated in gure 7.
Directors Shareholdings including connected persons 2012 and 2013 Audited 2012 2013 Chairman Ian Durant 290,230 568,632 Executive: Ian Hawksworth 479,069 755,604 Soumen Das 236,470 236,470 Gary Yardley 427,972 427,972 Non-executive Graeme Gordon 30,450,061 30,450,061 Ian Henderson 37,601 37,601 Andrew Huntley 75,000 75,000 Demetra Pinsent Henry Staunton 150,000 250,000 Andrew Strang Figure 7: Executive Director and Chairman shareholdings as at 31 December 2013 % of salary 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 Ian Gary Soumen Ian Hawksworth Yardley Das Durrant Actual holding as a % of base salary Deferred bonus share awards Shareholding guideline b Directors Share Interests Audited Details of Executive Directors share scheme interests, including information on share awards that were exercised or vested during the year are set out in the tables below.
i Summary of Directors interests in shares and share schemes full details are set out on pages 80 and 81 Share options not subject to Share options subject to 1 2 Executive Director Shares Held performance conditions performance conditions Total Ian Hawksworth 755,604 891,001 1,912,812 3,559,417 Soumen Das 236,470 1,766,487 1,332,329 3,335,286 Gary Yardley 427,972 2,362,327 1,684,540 4,474,839 Total 1,420,046 5,019,815 4,929,681 11,369,542 1 Comprises MSP awards made in respect of deferred bonus, unexercised 2010 PSP awards and MSP awards made in respect of 2010 co-investment invitation some of which remain subject to a holding period.
2 Comprises MSP and PSP awards that remain subject to performance conditions.
The market price of Capital & Counties Properties PLC shares on 31 December 2013 was 329.2p and during the year the price varied between 239.3p and 366.5p.
c Awards made under the Chairman matching arrangements Audited During the year, the matching share award made to the Chairman in 2010 vested in full.
The following awards of matching shares made to Executive Directors following their purchase of ordinary shares in the Company vested in 2013: Held at Held at Weighted average share 1 January Vested during 31 December Name Date granted price of invested shares 2013 the year 2013 Ian Hawksworth 01 09 10 1.17 564,826 564,826 0 Soumen Das 01 09 10 1.07 210,000 210,000 0 Gary Yardley 01 09 10 1.11 477,158 477,158 0 Total 1,251,984 0 www.
