DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Performance scenario charts xed and variable pay Each year the Committee reviews the policy on executive remuneration The Groups policy seeks to ensure that a substantial proportion of in the context of the business environment, regulation and best practice, Executive Directors remuneration is performance related and that and market trends for the current and subsequent financial years.
The enhanced rewards are only paid for exceptional performance.
The xed and variable remuneration elements are simple, transparent and chart below shows how the composition of each of the Executive aligned with the interests of shareholders and designed to re ect the Directors remuneration packages varies at different levels of views of our investor shareholder bodies and other stakeholders.
performance achievement for the 2013 14 financial year.
Remuneration strategy Chart 1: Executive Directors potential remuneration The Groups current Remuneration Policy aims to: attract, retain, motivate and competitively reward Executive Directors and Value of remuneration packages at different levels of performance Senior Management with the experience, skills and ability to support the 000 achievement of the Groups key strategic objectives in any financial year: 3,500 LTPP award be fully aligned with the performance and strategic objectives of the 3,250 Bonus Group applicable for any financial year: 3,000 Basic salary, benets re ect the interests and expectations of shareholders and 2,750 and pension other stakeholders: 2,500 take account of pay and employment conditions of employees 2,250 across the Group: 2,000 29% 41% reward the sustained growth and pro tability of the business, 1,750 the maintenance of an appropriate capital structure and improve 1,500 the return on capital employed by the business: 29% 41% 29% 41% 1,250 ensure that exceptional performance against challenging targets 1,000 32% 31% is adequately rewarded: 750 32% 31% 32% 31% ensure Executive Directors and Senior Management maintain a 500 long-term focus by deferring any bonus earned in excess of 100% 250 100% 39% 28% 100% 39% 28% 100% 39% 28% of base salary into shares for a minimum of three years and also by 0 requiring Executive Directors to maintain a signi cant shareholding Min OnMax Min OnMax Min OnMax in the Company: Target Target Target conform to market-leading best practice and regulations: Mark Clare, David Thomas, Steven Boyes, encourage management to adopt a level of risk which is in line with Group Chief Group Finance Group Chief the risk pro le of the business and as approved by the Board: and Executive Director Operating officer ensure that there is no reward for failure: that termination payments are limited to those if any that the Executive Director is contractually Assumptions: entitled to: and in exercising its discretion, the Committee robustly 1.
Bene ts the value receivable in the 2013 14 financial year applies the good and bad leaver provisions as fide ned in the rules is taken to be the value received in the 2012 13 financial year as of each of the share schemes operated by the Group.
disclosed in the Directors emoluments table on page 70 of this Remuneration Report: 2.
Bonus the on-target level of bonus is taken to be 50% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
No share price appreciation has been assumed for the deferred share amount payable at maximum bonus: and 3.
LTPP Award the on-target vesting level is taken to be 50% and the maximum value is taken to be 100% of the face value of the award at grant.
No share price appreciation has been assumed.
Elements of Executive Directors total remuneration package The Executive Directors total remuneration package is made up of the following components: Fixed pay Pay for Performance Base Pension Annual Long-term Total Benefits Salary Benefits Bonus Incentives Remuneration BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT The following table sets out a summary of the Companys Executive Directors remuneration package and Non-Executive Directors fee policy.
A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table for the 2013 14 financial year can be found on page 68 of this Remuneration Report.
Base salary Taxable bene ts ELEMENT OF PAY PURPOSE AND LINK To attract and retain high-calibre Executive Directors and Senior To help attract and retain high-calibre Management required to implement the Groups strategy.
Executive Directors and Senior TO COMPANYS STRATEGY Management and to remain competitive To provide a competitive salary relative to comparable companies in the market place.
in terms of size and complexity.
HOW OPERATED Reviewed annually and takes effect from 1 July.
Bene ts include: Company car: IN PRACTICE Review takes into consideration: Annual medical screening: i individual responsibilities, skills, experience and performance: Private medical insurance: ii salary levels for similar positions in other major housebuilders Some telephone costs: and and other companies considered comparable by reference Contributions towards obtaining to market capitalisation: independent tax advice.
iii the level of pay increases awarded across the Group with the exception of promotions : iv economic and market conditions: and v the performance of the Group.
Salaries are paid monthly in arrears in cash.
The Executive Directors base salaries for the 2013 14 financial year can be found on page 69 of this Remuneration Report.
MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY There is no prescribed maximum annual increase.
The Committee N A is guided by the general increase for the broader UK employee population but on occasions may need to recognise changes in the role and or duties of a Director.
N A N A DESCRIPTION OF PERFORMANCE METRICS No change.
CHANGE TO POLICY 60 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pension Annual bonus To help attract and retain high-calibre To motivate and reward Executive Directors and Senior Management for the achievement of demanding Executive Directors and Senior financial objectives and key strategic measures over the financial year.
Management and to remain competitive in the market place.
The performance measures set are stretching whilst having regard to the nature and risk pro le of the Company and the interests of its shareholders.
Variable remuneration allows the Group to manage its cost base by giving it the exibility to react to changes in the market and any unforeseen events.
Executive Directors can elect to either: The Committee sets the performance targets on an annual basis prior to the commencement of participate in the Companys money the forthcoming financial year.
Group and individual performance against these targets is measured purchase scheme: or at the end of the financial year and the level of bonus payable is calculated at that point.
Bonuses up to 100% of base salary are paid in cash.
Any bonus earned in excess of this up to Executive Directors are also eligible a maximum of 50% of base salary is compulsorily deferred into shares for a period of three years, to an insured lump sum of up to five subject to a continued employment condition.
Deferred shares may be forfeitable if an individual times pensionable salary on death leaves prior to the release date.
Deferred shares do not accrue dividends.
Clawback may apply to both the cash and deferred element of the bonus, in the event of material misconduct and or material misstatement or error of financial results.
The Committee has the discretion to, and does, consider the effect of corporate performance on environmental, social and governance risks and issues when setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Senior Management to ensure that remuneration structures do not inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
As a result, part of the bonus outturn may be forfeited in the event of underperformance in respect of customer service and health and safety performance targets.
Annual bonus is not pensionable.
Maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of base salary.
50% of the potential maximum bonus is payable for achievement of on-target performance.
N A A combination of pro t before tax, overall landbank indebtedness, personal objectives and employee engagement targets with penalties for failure to achieve customer satisfaction and health and safety targets.
The weightings of each of these measures in respect of the 2013 14 annual bonus can be found on page 69 of this Remuneration Report.
The Committee retains an absolute discretion in the making of bonus payments, and will continue to consider, among other factors, the underlying financial performance of the business relative to the sector in its decision making.
No change for the 2013 14 financial year with the exception of an increased focus upon minimum landbank and the personal objectives performance measure for Executive Directors.
This performance measure makes up 10% of the total annual bonus and is now in two parts for Executive Directors.
Half of this performance measure is based on the achievement of targets agreed with the Group Chief Executive and in the case of the Group Chief Executive, with the Chairman and the other half is at the discretion of the Committee.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT 1 LTPP Deferred Bonus Plan DBP ELEMENT OF PAY To motivate and reward Executive Directors and Senior Management Any annual bonus which is deferred PURPOSE AND LINK for the delivery of the long-term performance of the Group.
into shares is held in this plan.
TO COMPANYS STRATEGY To facilitate share ownership by Executive Directors and Senior Management.
The aim is to encourage long-term focus and to further align interests with The Committee ensures that targets, whilst stretching, are: realistic those of shareholders and discourage and attainable: for the long-term bene t of the Group: and do not excessive risk taking.
LTPP awards: The Committee utilises the rules HOW OPERATED i are structured as nil-cost options and granted annually so that no of the Groups Co-Investment Plan IN PRACTICE undue emphasis is placed on performance in any one particular the CIP for the purposes of the financial year: DBP.
Under these rules the ii are at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account individual Committee has a discretion which performance and the overall performance of the Group: allows it to award matching shares iii vest on the third anniversary subject to achievement of stretching the Matching Award.
performance conditions measured over three financial years and to continued employment: and However, no Matching Shares are iv are satis ed by either newly issued shares or shares purchased currently awarded to Executive in the market.
Newly issued shares are subject to the dilution Directors or Senior Management.
limits set out in the scheme rules and in accordance with ABI guidelines.
Clawback may apply in the event of material misconduct and or material Clawback may apply in the event of material misconduct and or material misstatement or error of financial results.
misstatement or error of financial results.
The Committee has agreed to grant an award equal to 200% of base Any bonus paid in excess of 100% of MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY salary to the Executive Directors.
In the case of other participants, salary is deferred into shares and held awards will be up to 150% of base salary, unless there are exceptional in the CIP.
individual circumstances, such as planned Board succession or truly exceptional sustained delivery during a plan period in which case, Participants also have the opportunity the Committee retains the discretion to increase a contingent award to voluntarily defer additional amounts up to 200% of base salary.
of annual bonus up to a maximum of 25% of base salary into the CIP.
Matching Awards may be made at a rate of one for one for compulsory deferral and at a maximum of four for one for voluntary deferral.
DESCRIPTION OF 50% of the LTPP award is subject to a relative TSR condition and 50% Any shares awarded remain subject 2 is subject to absolute EPS targets.
to a continued employment performance PERFORMANCE METRICS condition over a three-year period and 25% of an award will vest at threshold performance 0% vests below this good and bad leaver provisions.
level increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting for maximum performance.
Any Matching Awards will be subject The levels of vesting in respect of each of the performance conditions for to performance conditions measured the LTPP to be awarded during the 2013 14 financial year and each of the over a period of three years.
outstanding LTPP awards can be found on pages 69 and 72 respectively.
Overall, the Committee must be satis ed that the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined by applying the above targets.
If the Committee is not of this view, then it is empowered to reduce the level of vesting.
CHANGE TO POLICY 1 The rules of the LTPP were approved by shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
2 TSR performance condition is monitored on the Committees behalf by NBS whilst EPS performance is veri ed by the Committee.
The TSR and EPS performance conditions were selected by the Committee on the basis that they reward outperformance against returns generated by our listed company peers and to ensure ef cient and effective management of our business whilst aligning interests with those of shareholders.
3 Details of the extent to which the Executive Directors complied with this policy as at 30 June 2013 are set out on page 78 of this Remuneration Report.
62 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3 Savings Related Share Shareholding guidelines Non-Executive Directors fees Option Scheme SRSOS including the Chairman To promote long-term share To further align the interests To attract and retain high quality and experienced Non-Executive ownership amongst all employees of Executive Directors to those Directors including the Chairman.
of the Group in a tax-ef cient way, of shareholders.
linking employee bene t to the performance of the Group and to aid retention of staff.
Employees can save up to 250 Executive Directors are required to The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board per month for three or five years build up and retain a shareholding on the recommendation of a Committee of Executive Directors having and receive options to purchase the in the Companys shares within five regard to the time commitment and responsibilities associated with Companys shares at a discount years of being appointed to the the role.
The remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Board of up to 20% on the market value.
Board and must retain all vested on the recommendation of the Committee again having regard LTPP awards or exercised options to the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
All employees and Executive both net of tax until the relevant Directors who work more than shareholding has been achieved.
The remuneration of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors 25 hours per week, and have is reviewed annually taking into account the fees paid by other five or more years of continuous The share price used for the companies in the housebuilding sector.
service with the Company or any purposes of determining the value subsidiary in the Group nominated of the shares is that prevailing Non-Executive Director fees are paid in cash.
The Non-Executive to join in the SRSOS ending on on 30 June in each year.
Directors do not participate in any performance related schemes the date of grant are eligible to e. g. annual bonus or incentive schemes nor do they receive any participate in the scheme.
The There is no mandatory pension or private medical insurance bene ts.
Board has discretion to reduce requirement for the Non-Executive the period of qualifying service Directors, including the Chairman, No additional fees are payable for membership of Board committees and to invite other employees to hold shares however they however, additional fees are paid to the Chairmen of the Audit and the of the Group to participate.
are encouraged to do so by Remuneration Committees and the Senior Independent Director.
Details can be found on page 70 of this Remuneration Report.
Save a maximum of 250 per 100% of base salary for N A month for a period of three or Executive Directors.
Continued employment for the Executive Directors may not Non-Executive Director fees must remain within the limits approved by duration of the scheme and good dispose of any shares on the shareholders and incorporated in the Companys Articles of Association.
exercise of an option or on release of an award if they do not have the minimum shareholding.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT Clawback allows the deferral of an equivalent of 15-25% of the salary of a Both the annual bonus including any deferred bonus and the LTPP number of select employees operating below Senior Management are subject to the Companys power of clawback the Clawback.
The level into a Senior Managers Incentive Scheme the SMIS.
Clawback is applicable in respect of any annual bonus paid deferred Further details of the SMIS can be found on page 70 of this and to any share awards granted under the LTPP or the Executive Remuneration Report.
Share Option Scheme the ESOS in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2010 and later years, subject in the case of HMRC In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration approved options, to such approval.
In addition, the Clawback will also arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of apply to any awards granted under any senior manager share schemes.
They also re ect the fact that, in the case of Executive Directors and Senior Management, a greater emphasis tends to be The Clawback can be invoked if: placed on performance-related pay.
a it is necessary to restate the Groups accounts used to calculate a participants entitlement to bonus or share awards in circumstances Recruitment of Executive Directors where the original over-statement has led to a bonus being paid The base salary for any new Executive Director will take into account deferred or share awards being granted which would not otherwise market data for the relevant role, the salaries of existing Executive have been paid or granted: or Directors, the individuals experience and their current base salary.
In the event an individual is recruited at below market levels, their base b the participant is found guilty of any criminal activity in connection salary may be re-aligned over a period of time e. g. two to three years with his or her employment and this related to an act which led to a subject to their performance in the role.
bonus being paid deferred or share awards being granted to him or her.
Individuals will participate in the LTPP on terms to be considered by In such circumstances, the Committee may determine that the bonus the Committee on a case by case basis, depending on the date of and or share award will be retrospectively recalculated.
The Committee may also consider buying out incentive have been paid, the participant will be required to reimburse the awards which an individual would forfeit upon leaving their current Company for an amount up to the total amount of the net bonus paid, employer, again this would be reviewed on a case by case basis.
less any bonus that the Committee determines would have been paid regardless of the event in question.
If share awards have been granted, Executive Directors service contracts the number of awards or options granted will be reduced accordingly.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are included in Table 6 and their emoluments are shown in Table 10 on page 70 Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere across of this Remuneration Report.
All Executive Directors and Senior the Group Managements service contracts were reviewed and updated during The budget for all employees salaries is determined with reference to the 2012 13 financial year in order to bring them in line with current the rate of in ation, salaries for similar positions throughout the industry regulations and best practice.
All individuals whose service contracts and general themes and trends in respect of remunerating employees.
were amended, agreed and accepted the changes proposed and new service contracts have been entered into.
The contracts entitle When agreeing the increase in base salaries for Executive Directors Executive Directors to the provision of a company car, annual medical and Senior Management, the Committee takes into consideration the screening, private medical insurance, some telephone costs and salary increases awarded to all employees within the Group in respect contributions to the cost of obtaining independent tax advice.
of any given financial year.
Table 6 Executive Directors service contracts Differences between Executive Directors and Employees Executive Service Date of Notice remuneration Director contract date appointment period The following differences exist between the Companys policy for Mark Clare 12 November 2012 2 October 2006 12 months the remuneration of Executive Directors as set out above and its David Thomas 16 January 2013 21 July 2009 12 months approach to the payment of employees generally: Steven Boyes 21 February 2013 1 July 2001 12 months a lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity may apply Clive Fenton 1 July 2003 1 July 2003 12 months to employees other than the Executive Directors and certain senior Clive Fenton resigned as a Director of the Company on 5 July 2012. executives, however all employees, including Executive Directors and Senior Management, are subject to the same performance targets: Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection by Executive Directors and Senior Management are required to defer any person at the Companys registered of ce during normal of ce any bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary into shares hours and will also be available at the 2013 AGM for 15 minutes for a period of three years: before and throughout the meeting.
employees are only able to join the fide ned contribution money purchase section of the Barratt Group Pension and Life Assurance The Committee will continue to review the contractual terms for new Scheme.
Executive Directors may either join the fide ned contribution Executive Directors to ensure that these re ect best practice.
No new money purchase scheme or elect for a cash supplement in lieu of the Executive Directors were appointed during the financial year under review.
pension contribution: and participation in the LTPP is limited to Executive Directors and Senior Management.
The Committee has however approved a plan that 64 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Executive Directors notice period Table 7 Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment In accordance with the Companys policy, it engages all Executive Date elected Date first Date last Directors on the basis of one-year rolling contracts which can be Non-Executive re-elected appointed re-appointed terminated by twelve months notice given by either the Company Director at AGM to the Board to the Board or by the Executive at any time.
Bob Lawson 14 November 2012 1 June 2008 1 June 2011 Tessa Bamford 14 November 2012 1 July 2009 1 July 2012 Executive Directors termination provisions Rod MacEachrane 14 November 2012 1 May 2006 1 July 2011 There are no speci c provisions for compensation on early termination Mark Rolfe 14 November 2012 1 May 2008 1 May 2011 except for payment in lieu of holidays accrued but untaken or loss of Richard Akers 14 November 2012 2 April 2012 N A of ce due to a change of ownership of the Company.
The Committee 3 December will apply mitigation against any contractual obligations as it deems fair Nina Bibby N A 2012 N A and reasonable and will seek legal advice on the Companys liability to pay compensation.
The Committee also seeks to reduce the level The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are available for of any compensation payable and takes into account, amongst other inspection by any person at the Companys registered of ce during factors, the individuals and the Groups performance: the Directors normal of ce hours and will also be available at the 2013 AGM for obligation to mitigate his her own loss: and the Directors length of 15 minutes before and throughout the meeting.
service when calculating termination payments.
Shareholder engagement Non-Executive directorships Each year we update our major investors upon the Committees Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to accept application of the Companys Remuneration Policy and our performance, one non-executive directorship outside the Company and retain any following the release of the July trading update and in advance of the fees received from such a position.
Executive Directors are not allowed publication of our Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee considers to take on the Chairmanship of any FTSE 100 company.
Board shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM and any additional approval will not be given for any non-executive position where such feedback received during any meetings from time to time, as part of the appointment would lead to a material con ict of interest or would Companys annual review of its Remuneration Policy.
In addition, the have an effect on the Directors ability to perform his her duties to the Committee will seek to engage directly with major shareholders and Company.
During the year, Mark Clare was a trustee and Director of their representative bodies should any material changes be proposed the BRE Trust and UK GBC Limited.
Mark Clare does not receive any to the Remuneration Policy.
Details of the votes cast for and against the fees for either of these positions.
The time commitment expected, in resolution to approve last years remuneration report and any matters aggregate, for these positions is approximately 25 hours per annum.
discussed with shareholders during the year are detailed throughout this Neither David Thomas nor Steven Boyes held any non-executive Remuneration Report.
directorships with other companies during the year.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors are appointed under terms set out in a letter of appointment.
They do not have service contracts and their appointments can be terminated by the Board without compensation for loss of of ce and by giving the appropriate length of notice as prescribed in their respective letters of appointment.
The notice period applicable for the Chairman, Bob Lawson, is three months and for each of the other Non-Executive Directors is one month.
Under governance policies approved by the Board, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term and usually serve a second three-year term subject to performance review and re-election by shareholders.
Beyond this a further term of up to three years may be served subject to rigorous review by the Chairman and the Nomination Committee and re-election by shareholders.
Details of Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment can be found in Table 7.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65
