DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration decisions for 2014 Annual statement from the On IPO, the CEOs basic salary was reduced from 650k to 420k as part of the restructuring of his remuneration package to bring Remuneration Committee Chairman it more in line with typical listed practice.
In keeping with that philosophy, we are proposing that his salary will be increased in On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our first line with inflation by 2.7% to 431,340 for 2014.
Remuneration Report since listing in September 2013, which Prior to IPO, the CFOs package was very heavily focused on has been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of variable pay.
However, following our remuneration review the the Listing Rules, section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and Committee determined that his package should be re-balanced Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and to bring it more in line with typical listed practice.
This process Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
began by increasing his salary from 110k to 200k on listing.
This Report is set out in two parts: We completed this process by further increasing his salary to Policy Report This sets out our Remuneration Policy for 275k from 1 January 2014, thus bringing his total package in line all Directors of the Group and will be subject to a binding with the market.
Shareholder vote at our 2014 AGM.
The report that follows gives full details of all aspects of Directors Annual Report on Remuneration This sets out how our remuneration in line with latest guidance and requirements.
Directors were paid in 2013 and how we will apply our Policy In summary, the Chairman will receive fees at an annualised in 2014.
There will be an advisory Shareholder vote on this rate of 175,000.
The CEO will receive an annualised salary section of the Report at the 2014 AGM.
of 431,340 and the CFO will receive an annualised salary of 275,000.
No performance related payments were made Our approach to remuneration or awards granted in respect of 2013.
In the second half of 2013, we undertook a full review of our At our forthcoming AGM, we will be seeking Shareholder approval remuneration framework to ensure that, post listing, it was for a below Board long-term share plan.
Individuals who are key to aligned with best practice while continuing to attract and secure the success of Foxtons will be invited to participate in this plan on the right people.
The result is a framework which delivers market a periodic basis.
No Executive Director will participate in this plan.
competitive packages that are aligned with the interests of our Shareholders.
Looking to the future For the avoidance of doubt, as a Committee, we are mindful of Our new remuneration framework ensures that we are now well the need to pay no more than is necessary to attract and retain placed to incentivise and motivate our Executive Directors to high-quality talent and have kept the remuneration framework achieve the business objectives of the Group and thereby to simple and transparent to ensure full alignment with our business continue our strong performance since listing.
A significant portion of the remuneration We value all feedback from Shareholders and hope to receive your packages for our Executive Directors is linked to the medium and support at the forthcoming AGM.
long-term performance of the Group and incorporates our key performance indicators including earnings performance, organic expansion and a sustainable increase in Shareholder value.
Remuneration decisions in respect of 2013 No bonus or LTIP arrangements were put in place for the 2013 financial year due to the uncertainty created by the IPO process.
Andrew Adcock As a result, total remuneration paid to the Executives Directors in Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2013 was 0.8 million lower than in 2012.
2014 will therefore be 10 March 2014 the first year the new arrangements set out on page 39 apply.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Policy Report non-audited This Remuneration Policy will come into legal effect from 21 May 2014 subject to Shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, although in practice the Policy has been applied since 1 January 2014.
Policy table for Executive Directors Component Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework Base salary Core element of Fixed cash amount Although the Committee N A remuneration set at a paid monthly.
does not consider it level to attract and retain appropriate to set a A number of factors are Executive Directors of defined maximum limit taken into account when the required calibre to on pay increases, the setting salary, including: successfully deliver intention is that ordinarily Foxtons strategy.
Scope and the Executive Directors responsibilities of role: increases will be in line with those given to our Skills, experience and employees whose pay is circumstances of non-commission based.
individual: Increases may be made Appropriate market above this in certain data: and circumstances, including: Pay and conditions Progression within elsewhere in Foxtons.
the role: Salary levels are Increase in scope and typically reviewed on responsibility of the an annual basis.
role: and Increase in experience where an individual has been recruited on a lower salary initially.
To provide Executive Various cash non-cash Although the Committee N A Benefits Directors with market benefits are provided to does not consider it competitive benefits Executive Directors which appropriate to set a consistent with the role.
may include a company maximum benefits level, car or cash equivalent, they are set at an life assurance, private appropriate level for the medical insurance, specific nature of the role.
health club membership and other benefits as appropriate.
Executive Directors would also be able to participate in any all-employee share plans on the same basis as other eligible employees, should such plans be implemented by the Company.
32 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Policy table for Executive Directors continued Component Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework Retirement To provide funding for Pension contributions 20% of base salary.
N A benefits Executive Directors are made to a personal retirement at market pension scheme or cash competitive levels allowances in lieu of consistent with the role.
Annual Variable pay opportunity Payments are typically Usual maximum of Performance measures are bonus set at a market competitive made in cash based on 125% of base salary.
determined with reference level designed to motivate annual performance to Foxtons key strategic Absolute maximum of and reward Executive against targets set business objectives for 150% of base salary Directors for the and assessed by the year.
provided for in plan rules.
achievement of business the Committee.
No less than 50% of the objectives on an The Committee may bonus will be dependent annual basis.
determine that an on financial measures and element of the bonus the remainder will be is deferred into shares.
based on non-financial All payments are at measures that are aligned the discretion of the to the strategic priorities Committee who can of the business.
therefore adjust them At threshold performance, to ensure payouts are 25% of the maximum reflective of performance.
Below this level of performance, no bonus pays out.
Variable pay opportunity Usually a contingent Usual maximum of At least 50% of the LTIP LTIP set at a market competitive award of shares or grant 150% of base salary.
will be based on financial level designed to motivate of nil cost options is measures with the Absolute maximum of and reward Executive made annually.
remainder based on share 200% of base salary Directors for the price related measures.
Vesting of the award provided for in plan rules.
achievement of business is dependent on the For threshold levels of objectives over the achievement of performance, 25% of the longer term.
performance targets, award will vest.
Below typically measured over this level of performance, a three-year period.
100% of the award will In certain circumstances vest for maximum such as an individual performance.
Vesting engaging in misconduct or between these points will a material misstatement be on a straight-line basis.
of results, the Committee has discretion to: Reduce or cancel unvested awards: Delay vesting: Impose additional conditions: and Amend performance conditions.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Discretion Takeover or other corporate event The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration For LTIP awards, on a takeover or other corporate event, generally payments and payments for loss of office including exercising the performance period will end on the date of the event.
The any discretions available to it in connection with such payments Committee will determine the extent to which performance that are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms conditions have been achieved at this point taking into account of the payment were agreed: relevant factors given the shortened period.
Such early vesting would generally be on a time pro-rata basis.
i before the Policy came into effect: or Alternatively, in certain circumstances the Committee may allow ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director awards to continue in line with the original terms of the LTIP.
of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming The Committee has the discretion to take other action as a Director of the Company.
appropriate if other events occur which may have an effect on awards.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is In the event that all-employee plans are operated, they would agreed at the time the award is granted.
be expected to vest on a takeover or other corporate event and those which have to meet requirements to benefit from tax The Committee will operate the annual bonus and LTIP in benefits would vest in accordance with those requirements.
accordance with the relevant plan rules.
The Committee retains discretion as to the operation and administration of these plans Minor changes as follows: The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set Annual bonus out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative The Committee may settle an award in shares: and purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining Shareholder approval for that amendment.
The Committee may amend the performance targets applying to an award in exceptional circumstances if the new Performance measures and target setting performance targets are considered fair and reasonable and are The annual bonus is based on both financial and non-financial neither materially more nor materially less challenging than the performance measures which are aligned with Foxtons annual original performance targets.
LTIP The LTIP is based on a combination of financial and share price The Committee may settle an award in cash: measures chosen to motivate and reward Directors for the The Committee may amend the performance conditions successful achievement of long-term sustainable performance applying to an award in exceptional circumstances if the new and to ensure maximum alignment with Shareholders.
performance conditions are considered fair and reasonable and Targets for both incentive plans are set on an annual basis by are neither materially more nor materially less challenging than the Committee and take into account a number of internal and the original performance conditions: and external reference points including historic performance, internal In the event of a variation of share capital, demerger, special expectations and broker forecasts.
dividend, distribution or any other corporate event which may affect the current or future value of an award, the Committee may adjust the number of shares or the option price.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major Shareholders.
34 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Policy table for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Other items To enable Foxtons to attract and retain The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee The fees set out in this table are the sole Non-Executive Directors of the required for all Board responsibilities.
element of Chairman and Non-Executive calibre by offering market competitive fees.
Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee.
Additional fees may be payable for additional Board responsibilities such as chairmanship or membership of a Committee.
The Committee reviews the fees paid to the Chairman and the Board reviews the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors, periodically.
The Committee or the Board as the case may be may increase the fees, and any such increases will take into account factors including: Scope and responsibility of the role: and Appropriate market data.
No Director plays a role in determining their own remuneration.
The Committee does not consider it appropriate to set a maximum limit on increases in the fees of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
However, the fees have been and will be set within the aggregate limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association as approved by Shareholders.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Illustrations of Remuneration Policy The charts below illustrate the application of the Remuneration Policy set out in the Policy table for the Executive Directors.
CEO CFO 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,701,000 38% 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,082,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 946,000 38% 32% 17% 750,000 750,000 29% 601,000 32% 515,000 500,000 500,000 17% 100% 54% 30% 29% 326,000 250,000 250,000 54% 30% 100% 0 0 Minimum In line with Maximum Minimum In line with Maximum performance expectations performance performance expectations performance Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Long-term variable remuneration The assumptions used for these charts are as follows: Levels of performance Assumptions Fixed pay All scenarios Total fixed pay comprises base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary effective as at 1 January 2014.
Benefits effective as at 1 January 2014.
15% of base salary pension contributions.
Variable Minimum No payout under the annual bonus.
performance pay No vesting under the LTIP.
Performance in line 50% of the maximum potential payout under the annual bonus i. e. 62.5% of salary.
with expectations 25% vesting under the LTIP i. e. 37.5% of salary.
Maximum 100% of the maximum potential payout under the annual bonus i. e. 125% of salary.
performance 100% vesting under the LTIP i. e. 150% of salary.
LTIP awards have been shown at face value with no share price growth, dividends or discount rate assumptions.
36 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Approach to remuneration on recruitment The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate Overarching principle remuneration decisions outside the standard Policy to meet In order to maintain Foxtons competitive advantage, it is the individual circumstances of recruitment when: important that we are able to recruit Directors of the calibre An interim appointment is made to fill an Executive Director required to successfully deliver our strategic priorities.
role on a short-term basis: and Recruitment of Executive Directors Exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a When determining the remuneration arrangements of a new Non-Executive Director takes on an executive function on appointment to the Board including internal promotions, the a short-term basis.
Committee would seek to apply the following principles: Recruitment of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Although we operate in a competitive market for talent, we are On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive mindful to pay no more than is necessary to attract and retain Director, the fee will normally be consistent with the Policy high-quality talent: set out above.
Where specific cash or share arrangements are The remuneration package of a new Executive Director will be delivered to the Chairman or Non-Executives, these will not include share options or any other performance related elements.
consistent with the Policy table set out above.
However, at recruitment, the Committee would retain the discretion to flex Service contracts the balance between annual and long-term incentives and the measures used to assess performance for these elements, with The current service contracts of the CEO and CFO can be terminated by not less than 12 months and six months notice the intention that a significant portion would be delivered in shares: respectively given in writing by either party to the contract.
The maximum level of variable remuneration is 350% of salary The appointment of the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive excluding buy outs, in line with the Policy as set out in the Directors is for an initial period of three years, which is renewable, table above: and is terminable by the Chairman Non-Executive Director as applicable or the Company on three months notice.
It may be necessary to buy out remuneration arrangements No contractual payments would be due on termination.
forfeited on leaving a previous employer on appointment.
Such payments or awards could include cash as well as performance Policy on payment for loss of office and non-performance related share awards, and would be in Where an Executive Director leaves employment, the such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into Committees approach to determining any payment for loss account all relevant factors such as the form, expected value, of office will normally be based on the following principles: anticipated vesting and timing of the forfeited remuneration.
The Committees intention is that the value awarded would The Committees objective is to find an outcome which is in the best interests of both Foxtons and its Shareholders while be equivalent to the value forfeited: taking into account the specific circumstances of cessation An Executive Director may initially be hired on a contract of employment: requiring 24 months notice which then reduces pro-rata over the course of the first year of the contract, to requiring 12 The Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations months notice: agreed with the Executive Director.
This is dependent on the contractual obligations i not being in contradiction with Appropriate relocation costs and support may be provided as the Policy set out in this Report, or ii if so, not having been appropriate: and entered into on a date later than 27 June 2012, in accordance Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the with the relevant legislation: and organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any Other than in circumstances where the Company is entitled legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the to terminate employment summarily, if the employment of original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an Executive Director an Executive Director is terminated with immediate effect, is appointed following Foxtons acquisition of or merger a payment in lieu of notice may be made which would not with another company, legacy terms and conditions would exceed 12 months base salary for the current CEO and six be honoured.
months base salary for the current CFO.
This payment may be subject to mitigation if alternative employment is taken up during this period.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The treatment of outstanding incentive awards will be governed by the relevant plan rules as set out in the table below: Treatment for all other reasons Plan Automatic Good Leaver categories Treatment for Good Leavers for leaving Death The participant will normally retain All other leavers will forfeit Annual bonus their entitlement to the bonus to their entitlement to an annual Ill-health, injury or disability the extent that the performance bonus payment.
Employing company being targets have been met.
transferred to a person which is Bonuses will normally be subject not a Group member to time pro-rating to reflect the Transfer of undertaking period in employment, although the Committee has the discretion Any other reason, except to vary this.
summary dismissal, as the Committee determines The Committee may determine that the bonus payment is calculated and made, at their discretion, at cessation instead of at the end of the performance period.
Death Awards will normally vest on a Awards will normally lapse in full LTIP time-apportioned basis taking into unless otherwise determined by Ill-health, injury or disability account the achievement of the the Committee.
Employing company being relevant performance conditions transferred to a person which is at the vesting date.
not a Group member The vesting date for such awards Transfer of undertaking will normally be the original vesting date, although the Committee has Any other reason, except the flexibility to determine that gross misconduct, as the awards can vest upon cessation Committee determines of employment.
On death, the Committee may exercise discretion to allow awards to vest, as soon as practicable, taking into account performance achieved.
On vesting, shares will be transferred to the participant as soon as practicable.
For options, participants will have up to six months from the date of vesting to exercise their awards.
In the event that a buyout award is made on recruitment, the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
Differences in remuneration policy for Executive Directors Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere compared with other employees in Foxtons As for our Executive Directors, the remuneration for the Although pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the majority of our employees is weighted towards variable pay.
Company are taken into account to ensure the relationship However, unlike our Executive Directors, where their variable between the pay of Executive Directors and employees remains pay is linked to a mixture of shortand long-term Group appropriate, the Committee does not consult with employees wide performance measures, the majority of our employees when formulating the Remuneration Policy set out in this Report.
remuneration is linked to individual team performance measured over the shorter term.
This is consistent with their focus on the Consideration of Shareholder views selling and letting of properties within particular geographical The Committee takes an active interest in Shareholder views and areas.
Selected individuals may be chosen to participate in a these help shape the structure of the Directors remuneration below Board long-term share plan as and when appropriate.
The Committee also monitors published No Executive Director will participate in this plan.
Shareholder guidelines and will incorporate further best practice features as appropriate.
38 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Shareholders will recognise that we operate in a very competitive Annual report on remuneration market and so we will not be disclosing prospective bonus performance targets for reasons of commercial sensitivity.
We will, however, provide a full retrospective rationale each year of Foxtons Group plc listed on the London Stock Exchange on why bonuses were paid to ensure that Shareholders can clearly 20 September 2013.
As such, there are a number of disclosures identify the close link between pay and performance at the Group.
for which we are only required to report part-year figures.
However, given the introduction of the new remuneration LTIP disclosure regulations, and the spirit of transparency that they To ensure a focus on the longer-term performance of Foxtons, we are trying to achieve, we have set out full-year numbers will be making LTIP awards for the first time in 2014.
given careful consideration to the appropriate measures by which to assess performance while being mindful that we need to We are committed to maintaining an open and transparent align our Executive Directors as closely as possible with the dialogue with our Shareholders and hope that the level of Shareholder experience.
disclosure we have provided this year will ensure that decisions made on remuneration are fully explained, thereby helping us For 2014, 70% of the LTIP will be based on Earnings Per Share to build a positive relationship with our Shareholders.
We believe that this is an important measure of the Groups financial performance and so will incentivise Implementation for 2014 non-audited Executive Directors towards the sustainable long-term growth Base salary of the business.
As explained in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans Following careful consideration to ensure that this element statement set out above, prior to IPO we reviewed the salaries of the award is sufficiently stretching to incentivise superior of our Executive Directors against other companies comparable performance, the Committee has set the targets as follows to Foxtons.
The results of that review are set out below.
for 2014: 2013 salary 2014 salary Basic EPS growth required over the Michael Brown 420,000 431,340 three-year performance period Gerard Nieslony 200,000 275,000 Threshold 25% vesting 19% From September 2013.
Prior to this date Michael Browns basic salary was Maximum 100% vesting 44% 650,000 and Gerard Nieslonys was 110,000.
There will be straight-line vesting between these performance Benefits points.
For 2014, Executive Directors will be provided with a company car or cash equivalent, health club, life assurance and private The remaining 30% of the 2014 award will be based on relative medical insurance.
Total Shareholder Return performance against the FTSE 250 excluding financial services and oil & gas companies.
We have Annual bonus chosen TSR as a measure as we believe that this is aligned to In recent years, Foxtons business model has generated high Shareholder value creation and is a very transparent measure.
levels of revenue growth and profitability.
Through our focus on higher-volume, higher-value markets combined with the real The relative TSR targets for 2014 will be as follows: competitive advantage that our business model provides we Relative TSR performance against the will continue to strive to achieve high levels of profitability.
comparator group over the three-year For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA is an important measure of performance period annual performance.
Threshold 25% vesting Median The remainder of the bonus will be based on non-financial targets Maximum 100% vesting Upper quartile which will be aligned to the key strategic priorities of Foxtons for that year.
These may change from year to year to respond to the There will be straight-line vesting between these performance dynamic market in which we operate.
We have a proven track record of expansion.
Consequently, Pension opening new branches will create significant opportunities for the For 2014, contributions of 15% of salary will be made to the Group.
For 2014, the opening of new branches on time and within Executive Directors personal pension schemes.
Alternatively, budget is key to the successful delivery of our ambitious growth a cash allowance equal to this value may be paid.
plan and so has been included as an important component of the annual bonus.
Non-Executive Director fees For 2014, 80% of the bonus opportunity will be dependent on For 2014, the fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will be as follows: Foxtons annual Adjusted EBITDA performance compared to our internal plan.
The non-financial element, representing the Chairman of Company 175,000 remaining 20% of the total bonus, will be dependent on the Basic fee for other Non-Executive Directors 60,000 planned number of new branches opening on time and to budget during the year.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Single total figure of remuneration audited The tables below set out the total remuneration for the Directors for 2012 and 2013.
The figures disclosed for the Non-Executive Directors are only in respect of their services since appointment on 23 August 2013.
2013 Payments Salary in lieu of 1 000 and fees Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension pension Other Total Executive Michael Brown 589 19 16 624 Gerard Nieslony 134 7 9 150 Non-Executive Garry Watts 62 25 87 Ian Barlow 21 25 46 Annette Court 21 25 46 Andrew Adcock 21 25 46 Stefano Quadrio Curzio FA Corp Sarl 15 15 Total 863 26 9 16 100 1,014 2012 Salary 000 and fees Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Executive Michael Brown 650 18 660 1,328 Gerard Nieslony 110 6 107 1 224 Non-Executive Garry Watts Ian Barlow Annette Court Andrew Adcock Stefano Quadrio Curzio FA Corp Sarl 56 56 Yagnish Chotai 14 14 Matthew Turner 9 9 Total 839 24 767 1 1,631 Notes to the table The benefits paid in respect of 2012 and 2013 related to the provision of a car for Michael Brown and a car allowance for Gerard Nieslony.
The 2012 bonus was paid under the provisions of the Debt Repayment Incentive Scheme which is no longer in existence.
Under this scheme management were paid a bonus based on early repayments of the debt which existed in the Company at the time.
No bonus or LTIP payments were made in respect of 2013.
2014 will be the first year of operation for the annual bonus and LTIP described on page 39.
1 On listing, the Non-Executive Directors and Chairman agreed to acquire shares from their own funds.
Foxtons agreed to partially match their investments by issuing additional shares to them at a subscription price of 0.01 per share.
Accordingly 10,869 shares each were issued to Garry Watts, Annette Court, Andrew Adcock and Ian Barlow.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests audited We strongly believe that Directors should have sizeable shareholdings in Foxtons to ensure that they are as closely aligned as possible with the Shareholder experience.
As such, Executive Directors are required to hold Foxtons shares equal to two times their gross base salary.
40 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Since no share awards had been granted to Executive Directors as at 31 December 2013, at that date they held no shares that were subject to continued employment or performance conditions.
The tables below show the Directors current share ownership as against the guidelines as at 31 December 2013: Shareholding Actual share Actual share guideline ownership ownership % of basic number of % of base salary shares salary Michael Brown 200% 22,730,022 12120% Gerard Nieslony 200% 666,512 557% The shareholding as a percentage of basic salary has been calculated based on the share price at listing of 2.30 per share.
The table below shows the Non-Executive Directors shareholdings as at 31 December 2013: Shares held as at 31 December 2013 Garry Watts 43,477 Ian Barlow 86,955 Annette Court 32,608 Andrew Adcock 43,477 Stefano Quadrio Curzio nil Performance graph and table non-audited The chart below illustrates Foxtons TSR performance against the FTSE 250 since listing because Foxtons is a constituent of that index.
Note that this does not represent either the comparator group or the time period against which performance is assessed under the LTIP.
Total shareholder return 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 20 09 2013 31 12 2013 Foxtons FTSE 250 The table below shows the total remuneration paid to the CEO in 2013.
Note that this relates to the whole of the 2013 financial year and so is not directly comparable to the period used above for TSR purposes.
2013 000 CEO single figure of remuneration 624 Annual bonus payout % of maximum N A LTIP vesting % of maximum N A Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Value of hypothetical 100 holding DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Percentage change in remuneration of Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive Officer non-audited The table below illustrates the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the CEO as against all other employees who do not participate in Foxtons commission arrangements and whose remuneration structures are thus comparable to the Executive Directors.
% change in % change in % change in base salary benefits annual bonus 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 CEO 9.3 % 3.6% n a All other employees at Head office 0.9% 5.0 % n a Relative importance of spend on pay non-audited The charts below illustrate the year-on-year change in total remuneration for all employees and total Shareholder distributions.
Since Foxtons only listed in September 2013, no distributions have yet been made to Shareholders.
60,000,000 55,576,049 50,701,766 50,000,000 40,000,000 30,000,000 20,000,000 10,000,000 nil nil 0 2012 2013 2012 2013 Total remuneration Shareholder distributions Consideration by Directors of matters relating to Directors Deloitte also provided audit services to the Group in 2013. remuneration non-audited Deloittes advice is developed with use of established The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing methodologies and the advisers are not involved in the decisionand making recommendations to the Board regarding the making process.
Advisory partners and staff have no involvement Remuneration Policy of the Group and for reviewing compliance in audit and are not involved in the preparation of audited with the Policy.
During 2013, the Remuneration Committee information.
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration consisted of the following Directors as from their dates of advice it receives from Deloitte is independent.
Notwithstanding appointment to the Board: Andrew Adcock Chairman, Ian this, in line with best practice, the Committee has concluded Barlow, Annette Court and Garry Watts.
that during 2014 alternative advisers should be appointed.
In addition, the CEO, COO and CFO attended Committee meetings to provide valuable input.
No individual was present when their own remuneration was being discussed.
Deloitte LLP, who have voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, provided advice on executive Andrew Adcock remuneration in 2013 and their total fees for advice provided Chairman of the Remuneration Committee to the Remuneration Committee were 89,750.
10 March 2014 42 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013
