Directors Remuneration report Dear Shareholder Annual statement On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce our 2013 Directors Annual Remuneration report the Report which sets out our philosophy and policy in relation to Directors remuneration and the activities of the Remuneration Committee the Committee for the period to 31 December 2013.
Clare Hollingsworth The Report is divided into two sections as follows: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the Companys remuneration strategy and our proposed formal Directors remuneration policy the Policy on pages 2009 2013 Overview 57 to 64, being the components of Directors remuneration and which will, subject to shareholder approval at the Companys AGM on 12 May 2014, apply from that date: and Underlying Profit Before Tax the implementation of remuneration policy in the year to 198% 31 December 2013 on pages 65 to 71.
Our remuneration philosophy Dividend Payments to Shareholders Our focus and business policy is founded on the premise that 123% staff in our sector are motivated through highly incentive based and therefore variable remuneration consistent with our partnership style culture.
We firmly believe that this approach Executive Director Remuneration best aligns shareholders and managements interests and 142% incentivises superior performance and the creation of long term shareholder value.
This approach also ensures that our reward arrangements are consistent with and sensitive to the cyclical Total Shareholder Return nature of real estate markets.
236% Our Policy is designed to deliver these objectives and to provide the reward potential necessary for the Company to attract, retain The dividend cost stated for 2013 comprises the cost of the final dividend and motivate the high calibre individuals on whom its continued recommended by the Board amounting to 9m, payment of which is subject growth and development depend.
Reflecting this philosophy, to shareholder approval at the Companys AGM scheduled to be held on the salaries for the Executive Directors, GEB members and senior 12 May 2014, and the cost of the supplemental dividend 11m declared fee-earners are set below market medians for similar businesses, by the Board on 19 March 2014 payable to shareholders on the Register of Members as at 22 April 2014 and the interim dividend 4.5m paid on with a greater emphasis on the performance related elements of 14 October 2013 and is based on the number of shares in issue as at profit share and or, outside of the UK, commission in the total 31 December 2013. reward package.
Executive Director remuneration comprises the remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer role holders between 2009 and 2013.
Since 1 July 2010 the Executive representation The Committee believes that the current executive remuneration on the Board has comprised these role holders.
strategy has worked well both in the near term and over the longer term in motivating and retaining our executive team as well as supporting the delivery of superior returns to shareholders.
Our performance related remuneration structure has meant that in years where the business has performed well, executives have shared in the returns delivered to shareholders, whilst in more challenging years for example during and for the period after the global financial crisis executive reward reduced in line with profit delivery.
This link is demonstrated in the table above where, in the five years between 2009 and 2013, underlying profit grew by more than 198% and dividend payments to shareholders increased by 123%.
This is notwithstanding the variable market conditions, which were sometimes challenging.
Over the same period we pursued our strategy of progressively building our non-transactional businesses, which provide more stable, long term earnings, to balance our transactional businesses which are more dependent on the cycle.
We also broadened our geographic footprint.
Reward during this period overall for Executive Directors rose by 142% reflecting this performance and our progress in delivering our strategy, albeit in some years reward reduced year on year reflecting performance.
54 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Reflecting the Groups very strong performance in 2013, Underlying Profit Before Tax profit share awards of 86% of maximum potential were earned 28.3% by the Executive Directors compared with approximately 65% in respect of 2012, of which 27% will be delivered in the 2013 75.2m form of Savills shares, deferred for a further three years.
2012 58.6m The 2011 Performance Share Plan PSP awards are due to vest in May 2014 based on performance to 31December 2013.
Both the TSR and EPS growth targets were exceeded and the awards should therefore vest in full.
Underlying Earnings per Share EPS 2014 remuneration 27.1% The operation of executive remuneration will remain largely unchanged in 2014.
The base salaries of the Executive 2013 43.1p Directors have been reviewed, but will not be increased.
2012 33.9p The established incentive policy will continue to be applied.
Under the PSP the Group Chief Executive is also eligible to receive awards up to the value of 450,000 and the Group Chief Financial Officer 250,000.
During 2013, we received feedback from some institutional Total Shareholder Return TSR rebased shareholders on the operation of the PSP.
In the light of this and 1 year to 31 December 2013 42.4% having taken into account market conditions, the Committee reviewed the EPS target attaching to PSP awards, and resolved 150 that the vesting maximum for EPS growth targets for awards granted in 2014 should be increased from RPI plus 8% p. a.
125 compound to RPI plus 10% p. a. compound.
The Committee is satisfied that this level is both appropriately stretching and incentivising.
100 New reporting framework This years Report complies with the new reporting requirements 75 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec and other developments in respect of Directors remuneration, particularly with regard to the simplification and separation of Savills FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts future policy, past pay, and transparency.
The Committee is mindful of its responsibility to reward appropriately, Shareholders will be asked to vote separately on our proposed but not excessively, and rigorously assesses competitive Policy and other aspects of our Annual Remuneration Report positioning in setting remuneration and determining targets to covering Directors remuneration arrangements at our AGM to ensure that reward properly reflects performance, that it supports be held on 12May 2014. the delivery of our strategic and operational objectives and that it is fair to management and shareholders alike.
Overall, we expect The Committee is appreciative of the significant shareholder employment costs over the cycle to be in the range of 60% to support it has enjoyed in recent years and welcomed shareholders 65% of revenues.
endorsement in favour of the 2012 Directors Remuneration report.
We hope that you find this years Report just as clear and To ensure that the Committee was receiving appropriate informative and that you will continue to support us by voting in external advice, particularly in the context of the complexity favour of the resolutions at the Companys AGM on 12 May 2014. of the new remuneration reporting regime, it reviewed its ongoing external advice requirements.
Following a formal review process, Finally, this is my last year as Chairman of the Remuneration Deloitte LLP was appointed external independent adviser to Committee as I will be stepping down from the Board at the the Committee.
2014 Annual General Meeting and I wanted to thank my fellow Committee members and our shareholders for their support over There were no changes to our remuneration policy in 2013, and the past two years.
Tim Freshwater, who has been a member none are anticipated in the coming three years to 31 December of the Committee since January 2012, will be succeeding me in 2016, although the Committee will continue to keep the reward this role.
I am sure that under Tims leadership the Remuneration structure under review.
Committee is well placed to support the Company in the future.
2013 remuneration Clare Hollingsworth During 2013 the base salaries of the Executive Directors were Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reviewed, but not increased.
Profit share awards for the Executive Directors for the year were assessed against a combination of the Groups financial performance, which exceeded expectations, and personal performance, measured in terms of the delivery of, or progress towards, strategic and operational objectives.
Savills plc 55 Report and Accounts 2013
