Directors Remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee met three times during the year.
Remuneration Committee report The principal agenda items considered by the Committee during the year were as follows: Role of the Committee The principal role of the Remuneration Committee is to support reconfirming the Groups remuneration policy in the Group to achieve its strategic objectives by designing a the context of the proposed new legislation relating remuneration policy consistent with the Groups business to executive remuneration: model such that we have the ability to attract, recruit, retain agreeing the remuneration packages of the Executive and motivate the high calibre individuals needed to deliver the Directors and review of those for GEB members: Groups strategy.
The Committee is responsible for the broad approving the grant of PSP awards: policy governing senior staff pay and remuneration.
It sets the approving the grant of share awards to other levels actual levels of all elements of the remuneration of the Executive of management: Directors and reviews that of GEB members.
The Policy remains reviewing and consequently appointing Deloitte LLP under periodic review to ensure that it remains consistent as the Committees advisers: and with the Companys scale and scope of operations, supports preparing a Directors Remuneration Report and formal business strategy and growth plans and helps drive the creation Remuneration Policy Statement consistent with the new of shareholder value.
The Committee also oversees the operation legislation relating to executive remuneration.
of Savills employee share schemes.
Responsibilities of the Committee Remuneration Committee members and attendees The Committees principal responsibilities are to determine As shown in the table below, the Committee comprises the Company policy on senior executive remuneration and to set the Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors and to review Chairman: those of the members of the GEB.
The Committee excluding the Non-Executive Chairman also determines the level of fees payable Remuneration to the Non-Executive Chairman.
In these respects, the Committee is Committee member Position Status advised by Deloitte LLP, who provide an independent commentary on matters under consideration by the Committee and updates on Clare Chair of the Committee Independent market developments, legislative requirements and best practice, Hollingsworth and internally by the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary.
Martin Member of the Committee Independent Angle Given the fundamental role that remuneration plays in the success Tim Member of the Committee Independent of the Group, in terms of the recruitment, motivation and retention Freshwater of high quality staff, the Group Chief Executive attends meetings Peter Member of the Committee Non-Executive by invitation and is consulted on the remuneration packages of the Smith Chairman Group Chief Financial Officer and GEB members.
Remuneration Advisers to the Committee Committee In determining Executive Director remuneration, the Committee attendee Position Status has access to detailed external information and research on market Jeremy Group Chief Attends by invitation except when trends and peer practice provided by its independent external Helsby Executive his own remuneration is discussed adviser.
To ensure that the Committee continued to receive Chris Lee Group Legal Provides advice and support as appropriate external advice, particularly in the context of the Director & well as acting as Secretary to the complexity of the new remuneration reporting regime, it reviewed Company Committee except when his own its ongoing external advice requirements.
Following a formal review Secretary remuneration is discussed process, Deloitte LLP, was appointed external independent adviser.
Deloittes fees are based on time spent advising the Committee, Meetings within the parameters of an overall annual budget.
In 2013, Deloitte Attendance table received fees of 23,500 in relation to advice provided to the Meetings Committee.
The outgoing adviser, Towers Watson received a fee Meetings eligible to Committee member attended attend of 18,900 inclusive for services provided to the Committee during the year, prior to the appointment of Deloitte.
Clare Hollingsworth 3 3 Martin Angle 3 3 The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from Tim Freshwater 3 3 both Towers Watson and Deloitte during the year was entirely Peter Smith 3 3 objective and independent.
The Committee will continue to keep these arrangements under review to ensure that they As at 31 December 2013 and up to the date of this Report, the Remuneration remain appropriate to the needs of the Committee in developing Committee comprised Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Nonremuneration policy to support the delivery of Group strategy.
Biographical details relating to each of the Committee members is shown on page 42.
Terms of reference The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, or by exception to take account of regulatory changes or best practice, are available from the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary upon request or can be viewed on the Companys website www.
56 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013
