| | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Directors Remuneration Policy The Groups remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, GEB members and senior fee-earners are structured to provide a competitive mix of variable performance related ie annual profit share and longer term incentives and fixed remuneration principally base salary to reflect individual and corporate performance.
The objective is to set targets which are both achievable and stretching.
In determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors and reviewing that of the GEB members, the Committee reviews the role and responsibility of the individual, their performance and the arrangements applying across the wider employee group.
It also considers sector and broader market practice in the context of the prevailing economic conditions and corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues.
The Policy and its application to the Executive Directors is described in more detail in the pages which follow.
The information in this Report has not been audited unless otherwise stated.
Summary policy The chart and table below and accompanying tables on pages 58 to 63, together provide a summary of the different elements of remuneration, their purpose and linkage to our corporate strategy, and the key features of each component.
Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Base Salary Near term Annual Performance Long term Performance Share Plan Related Profit Share PSP Pension Defined contribution Delivered in part in Delivered in part Awards vest subject to satisfaction cash immediately in the form of of performance conditions, currently subject to shares, deferred comparative TSR performance clawback for three years 50% of award and EPS growth Benefits Private medical insurance subject to 50% of award subject to malus include and car car allowance clawback Fixed remuneration comprises base salary, benefits and the cost of employer pension contributions, while variable remuneration comprises the annual profit share and long term incentive potential the PSP.
Directors Remuneration Policy This part of the Report sets out the Policy which will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
This policy will apply from the 2014 AGM, subject to shareholder approval.
Policy table The following table sets out the Policy for each component of Executive Directors remuneration.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Base Salary A core component of the total The Committee considers base Set significantly below market n a reward package, which overall salary levels annually taking into median levels with greater emphasis is designed to attract, motivate consideration: on the performance related elements and retain individuals of the of reward.
The Groups philosophy to place greater emphasis on variable, For 2014 salaries are: performance related Group Chief Executive: 225,000. remuneration.
Group Chief Financial Officer: The individuals experience.
The size and scope of the role.
The general level of salary Although salaries are reviewed reviews across the Group.
annually, in line with the Groups Appropriate external market philosophy, the Committee does not competitive data.
intend to make annual incremental salary increases for Executive Directors.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to award salary increases taking into consideration the factors considered as part of the annual review.
There is no overall maximum salary or increase.
Savills plc 57 Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Pension Provides appropriate Defined contribution pension For 2014 the pension contribution n a retirement benefits.
arrangements are: Rewards sustained Group Chief Executive Officer: contribution.
HMRC approved salary and profit 20% of annual base salary.
share sacrifice arrangements are in Group Chief Financial Officer: place.
Pension benefits are provided 18% of annual base salary.
either through a Group personal pension plan, as a non-pensionable As part of the transitional funding salary supplement, contribution to arrangements the Group Chief a personal pension arrangement, Executive will receive a minimum or equivalent arrangement for contribution from 2015 of 14%.
The maximum contribution will be no more than the maximum contribution For former members of the defined for all former members of the Plan.
benefit Pension Plan the Plan The maximum contribution for the transitional funding arrangements current Chief Financial Officer is 18%.
The Plan is closed to future accruals.
However legacy arrangements will be honoured.
New recruits would normally participate in defined contribution arrangements or take a nonpensionable salary supplement.
The level of contribution would be determined at the time of appointment and may be set at a higher level than the current policy.
For international appointments, the Committee may determine that alternative pension provisions will operate, and when determining arrangements the Committee will give regard to the cost of the arrangements, market practice in the relevant international jurisdiction and the pension arrangements received elsewhere in the Group.
Benefits To provide market Benefits currently comprise: Car allowance up to a maximum n a competitive benefits.
Medical insurance benefits: of 9,000 p. a.
Car car allowance: Permanent Health Insurance: There is no overall maximum as the Life insurance: and cost of insurance benefits depends Directors and Officers on the individuals circumstances liability insurance.
and the costs of relocation and international benefits will also Other benefits may be provided depend on the jurisdiction.
if the Committee considers it appropriate.
Where an Executive Director is located in a different international jurisdiction benefits may reflect market practice in that jurisdiction.
In the event that an existing Executive Director or new Executive Director is required by the Group to relocate, other benefits may be provided including but not limited to a relocation allowance, housing allowance and tax equalisation.
58 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013
