Overview 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 7 Over 12 months ago, commencing Restructuring and inJanuary 2012, I undertook several strategicprogress rounds of discussions with our major FY2013 has been a year of significant organisational change at 3i, shareholders which focused on 3is thefirst step of which was a major cost reduction programme to bring down the Groups operating costs to be more in line with our annual performance at that time and the cash income.
prevailing discount of3is share price Alongside this, our Private Equity business has been restructured and re-focused.
This has included the implementation ofa comprehensive toNAV.
programme of initiatives to bring greater focus, consistency and Following the announcement in March 2012 of Michael Queens discipline to its investment processes and asset management intention to resign as Chief Executive, I was again in contact with our approach.
These changes are already making a real difference as shareholders regarding the process to select Michaels successor.
evidenced by the materially improved performance ofthe Private This culminated in the appointment in May 2012 of Simon Borrows Equity investment portfolio as well as a series of realisations at strong as3is new Chief Executive with a clear mandate from the Board uplifts to book value and healthy cash profits.
In addition to re-shaping our Private Equity business, we have On 29 June 2012, within six weeks of his appointment, Simon and his announced several important initiatives to grow and develop management team had undertaken a strategic review of the Group ourDebtManagement business.
and announced the future strategy for 3i, including an extensive We have almost doubled third-party AUM in Debt Management restructuring plan.
Since then, the management team has made rapid from3.3 billion at 31 March 2012 to 6.4 billion at 31 March 2013. progress in executing this wide-ranging restructuring plan which the Thisgrowth has included the acquisition of European CLO Board believes has now established solid foundations for 3is future management contracts from Invesco and the strategic transaction growth and success over the longer term.
with Fraser Sullivan, a leading specialist US debt manager, to establish 3is US debt management platform.
Infrastructure continued to generate strong portfolio income and deliver steady underlying asset performance in its core European market.
The value of the Groups 34% shareholding in 3i Infrastructure plc 3iN, increased by 7.1% in the year.
In addition, 3iN recently announced that following its strategic review and rebalancing of risk and reward, it will increase its annual distribution yield objective from 5.0% to 5.5% of opening NAV.
Overall, this demonstrates good progress towards our objective of growing our third-party fund management activities and generating asustainable annual operating profit over time.
8 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Chairmans statement Performance and results Summary and outlook Despite continuing difficult macroeconomic conditions and a subdued Over the last year, our focus has been on restructuring the business M&A market, the Groups financial results for the year to 31 March and delivering against each of the strategic priorities and targets 2013 show significant improvement compared to the prior year.
thatwe set ourselves in June 2012.
We have made substantial and rapid progress in this respect and we believe that this effort has In the year to 31 March 2013, total AUM grew by 23% to 12.9 billion established solid foundations for the next phase of our strategic plan.
2012: 10.5 billion, reflecting the material growth in our Debt In particular, the materially improved performance of our Private Management business in the period.
Third-party AUM grew Equity portfolio and the growth of our Debt Management business by45%to9.2 billion 2012: 6.3 billion, representing 71% of total provide positive momentum going into this next phase of 3is AUM 2012: 60%.
We have set out a clear strategic plan to maximise Total return for the Group in the period was a profit of 373 million shareholder value and we will continue to work hard to deliver this.
representing 14.2% on opening shareholders funds, a significant All of this is against an economic backdrop that remains uncertain improvement on the prior year loss of 656 million and a negative andvolatile.
However, we are confident that the substantial progress return of 19.5 %.
Good growth in portfolio earnings and strong that we have already made will ensure that 3i delivers value to realisations abovebook value in our Private Equity business itsshareholders.
contributed to a gross portfolio return for the Group of546 million inthe period compared to a loss of 329 million in theprior year.
Throughout this period of significant change, 3is employees have risen tothe challenge and shown both resilience and commitment.
At the time of our half-yearly results announcement in November Onbehalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our employees for 2012, the Board declared an interim dividend of 2.7 pence per share theirhard work in helping to deliver a strong set of results in such and announced itsintention to propose a total dividend for the year challenging conditions.
The Board is therefore recommending a final dividend of5.4 pence per share, subject to the approval of I have been fortunate to have the support of a hard working, shareholders atthe AGM.
committed and very capable Board throughout this period of change.
With the progress that has been achieved, however, Willem Mesdag, In May 2012, the Board announced a strengthened distribution policy who has served most ably as Chair of our Valuations Committee, designed to give shareholders a direct share in the success of the feelsable to step down and focus his attention on his US interests.
Groups realisation activities by adopting a policy of returning to Hewill be leaving us later this year, with my grateful thanks, and shareholders a share of gross cash realisations subject to certain Iexpect over time progressively to continue the renewal of the Board.
Under this new policy, the aggregate distribution to shareholders, including the annual base dividend, will be at least 15%and up to 20% of gross cash realisation proceeds, provided that gearing is less than 20% and provided that 3i is on track to reduce gross debt to less than 1 billion.
Given that these criteria have now been satisfied following the receipt of proceeds from the sale of Mold-Masters, we intend to initiate additional shareholder distributions above the annual base dividend in respect of the financial year ending 31 March 2014.
Sir Adrian Montague Chairman I am pleased to report that for the year ended 31 March 2013, NAVgrew by 11.5% to 311 pence per share after taking into account implementation costs and dividends in the period representing 5.8 penceand8.1 pence per share respectively.
In particular, in the three months to 31 March 2013, NAV grew by 8.7% from 286 pence per shareat 31 December 2012.
Since the announcement of 3is future strategy, there has been a material appreciation in 3is share price, and the discount of 3is share price to reported NAV has been eliminated.
3is share price increased by 65% from 191 pence at close of business on 28 June 2012 the day before the announcement to 316 pence at close ofbusiness on 28 March 2013 the last trading day of the financial year.
Over this same period, the premium discount of 3is share price to last reported NAV has moved from a material discount of 31% to a premium of 10%.
This is pleasing and demonstrates the growing confidence in our team and an endorsement of the new strategic plan.
However, significant work remains and we will continue to work hard to achieve our strategic goal and further re-build value for our shareholders.
