Remuneration report Remuneration Committee Chairmans summary statement We have presented the remuneration report for the continuing policy is to set a maximum level of bonus pool for year to 30 September 2013 in accordance with the new any year, rather than set a limit on individual awards.
We believe regulations governing the disclosure and approval of that this policy ensures that Aberdeen is not placed at a market directors remuneration.
This remuneration report has disadvantage when competing for talent, when the majority been divided into two parts: of our competitors do not have such a cap.
The committee is also conscious that capping individual awards could place some policy on directors remuneration, which will be subject to upward pressure on fixed remuneration, which it does a binding shareholder resolution at the forthcoming AGM not believe would be in the best interests of shareholders.
and every three years thereafter: and The committee believes that its policy of long-term deferral annual report on remuneration, which provides information of 75% of annual bonus into Aberdeen shares ensures that on how the policy has been applied during the year and individual rewards are aligned with longer-term sustained which will be subject to an advisory resolution at the performance expressed through Aberdeens share price forthcoming AGM.
The principles of our remuneration policy remain unchanged This is a significantly higher percentage than our peer group, from previous years and are set out in the first section of the and above the percentage that regulators have applied in report.
They include: some other parts of the financial services sector.
This years simple and clear executive pay: remuneration report provides additional information about the key performance indicators and targets used for linked to the delivery of superior financial results for determining bonus awards.
our shareholders: The Groups financial achievements are the result of strong subject to a total variable remuneration cap: operational disciplines and profit performance is a significant paid mainly in deferred company shares with clawback factor in setting the appropriate level of bonus pool each provisions, so that executives retain a substantial personal year.
We are also conscious that the primary imperative is stake in the on-going success of the Group.
to look after our clients and to provide superior investment performance.
The committee believes that the aggregate bonus While the binding vote on remuneration policy only applies to pool in any year should normally be no higher than 25% of remuneration awarded to directors, we continue to apply the pre-bonus operating profit.
Aggregate bonus awards for 2013 same principles to the remuneration of all employees.
were approximately 21% of pre bonus operating profit.
As a Our remuneration philosophy is focused on pay for consequence, we have been able to maintain the overall staff performance, tempered by an emphasis on ensuring that cost, both fixed and variable, at around 35% of the Groups performance is not achieved by taking risks which fall outwith revenue over a number of years.
The actual ratio for 2013 is the Boards risk appetite.
closely with the risk committee to ensure that remuneration As described in more detail in other sections of the annual decisions take into account the need to manage risk exposure.
report, Aberdeen has continued to perform well in the 2013 An example of this in the current year is that the potential financial year.
We have grown our underlying pre-tax profit bonus pool was reduced to reflect the costs of the regulatory by 39% and continued our progressive dividend policy this settlement referred to elsewhere in this annual report.
year paying a full year dividend of 16.0p, a 39% increase Throughout the year, I have engaged widely with shareholders on the previous year.
Combined with the strong share price and representative groups.
The committee has also taken appreciation, notwithstanding the volatility from emerging account of written guidelines from shareholder groups, and market exposure, we believe that our Total Shareholder the guidance on directors remuneration reporting from the Return has been excellent.
This performance is reflected GC100 and Investors Group.
in the remuneration received by the executive directors for the year under review.
The committee has responded to the desire from shareholders for longer deferral of equity bonuses and for larger executive Annual bonus awards for executive directors have been shareholdings.
Annual bonus deferral was extended last determined by the committee based on a rounded assessment year from three to four years and executive shareholding of Group and personal performance.
A range of key indicators requirements have this year been increased to three times have been considered including: investment performance base salary.
delivered for clients: client retention: growth in underlying earnings per share: operating margin: cash conversion: ROCE: The committee has monitored the debate in the financial corporate governance and risk management.
The committee services sector over the capping of variable compensation, and considers what has been achieved for each indicator, relative is aware of the desire of some investors to set a maximum on to both the annual business plan and the longer-term strategy.
the variable pay that any individual can earn.
The committees 64 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Levels of bonus award therefore reflect actual performance I do hope that you will feel able to support the remuneration relative to both annual and longer-term expectations.
The resolutions submitted for approval at the annual general financial results achieved in any one year are a reflection meeting.
of the delivery of our long-term strategy.
This years remuneration report provides additional information about the key performance indicators and performance assessment used for determining bonus awards.
Following two consecutive years in which there have been no Simon Troughton increases in base salary for executive directors, the committee Chairman of the remuneration committee has decided to award an increase of approximately 1% with effect from 1 January 2014, which is below the average increase awarded to other colleagues.
Directors remuneration policy This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out the Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve remuneration policy for directors of the company.
It has been last years remuneration report are provided in the annual prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized report on remuneration section of this report.
Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Considerations elsewhere in the Group Regulations 2013.
The policy has been developed taking into The Group applies a consistent remuneration philosophy for account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 colleagues at all levels.
Base salaries are targeted around the and the views of our major shareholders.
The policy will be put median of the relevant markets in which the Group competes to a binding shareholder vote at the January 2014 AGM, and, if for talent.
All colleagues are eligible for performance-related approved, will take formal effect from the date of the AGM.
annual bonus, and the principle of bonus deferral applies to all Policy Overview annual bonuses above a minimum threshold.
Rates of pension The remuneration committee determines, on behalf of the Board, contribution and fringe benefit provisions are consistent between the Groups policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, executive executives and other employees within each country where directors and other senior executives.
The committees terms of the Group operates.
The committee considers the base salary reference are available on the Groups website.
percentage increases for the Groups broader UK and international employee populations when determining any increases for the In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, executive directors.
the committee takes into account the following: The committee has not conducted a specific employee the need to attract, retain and motivate talented executive consultation exercise on the directors remuneration policy.
directors and senior management: However, the Group consults with its employees on general internal pay and benefits practice and employment conditions employment policies in a range of ways, including formal both within the Group as a whole and within the particular consultation forums in some countries where it operates.
geographic regions in which the Group operates: Colleagues are encouraged to provide feedback directly to their line managers or to the Human Resources team.
The external comparisons to examine current market trends and remuneration committee monitors the effectiveness of the practices and equivalent roles in similar companies taking Groups remuneration policy in recruiting, retaining, engaging into account their size, business complexity, international and motivating colleagues, and receives regular feedback from scope and relative performance: and the Group Head of Human Resources on how the Groups alignment of remuneration policy with the interests remuneration policies are perceived by colleagues and of shareholders.
whether they continue to meet business needs.
How the views of shareholders are taken into account The committee does not seek to apply fixed ratios between The remuneration committee chairman engages pro-actively pay levels of different roles in the Group, as this would restrict and regularly with major shareholders and shareholder flexibility in aligning reward and achievement, and potentially representatives.
The committee considers shareholder feedback create barriers to recruiting and retaining the necessary talent received as part of its annual review of remuneration policy.
in a highly competitive employment market.
If any material changes to the remuneration policy are Future policy table contemplated, the remuneration committee chairman The following table summarises the key elements of the Groups consults with major shareholders about these in advance.
remuneration policy for executive directors.
com 65 Remuneration report continued Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation, performance measures, deferral and clawback Maximum opportunity Base salary Reviewed annually, taking account of market salary levels, Group performance, individual There is no prescribed maximum salary or maximum rate of increase.
The committee is guided by the general increase for the broader Fixed pay performance, changes in responsibility and levels of increase for the broader employee population.
employee population but on occasions may need to recognise, for example, development in role, change in responsibility, specific retention issues, market practice or changes in regulatory requirements.
To pay a fair salary, commensurate with Reference is made to mid-market levels within relevant FTSE and industry comparators.
the individuals role, responsibilities Details of the outcome of the most recent salary review are provided in the annual report on remuneration.
The committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the total and experience, and having regard to remuneration package.
the market rates for similar roles in the asset management sector and other comparable companies.
Benefits The Group currently provides a range of fringe benefits such as: medical insurance: disability Fringe benefits are not subject to a specific cap, but represent only a small element of total remuneration.
The costs associated with Fixed pay insurance: life insurance: paid holiday: and international benefits assistance where appropriate.
benefits provision are closely monitored and controlled.
To provide cost-effective fringe Specific benefits provision may be subject to minor change from time to time, within this policy.
benefits and to support the wellbeing of employees.
Pension Employer contributions are made to appropriate defined contribution pension arrangements or Company contribution of up to 20% of base salary, or equivalent cash allowance in lieu.
Fixed pay equivalent cash allowances are paid, subject to normal practice in the relevant country.
To provide market competitive defined Legacy defined benefit plans from corporate acquisitions, are closed to all future accrual at the contribution pension arrangements, to earliest reasonable opportunity.
assist with recruitment and retention.
Annual bonus Bonus awards to executive directors are made from the Groups aggregate bonus pool in which all The aggregate bonus pool for all employees including executives is capped.
The policy is not to cap individual bonus awards other than Variable pay staff participate and which is approved by the remuneration committee each year.
The aggregate indirectly through the impact of the aggregate pool cap as this is not market practice for most of the Groups peers and would risk placing pool is normally capped at no more than 25% of pre-bonus operating profit, unless exceptional the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
To reward performance and circumstances justify a higher cap.
Executive bonus awards, paid from this pool, take account of align executives interests to The high proportion of bonus deferral 75% vesting over 4 years, clawback arrangements, and risk controls incorporated in the Groups the Groups key financial performance indicators for the relevant financial year such as underlying those of shareholders.
team-based investment process, ensure that the uncapped individual incentive opportunity encourages both excellent performance and profit before tax, underlying earnings per share, operating margin, cash conversion, ROCE, prudent management of risk.
corporate governance and risk management.
The committee will consider, where appropriate, the use of tax-approved share plans, to be applied to all employees on similar terms, Details of the performance indicators for the most recent financial year and performance against where these are consistent with the Group's overall remuneration policy.
them are provided in the annual report on remuneration.
Similar indicators have been applied for the forthcoming year and we will report on the outcomes against these measures in the 2014 report.
75% of any bonus earned is paid in Company shares which are released to executive directors in equal tranches over not less than four years.
An amount equivalent to the dividends due on the shares is paid to participants only after the earliest vesting date has passed.
Clawback A clawback principle applies to the bonus plan.
This enables the committee to seek to recoup The committee has the discretion to determine the amount of any award which it seeks to clawback.
annual bonus in the exceptional event of: misstatement or misleading representation of To ensure that bonus awards do performance: a significant failure of risk management and control: or serious misconduct not encourage excessive risk.
Share ownership Executive directors are required to build up a substantial interest in company shares.
The current requirements are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
Employment contracts, and loss Notice periods from the company are normally limited to 12 months, unless there are exceptional Any severance payment in lieu of notice is capped at an amount equivalent to the remuneration the executive director would otherwise of office reasons for a longer period of notice during a temporary transition period.
have been eligible to receive had they been permitted to work the notice period.
To facilitate recruitment and retention, Deferred bonus awards normally lapse on cessation of employment unless 'good leaver' status and support pay for performance, applies under the relevant plan rules.
by providing fair but not excessive contract features.
New executive director appointments Remuneration for new appointments will be set in accordance with the policy detailed in this table.
Where necessary, the committee may offer additional remuneration, such as shares or To facilitate recruitment of cash-based awards, to replace remuneration the individual has foregone in order to be able to necessary talent.
66 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation, performance measures, deferral and clawback Maximum opportunity Base salary Reviewed annually, taking account of market salary levels, Group performance, individual There is no prescribed maximum salary or maximum rate of increase.
com 67 Remuneration report continued Approach to remuneration for new executive director Choice of performance measures and how performance appointments expectations are set The remuneration package for a newly appointed executive The annual bonus is based on a range of key performance director is set in accordance with the terms of the Groups indicators KPIs linked to the Groups strategy, which approved remuneration policy in force at the time of provides a rounded assessment of the Groups performance.
The variable remuneration for a new executive The remuneration committee reviews the KPIs each year, to director is determined in the same way as for existing executive ensure that they continue to reflect the priorities of the business.
directors, and is subject to the maximum limit on aggregate The main emphasis is on financial metrics such as underlying profit variable pay referred to in the policy table above.
before tax, underlying earnings per share, operating margin, cash conversion and ROCE.
These KPIs are used because: they support The committee may also offer additional cash and or share-based value creation for shareholders: are a good indication of the strong elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of operational disciplines in place: and, most importantly, reflect the the Group and shareholders, to replace variable remuneration Groups primary imperative to look after our clients.
awards or arrangements that an individual has foregone in order to join the Group.
Any such payments would take account of The committee considers what has been achieved for each the details of the remuneration foregone, including the nature, KPI, relative to both the annual business plan and the longervesting dates and any performance requirements attached to term strategy.
Levels of bonus award therefore reflect that remuneration.
actual performance relative to both annual and longer-term expectations.
The progress on financial results achieved in any For external and internal appointments, the Group may meet one year are a reflection of the delivery of our long-term strategy.
certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
Service contracts and loss of office payment policy Differences in remuneration policy for executive directors The remuneration committee periodically reviews the contractual compared to other employees terms for new executive directors to ensure that these reflect The remuneration approach for the executive directors is broadly best practice.
consistent with that for employees across the Group as a whole.
However, there are some differences which the committee Service contracts normally continue until the directors agreed believes are necessary to reflect the different responsibilities retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
The of employees across the Group: service contracts contain a provision for early termination.
Below executive director level, whilst the same 75% bonus Notice periods are limited to 12 months.
deferral policy applies, individuals are permitted to elect to If the employing company terminates the employment of an receive up to half of the deferred amount in the form of executive director without giving the period of notice required investment in funds managed by Aberdeen: the balance of under the contract, then the executive director is entitled to the deferred amount is delivered in Aberdeen shares.
receive up to one years remuneration in recompense.
This For executive directors and the other members of the Group compensation is limited to: base salary due for any unexpired management board the 75% deferred portion of annual bonus notice period: any amount assessed by the committee as vests over not less than four years in equal tranches on the 1st, representing the value of other contractual benefits, and 2nd, 3rd and 4th anniversaries of the award.
For employees pension, which would have been received during the period: below this level, the 75% deferred portion currently vests in and any annual bonus to which the director might otherwise equal tranches over three years on the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd have been eligible to receive had they been permitted to serve anniversaries of the award.
their notice, subject to the committees assessment of Group and personal performance.
External non-executive director positions The directors contracts also provide for termination on three Executive directors are permitted to accept a limited number of months notice if, in the opinion of the Board and having given the directorships outside the Group, recognising that this can assist director adequate opportunity to improve, the director has failed in their personal development.
All such appointments are subject to perform at a satisfactory standard.
In such a case, the directors to approval in advance by the Board.
Where the appointment is contracts do not provide for any liquidated damages to be paid.
accepted in furtherance of the Groups business, any fees received are remitted to the Group.
If the appointment is not connected to the Groups business, the director is permitted to retain any fees received.
Details of outside directorships held by the executive directors and any fees that they received are provided in the annual report on remuneration.
68 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors Provision Detailed terms Remuneration Policy, authority is given to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors Notice period 12 months such as the payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share Termination payment in the Base salary plus value of schemes that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous event of termination by the benefits including pension.
Details of any such payments will be set Company without due notice out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise.
Eligible for annual bonus subject to Group and personal Reward scenarios performance to which the The Groups policy results in the majority of the remuneration director might otherwise have received by executive directors being dependent on Group been eligible to receive had performance.
they been permitted to serve The table below illustrates the minimum fixed remuneration, their notice.
and provides an indication of the total remuneration for a year of good performance using the annual bonus figures for the year ending 30 September 2013 and the base salaries effective Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive director 1 January 2014.
As the Groups policy is not to cap individual under the Groups share plans will be determined based on the variable pay, a maximum total remuneration figure is not shown relevant plan rules.
The default treatment is that any outstanding in the chart.
awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, disability, redundancy, It also shows the weighting of the main remuneration components retirement or other circumstances at the discretion of the for executive directors.
As the chart indicates, performance-related committee taking into account the individuals performance and remuneration represents between 62% and 90% of the total, the reasons for their departure 'good leaver' status can be applied.
and three-quarters of the performance-related remuneration is delivered in Aberdeen shares.
A directors service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
Relative sizes of remuneration components 000 5,102 5,097 67% 67% 2,320 62% 1,264 1,239 1,042 23% 23% 50% 50% 46% 502 414 392 414 420 20% 497 17% 17% 16% 100% 10% 10% 100% 33% 100% 38% 100% 33% 100% 18% 100% Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Fixed Fixed Fixed Fixed Fixed Fixed Martin Gilbert Andrew Laing Rod MacRae Bill Rattray Anne Richards Hugh Young Fixed remuneration Cash bonus Deferred bonus aberdeen-asset.
com 69 Remuneration report continued Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other non-executive directors Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum Board To attract and retain The Board Chairman is paid a single fee for all his The current fee for the Chairman is Chairman a high-calibre Board responsibilities.
The level of the fee is reviewed, 300,000, but is subject to change fee Chairman by offering periodically by the remuneration committee, with periodically by the committee under a market competitive reference to market levels in comparably sized FTSE this policy.
companies, and a recommendation is then made to There is no maximum fee level.
the Board without the Chairman being present.
NonTo attract and retain The non-executives are paid a basic fee.
The The current basic fee is 60,000 executive high-calibre noncommittee chairmen and other members of with a supplement of 30,000 for director fees executive directors the Board committees audit, remuneration, risk, each of the chairmen of the audit, by offering a market and nominations and the Senior Independent remuneration and risk committees competitive fee level.
Director are paid supplements to reflect the and a supplement of 20,000 for additional responsibilities.
There is also currently a supplement The fee levels are reviewed periodically by the of 12,000 for other members of Chairman and executive directors, with reference to the audit, remuneration and risk market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies committees, and 5,000 for members and a recommendation is then made to the Board.
These fee levels are subject to change periodically under this policy.
There is no maximum fee level.
Non-executive directors are engaged under letters of appointment and they do not have contracts of service.
The appointment will normally terminate on: i a director choosing to resign voluntarily: or ii a director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness: or iii annually, if the nominations committee does not approve the extension of the appointment: or iv a director being found guilty of misconduct: or v a director not being re-elected by the shareholders following retirement by rotation at an Annual General Meeting.
No fee is paid to non-executive directors appointed to represent a major shareholder.
Compliance with the FCA Remuneration Code The committee regularly reviews its remuneration policies to ensure compliance with the principles of the Remuneration Code of the UK financial services regulator, as applicable to Aberdeen.
The remuneration policy is designed to be consistent with the prudent management of risk, and the sustained, long-term performance of the Group.
The Group Head of Risk is involved in reviewing the remuneration policy and practice to ensure that it is aligned with sound risk management, and keeps the Committee informed of Aberdeens risk profile so that this can be taken into account in remuneration decisions.
70 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, and relevant sections of the Listing Rules.
The annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
The information on pages 71 to 78 has been audited where required under the regulations and indicated as audited information where applicable.
com 71 Remuneration report continued Annual bonus for the year to 30 September 2013 Annual bonus awards for the year under review were based on performance against a range of objectives.
The relevant performance indicators and the committees assessment of performance are shown in the table: Growth in underlying Operating Cash Overall Key diluted EPS margin ROCE conversion assessment Above target Results 43.6% 45.4% 27.5% 108% Around target Remuneration Committees assessment Between threshold and target Below threshold Excellent financial results were achieved across the key metrics.
This continues a sustained period of strong performance shown in the table below.
For additional information, the history of performance outcomes against financial metrics for the last five years is as follows: KPI 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Change in underlying PBT 38.8% 15.2% 43.8% 146.8% -10.5% Change in underlying EPS diluted 43.6% 20.9% 40.6% 111.1% -30.0% Operating margin 45.4% 40.6% 39.5% 34.8% 22.7% Conversion of operating profit to cash flow 108% 119% 129% 115% 83% Net new business -2.5bn 0.0bn -1.7bn 2.6bn -10.7bn The resulting bonuses for year ending 30 September 2013 were as follows: Cash Deferred Total Individual 000 000 000 Martin Gilbert 1,150 3,450 4,600 Hugh Young 1,150 3,450 4,600 Anne Richards 475 1,425 1,900 Andrew Laing 213 637 850 Bill Rattray 206 619 825 Rod MacRae 163 487 650 The bonus is paid 25% in cash and 75% in shares.
The shares vest to executives over four years in equal instalments, subject to continued employment with the Company.
Both the cash and share element of the bonus is subject to clawback.
72 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Outstanding share awards The table below sets out details of executive directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to continued service.
As set out in the policy report, the executive directors are required to build up a shareholding equivalent to at least 300% of salary, including vested deferred bonus shares.
The Board Chairman and non-executive directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Company but are not subject to a formal shareholding guideline.
No director has entered into any such arrangements.
There have been no other changes to the directors holdings between 30 September 2013 and 22 November 2013. aberdeen-asset.
com 75 Remuneration report continued Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive The following table shows the percentage change in the base salary, benefits and annual bonus of the Chief Executive between the current and previous financial year compared to the average for all employees of the Group.
% change in: Chief Executive Average for all employees Base salary No change 4% Benefits No change No change Total annual bonus 15% 11% Review of basic salaries The executive directors salaries have been reviewed by the committee, and, following two successive years without change, a salary increase of 1% will take effect from 1 January 2014.
The average rate of salary increase awarded to all staff, other than directors, is 4%.
Base salary changes for the executive directors Salary from Current salary January 2014 000 000 Increase Martin Gilbert 500 506 1.2% Andrew Laing 350 355 1.4% Rod MacRae 350 355 1.4% Bill Rattray 350 355 1.4% Anne Richards 350 355 1.4% Hugh Young 350 355 1.4% Total shareholder return The graph below shows the Companys TSR performance with dividends re-invested against the performance of the FTSE All Share and the FTSE All Share Financial Services indices for the last 5 years.
As the chart indicates, Aberdeens TSR of 270% for the five year period was substantially above the two comparator indices.
% - Aberdeen Asset Management FTSE All Share General Financial FTSE All Share Source: Thomson Reuters 76 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Corporate governance Total remuneration of Chief Executive The total remuneration of the Chief Executive for each of the financial years shown in the TSR graph is shown in the following table.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in each year.
The LTIP vesting figures show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
As there is no cap on the maximum individual bonus award, a percentage of maximum annual bonus is not shown.
Year ending 30 September 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total remuneration 000 1,925 3,751 4,501 4,728 5,102 LTIP vesting % 0% 85% 100% 100% N A Relative importance of the spend on pay The following table shows the yearon-year movement in total remuneration of all employees, compared to the increase in dividends paid and declared on ordinary shares.
m Total profit attributable to Dividends employee pay ordinary shareholders 2012 2013 Implementation of remuneration policy in the year commencing 1 October 2013 The committee intends to continue to apply broadly the same key performance metrics as in the previous year and to assess performance taking account of strategic and annual expectations for the company.
Meetings and attendance The remuneration committee is chaired by Simon Troughton, and he is supported by the two independent non-executive directors, Anita Frew and Richard Mully.
Richard Mully joined the committee on 11 October 2012 and Giles Weaver served on the committee until his retirement in January 2013.
All other members served on the committee throughout the year.
The committee operates under formal terms of reference which are reviewed annually and held six meetings during the year.
There was full attendance at all meetings by members, as shown in the table: Maximum possible Meetings attendance attended Simon Troughton 6 6 Anita Frew 6 6 Richard Mully 5 5 Giles Weaver 3 3 The Chief Executive attends the meeting by invitation and assists the committee in its deliberations, except when his personal remuneration is discussed.
No directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The committee also received advice from the Group Head of HR.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the committee.
com 77 Remuneration report continued External advisors The remuneration committee receives independent advice from New Bridge Street NBS consultants.
NBS abides by the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires it to provide objective and impartial advice.
NBS has appointed by the committed and does not provide other services to the Group.
Total fees charged by NBS for the year were 65,000.
External directorships The table below sets out details of the external directorships held by the executive directors and any fees that they received in respect of their services during the year.
The Group earned fees of 23,000 for Martin Gilberts services as a non-executive director of one Aberdeen-managed company and 62,000 for Hugh Youngs services as a non-executive director of three Aberdeen-managed companies.
Martin Gilbert earned and retained fees as non-executive chairman of FirstGroup plc and as a non-executive director of British Sky Broadcasting plc.
Anne Richards earned and retained fees for being a non-executive director of esure Group plc and for being a member of the Council of the Duchy of Lancaster.
Hugh Young earned and retained fees for being a member of the Singapore Exchange Disciplinary and Appeals panels.
Position 2013 2012 Martin Gilbert Non-executive chairman, FirstGroup plc 191,000 191,000 Non-executive director, British Sky Broadcasting plc 93,000 55,000 Anne Richards Non-executive director, esure Group plc 49,000 Member of the Council of the Duchy of Lancaster 17,000 17,000 Hugh Young Member of the Singapore Exchange panels 15,000 15,000 Statement of shareholder voting At the 2013 AGM, shareholder voting on the remuneration report was as follows: No of shares % of votes cast Votes cast in favour 769.6m 88.6% Votes cast against 99.1m 11.4% Total votes cast 868.7m 100.0% Abstentions 5.3m Approval This Directors remuneration report, including both the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Simon Troughton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 22 November 2013 78 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
