106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 33 Directors Remuneration Policy This section provides details of the remuneration policy for the Directors of the Company.
All Directors are nonexecutive, appointed under the terms of letters of appointment and none has a service contract.
The Company has no employees.
The Board has prepared this report in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
An Ordinary resolution will be put to members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the approval of this policy.
If the resolution is passed, the policy provisions below will apply until they are next put to Shareholders for approval, which must be at intervals of not more than three years.
This Policy, together with the Directors letters of appointment may be inspected at the Companys registered office.
The Board is composed wholly of non-executive Directors who together consider and determine all matters relating to the Directors remuneration at the beginning of each financial period.
A Remuneration Committee has not been formed as all of the Directors are non-executive and considered independent.
Companys Policy on Directors Remuneration The Companys policy is that the remuneration of the Directors should be commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the role and consistent with the requirement to attract and retain Directors of appropriate quality and experience.
The remuneration should also be comparable to that of similar investment trusts within the AICs UK Smaller Companies sector and other investment trusts that are similar in size and structure.
No Shareholder has expressed any views to the Company in respect of Directors remuneration.
Remuneration Policy is not subject to employee consultation as the Company has no employees.
The Board, at its discretion, shall determine Directors remuneration subject to the aggregate annual fees not exceeding 200,000 in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Such remuneration is solely composed of Directors fees and Directors are not eligible for any other remuneration.
The table below sets out the Directors fees in respect of the year ending 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014: Annual Fees Annual Fees 2014 2013 Chairman of the Company 33,750 33,000 Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee 27,500 27,000 Director and Member of the Audit Committee 23,500 23,000 Director 22,500 22,000 It is intended that this policy will remain in place for the following financial year and subsequent periods.
Loss of Office A Director may be removed without notice and no compensation will be due on loss of office.
Expenses All directors are entitled to the reimbursement of expenses paid by them in order to perform their duties as a Director of the Company.
Review of the Remuneration Policy The Board has agreed to review the above policy at least annually to ensure that it remains appropriate.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 33
