REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE STATEMENT FROM JOHN SUSSENS CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report theReport for theyear ended 31 December 2013, whichhasbeen prepared by the Remuneration Committee theCommittee and approved by the Board.
This Report covers the reporting period from 1 January 2013 to31December 2013 andprovides details of the activities oftheCommittee and Remuneration Policy oftheCompany.
In August 2013, the UK Government Department of Business Innovation & Skills BIS published regulations setting out what companies must disclose in the directors remuneration report with theaim of improving transparency and promoting best practice.
The Report is therefore divided into three sections: Remuneration Committee Chairmanstatement Directors Remuneration Policy, which details Admirals remuneration policies and links to Group strategy, as well as projected pay outcomes under various performance scenarios Annual Report on Remuneration, whichfocuses on the remuneration arrangements and outcomes for theyear under review, and how the Committee intends to implement the Remuneration Policy in 2014 2013 has been another strong year for theGroup despite a challenging external environment.
The Group increased profi ts inthe year by 7% to 370 million with a return on capital employed of 58% which supported total dividends for the fi financial yearof 99.5 pence per share, representing a distribution of 95% of our earnings.
The Groups strategy remains to continue tomaximise our position in the UK while taking what we know and do well, which is internet and telephone delivery of car insurance and price comparison, to our overseas insurance and price comparison businesses.
Two of the three Executive Directors are founding Directors and receive remuneration that comprises salary andmodest benefi ts only.
The Committee continues to hold the view that this isappropriate, as their signifi cant shareholdings provide a suffi cient alignment of their interest with those of other shareholders.
In order to provide full transparency of pay arrangements for our Executive Directors, this Report includes single fi gure and comparative data for our CFO as well as for our CEO, as thepay arrangements for the CFO are more refl ective of those for non-founder Executives.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Committee met on six separate occasions.
The key matters considered included: Reviewing salary and fee proposals for the Executive Directors, the Chairman and senior management Reviewing the appropriateness of the performance conditions for both the Discretionary Free Share Scheme DFSS and Free Share Incentive Plan SIP awards Reviewing the Companys performance against the performance conditions applicable to the DFSS and SIP awards and where appropriate authorising the vesting of awards Reviewing and authorising the grant of awards under both DFSS and SIP plans Reviewing the Committees Terms ofReference and recommending amendments to the Board for approval Reviewing new requirements for remuneration disclosure under BIS andresponding accordingly Reviewing the effi ciency of DFSS awardsfor overseas businesses As the 10 year life of the DFSS expires in 2015 and given the changes in both size and geography to the business since fl otation in 2004, the opportunity will be taken in 2014 to review whether any changes need to be made to the DFSS scheme rules.
Thesewill then be put to shareholders for approval at the Groups AGM in 2015.
John Sussens Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 March 2014 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 54 x ADM ar13 middle.
