64 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 REMUNERATION REPORT Structure of the report The Committee believes that theGroups overall remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy pages 66 to 70. policy, reward components Annual Remuneration Report pages 64 and 65, and 71 to 79. andemphasis on performanceAt the Companys forthcoming AGM on related reward continue to be 15 May 2014, the Directors Remuneration Policy will besubject toa binding vote appropriate in the context of by shareholders, andthis letter and the market and corporate governance Annual Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory vote byshareholders.
The Committee believes it is essential that BG Groups remuneration further strengthen alignment with shareholders interests, the guideline policy and its implementation are clearly aligned with the interests was increased from 200% to 300% of salary.
Net shares from incentive ofshareholders and corporate governance best practice in the UK.
awards are to be retained until the guideline is achieved.
TheGroups ability, as an internationally diversified gas and oil company, to compete for executive talent in a global market should be viewed In July 2013, the Company announced that Simon Lowth would be joining byshareholders in this context.
BGGroup as Chief Financial Officer.
In order to recruit Simon it was necessary to buy out his 2013 bonus entitlement and the share awards 2013 was Chris Finlaysons first year as Chief Executive and, in May, foregone on leaving his former employer.
Further details of these awards heprovided his strategy update.
During the year, the Company delivered are provided in the report.
Simon joined the Company on 2 December 2013 sound trading results and operational performance, made progress on and, in light of the markets reaction to the 27 January 2014 announcement, anumber of its key growth projects and achieved further good progress the Committee re-considered the buy-out awards made for the purposes against the HSSE scorecard.
However, following a number of announcements ofhis recruitment in view of a significant diminution intheir value.
during the year and on 27 January 2014, the growth outlook for BG Group Following consultation with the Companys major shareholders, the for 2014 and 2015 was reduced, owing to developments in Egypt and Company made a further grant to Simon in the form of a deferred award theUSA, and a deteriorating operational performance in some of our over BG Group plc shares to honour the agreed valueof the buy-out awards.
The proportion of shares that vest under the new award will be reduced by the proportion of shares that vest under the original buy-out awards.
The Committee reviewed the outcome of the 2013 annual bonus scorecard for the Executive Directors in this context.
Before considering individual In November 2013, the Company announced that Martin Houston had performance, the bonus scorecard outcome was 54.64% compared to stepped down as an Executive Director and as Chief Operating Officer.
After careful consideration, the Committee Martin had given the Company notice of his intention to retire from determined that the business performance scorecard outcome should be the Group.
The Committee reviewed and considered his outstanding reduced by20% to 43.71% and that the bonuses awarded to the current and share awards and, in accordance with the Companys policy on former Directors employed at the time of the award would be in the form retirement, agreed that Martin would be treated as a retiree for the of deferred awards over BG Group plc shares.
purposes of the relevant incentive plan rules.
Further details are provided in the report.
Following the Committees annual review of Executive Directors salaries, no increases were made.
The next review is due in March 2015.
The main changes in the report from last year are the inclusion in the report of two distinct sections: During the year, the Committee reviewed the design of the long-term incentive plan LTIP and the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Committee The first section, the Directors Remuneration Policy pages 66 to 70, consulted major shareholders to solicit their views on both of these setsout the components of reward for Directors and how they are linked matters and carefully considered all feedback received.
In its review of to the business strategy, and will be the subject of a binding vote at our theLTIP, the Committee determined that relative TSR remains the most AGM: and appropriate LTIP performance measure given the strategys focus on The second section, the Annual Remuneration Report pages 71 to 79, shareholder value and the difficulties in normalising other financial reports on the implementation of the remuneration policy and the measures for foreign exchange and commodity price fluctuations over the remuneration of the Directors for the 2013 financial year, and will be longer term.
The Committee will continue to evaluate the use of additional thesubject of an advisory vote at our AGM.
performance measures but, in the near term, relative TSR will be retained as the principal LTIP performance measure.
The Committee believes that the Groups overall remuneration policy, reward components and emphasis on performance-related reward continue to be The Committee has considered shareholder feedback on LTIP threshold appropriate in the context of market and corporate governance developments vesting levels, and will continue to keep this under review by reference in the UK.
Other than the changes noted above, there were no further toBG Groups peer group.
In the meantime, the Committee remains changes to remuneration arrangements during the year.
committed to setting challenging LTIP targets for threshold vesting, which result in 25% of an award vesting.
For the LTIP award vesting in The Committee will continue to monitor developments relating to 2013, granted in 2010, the threshold level of performance was not attained executive reward, while keeping those aspects at BG Group and the and no award vested.
To further strengthen alignment with shareholders Directors Remuneration Policy under review.
interests, the Committee introduced a two-year holding period, during which forfeiture and malus provisions also apply, for 50% of the net On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank shareholders for their vested shares from LTIP awards.
This is effective for the 2013 LTIP continued support.
Performance Share Awards and future awards.
Dr john hooD During 2013, the Committee also reviewed the shareholding guidelines Chairman of the forExecutive Directors.
To encourage share ownership and, again, remuneration Committee BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report 65 REMUNERATION COMMITTEES RESPONSIBILITIES The Committees principal responsibilities are: setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval theGroups overall remuneration policy and strategy: setting, reviewing and approving the remuneration arrangements including any bonuses, incentive payments, share awards, pension andbenefit arrangements, and termination payments of the Chairman, ChiefExecutive and Executive Directors: reviewing and approving the remuneration arrangements including anybonuses, incentive payments, share awards, pension and benefit arrangements, and termination payments of members of the GEC whoare not Executive Directors, and the Company Secretary: and reviewing and approving the rules of and any significant amendment to any long-term incentive plan whether cash or share-based, deferred bonus plan, cash-based incentive plan, or share plan, subject to final approval by the Board and or shareholders, where necessary.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the BGGroup website at www.
com  andcopiesare available on request.
REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES BG Groups Directors Remuneration Policy as detailed on pages 66 to 70 is based on the following principles, which are reviewed annually toensure they continue to be appropriate and support BG Groups business strategy.
BG Groups remuneration principles for Executive Directors and other members of the Group Executive Committee Shareholder-aligned The performance-related incentive arrangements are designed to align the interests of executives with those of shareholders andestablish a clear link between remuneration and sustained individual and corporate performance.
BG Groups shareholding guidelines encourage Executive Directors, GEC members and certain other senior employees to build upandretain a minimum holding of shares.
market-competitive The Policy is designed to deliver reward that will facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation of the executive talent andaligned with necessaryto deliver successfully BG Groups growth strategy.
theuKCorporate It takes appropriate account of the UK Corporate Governance Code and best practice guidelines published by regulators, Governance Code institutional shareholder and other bodies.
Performance-related At the Executive Director and senior employee levels, the majority of the reward opportunity is provided through performance-related incentives.
Reward under these incentives is linked to both individual and BG Groups performance.
When setting targets and assessing performance, appropriate account is taken of business risk and the delivery of sustained returns to shareholders.
REMUNERATION REPORT GLOSSARy Of TERMS These terms or acronyms are used in the following report: Acronyms AGM Annual General Meeting HMRC HM Revenue & Customs AIS Annual Incentive Scheme, the Companys annual bonus plan HSSE Health, safety, security and environment BGPS BG Pension Scheme, a funded defined benefit pension scheme which LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan was closed to future accrual with effect from 31 December 2013 BGSBS BG Supplementary Benefits Scheme, an unfunded defined benefit PSA Performance Share Award, an award granted under the LTIP pension scheme which was closed to future accrual with effect whichissubject to performance conditions other than in from31December 2013  CSOS Company Share Option Scheme, a legacy plan under which share ROACE Return on average capital employed options were previously granted DBP Deferred Bonus Plan SIP Share Incentive Plan, an HMRC approved plan for UK employees EPS Earnings per share TRCF Total recordable case frequency EPV Estimated present value, a measure of the economic or fair value TSR Total shareholder return ofashare award VBDP Voluntary Bonus Deferral Plan GEC Group Executive Committee Corporate governanCe 66 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICy The Directors Remuneration Policy described in this section the Policy is intended to apply from the conclusion of the 2014 AGM, subject to shareholder approval.
The Committee will review, but not necessarily revise, the Policy at least annually to ensure that it remains aligned with business needs and is appropriately positioned in the market.
The Policy incorporates some flexibility and discretion to allow the Committee to manage and determine Directors remuneration over the life of the Policy.
If approved, this Policy will continue to apply until a revised policy receives shareholder approval and becomes applicable.
SUMMARy Of REMUNERATION POLICy fOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table below summarises the elements of Executive Directors remuneration.
For notes to this table, please see page 68.
PURPOSE AND OPERATION LINk TOSTRATEGy fIXED PAy Base salary Paid monthly and, usually, reviewed experience and performance: anExecutive Directors role or market To attract and retain talent to help annually with any increases taking business performance, the wider positioning changes significantly.
The review involves market and economic conditions: and Where the change in role is on an the consideration of market position the range of salary increases applying interim basis, the Committee may relative to relevant comparator across the Group in similar inflationary determine that, instead of an increase groups, including our sector peers environments.
insalary, a non-pensionable interim andnon-financial services FTSE 30 allowance is payable, the level of The Committee may review and adjust constituents, and is also influenced by: which will be informed by those salaries other than in the course of factors influencing salary reviews.
the Executive Directors role, theannual review, including where Executive Directors are covered under Benefits Benefits typically include life assurance, acompany car or cash in lieu of a To attract and retain talent to help income protection, personal accident company car and, where appropriate the terms of the Companys directors to assist with their roles, chauffeur and officers liability insurance.
insurance, annual leave, financial counselling and medical insurance.
services may also be provided.
Executive Directors may be provided Executive Directors are also eligible to with additional benefits, such as on participate in our all-employee share site fitness facilities, on the same basis plans, currently the Share Incentive asother employees.
Flexible benefit Plan and the Sharesave Plan, on the arrangements may be offered including same basis as other employees.
Executive Directors can choose to Employees who joined BG Group was closed to future accrual on Pension To attract and retain talent to help participate in the relevant local defined intheUK prior to April 2007 may be 31December 2013. contribution pension arrangement deferred members of the UK defined achieve our strategic objectives.
orreceive cash in lieu or a combination benefit pension arrangement which thereof.
VARIABLE PAy Forfeiture and malus provisions apply to Annual Incentive Scheme The AIS is reviewed prior to the start of the stage one outcome, downwards or each financial year to ensure the bonus upwards, within the overall AIS limits, at its VBDP awards, which may be reduced if the Delivered in the form of cash individual ceases to be an Executive Director opportunity, performance measures and discretion.
The treatment of AIS awards awards, automatic deferral weightings are appropriate and continue on termination and on a change of control oremployee as a result of misconduct.
into DBP share awards to support the strategic and operational are set out on page 69.
Executive Directors are also able voluntarily and or voluntary deferral business priorities for the forthcoming AIS awards are subject to automatic todefer a proportion of their AIS award into into VBDP shareawards.
Stretching financial and awards over BG Group shares under the and or voluntary deferral into awards non-financial performance measures over BG Group shares.
For AIS awards VBDP, which is available to other employees.
Designed to reward the and targets are set at the start of each VBDP awards vest three months after inexcess of 100% of base salary, achievement of the strategic financial year.
theexcess is automatically deferred thedate of grant.
Dividend equivalents andoperational business accrue on VBDP awards.
Actual AIS awards are determined by a for three years into share awards over prioritiesfor the financial year.
Firstly, performance is BGGroup shares under the DBP, The number of shares comprising DBP or assessed against the agreed measures and whichaccrue dividend equivalents.
VBDP awards is calculated using the average The DBP and VBDP are designed targets.
Secondly, the Committee reviews Forfeiture and malus provisions apply share price over the three or five dealing days toprovide further alignment with these results in the context of individual preceding the date of grant.
The automatic tothe vesting of DBP awards, which may the interests of shareholders.
performance and the underlying be reduced in circumstances where the and voluntary deferral arrangements are performance of and prospects for the reviewed periodically and may be altered Company becomes aware of misconduct business.
If the Committee considers that or performance issues relevant to the orremoved by the Committee.
the stage one outcome does not reflect bonus award year, or if the individual Details for the current Executive Directors the performance or prospects of the ceases to be an Executive Director or fortheperiod under review are set out in the Company appropriately, it may adjust employee as a result of misconduct.
Annual Remuneration Report on page 72.
Long-Term IncentivePlan In accordance with the rules of the LTIP, the proposed award and plan dilution limits.
a proportion of the net vested shares on Committee may grant Performance Share vesting are subject to afurther holding Awards over BGGroup shares EPV is a measure of the economic or Awards, and or Market Value Options period, during which forfeiture and fair value of an award.
The measure takes to Executive Directors.
To date, the malus provisions apply.
Thenumber of Designed to align the interests account of the performance conditions, Committee has granted only Performance shares that will be released atthe end ofExecutive Directors with those the risk that the performance conditions Share Awards to Executive Directors.
ofthis holding period may bereduced ofshareholders by rewarding might not be met and the risk that awards incircumstances where theCompany theExecutive Directors for value The award levels and performance may be forfeited.
EPV is calculated becomes aware of misstatement of the growth over the longer term.
conditions on which vesting will be independently by the Committees financial accounts, individual misconduct dependent are reviewed annually to advisers.
The face value of an award or performance issues.
At grant, the ensure they remain appropriate.
Awards isequal to the number of shares, or Committee sets thelength of the holding are typically granted annually in shares under option, multiplied by period and the proportion of net vested September.
A number of factors are therelevant share price at grant.
shares subject to the holding period.
considered when determining the level Performance Share Awards vest over Forthe life of this Policy, these will of any award, including the position of aperiod set by the Committee, which beatleast two years and at least 50% the Executive Directors overall reward will normally be three years from the respectively.
The treatment of LTIP package relative to the market, the date of grant.
Dividend equivalents accrue awards on termination and on a change Executive Directors performance and on Performance Share Awards.
For2013 ofcontrol are set out onpage 69. experience, the face value and EPV of the and later LTIP Performance Share Awards, BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report 67 OPPORTUNITy PERfORMANCE MEASURES Base salary increases will be applied change in the responsibilities of the role.
Individual and business performance inline with the outcome of the review.
isconsidered in reviewing and setting The level of base salary paid, and any Maximum salary increases to Executive base salary.
interim allowance, will vary by role and Directors will be within the range of will be no more than is necessary to those awarded to other employees in attract and retain Executive Directors similar inflationary environments, other with the necessary experience and skills.
than where it is appropriate to recognise Details for the current Executive Directors for performance showing significant the period under review are set out in the progression within the role or a material Annual Remuneration Report onpage 71.
Benefit values vary by role and are travel, accommodation and subsistence.
Some benefits, such as life assurance, reviewed by reference to market position Occasional travel, accommodation and are calculated by reference to base periodically.
The maximum level of subsistence expenses will be reimbursed salary.
benefits will be no more than is necessary and may be grossed up for any tax due to attract and retain Executive Directors where the Company requires Executive with the necessary experience and skills.
Directors spouses or partners to travel.
Executive Directors will be reimbursed Details for the current Executive Directors forthe period under review are set out inthe for business expenses relating to the Annual Remuneration Report onpage 71. performance of their duties, including Executive Directors can choose a deferred member of the UK defined Calculated by reference to base salary.
pension contribution or receive cash benefit pension arrangement.
inlieu, or a combination thereof, Details for the current Executive Directors for upto30% of base salary.
theperiod under review are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report onpage 71.
No current Executive Director is a The AIS offers a maximum opportunity under the VBDP that vests, provided The performance measures selected for The Committee has the flexibility of up to 200% of base salary, with their voluntary award is deferred for the year, and their relative weighting, tovary the weightings and to select target and threshold opportunities atleast three years.
Where employees may vary each year depending upon alternative or additional measures over ofup to100% and up to 45% of base with these awards subsequently strategic and operational business the life of this Policy to ensure that salary, respectively.
Each year, the become members of the GEC, it is priorities.
The performance of each theAIS is aligned to the strategic and Committee determines maximum, theCompanys policy to honour the Executive Director is measured against operational priorities of the business target and threshold AIS opportunities, awards in accordance with their terms, their individual objectives for the year for the forthcoming financial year, which may vary by role, on an individual which may differ from the terms of which, as part of their operational subject to maintaining a weighting basis, within those scheme limits.
awards granted under this Policy.
objectives, include challenging budget ofat least 50% for externally reported and stretch targets in key operational financial measures, such as EPS Employees who are not members of Individual limits for the Executive Directors areas.
Performance measures may and ROACE.
for the period under revieware set out in the the GEC are eligible for an additional Annual Remuneration Report on page 72. beselected from externally reported 10% award of the amount deferred Details of the performance measures for financial measures, such as EPS and theperiod under review are set outin the ROACE, other internal financial Annual Remuneration Report on page 72. measures, such as working capital targets, and or operational measures, such as project performance and HSSE.
Awards granted to individuals under services FTSE 30 constituents and LTIP awards vest in accordance with creation over the longer term, the the LTIP are subject to the following themedian of awards to the chief the plan rules and vesting is usually Committee has the flexibility to vary annual limits: executives of the Groups sector peers.
subject to the following conditions: the weighting of the TSR performance an overall EPV limit of 300% continued employment: measure and to set the weighting of The maximum opportunity for ofbasesalary: and the individuals performance not other measures, which are externally threshold performance is 25% of the the face value of each type of award having fallen significantly below that reported financial measures, such as award granted, above which straight cannot exceed 600% of base salary.
expected at the date of grant: and EPS and ROACE.
Over the life of this line vesting applies.
the Companys performance over Policy, relative TSR will be retained as a Both limits may be exceeded in exceptional Employees who are not Executive athree-year performance period, performance measure and this circumstances, such as recruitment or Directors may receive awards which will usually start with the performance measure will have retention, at the Committees discretion.
Insuch exceptional circumstances, the Where employees with these awards maximum annual value is an overall EPV Performance measures are reviewed Buy-out awards on recruitment may subsequently become Executive limit of 575% of base salary, other than each year by the Committee and begranted without performance Directors, it is the Companys policy forbuy-out awards on, or in connection selected to focus Executive Directors conditions and or a holding period tohonour the awards in accordance with, recruitment.
This limit has been onthe strategic business priorities atthe Committees discretion.
with their terms, which may differ determined following a review of the andthe interests of shareholders from the terms of awards granted Details of the performance measure for upper quartile of awards to the chief overthe longer term.
theperiod under review are set outin the under this Policy.
executives of the non-financial Annual Remuneration Report on page 74.
To ensure that the LTIP rewards value Corporate governanCe 68 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICy CONTINUED NOTES TO ThE POLICy TABLE For LTIP awards, the Committee selects performance Differences in remuneration policy measures that are appropriate for the Companys overall forotheremployees strategy and which are linked to value creation over The structure of reward for the remainder ofthe It is the Companys policy to honour pre-existing the longer term.
The LTIP performance targets will GECgenerally mirrors that of the Executive Directors.
remuneration obligations and commitments that bedetermined annually by the Committee, with The structure of employees reward cascades were entered into prior to the commencement outperformance being required to achieve the fromthat oftheExecutive Directors.
All employees ofthis Policy or before an employee becomes an maximum opportunity.
areentitled to base salary, with salaries reviewed Executive Director, which may include obligations atleast annually, and benefits andpension under service contracts, annual and long-term The Committee is of the opinion that the AISand LTIP arrangements that are set byreference to the incentive schemes and pension arrangements performance targets which are based on Company localmarket in which they are employed.
Where with terms that differ from this Policy.
measures are commercially sensitive and that it would be appropriate andfeasible for example, under local detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose legislation or practice, employees also participate AIS and LTIP performance measures andtargets them before the completion of the relevant financial intheAIS and LTIP arrangements, with their target The Committee selects AIS performance measures year s to which they apply.
Where the AIS targets are no and maximum levels ofparticipation being set that are central to the Companys overall strategy longer commercially sensitive, typically following the byreference tothelocal market.
and that are key measures used by the senior end of the financial year s, they will be disclosed management to assess the performance of the in that years remuneration report.
For LTIP awards, In order to encourage share ownership, the Companys business operations.
The AIS performance TSR targets will be disclosed in the remuneration Company currently provides two HMRCapproved targets aredetermined annually based on the report disclosing the grant and, where other financial share plans for its UK employees, the SIP and Board-approved budget for the coming year, measures are used as performance measures for the LTIP, theSharesave Plan.
Fornon-UK employees in withoutperformance relative to the Companys the targets will be disclosed when they are no longer anumber of keyoverseas locations, a Global own forecasts being required toachieve the commercially sensitive, typically following the end of the Partnership Planis provided.
financial year inwhich the related LTIP awardsvest.
ILLUSTRATION Of POTENTIAL REwARDOPPORTUNITIES fORThEEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The graphs below provide an indication of the reward opportunity for each of the current Executive Directors in 2014, based on their roles at 1January 2014 and this Policy.
As all the Executive Directors are paid in Pounds Sterling, the Committee considers it appropriate that the figures detailed below are presented in Pounds Sterling.
Chris Finlayson, Chief Executive Simon Lowth, Chief Financial officer million million 15% 21% 64% 19% 20% 61% Maximum Maximum 9.1 5.4 35% 26% 39% 45% 19% 36% Target Target 3.8 2.3 100% 100% Minimum Minimum 1.3 1.0 0 2 4 6 8 10 0 2 4 6 8 10 Salary, benets and pension AIS LTIP Salary, benets and pension AIS LTIP In illustrating the future reward opportunities, the following assumptions have been made: AIS awarded for 2014 LTIP awarded during 2014 Base salary, benefits and pension Maximum AIS amounts are awarded at Performance such that maximum level inclusive of any awardsvestat maximum level Base salary, benefits and pension or cash in amounts awarded under the DBP.
lieuofpension at a rate of 30% of base salary areprovided in all scenarios.
Base salary is Target AIS amounts are awarded at Performance such that awards basedonbase salaries as at 1 January 2014, targetlevels.
which, following the Committees annual review, will apply for 2014.
Minimum Threshold performance not Threshold performance not achieved.
In all scenarios, the impacts of share price movements and dividends or dividend equivalents have been excluded.
CONSIDERATION Of EMPLOyMENT CONDITIONS ELSEwhERE IN ThEGROUP Employees were not consulted as part of setting this Policy.
In considering changes to remuneration policy, salary reviews, AIS and or LTIP proposals for the Executive Directors, theCommittee receives information on the policies and proposals applicable to employees ingeneral and uses this information to informits decisions on Executive Directors remuneration.
The Committee also has oversight of the grant of all share awards across the Company.
BG Group values its employees and aims toprovide reward packages that are market-competitive within each employees country ofemployment.
The Company receives feedback from employees on remuneration aspart of the feedback received from regular all-employee engagement surveys.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report 69 OThER POLICIES RELATING the Committee considers appropriate taking under the Companys current plans, principally TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS account of the individuals performance and theLTIP, that vest over a similar timeframe the circumstances of their departure, where tothose given up.
The Committee will Exit payments policy share awards would vest when employment putinplace arrangements that it considers The Companys policy is to include change of ceases.
Share awards under the VBDP do appropriate in the circumstances and this control provisions in the Executive Directors notnormally vest for three months and are mayinclude making LTIP awards without service contracts.
The Committee considers subjectto forfeiture in the event of leaving performance conditions and or a holding that these provisions assist with recruitment employment for misconduct.
The Committees discretion under and retention and that their inclusion is Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R will be limited to awarding therefore in the best interests of shareholders.
LTIP awards do not normally vest and are remuneration under a plan specific to the Should an Executive Directors employment subject to forfeiture in the event of leaving individual in order to buy out awards on beterminated within 12 months of a change employment.
For LTIP awards granted before recruitment only for example, where it is ofcontrol, they are entitled to liquidated 1September 2013, if an employee ceases notpossible to buy out an award under the damages equal to one years gross salary plus employment prior to the vesting of an award Companys current plans.
Other than making 30% of base salary as a pension contribution foraspecified reason such as ill health, awards to an incoming Executive Director or as cash in lieu of pension less any deductions agreedretirement, redundancy or in such other tobuy out bonuses or awards from a the employer is required to make.
The Committee circumstances as the Committee considers previousemployer where it is necessary considers this to be a genuine pre-estimate appropriate taking account of the individuals todoso, itisthe Companys policy not to ofloss.
performance and the circumstances of their offerany additional bonuses or awards departure, the awards will normally vest on onrecruitment.
The Company is entitled to terminate an the last day of employment, to the extent Executive Directors employment without theperformance measures are forecast at For internal candidates promoted to Executive notice by making a payment in lieu of notice thattime to be met, on a time-apportioned Director, it is the Companys policy tohonour inaccordance with their contract, which basis.
For LTIP awards granted on or after allpre-existing remuneration obligations and willnot exceed an amount equal to annual 1September 2013, the awards will normally commitments, other than those provisions base salary and cash in lieu of pension.
veston schedule, to the extent any which the Committee considers in its Asanalternative to making a payment in lieu performance measures have been met, discretion should be amended toreflect ofnotice, the Company may terminate an on a time-apportioned basis.
The terms ofthese Executive Directors service contract in breach pre-existing obligations and commitments ofcontract and make a payment of damages Additionally, all the Companys share plans may differ from the termsunderthis Policy in respect of that breach, taking into account contain provisions relating to a change of and may include obligations under service avariety of factors, including individual and control.
In general, outstanding awards and contracts, annualandlong-term incentive Company performance, the obligation for the options would normally vest and become schemes .
Executive Director to mitigate his or her own exercisable on a change of control, to the loss for example, by gaining new employment extent that any performance conditions have For recruitment, the Companys and the Executive Directors length of service.
been satisfied at that time.
If the Committee  Non-Executive It is expected that any such payments would considers it appropriate, given the circumstances Directorsonthesame basis as the not exceed one years base salary and benefits of the change of control, time apportionment other Non-Executive Directors.
including pension consistent with their notice may also apply.
In connection with the EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS termination of an Executive Directors contract, The Committee has discretion to vary the treatment SERVICE CONTRACTS the Company may make a payment on account of awards for leavers under the Companys plans, of accrued but untaken leave and may pay including the AIS, DBP, VBDPand LTIP.
Awards The Executive Directors service contracts, outplacement fees and legal fees for support under the SIP and Sharesave may vest or become including arrangements for early termination, provided to the individual.
Other than change exercisable onor following termination, in are carefully considered by the Committee and ofcontrol or payment in lieu of notice, accordance with the rules of the plan.
are designed to recruit, retain and motivate theExecutive Directors service contracts Executive Directors of the quality required donot contain provisions for compensation The Committee retains discretion to make tomanage the Company.
The Committee inthe event of early termination.
payments to mitigate against statutory andother considers that a notice period of one year legal claims where it considers itprudent to do so.
The rules of the AIS provide that in the event of: i a change in control where the AIS is not Approach to recruitment The Committee has discretion, in order to carried forward under new ownership: or ii The Committees approach to recruitment istopay attract and retain suitable candidates, to offer anemployee ceasing employment for a specified no more than is necessary to attract appropriate contracts that contain an initial notice period reason such as ill health, agreed retirement, candidates.
Any new Executive Directors package in excess of one year, reducing to a one-year redundancy or in such other circumstances will include the same elements of remuneration as notice period after the expiry of this initial period.
asthe Committee considers appropriate taking provided to theexisting Executive Directors under account of the individuals performance this Policy.
Where required in order to recruit Executive Directors service contracts andthe circumstances of their departure, anincoming Executive Director, additional benefits asat31December 2013 then, tothe extent the performance measures and other allowances such as those toassist Details of the service contracts of the current havebeen satisfied at the date of the change with relocation, educational costs forchildren Executive Directors are set out below: incontrol or cessation of employment andtax equalisation may beprovided.
Executive Directors Contract date Notice period asappropriate, AIS amounts may be paid Chris Finlayson 14 Mar 12 1 year onatime-apportioned basis.
Where, in order to recruit an incoming a Simon Lowth 3 Jul 13 1 year Executive Director, it is necessary to buy out DBP awards do not normally vest for three bonuses or awards from a previous employer, a Simon Lowth was appointed as Executive Director years and are subject to forfeiture in the theCommittee will seek to do no more than andChiefFinancial Officer on 2 December 2013.
He is eventof leaving employment other than for match the estimated present value of those subjecttoelection as a Director by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
reasons such as ill health, agreed retirement, awards.
In so doing, the Committee will take redundancy or in such other circumstances as account of performance conditions and the time until vesting and seek to grant awards Corporate governanCe 70 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICy CONTINUED SUMMARy Of kEy ELEMENTS Of SERVICE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Company is entitled to terminate the CONTRACTS Of ThE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERSOfAPPOINTMENT Chairmans appointment without notice bymaking a payment in lieu of notice equal The Board aims to recruit Non-Executive totheChairmans fee for six months.
Other Provision Summary of key terms Directors of a high calibre with broad commercial, thanpayment in lieu of notice, there is no notice period 12 months.
international and or other relevant experience.
provision for payment in the event of retirement date There is no default retirement Non-Executive Directors are appointed by earlytermination.
Requests for retirement are theBoard on the recommendation of the considered on a case by case basis.
Atthe Executive Director level, it is Nominations Committee.
Their appointment Chairman and Date of expected that at least 12 months Non-Executive Initial appointment isfor an initial term of three years, subject Directors letters appointor reExpiry notice will be provided in accordance toelection by shareholders at the first AGM ofappointment ment appointment of term with the contractual notice period.
following their appointment and annual Andrew Gould 1 Jun 11 16 May 12 May 15 remuneration Base salary.
The terms of engagement Peter Backhouse 19 Jul 00 12 May 11 May 14 Pension contribution or cash in lieu.
ofthe Non-Executive Directors are set out in a Vivienne Cox 8 Feb 12 8 Feb 12 Feb 15 Company car or cash in lieu.
Other than the Chairman, Pam Daley 1 Jan 14 1 Jan 14 Dec 16 Eligibility to participate in the a the Non-Executive Directors letters of Martin Ferguson 1 Jan 14 1 Jan 14 Dec 16 annual and long-term incentive appointment do not contain any notice period Baroness Hogg 27 Jan 05 12 May 11 May 14 arrangements operated from orprovision for compensation in the event Dr John Hood 26 Apr 07 12 May 11 May 14 timeto time.
ofearly termination of their appointment.
Caio Koch-Weser 1 Nov 10 31 Oct 13 Oct 16 termination Contractual provisions exist in Lim Haw-Kuang 4 Mar 13 4 Mar 13 Mar 16 payment theevent of termination following Chairman achange of control.
A payment Sir David Manning 1 Jul 08 12 May 11 May 14 inlieu of notice may also be made Andrew Gould was appointed Chairman Mark Seligman 3 Dec 09 3 Dec 12 Dec 15 comprising base salary and cash witheffect from the conclusion of the AGM Patrick Thomas 15 Dec 10 14 Dec 13 Dec 16 inlieu of pension.
The rules of the on16 May 2012 for a three-year term.
His fee is AIS and LTIP also include certain a Pam Daley and Martin Ferguson were appointed as reviewed annually.
His appointment is subject provisions on termination of Non-Executive Directors on 1 January 2014, subject to toannual re-election by shareholders at employment.
These provisions confirmation by election by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
arediscussed further in the theAGM.
He has a six-month notice period, Exitpayments policy section.
whichthe Company considers is appropriate.
SUMMARy Of BG GROUPS REMUNERATION POLICy fOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Fixed pay Non-Executive Directors fees Purpose and link To attract Non-Executive Directors who have a broad range of experience and skills to oversee the interests of shareholders and the to strategy implementation of the Companys strategy.
operation Fees are set by the Board as a whole and the Chairmans fees are set by the Committee, without the participation of the Chairman.
In addition to the fees paid for participating as a Non-Executive Director of the Board, additional fees are paid for chairing and for membership of Board Committees and to the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairmans remuneration is reviewed annually and, for other Non-Executive Directors, fees are reviewed every two years.
Thereviews involve the consideration of a number of factors, including market position relative to relevant comparator groups, time commitment and competition for high-quality non-executive directors.
To facilitate the alignment of the interests of the Non-Executive Directors with those of shareholders, Non-Executive Directors may elect to invest a portion of their fees, net of tax and on a regular basis, to acquire BG Group shares on the open market through the Non-Executive Directors share purchase programme.
opportunity The level of fees paid will be no more than is necessary to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors with the necessary experience and skills.
The aggregate of the basic fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors is limited by reference to the Companys Articles of Association asthey may be amended by a resolution of the shareholders from time to time.
The current limit on the aggregate basic fees that are payable is 1 million per financial year.
Details of the fees for the Non-Executive Directors for 2013, and the fees that will be paid until the completion of the 2014 review, are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 78.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension contributions, cash in lieu or other benefits from the Company.
Where appropriate to assist with the role, chauffeur services may be provided for the Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors are covered under the terms of the Companys directors and officers liability insurance.
Non-Executive Directors will be reimbursed for business expenses relating to the performance of their duties including travel, accommodation and subsistence.
Occasional travel, accommodation and subsistence expenses will be reimbursed and may be grossed up for any tax due where the Company requires Non-Executive Directors spouses or partners to travel.
Performance measures Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share or incentive schemes.
CONSIDERATION Of ShAREhOLDER VIEwS finalising this Policy and, as a result, the level Committee will explain the application of ofthe Committees discretion has been limited suchflexibility or discretion to all shareholders The Committee consulted with the Groups and or clarified, as appropriate.
The Policy still inthe subsequent Annual Remuneration major shareholders and key institutional voting incorporates elements of flexibility and Report, which is subject to an advisory vote.
advisory bodies on a draft version of this discretion that the Committee considers it Policy.
The overall reaction from shareholders prudent to reserve to allow the Committee The Company is committed to ongoing who expressed views on the draft was positive tomanage Directors remuneration over dialogue with shareholders and welcomes but some shareholders and the key advisory thelife of the Policy.
Where appropriate, feedback on Directors remuneration.
bodies provided constructive feedback on the theCommittee will consult with major TheCommittee believes it has a responsible proposed level of the Committees discretion.
shareholders prior to making use of such approach to Directors pay and that this The Committee considered this feedback in flexibility or exercising its discretion.
The Policyis appropriate and fit for purpose.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report 71 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT The following section of this report provides details of the implementation of the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year ended 31 December 2013.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TOTAL REMUNERATION Long-term Long-term incentive plan Cash in lieu Pension incentive plan Total on-hire award Salary Benefits of pension benefits Bonus annual award remuneration b a Year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Current Executive Directors Chris Finlayson, appointed Chief Executive 2013 978 102 293 1 145 2 518 from 1 January 2013 2012 599 30 179 302 1 110 Simon Lowth, appointed Chief Financial 2013 58 3 18 n a 675 754 Officerfrom 2 December 2013 2012 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a former Executive Directors Fabio Barbosa, Chief Financial Officer 2013 90 3 27 52 172 c d until15February 2013 2012 702 31 210 943 Martin Houston, Chief Operating Officer 2013 629 75 556 357 1 617 d until13November 2013 2012 671 52 1 180 1 365 3 268 Den Jones, Interim Chief Financial Officer 2013 406 15 85 155 133 794 d e from15February to 2 December 2013 2012 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a a On 18 March 2014, the 2013 AIS awards were made to Chris Finlayson and Fabio Barbosa in the form of DBP awards over 106 610 and 4 841 BG Group plc shares, respectively.
Theawardsto Martin Houston and Den Jones were made in the form of cash payments because individuals who are not Executive Directors or employees of the Group cannot receive DBP awards.
b On 11 December 2013, Simon Lowth received a Performance Share Award of vested shares not subject to performance conditions on account of 2013 bonus entitlements foregone onleavinghisformer employer which were not subject to further performance conditions.
The number of shares was determined based on the estimated expected value of the entitlementsforegone and an average BG Group plc share price of 12.35,  five business days preceding the award date.
c Fabio Barbosa was granted leave of absence to undergo medical treatment in September 2012 and, in line with the Companys sick leave policy, he continued to receive his normal remunerationduring this absence.
He retired from the Board effective 15 February 2013. d Fabio Barbosa, Martin Houston and Den Jones continued as employees of the Group after ceasing to be Executive Directors.
e Den Jones was appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer and an Executive Director on 15 February 2013 and, in recognition of his temporary increased workload and management position, waspaidatemporary, non-pensionable additional allowance of 20 000 per month, which is included here in salary.
Prior to this, Den Jones was Alternate Director for Fabio Barbosa from 9September 2012 to 15 February 2013 and received no additional remuneration in connection with his role as Alternate Director.
Den Jones ceased to be Interim Chief Financial Officer andanExecutive Director on 2 December 2013.
As all the current Directors are paid in Pounds Sterling, the Committee considers it appropriate that the figures disclosed in this report are presented in Pounds Sterling.
BASE SALARIES 1 April 2014 2 December 2013 1 April 2013 1 January 2013 1 April 2012 000 000 000 000 000 Chris Finlayson no change n a no change 975 610 Simon Lowth no change 725 n a n a n a Current Executive Directors base salaries Houston, respectively, relocation, Following a period of consultation, When awarding base salary increases, the smallgifts, financial counselling and theBGPSandBGSBS were closed to future Committee considers, among other factors, medicalinsurance.
accrualwitheffect from 31 December 2013. the base salary increases applied elsewhere The main features of the plans, which are inthe Group.
The average annual salary Executive Directors pensions thesame forother members, are: increases that applied across the Group The Executive Directors, other than Martin inApril2013 were 5.6%.
Houston and Den Jones, did not accrue any normal pension age is 60: entitlement to post-retirement benefits and pension benefits accrue at 1 60 of The reported salary figure within total received a cash allowance in lieu ofpensions final12months salary for each year of remuneration for the Executive Directors contributions calculated at arateof30% pensionableservice up to 31 December 2013: includes SIP Flex Share allocations, where ofbasesalary.
appropriate themaximum allocation pensions normally increase in line with was3000 in2013 2 998 in 2012.
Martin Houston and Den Jones are theretail prices index: membersofthe BGPS, a funded defined an adult dependant pension equal to Executive Directors benefits benefit scheme, and Martin Houston isa 2 3members pension is payable on Benefits include life assurance, income member ofthe BGSBS, an unfunded defined membersdeath: and protection, personal accident insurance, benefit scheme.
Martin Houston elected company car or cash inlieu ofcompany car, forenhanced protection witheffect from a member can only claim an immediate chauffeur services, spousal travel 66 649 6April 2006, which limits thebenefits pension before age 60 on an unreduced and20314 for Chris Finlayson and Martin provided by theBGPS.
Increase in accrued Pension DEfINED BENEfIT PENSION INfORMATION Total accrued annual pension benefit calculated annual pension at in year to using BIS Age at Pension 31 December 31 December methodology Year 31 December age 000 per annum 000 000 per annum a Martin Houston 2013 56 60 360 35 556 b Den Jones 2013 48 60 75 6 85 a Calculated for the period to 13 November 2013, when Martin Houston ceased to be an Executive Director.
b Calculated for the period from 15 February to 2 December 2013, when Den Jones was an Executive Director.
Corporate governanCe 72 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REpORT CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BONUS AWARDS UNDER THE ANNUAL INCENTIVE SCHEME a 2013 Annual Incentive Scheme Maximum Target Individual Actual bonus Actual bonus Total 2013 d bonus bonus performance received received bonus % of bonus Executive Directors % of salary % of salary assessment % of target % of salary 000 deferred b Chris Finlayson 200 100 above target 117 117 1 145 100 c Simon Lowth n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Fabio Barbosa 150 60 target 93 56 52 100 Martin Houston 150 60 target 94 57 357 0 Den Jones 150 60 above target 120 71 155 0 a At the request of the Executive Directors, they were not considered for a bonus for 2012. b Chris Finlayson waived any rights to a 2013 AIS award in the form of a cash award prior to the Committee making the award in the form of a deferred share award under the DBP.
c Simon Lowth was not entitled to a 2013 AIS award as he joined the Company after 1 October 2013. d To determine an individuals AIS award, the resulting percentage from the AIS business performance outcome is added to the individuals performance outcome percentage and the result is applied totheir bonus opportunity range, with 50% resulting in a target award and 100% resulting in a maximum award.
The determination of the final AIS award is subject to the discretion of the Committee.
2013 AIS performance metrics associated deferred tax andnet borrowings Weighting of 2013 performance metrics The performance measures that operated funds inboth cases adjusted to exclude for all Executive Directors forthe 2013 financial year are illustrated theimpact of changesin upstream prices inthechart on the right.
Project performance In-year performance Group EPS Actual business performance onall Board-sanctioned projects, both results were adjusted to exclude the effects operated and non-operated, was assessed ofchanges in upstream prices, material against a range of indicators, including in-year exchange rates and contracted LNG prices.
cost and on schedule performance relative Group ROACE Actual post-tax business toplan.
performance results adjusted as for Group EPS Group HSSE Performance was assessed above but excluding net finance income costs against a balanced scorecard ofmeasures on net borrowings funds are expressed asa andtargets across a broad range of leading percentage of average Group capital employed.
andlagging indicators, including, forexample, Average Group capital employed was calculated 38% Group EPS TRCF and actioningofaudit findings.
by averaging the positions atthestart and 12% Group ROACE endof the year, excluding theimpact of any Individual performance Performance 20% Project performance material impairments.
Group capital employed wasassessed against individual objectives 15% Group HSSE is the aggregate oftotal equity excluding forthe year.
15% Individual performance commodity financial instruments and For the 2013 incentive year, the Committee followed the two-stage review process outlined in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
This involved, foreach metric, areview of performance against targets and, secondly, consideration ofthe outcomes of the first stage in the context of theunderlying performance ofthe business and the business prospects, including operational performance, strategy and business development activities, andperformance against industry peers.
After careful consideration, the Committee determined that the AIS business performance outcome should be reduced by 20% from 54.64% to 43.71% and that 100% ofthe2013 AIS awards to current or former Executive Directors would be in the form of deferred awards over BG Group shares under the DBP which includes forfeiture and malus provisions, other than for individuals who had left the Company at the date of payment whose AIS awards were reduced by a further 5% in the absence of deferral and forfeiture provisions.
For the 2013 incentive year, the AIS business performance outcomes, prior to the reduction determined by the Committee, were as follows allmeasures are Group-wide : % Performance outcome as a Metric Weighting Performance outcome Threshold | | Target | Stretch Commentary percentage of maximum bonus Group EPS 38 Between threshold Normalised EPS was slightly An assessment of 18.75% relative and target beneath the target of 113.5c.
toa target outcome of 19% and Reported Group EPS was 128.6c.
Group ROACE 12 Between target Normalised ROACE was above An assessment of 9.94% relative and stretch thetarget of 8.0%.
Reported Group toa target outcome of 6% and ROACE was 10.2%.
An assessment of 14.70% relative Project 20 Between target Good progress was made on toa target outcome of 10% and performance and stretch projects in the year.
An assessment of 11.25% relative Group HSSE 15 Between target HSSE performance was assessed toa target outcome of 7.50% and and stretch asabove target.
a An overall assessment of 54.64% Overall Between target relative to a target outcome of assessment and stretch 42.50% and a maximum outcome of85%.
a The 2013 business performance outcome was reduced to 43.71% following the Committees review.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report 73 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LTIp AWARDS UNDERTHE BG GROUp LONG-TERM INCENTIVE pLAN 2008 Performance Share Awards vesting in the financial year The PSAs granted in 2010 were subject to the same performance measure, targets and vesting levels as described below for the 2013 grants.
Theperformance period for the 2010 PSAs ended on 31August 2013.
None of the shares awarded vested, andthe awards lapsed in full on7September 2013.
BGGroups TSR performance relative totheweighted index was measured by the independent TSR monitoring service ofAlithosLimited and reviewed by Kepler Associates.
This analysis indicated that BG Group had underperformed the index.
The Committee considered the underlying financial performance of theGroup and theindividual performance of the Executive Directors, andconcluded thatnoneof the PSAs granted toExecutive Directors in September 2010 would vest.
Also during 2013, the performance period ended for the final third of the PSA granted inSeptember 2010 toChris Finlayson in connection withhisrecruitment.
BG Group hadunderperformed theindex on average during the period, andasa result none oftheshares vested andtheaward lapsed on1August 2013.
Performance Share Awards vesting during 2013 2013 Number of Value Dividend Executive Directors % vesting shares 000 equivalent Chris Finlayson a Simon Lowth 100 54 686 675 Fabio Barbosa Martin Houston b Den Jones a Simon Lowth received an award of vested shares, not subject to performance conditions, on account of 2013 bonus entitlementsforegone on leaving his former employer.
b On 7 September 2013, 10 018 nil-cost options and 367 nil-cost options from dividend equivalents vested to Den Jones from a Group share award, which was not subject to performance conditions.
The award was granted in 2010 when he was not anExecutiveDirector.
The share price at the date of vesting was 12.82.
Performance Share Awards awarded in the financial year In September 2013, the Executive Directors were granted PSAs under the LTIP.
The awards will not normally vest until 4September 2016.
For 2013, the EPV of these PSAs was calculated as 44% ofthe market valueof the underlying share.
Performance Share Awards granted during 2013 that may vest in the future Face value of EPV of Face value % of face End of shares awarded awards Share price EPV of at date value that a performance as a % of as a % of at grant awards of grant would vest at b Executive Directors Date of grant period base salary base salary 000 000 threshold Chris Finlayson 4 Sep 2013 31 Aug 2016 600 264 12.45 2 574 5 850 25 c Simon Lowth 11 Dec 2013 30 Nov 2016 454 200 12.27 1 448 3 291 25 c Simon Lowth 11 Dec 2013 30 Nov 2016 700 308 12.27 2 234 5 078 25 Fabio Barbosa 4 Sep 2013 31 Aug 2016 454 200 12.45 1 408 3 201 25 Martin Houston 4 Sep 2013 31 Aug 2016 454 200 12.45 1 452 3 296 25 Den Jones 4 Sep 2013 31 Aug 2016 100 44 12.45 119 271 25 d Den Jones 4 Sep 2013 n a 45 39 12.45 105 122 100 a All the PSAs granted during the year that may vest in the future were granted in the form of nil-cost options based on the average share price over the five dealing days preceding the date of grant.
Oncevested, the options are exercisable until the seventh anniversary of the vesting date, butwill be automatically exercised on an employee leaving the Company if not already exercised.
b Assuming continuing employment until the normal vesting date.
c PSAs subject to the performance conditions as described for the other awards but the level of the awards was calculated, consistent with the Companys policy for buy-out awards on recruitment, byreference to the EPV of the share awards foregonebySimon Lowth onleaving his former employer.
d PSA not subject to performance conditions.
As the interim Chief Financial Officer, Den Jones was granted awards in September 2013 consistent with his usual role.
Corporate governanCe 74 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REpORT CONTINUED For Performance Share Awards granted during the year and subject toperformance conditions, TSR performance was the only performance measure, with performance measured over athree-year performance period commencing on the first day of the calendar month in which the award was made and with no retest provision.
For awards granted in September 2013, the typical month of grant, the three-year performance period runs from 1 September 2013 to31 August 2016.
Subject to the review of the Committee, the level of PSAs vesting depends on the Companys TSR performance over this period relative to the TSRperformance of a weighted index ofaselection of oil and gasindustry peers.
Theconstituents of the index are reviewed annually toensure the most comparable peer group companies are used.
Theconstituents of theindex for 2013 and for the three prior years areshown in the table below.
BG Groups performance relative Company 2013 2012 2011 2010 toindex TSR performance Level of vesting % Anadarko Petroleum Corp. Less than the TSR performance of the index 0% Equal to the TSR performance of the index 25% Apache Corporation Exceeds the TSR performance of the index BP plc a by 7% pa or more 100% Canadian Natural Resources Limited Exceeds the TSR performance of the index Linear sliding scale a Cenovus Energy Inc but by less than 7% pa between 25% and 100% vesting Chevron Corporation a The TSR performance calculation is multiplicative: that is, if the index grows from ConocoPhillips 100% to 110% over three years, then BG Group is required to move from 100% to 134.75% 3 Devon Energy Corporation i. e. 110% x 107% to achieve maximum vesting.
Encana Corporation The performance targets and vesting levels of the Performance Eni S. p. A. ShareAwards are illustrated inthe table above and the graph below.
EOG Resources Inc Exxon Mobil Corporation Performance Share Awards Hess Corporation TSR performance and vesting levels % Marathon Oil 100 Occidental Petroleum Corp. Repsol S. A. Royal Dutch Shell plc Statoil ASA Suncor Energy Inc Talisman Energy Inc Total S. A.
25 Tullow Oil plc Woodside Petroleum Ltd. 0 Index Index x107% per annum pAyMENTS TO fORMER DIRECTORS employed bythe Group until 17 January 2014, when the DBP vested in full on28 February 2014: his employment terminated by mutual agreement.
theunvested PSAs over 202 303 shares Sir Frank Chapman and247158 shares granted in2011 and 2012 Sir Frank Chapman ceased to be a Director of the An amount of 78 700 was paid to Mr Jones respectively under the LTIPlapsed infull Company on 31 December 2012 and retired from on14 March 2014 in respect of the forfeiture of on28 February 2014: the unvested PSAs over the Company on 30 June 2013.
On 25 March 2013, LTIP awards granted to Mr Jones inSeptember 264742 shares granted inSeptember 2013 24 010 restricted shares vested to Sir Frank 2011 and September 2012 before hewas underthe LTIP will vest on schedule in 2016, Chapman under the DBP with a market value of appointed a Director of the Company and ona time apportioned basis and to the extent 279 356.
On 15 October 2013, Sir Frank Chapman anaward granted to him in September 2013, the performance measures are met.
50% of exercised 6 006 options under CSOS at a gain which is the pro-rated value that accrued any after-tax vested shares willbe subject to of 42 785 and, on 17 October 2013, he exercised overthe part of the vesting periods during which afurther two-year holding period: 278 shares a further 375 403 options under the CSOS at a Mr Jones served as aDirector of the Company.
under the SIP vested and, together with a gain of 1 606 725.
On 18 October 2013, Sir Frank These awards lapsedon Mr Joness termination further 7 447 vested shares, became available Chapman exercised 1 128 573 options under the of employment and the payment isconsidered for release in accordance withthe rules of CSOS at a gain of 7 079 110 and 374 370 nil-cost to be made in respect of his employment theplan on 28 February 2014: options from options under the LTIP and the DBP at a gain withthe Group while he was aDirector.
anoriginal grant over 1 029 shares under the of4 545 968.
On 24 December 2013, he exercised Sharesave Plan became exercisable within 405 share options under the Sharesave Plan Martin Houston thesix months following 28February 2014, atagain of 701.
Following these transactions, Martin Houston ceased to be a Director of the inaccordance with the rules of the plan: and SirFrank Chapman had no remaining awards Company on 13 November 2013.
Mr Houston the vested nil-cost options over 35 690 shares under the Companys plans.
continued to be employed by the Company granted in2011 under the VBDP are exercisable until 28 February 2014 when he retired.
Den Jones TheCommittee reviewed and considered his Den Jones was appointed as Interim ChiefFinancial outstanding share awards and, in accordance Officer on 15 February 2013, having been employed with the Companys policy on retirement, During 2013, other than as disclosed above, in the Group since 12June 2000.
On 2 December agreed that Mr Houston wouldbe treated as thetotal of payments made to former Directors 2013, Mr Jones ceased tobe a Director of the aretiree for the purposes ofrelevant incentive in respect of or as a result of their employment Company upon Simon Lowths appointment as plan rules.
Accordingly, theunvested nil-cost asa Director didnot exceed 10 000 per Chief Financial Officer.
Mr Jones continued to be options over 5 870 shares and7264shares individual, thedeminimis level set by the granted in 2011 and 2012 respectively under Company fordisclosure purposes.
Vesting level % BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report 75 a SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES Executive Directors interests in shares at 31 December 2013 The table below shows the Executive Directors and their connected persons interests in The Committee has adopted guidelines ordinary shares, which include all shares held beneficially, together with those interests in shares forExecutive Directors, GEC members and thathave vested, and that are no longer subject todeferral or performance conditions and that certain other senior employees to encourage maybe included as an interest in shares under BGGroups shareholding guidelines.
These b Interests in ordinary shares specify that Executive Directors should build c d As at As at Value Base salary up, and then retain, a holding of shares with a Executive Directors 1 Jan 2013 31 Dec 2013 000 000 avalue equivalent to 300% of base salary.
Chris Finlayson 646 51 514 668 975 Therequired holding for other members of Simon Lowth 28 913 375 725 theGEC is 100% of base salary and for certain Fabio Barbosa 25 808 25 808 295 705 other senior employees is 50% of base salary.
Martin Houston 906 477 901 845 11 255 726 The guidelines require that, in relation to LTIP Den Jones 758 894 11 271 and DBP awards, vested shares net of tax should be retained by the individual until a Or at date of ceasing to be an Executive Director, if earlier.
b Interests in ordinary shares include ordinary shares acquired pursuant to the BG Group SIP vested and unvested.
therequired shareholding level is reached.
c The value of shareholdings is based on the closing price of a BG Group ordinary share on 31 December 2013, or at date of ceasing tobe an Executive Director, if earlier.
The chart below sets out the percentage d Base salary is annual salary as at 31 December 2013. ofbase salary held in shares by each of theExecutive Directors as compared with There have been no changes in the Executive Directors interests in ordinary shares between theguidelines.
The chart also shows for other 31December 2013 and 19 March 2014. members of the GEC and senior employees theaverage actual shareholding as a Summary of Executive Directors overall interests in BG Group shares Unvested percentage of base salary.
and subject to Outright performance Lapsed Exercised or vested Unvested conditions Total during during as at as at as at as at c c c c c c Shareholdings at 31 December 2013 Executive Directors Type 2013 2013 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2013 a b against guidelines % of base salary Chris Finlayson Shares n a n a 50 454 50 454 a Nil-cost options 267 996 95 904 886 035 886 035 300 Chris b Sharesave options 1 756 1 756 Finlayson 69 Share Incentive Plan 782 278 1 060 Simon Lowth Shares n a n a 28 913 28 913 300 Simon a Nil-cost options 682 109 682 109 Lowth 52 b Sharesave options 200 Fabio Share Incentive Plan Barbosa 80 Fabio Barbosa Shares n a n a 25 229 25 229 a Nil-cost options 45 059 2 290 653 056 700 405 300 Martin b Sharesave options 810 810 Houston 1 595 Share Incentive Plan 368 211 579 300 Martin Houston Shares n a n a 894 120 894 120 Den Jones 38 a Nil-cost options 236 328 37 025 13 134 714 203 764 362 b Sharesave options 1 051 1 029 1 029 100 GEC Share Incentive Plan 7 447 278 7 725 200 In post for less Den Jones Shares n a n a than five years.
50 Some in post for a Other senior Nil-cost options 14 130 53 926 68 056 less than five years.
employees 102 b Sharesave options 810 810 Share Incentive Plan 894 894 Shareholding guideline a The Executive Directors interests in shares under awards made in the form of nil-cost options are stated before the operation Actual holding ofany applicable withholdings for tax and social security, which would typically arise when a vested award is exercised.
The current Average holding maximum UK withholding is 47%.
Awards in the form of nil-cost options are made to eligible UK employees under the LTIP, DBPandVBDP.
Dividend equivalents are included for exercised and vested awards.
a Under the shareholding guidelines, vested nil-cost b Options granted under the BG Group plc Sharesave Plan 2008.
The exercise price of these options was set at 80% of the market optionawards under the LTIP, VBDP and DBP are value of a share at the invitation date.
Theyareincluded net of the withholding c Or at date of ceasing to be an Executive Director, if earlier.
fortaxand socialsecuritywhich would have been madehadthey beenexercised at the year end.
For UK employees, the withholding applied is the current UK maximum of 47%.
b Or at date of ceasing to be an Executive Director, if earlier.
Corporate governanCe 76 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REpORT CONTINUED DILUTION HISTORICAL TSR pERfORMANCE In the event that all options and awards The graph below shows the growth in value of a hypothetical 100 holding invested over outstanding as at 31 December 2013 under fiveyears ineach of BGGroupshares, the FTSE 100 index andthe 2013 LTIP index ofoil BGGroups LTIP vest such awards tobe satisfied andgasindustrypeers.
by the re-issue of treasury shares or by the issue of new shares, andall CSOS options The FTSE 100 was chosen as this is a recognised broad equity market indexofwhich alegacy plan under which options are currently BG Group isa member.
Thecalculations are in accordance with the Large & Medium-Sized satisfied by theissue of new shares are exercised, Companies andGroups Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 theRegulations.
the resulting issue of new shares andre-issue oftreasury shares would amount to0.69% ofthe issued ordinary share capital excluding Historical TSR performance for the year ended 31 December treasury shares at that date.
200 The exercise of options under BG Groups Sharesave 180 Plan 2008 is satisfied by the issue ofnew shares.
If the total number of options outstanding under 160 these plans as at 31 December 2013 had been exercised on that date, the resultant issue of 140 shares would have represented 0.04% of the total ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares 120 then in issue.
100 Partnership and Flex Share awards made under 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 theSIP during 2013 were satisfied by the re-issue oftreasury shares.
These awards represented BG Group return index Peer return index FTSE 100 index 0.01%of the issued ordinary share capital excludingtreasury shares as at 31 December 2013.
The Companys intention is to continue to satisfy CHANGE IN CHIEf EXECUTIVES REMUNERATION the future exercise of options and vesting ofawards under the above share plans by the The table below shows the Chief Executives remuneration over the same five-year period issue of new shares and re-issue of treasury shares asthe TSR graph above.
As at 31December 2013, Annual variable element award LTIP vesting the BG Group Employee Share Trust held CEO total rates against rates against remuneration maximum maximum 3327603 shares and the BG Group New year Chief Executive 000 opportunity opportunity Employee Share Trust held no shares.
2013 Chris Finlayson 2 518 59% 0% a 2012 Sir Frank Chapman 5 411 0% 44% RELATIVE IMpORTANCE 2011 Sir Frank Chapman 7 912 69% 62% Of SpEND ONpAy 2010 Sir Frank Chapman 9 840 74% 87% 2009 Sir Frank Chapman 10 318 70% 100% The chart below details BG Groups total results post-tax profits, distributions to shareholders a At the request of the Executive Directors, they received no bonuses for 2012. and total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees including pension, variable payand The table below provides a comparison of the percentage year-on-year change from social security, for the last two financial years.
2012to2013 in elements of the Chief Executives reward package relative to the Companys The average number ofemployees in 2013 was generalUK employeepopulation, which represents a sizeable portion of the Companys global 5536 2012: 6 568. employee population and the most relevant employee comparator group for the UK-based ChiefExecutive.
Relative importance of spend on pay Base salary Benefits Bonus $m a b Chief Executive -21% 308% n a Decreased -47% 5 000 c 4 617 UK employees of the Group 10% 0% -10% 4 000 a Comparing figures for Chris Finlayson as Chief Executive for 2013 with those for Sir Frank Chapman as Chief Executive for2012.
b At the request of the Executive Directors, they received no bonuses for 2012. c For UK employees of the Group, no salary increases were applied in the April 2014 review.
3 000 b 2 450 Decreased -21% 2 000 1 393 Increased 9% 1 105 926 847 1 000 0 a a 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 Total results Total operating profit post-tax Distributions to shareholders Total spend on pay a As restated.
b Business performance post-tax profits for 2013 decreased by 0.1% to $4 374 million 2012: $4 379 million.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report 77 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Head of Reward.
During the year, the Committee also received Members Appointed Attendance market information from Towers Watson.
November 2010 The Company Secretary attended meetings Towers Watson also provided general John Hood Chairman 5 5 September 2011 assecretary to the Committee.
compensation and benefits information, general consultancy services to the Company Vivienne Cox April 2012 4 5 No individual was present when their andactuarial advice to the Trustees of the Andrew Gould September 2011 5 5 ownremuneration was being discussed.
Towers Watson was selected by the Company and the Committee Mark Seligman May 2013 3 3 The Committee also meets without management issatisfied that the market information Patrick Thomas September 2011 4 5 present and receives independent executive received was objective and independent.
remuneration advice and information from Thefees paidto Towers Watson for 2013 Membership as at 31 December 2013.
For full biographies Kepler Associates and independent information forinformation forthe Committee, which seepages 48 and 49. fromTowers Watson and Alithos Limited.
were charged on the basis of time incurred were24 598.
The above Directors were members of Independent advice theRemuneration Committee when matters Kepler Associates, an external consultancy, During the year, Alithos Limited, an relating to the Directors remuneration for wasformally re-appointed as its adviser independent TSRmonitoring service, theyear were considered.
bytheCommittee in 2012, following a providedreports onthe Companys TSR competitive selection process.
During 2013, performance relative tothe relevant indices.
During the year, the Committee alsoinvited Kepler Associates provided the Committee Alithos was selected bythe Company thefollowing individuals toattendon certain with advice on market trends, incentive andtheCommittee is satisfied that the occasions to provide advicetotheCommittee schemes and on other remuneration matters.
information provided isindependent and toenable it to makeinformed decisions: Kepler Associates do notprovide any other objective.
The fees paid toAlithos for services to the Company, and the Committee 2013forthe reports for the Committee, Chief Executive: issatisfied that the advice received was whichwere charged on the basisof a fixed Executive Vice President, Human Resources: objective and independent.
Thefees paid feefor therequested reports, were27 500. toKepler Associates for 2013, which were General Manager Human Resources charged onthebasis of time incurred, Function: and andexpenses, were89400.
STATEMENT Of IMpLEMENTATION Of THEDIRECTORS REMUNERATION pOLICy INTHEfOLLOWING fINANCIAL yEAR The Directors Remuneration Policy set out isusually during September.
Additional detail buy-out awards was calculated to be no more inthe Policy section of this report will apply onany LTIP awards and other remuneration than the EPV of the share awards foregone on from conclusion of the 2014 AGM, subject to matters relating to 2014 will be provided leaving his former employer.
In February 2014, shareholder approval, and will be implemented inthedisclosures that will form part of the the Committee reviewed the status of the onthe basis set out in that section.
awards in light of the challenges announced tothe market on 27 January 2014 and the At its December 2013 meeting, the Remuneration At its February 2014 meeting, the Committee markets reaction.
One of the Committees Committee considered the design of the AIS reviewed the Executive Directors base salaries priorities is to ensure stability in the financial for 2014.
The Committee determined that and, after considering several factors including leadership of the Company to help ensure theAIS continues to incentivise the achievement the range of salary increases applying across theinterests of shareholders are foremost.
of the Companys strategic and business the Group, determined that there would be Following consultation with the Companys priorities appropriately and, accordingly, noincreases for 2014.
The Executive Directors major shareholders in March 2014, and theCommittee retained the same performance base salaries arenext due to be reviewed in tohonour the agreed buy-out value, the measures and weightings for the 2014 AIS, March 2015.
ChiefFinancial Officer was granted a further asdescribed above for the 2013 AIS.
Stretching Performance Share Award over 398 701 shares AISperformance targets weredetermined On appointment, the Chief Financial Officer under the LTIP in the form of a nil-cost option, byreference to the Board-approved budget was granted Performance Share Awards over which will vest and become exercisable on the for2014.
The Committee expects to follow 682 109 shares in the form of nil-cost options same date as the original buy-out awards thesame two-stage review process to buy out the share awards foregone on subject to continued employment butwithout asinprioryears, to review the performance leaving his former employer.
The original Company performance conditions.
The outcomes for each metric and the overall outcome buy-out awards were granted under the LTIP proportion of shares that vest under the new in the context of the underlying performance with the proportion of the award that may award will be reduced by the proportion of and prospects ofthebusiness.
The Committee vest being linked to the Companys relative shares that vest under the original buy-out will review the measures and targets for, TSRover 3 years and 50% of any vested shares awards.
Of any shares that vest under the andthe calculation of, any LTIP awards in under the award will be subject to a further award, 50% will also be subject to a two-year advance of the grant of those awards, which two-year holding period.
The EPV of the original holding period.
Kepler Associates, Towers Watson and Alithos have given, and not withdrawn, their consent to the issue of this document with the inclusion of the reference to their respective names in the form and context in which they appear.
Corporate governanCe 78 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REpORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Chairmans remuneration was reviewed during 2013 and the other Non-Executive Directors fees were last reviewed in 2012.
The next regular biennial review of Non-Executive Directors fees and the regular annual review of the Chairmans fee will take place during 2014.
Thecurrent Non-Executive Directors fees, effective since 1 June 2012 following the last change, and Chairmans annual fee, effective since 16 May 2012 followingthelast change, are summarised below.
Chairmans fee 725 000 Basic fee 82 000 Committee membership fee excluding Nominations Committee 8 000 Chairman Audit Committee 28 000 Chairman Remuneration Committee 25 000 Chairman Sustainability Committee 20 000 Senior Independent Director 30 000 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TOTAL REMUNERATION Individual remuneration for the year to 31 December Salary fees Taxable benefits Total Non-Executive Directors 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 a Andrew Gould Chairman 725 000 488 663 2 571 1 548 727 571 490 211 Peter Backhouse 90 000 86 875 90 000 86 875 Vivienne Cox 98 000 82 858 98 000 82 858 b Lim Haw-Kuang 73 361 73 361 c Baroness Hogg 120 000 114 778 120 000 114 778 d Dr John Hood 123 000 116 542 123 000 116 542 Caio Koch-Weser 98 000 92 250 98 000 92 250 Sir David Manning 102 000 100 125 102 000 100 125 Mark Seligman 115 032 106 875 115 032 106 875 Patrick Thomas 98 000 93 625 98 000 93 625 e Philippe Varin 11 375 93 625 11 375 93 625 a Taxable benefits are chauffeur services.
b Lim Haw-Kuang was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 4 March 2013. c Senior Independent Director until 31 December 2013. d Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2014. e Philippe Varin retired as a Non-Executive Director on 11 February 2013.
Non-Executive Directors interests in ordinary shares The Non-Executive Directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company at the start and at the end of the financial year, or at date of retirement ifearlier, were as follows: Interests in ordinary shares As at As at a 1 Jan 2013 31 Dec 2013 Andrew Gould 30 000 65 000 Peter Backhouse 27 500 27 500 Vivienne Cox 1 507 Lim Haw-Kuang 2 419 Baroness Hogg 14 248 16 253 Dr John Hood 8 795 8 795 Caio Koch-Weser 3 600 3 600 Sir David Manning 2 276 2 731 Mark Seligman 14 965 17 789 Patrick Thomas 2 677 a Philippe Varin 42 500 42 500 a Philippe Varin retired as a Non-Executive Director on 11 February 2013.
Pam Daley and Martin Ferguson were appointed as Non-Executive Directors on 1 January 2014.
On 11 February 2014 Pam Daley purchased 14 200 BGGroup plc shares, which comprise her interests in the ordinary shares of the Company as at the date of this report.
Martin Ferguson had nointerests inordinary shares of the Company as at the date of this report.
On 17 March 2014, Vivienne Cox, Baroness Hogg, Sir David Manning, MarkSeligman and Patrick Thomas purchased 565, 425, 126, 804 and 1 130 BG Group plc ordinary shares respectively.
As a result, their respective interests in the ordinary share capital of BG Group plc are 2 072, 16 678, 2 857, 18 593 and 3 807.
There have been no other changes in the Non-Executive Directors interests in ordinary shares between31 December 2013 and 19 March 2014.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report 79 Shareholder voting BG Group remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
Where there are substantial votesagainst resolutions in relation to Directors remuneration, the Group seeks to understand the reasons for any such vote, and will detail hereany actions in response to it.
The table below sets out actual voting in respect of our previous remuneration report: a Number of votes For Against Abstain 2012 Directors Remuneration report 2 123m 124m 27m 2013 AGM 94% 6% a A vote abstained is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes For or Against a resolution.
EXTERNAL AppOINTMENTS To broaden the experience of Executive Directors, they are able to accept one external appointment as a non-executive director of another companyprovided that permission issought from the Board in advance.
Any external appointment must not conflict with the Directors duties andcommitments to BGGroup.
Any fees from such appointments may be retained by the individual Executive Director.
The Chief Executive, ChrisFinlayson, served as a non-executive director of Lloyds Register Group Limited from June 2013 and received fees of25083during 2013 inconnection with this appointment.
The Chief Financial Officer, Simon Lowth, served as a non-executive director ofStandard Chartered plc throughout 2013 andreceived annual feesof130 000 during 2013 inconnection with this appointment.
No othernon-executive director appointments arecurrently held by the Executive Directors.
AUDIT NOTES In accordance with Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Regulations, thefollowing sections of the report have been audited: ExecutiveDirectors total remuneration: scheme interests awarded during the year: payments to former Directors: Executive Directors interests inshares:Non-Executive Directors remuneration: Non-Executive Directors interests in ordinary shares: and the table andnotes in the Pensionssection ofthereport.
Theremaining sections are not subjectto audit.
By order of the Board Dr John hooD Chairman of the remuneration Committee 19 March 2014 Registered office: 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT Registered in England & Wales No.
