52 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Remuneration report Statement We present the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013 which reflects the new regulations governing directors remuneration.
The report is divided into two parts: A Policy Report which sets out clearly how reward supports our business strategy: An Implementation Report, which explains in detail how we have applied the policy in 2013.
The key drivers underpinning our reward strategy are: Payment for performance against specific measurable targets 50% deferral of annual bonus for 3 years Alignment of interests with the shareholder through the long-term incentive plan You will see that there have been no significant changes to our approach to Executive pay and this years report continues our previous pattern of open and transparent reporting on pay.
Throughout the year, we have regularly engaged with our shareholders over Executive pay and participated actively in industry groups and with regulators to ensure that we deliver a clear and comprehensive report to our shareholders.
I hope you are able to support the resolutions on remuneration submitted for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Alastair Kerr Rewards for Chair, Remuneration Committee Executives need to be aligned to creation of shareholder value.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 53 Key area of focus Decision taken The Committee considered the awards to be made to the Chief Executive and Chief Executive Directors Financial Officer based on their performance against their agreed objectives and agreed the awards made as explained in more detail on pages 63 to 67. remuneration The Committee also considered the salary and other benefits which the Executive Directors receive and decisions were taken having received advice on the levels of pay for peer comparators from the Committees external remuneration advisers.
The basic salary of the Chief Executive Officer will increase by 2.3% and an increase of 2.2% for the Chief Financial Officer base salary will be effective from 1st April 2014.
This is the first increase in three years and can be compared with an average 3% increase applied elsewhere in the Company.
The Committee considered recommendations made for the Remuneration Code staff and Other Executive other senior managers and, after debate and changes, approved awards to those individuals.
The Committee also considered and approved the performance conditions attaching to the remuneration LTIP arrangement and the individuals who would be granted awards under that arrangement.
The Committee considered the proposed award and approved the rationale adopted for AESOP award the award.
The Committee considered the level of vesting to be applied under the rules of the LTIP Long-Term Incentive and agreed the award.
During the year we reviewed the structure of the current LTIP in light of recent regulatory changes.
We are not proposing any changes in 2014 but will arrangements continue to keep the plan under review as regulation and best practice develops.
The Committee discussed and agreed objectives for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Objectives Officer for the year.
The Committee considered the disclosures that are required to be made under the FCAs Remuneration Remuneration Code and the list of the individuals that might fall to be included under that requirement and also under the future AIFMD disclosure requirements.
After amendment disclosures by the Committee, a revised list was used to complete the required disclosures.
The Committee reserves the right to make an emergency payment outside this policy in exceptional and unforeseen Directors circumstances.
The Committee would only use this right where it believes that this is in the best interests of the Remuneration Company, and when it would be disproportionate to seek specific approval from a general meeting.
Any such Policy Report payments will be fully disclosed on a timely basis.
We may continue to honour commitments made to Directors either before the date of approval of this policy or, In this section, we explain: in the future, commitments made to employees before their our remuneration policy and how this policy supports appointment to the Board.
our business strategy the performance conditions set within our short and Remuneration strategy long-term incentive arrangements Our aim is to achieve returns for our shareholders that, over Our remuneration policy is unchanged from previous years the long term, are higher than those available from our peer and it will take effect from the 2014 AGM.
The key to achieving this is our people.
that this will be in force for three years, although we will Our remuneration strategy is designed to help us recruit closely monitor regulatory changes and market trends the best talent and retain and motivate them to deliver our and we may seek shareholder approval for a revised policy long-term business strategy.
The driving principle behind our within this period.
reward strategy is to link the delivery of strong performance Commitments made which were consistent with the closely to pay outcomes, thereby aligning the interests of approved remuneration policy in force before the passing directors and employees with those of shareholders and of any new Remuneration Policy may be honoured clients.
The remuneration packages of Executives will be notwithstanding that they would not otherwise be consistent structured in such a way as to promote sound and effective with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
risk management within the Companys risk appetite.
