Remuneration report Remuneration Committee Chairmans summary statement I am pleased to present the Remuneration report for the year to 30 June 2013.
As shareholders will be aware, Ashmore has a 30 June year end, and as a result is not required to comply with the new regulations governing disclosure of Directors remuneration until 2014.
However, the Remuneration Committee has chosen to present this years report in accordance with the disclosure requirements under the new regulations.
Ashmores successful team-based approach to investment management is well supported by our Remuneration Policy: Executive Directors, members of the investment team, and indeed all other employees, participate in a single capped incentive pool and all employees are long-term shareholders in the business.
Ashmores Remuneration Policy has remained unchanged since the listing of the business in 2006, and has always been closely aligned to the interests of both clients and shareholders.
The policy includes: A capped basic salary, at 100,000 for Executive Directors, to contain the fixed cost base: A cap on the total variable compensation available for all employees as a percentage of profits, which has yet to be fully utilised: and, A deferral for five years of a substantial portion of variable compensation into Company shares or equivalent, which, in the case of Executive Directors are also subject to additional performance conditions measured over five years.
As described in detail in other sections of the Annual Report, Ashmore has made substantial progress during the year in building a more diversified business, with solid performance across the Group.
AuM increased by 22% to US$77.4 billion, and despite tougher market conditions towards the year end, investment performance remains very good with 92% of AuM outperforming benchmarks over three years.
The combination of these results has led to solid financial performance, with an EBITDA margin of 71% and profit before tax increasing by 6% to 257.6 million.
We are also continuing to make progress in developing our support functions, although there is still more to do in this area.
Notwithstanding the progress made over the year, there is much to do to capture the diverse growth opportunities presented by Emerging Markets.
This performance is reflected in the variable compensation received by employees including the Executive Directors for the year under review, with variable compensation as a percentage of earnings before variable compensation, interest and tax VC EBVCIT being 20% FY 2011 12: 18%.
Annual bonuses for Executive Directors were on average 45% higher than in the prior year.
As in previous years, there have been no increases in base salary for the two Executive Directors they remain capped at 100,000.
The Directors Remuneration Policy for the forthcoming year is set out in the first section of the report.
The Committee would welcome your support for our Remuneration report.
Yours sincerely Nick Land Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 54 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the Remuneration report has Considerations elsewhere in the company been prepared in accordance with Part 4 of The The Company applies a consistent remuneration Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups philosophy for employees at all levels.
Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations The cap on base salary means that Executive 2013.
It sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Directors base salaries are set at the same level as Company.
The Policy has been developed taking other senior investment and professional employees into account the principles of the UK Corporate in the Company, and the base salary range from Governance Code 2012 and shareholders executive lowest to highest in the Company is considerably remuneration guidelines.
The Policy Report is not narrower than the market norm.
required to be subject to a binding shareholder vote in 2013: the first binding vote on Ashmores All employees are eligible for a performance-related remuneration policy will take place in 2014. annual bonus, and the principle of bonus deferral into Company shares or equivalent applies to annual Policy overview bonuses for all employees who have at least one The Remuneration Committee the Committee full years service.
determines and agrees with the Board, the Rates of pension contribution and fringe benefit Companys policy on the remuneration of the provisions are consistent between executives and Board Chairman, Executive Directors and other other employees within each country where the members of executive management including Company operates.
employees designated as Code Staff under the FCAs Remuneration Code.
The Committees terms The Company does not operate formal employee of reference are available on the Companys website.
However, employees are able to provide direct feedback on Remuneration In determining the Remuneration Policy, the Policy to their line managers or the Human Committee takes into account the following: Resources department.
The Committee monitors the need to attract, retain and motivate talented the effectiveness of the Companys Remuneration Executive Directors and senior management Policy in recruiting, retaining, engaging and consistency with the remuneration approach motivating employees, and receives reports from applied to Ashmore employees as a whole the Chief Executive Officer on how the Companys external comparisons to examine current market remuneration policies are viewed by employees trends and practices and equivalent roles in and whether they are meeting business needs.
similar companies taking into account their size, The Committee does not seek to apply fixed ratios business complexity, international scope and between the total remuneration levels of different relative performance: roles in the Company, as this would prevent it from the requirements of the Remuneration Code recruiting and retaining the necessary talent in a of the UK financial services regulator highly-competitive employment market.
However, the base salary multiple between highest and lowest How the views of shareholders are taken paid UK-based employee in the Company is less into account than 4x pre-tax.
The Committee regularly compares the Companys Remuneration Policy with shareholder guidelines, Future policy table and takes account of the results of shareholder votes The table overleaf summarises the key aspects on remuneration.
of the Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors effective from 1 July 2013.
If any material changes to the Remuneration Policy This policy remains unchanged from the year are contemplated, the Committee chairman consults ended 30 June 2013. with major shareholders about these in advance.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years Remuneration report are provided in the annual report on remuneration section of this report.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Figure 1 Remuneration Policy the Policy for Executive Directors Purpose and link to short and Operation, performance measures Maximum Element long-term strategy and periods, deferral and clawback opportunity Provides a level of fixed Base salaries are capped.
The current cap Base salary remuneration sufficient is 100,000.
Fixed pay to permit a zero bonus The cap is reviewed payment should that periodically: the Policy be appropriate.
The cap permits the cap to be on base salary helps to changed if this is deemed contain fixed costs.
necessary to meet business, legislative or regulatory requirements.
Provide cost-effective The Company currently provides fringe benefits such Fringe benefits are not Fringe benefits benefits, to support the as medical insurance and life insurance.
In the event of subject to a specific cap, Fixed pay wellbeing of employees.
relocation of an executive, the Company could consider but represent only a small appropriate relocation assistance.
Specific benefits percentage of total provision may be subject to minor change from time remuneration.
to time, within this policy.
Provides a basic level of Company contributions are made, normally on a defined The current level of Pension Company contribution, contribution basis, either to a pension plan or in the form Company contribution Fixed pay which employees can of an equivalent cash allowance.
supplement with their The contribution level contributions.
is reviewed periodically: the Policy permits the contribution rate to be amended if necessary.
Rewards performance Executive Directors are considered each year for a Variable 1 and aligns executives discretionary variable pay award depending on personal compensation closely with other and Company performance, by applying a range of Discretionary shareholders.
performance indicators such as growth in AuM, investment performance, profits, and strategic and operational achievements.
The variable pay award comprises: a cash bonus part of which may be voluntarily deferred : and a long-term incentive in the form of both a restricted share award and a matching share award on any voluntarily deferred cash bonus: 1.
Cash bonus 60% of total award.
The executive may voluntarily commute up to half the cash bonus in return for the same value in a Bonus Shares award or phantom equivalent deferred for five years.
The deferred shares are eligible for matching shares subject to performance conditions see 3 opposite.
Executives may request to waive any portion of their total award, and the Committee will then consider a request from the executive for an appropriate equivalent donation to a registered charity or charities.
56 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Purpose and link to short and Operation, performance measures Maximum Element long-term strategy and periods, deferral and clawback opportunity Rewards performance Long-term incentives under The Company Executive The aggregate variable Variable and aligns executives Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan : compensation pool for compensation closely with other all employees including continued 2.
Restricted shares award 40% of total award.
executives is capped, Discretionary This is compulsorily deferred into Company shares currently at 25% of or phantom equivalent for a period of five years.
earnings before variable This deferred portion is subject to performance compensation, interest conditions on vesting, and does not qualify for and tax EBVCIT.
The Policy permits the Committee to permits the Committee set the performance conditions for each award.
to vary this cap if necessary The performance condition for the most recent award to meet business needs.
was relative total shareholder return TSR measured against an asset management peer group, measured The policy is not to over five years.
Zero vests below median TSR: 25% cap individual variable of the award vests at median: 100% vests at upper compensation awards quartile straight-line proportionate vesting between other than indirectly median and upper quartile.
through the impact of the aggregate pool cap, 3.
Matching shares awarded on the voluntarily as this is not market commuted cash bonus from 1 above.
practice for most of the Matching is provided on the voluntarily commuted Companys peer group cash bonus, subject to the same performance condition and would make the as that described in 2 above.
The maximum match used Company uncompetitive.
to date on any award made under the current policy was one-for-one: the policy permits the matching level The high proportion of to be changed for future awards but not to exceed variable compensation three-for-one.
deferral, with vesting after five years and subject Dividends or dividend equivalents on the total number to on-going performance of Restricted, Matching and Bonus share or phantom conditions, encourages equivalent awards will be accrued and paid out at the a prudent approach to risk time the award vests and to the extent of vesting.
management, in support For awards made prior to 2013 the dividend or dividend of the Companys risk and equivalent payments are made on shares in full, under compliance controls.
previous commitments made to participants: this policy was changed by the committee with effect from awards made in 2013.
In addition to the TSR condition described above, claw-back can be applied to the long-term incentive components during the five-year deferral period, if performance has been materially misstated or there is gross misconduct.
The Remuneration Policy permits the award of deferred remuneration in alternative forms such as share options, although none has been granted in recent years, and to vary the percentage split of award between cash and share awards to meet business, legislative or regulatory requirements.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 Directors Remuneration Policy continued If the employing company terminates the employment of an Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive executive director without giving the period of notice required Directors compared to other employees under the contract, the executive director would be entitled The Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is generally to claim recompense for up to one years remuneration subject consistent with that for employees across the Company as a to consideration of the directors obligation to mitigate the loss.
However, there are some differences which the Committee Such recompense is expected to be limited to: base salary due believes are necessary to reflect the different responsibilities of for any unexpired notice period: any amount assessed by the employees across the Company.
Below executive director level, Committee as representing the value of other contractual benefits, whilst the same deferral policy applies, the deferred portion of and pension, which would have been received during the period.
the variable pay award and any matching shares on the voluntarily In the event of a change of control of the Company there is no commuted cash bonus, are not subject to the relative TSR enhancement to these terms.
In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: External Non-executive Director positions Provision Detailed terms Executive directors are permitted to serve as Non-executive Notice period 12 months Directors of other companies where there is no competition Termination payment in the Base salary plus value of benefits with the Companys business activities and where these duties event of termination by the including pension paid monthly do not interfere with the individuals ability to perform his duties Company without due notice and subject to mitigation.
Neither of the Executive Directors currently has such appointments.
Change of control Same terms as above on termination.
Where an outside appointment is accepted in furtherance of the Companys business, any fees received are remitted Any outstanding share-based entitlements granted to an to the Company.
If the appointment is not connected to the executive director under the Companys share plans will Companys business, the Executive Director is entitled to retain be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
The default any fees received.
treatment is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, Approach to remuneration for new executive such as death, disability, retirement or other circumstances director appointments at the discretion of the Committee taking into account the The remuneration package for an externally recruited new individuals performance and the reasons for their departure executive director would be set in accordance with the terms good leaver status can be applied.
and maximum levels of the Companys approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
An Executive Directors service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except In addition, the Committee may offer additional cash and or for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence share-based elements when it considers these to be in the of certain events such as gross misconduct.
best interests of the Company and therefore shareholders.
In considering any such payments the Committee would take Legacy arrangements account of remuneration relinquished when leaving the former For the avoidance of doubt, this Policy report includes authority employer and the nature, vesting dates and any performance for the Company to honour any commitments entered into requirements attached to the relinquished remuneration.
with current or former directors that have been disclosed to Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the shareholders in previous Remuneration reports.
Details of any time of appointment.
payments to former directors will be set out in the implementation For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded section of this report as they arise.
in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to Reward scenarios its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing The Companys Policy results in the majority of the remuneration prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are put received by the Executive Directors being dependent on to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
As noted earlier, the policy is not to cap individual awards, but For external and internal appointments, the Company may rather the aggregate pool.
As such it is not possible to demonstrate meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
minimum, target and maximum remuneration levels.
In lieu of this, Service contracts and loss of office payment policy Figure 2 illustrates the minimum fixed remuneration, and provides an indication of the potential range of total remuneration using the Service contracts normally continue until the directors agreed highest and lowest variable pay awards in a rolling five-year period retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
The service and assuming full vesting, five years later, of the long-term contracts contain provision for early termination.
Notice periods are incentive components based on upper quartile TSR.
limited to 12 months by either party.
Service agreements contain no contractual entitlement to receive variable pay: participation in these arrangements is at the Committees discretion.
58 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Figure 2 Executive Director total remuneration at different levels of performance 000 CEO Fixed minimum Lowest pay received in 5 year rolling period Highest pay received in 5 year rolling period GFD Fixed minimum Lowest pay received in 5 year rolling period Highest pay received in 5 year rolling period 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 Base salary Cash bonus Benets Share bonus face value using share price at grant Pension LTI: Restricted Shares and Matching awards face value using share price at grant Figure 3 Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other Non-executive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Board Chairman fee To pay an all-inclusive basic The Board Chairman is paid a single fee for The current fee for the Chairman is fee that takes account of all his responsibilities.
The level of the fee is 150,000 but is subject to review the role and responsibilities.
reviewed periodically by the Committee, with periodically under this Policy.
reference to market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies, and a recommendation is then made to the Board without the Chairman being present.
Non-executive To pay an all-inclusive basic The Non-executives are paid a single inclusive The current fee for Non-executive Director fees fee that takes account of basic fee.
There are no supplements for Directors is 60,000, but is the role and responsibilities.
subject to review periodically under this Policy.
The fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and Executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors are engaged under letters of appointment Compliance with the Remuneration Code and they do not have contracts of service.
They are appointed for The Committee regularly reviews its remuneration policys an initial three-year period, subject to annual shareholder re-election.
compliance with the principles of the Remuneration Code Their continued engagement is subject to the requirements of the of the UK financial services regulator, as applicable to Ashmore.
Companys Articles relating to the retirement of directors by rotation.
The remuneration policy is designed to be consistent with the The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the prudent management of risk, and the sustained, long-term Companys registered office during normal business hours.
There is an aggregate cap on fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors which is currently set at 500,000.
As a result of the increased number of Non-executive Directors on the board, it is the Companys intention to increase this cap to 750,000 at the 2013 AGM.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Annual report on remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and 9.8.
Figure 4 Remuneration for the year ending 30 June 2013 audited information The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Directors in the year ending 30 June 2013.
Benefits for Executive Directors include membership of the Company medical scheme.
Long-term incentives vesting relates to awards with performance conditions where the performance period has ended in the relevant financial year and payments of dividends or dividend equivalents on such awards.
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2012, Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself.
The Cash bonus, Voluntarily deferred share bonus and Total bonus figures are shown excluding the amount waived.
Mark Coombs and Graeme Dells variable compensation is made up of 60% cash bonus and 40% deferred restricted share or restricted phantom awards.
They may commute up to 50% of their cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of bonus share or bonus phantom awards and an equivalent value in matching share or matching phantom awards.
All share or phantom awards will be reported in the Directors share award and phantom award tables in the year of grant.
As described in detail in other sections of the Annual Report, Total bonus award for the year ending 30 June 2013 Ashmore has made substantial progress during the year ending Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director 30 June 2013 in building a more diversified business, with solid GFD performance measures performance across the Group.
AuM increased by 22% to The total bonus award for the year under review for the CEO was US$77.4 billion, and despite tougher market conditions towards based on annual performance against financial objectives 75% the year end investment performance remains very good with 92% and achievement of non-financial, business development and of AuM outperforming their benchmarks over three years.
combination of these results has led to solid financial performance, The total bonus award for the year under review for the GFD with an EBITDA margin of 70% and profit before tax increasing was based on annual performance against operational objectives by 6% to 257.6 million.
related to the departments he manages 70%, contribution to For additional information, Figure 6 shows the history of financial business strategy 15% and communication with stakeholders results for the last five years.
The performance criteria and performance outcomes for both the CEO and the GFD, as assessed by the Committee are shown in the table opposite.
60 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and 9.8.
In respect to deferred share awards which have been waived to charity, any dividend equivalents associated with the amounts waived are paid directly to the nominated charities.
The figures shown exclude the amounts waived.
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2012, both Mark Coombs and Graeme Dell chose to commute 50% their cash bonus, and received a share bonus in respect of this amount.
The share bonus amount is shown in the Voluntarily deferred share bonus column, and the residual cash bonus is shown in the cash bonus column.
7. Dividend equivalents were paid relating to voluntarily deferred Share or Phantom Share Awards in the period.
In the year ended 30 June 2013, Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself.
The Cash bonus and Total bonus figures exclude any amounts waived to charity.
Non-executive Directors do not receive any additional fees for committee memberships.
Figure 5 CEO and GFD performance measures Executive Committee Director KPI Areas considered within KPI Weighting Assessment CEO Business financial To achieve higher than budgeted EBIT minus performance fees, 75% Good performance to achieve higher than budgeted growth in AuM and to effectively manage investment performance to deliver consistent growth relative to each unblended investment theme CEO Non-financial management Strategy development and implementation, recruitment, staff turnover 25% Good performance and succession planning and regulatory and compliance adherence GFD Operational department Department performance assessed for Finance, Compliance, 70% Satisfactory management Operations, IT & Communications, Company Secretarial and Facilities GFD Business strategy Contribution to the development and implementation of strategic goals 15% Satisfactory GFD Communication With the Board and internal and external stakeholders 15% Satisfactory Figure 6 Five-year summary of financial results 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 AuM US$bn at period end 77.4 63.7 65.8 35.3 24.9 Operating profit 232.0 225.1 239.4 209.3 150.6 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 Annual report on remuneration continued relative total shareholder return TSR performance condition Long-term incentive scheme interests awarded is met.
TSR is measured relative to an asset management peer during the year ended 30 June 2013 group.
The TSR vesting scale and peer group are shown in Figures Figure 7 below provides details of the long-term incentive awards 8 and 9 respectively.
TSR is a well established and recognised that were made during the year.
These were made within the performance measure, which aligns the interests of the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy, and represent the mandatory Directors with those of shareholders.
In the absence of any other deferral of 40 per cent of Executive Directors bonus award for dedicated emerging markets investment management companies, the year ended 30 June 2012 into Restricted Shares award, and a comparator group of 18 companies has been selected from the the Matching Award on the voluntarily commuted portion of cash global investment management sector.
The Committee reviews the bonus in respect of year ended 30 June 2012. peer group periodically to take account of fide-listings, new listings Both the Restricted shares and Matching shares awards vest or other sector changes that are relevant.
on the fifth anniversary of the award date, to the extent that the Figure 7 Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2013 audited information Share price on Performance period Name Type of award No.
of shares Date of award date of award Face Value end date 1 Mark Coombs Phantom Restricted shares 328,009 18 September 2012 3.2926 1,080,002 17 September 2017 Phantom Matching shares 246,007 18 September 2012 3.2926 810,003 17 September 2017 Graeme Dell Restricted shares 60,743 18 September 2012 3.2926 200,002 17 September 2017 Matching shares 45,557 18 September 2012 3.2926 150,001 17 September 2017 1.
In view of Mark Coombs substantial existing shareholding, and taking account of the requirements of the Takeover Code, the Committee has elected to date to make phantom awards to Mark Coombs, which have the same terms as Restricted shares and Matching shares but are settled in cash.
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2012, Mark Coombs chose to waive 10 per cent of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself.
of shares and Face Value figures are shown excluding the amount waived.
Figure 8 TSR vesting scale Performance % of award vesting Below median of peer group Zero Median 25% Upper quartile 100% linear interpolation between median and UQ Figure 9 1 TSR peer group Company Country of Listing Company Country of Listing Aberdeen Asset Management UK Franklin Templeton USA Affiliated Managers USA Henderson Group UK AGF Canada Invesco USA Alliance Bernstein USA Janus Capital USA Azimut Holding Italy Partners Group Holdings Switzerland Blackrock USA Schroders UK CI Financial Income Fund Canada SEI Investments USA Eaton Vance USA T-Rowe Price USA Federated Investors USA Waddell and Reed USA 1.
The peer group for the award made to Graeme Dell in 2008 was expanded for awards made from 2009 forward to include Blackrock, Franklin Templeton, Invesco, T-Rowe Price and Waddell and Reed.
This was as a result of four members of the initial peer group ceasing to trade or fide-listing, these firms were Bluebay, Allco Finance Group, New Star and Babcock and Brown.
In respect of the years ending 30 June 2010, 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2012, Mark Coombs chose to waive 30 per cent, 20 per cent and 10 per cent respectively of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself.
The Number of shares at 30 June 2012, Granted during year and Number of shares at 30 June 2013 figures are shown excluding the amounts waived.
On the vesting release date any shares waived to charity will vest to them to the extent that any relevant performance conditions have been satisfied.
Key RS Restricted shares PRS Phantom Restricted shares BS Bonus shares PBS Phantom Bonus shares MS Matching shares PMS Phantom Matching shares Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Annual report on remuneration continued The Companys obligations under its employee share plans can be Companys issued share capital.
As at 30 June 2013, the Company met by newly issued shares in the Company, or shares purchased had 4 per cent of the Companys issued share capital outstanding under employee share plans to its staff.
in the market by the trustees of an employee benefit trust EBT.
As detailed in the financial statements, the EBT continues to make Defined benefit pension entitlements market purchases of shares to satisfy awards.
None of the Directors has any entitlements under Company The overall limits on new issuance operated under the existing defined benefit pension plans.
share plans were established on the listing of the Company in Directors shareholding and share interests 2006.
Under these agreed limits, the number of shares which may be issued in aggregate under employee share plans of the Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the table Company over any 10-year period following the date of the below.
Although there is no formal shareholding requirement, the Companys Admission in 2006 is limited to 15 per cent of the Executive Directors have substantial interests in Company shares.
Figure 11 Share interests of Directors and connected persons at 30 June 2013 audited information Outstanding restricted Outstanding voluntarily and matching deferred share 1 Beneficially Owned share awards bonus awards Total interest in shares Executive Directors 2 Mark Coombs 291,574,200 2,792,503 1,196,787 295,563,490 Graeme Dell 1,215,541 520,946 1,736,487 Non-executive Directors The Hon.
Michael Benson 29,000 29,000 Nick Land 43,000 43,000 Melda Donnelly 43,000 43,000 Simon Fraser 25,000 25,000 3 Charles Outhwaite Dame Anne Pringle DCMG 1.
Outstanding restricted shares and matching shares are subject to performance conditions.
Outstanding restricted and matching share awards to Mark Coombs are in the form of phantom shares.
Mr. Charles Outhwaite acquired 40,000 shares on 3 July 2013.
Save as described above there have been no other changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between 30 June and 9 September 2013.
The Directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express permission of the Board.
None of the Directors currently holds their shares in such as an arrangement.
Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer Figure 12 Percentage change in total remuneration levels Total Remuneration Year ended Year ended 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 % change Chief Executive base salary 100,000 100,000 0% Relevant comparator employees base salary 71,114 72,566 -2% Chief Executive taxable benefits 2,698 2,832 -5% Relevant comparator employees average taxable benefits 2,698 2,832 -5% Chief Executive annual bonus 2,430,000 1,620,000 50% Relevant comparator employees average annual bonus 172,794 153,937 12% Figure 12 shows the movement in the total remuneration for the Chief Executive between the current and previous financial year compared to that of the total remuneration costs relevant comparator employees as a whole.
Relevant employees are employees of Ashmore Group who have been employed throughout the full performance year.
Figures do not include amounts of cash waived to charity.
64 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Performance chart The chart below Figure 13 shows the Companys TSR performance with dividends re-invested against the performance of the relevant indices for the last five years.
As the chart indicates, 100 invested in Ashmore on 30 June 2008 was worth over 186 five years later, compared with 131 for the same investment in the FTSE 100 index.
Figure 13 TSR chart Total Return Performance Chart to 30 June 2013 Source: Thomson Reuters m 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 30 Jun 2008 30 Jun 2009 30 Jun 2010 30 Jun 2011 30 Jun 2012 30 Jun 2013 Ashmore Group FTSE 250 FTSE 100 The chart shows the value, by 30 June 2013, of 100 invested in Ashmore Group on 30 June 2008 compared to the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 100 Index.
The other points are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Each point at a financial year end is calculated using an average total shareholder return value over June i. e. 1 June to 30 June inclusive.
Figure 14 shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer during each of the financial years shown in the TSR chart.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTI awards which vested based on performance in those years.
As there is no cap on the maximum individual bonus award, a percentage of maximum annual bonus is not shown.
Figures do not include amounts of cash, voluntarily deferred share bonus or dividend equivalents waived to charity.
A voluntarily deferred share bonus which is waived to charity will result in a cash payment to the charity on the vesting date, of a sum equivalent to the market value of the number of waived Phantom Bonus shares vesting on that date.
During the restricted period the charity will receive any dividend equivalents associated with the waived Phantom Bonus shares.
Mark Coombs variable compensation is made up of 60% cash bonus and 40% deferred Phantom Restricted share awards.
He may commute up to 50% of his cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of Phantom Bonus share awards and an equivalent value in Phantom Matching share awards.
All Phantom share awards will be reported in the Directors share and Phantom share award tables in the year of grant.
Mark Coombs received dividend equivalents related to his Phantom Bonus share awards.
No performance related Phantom Restricted and Matching share awards have vested during the periods shown, the sums shown relate to dividends paid on share awards.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 Value of 100 invested on 30 June 2008 Annual report on remuneration continued Figure 15 shows the relative movement in profits, total staff costs and dividends to shareholders, year-on-year.
Figure 15 Relative importance of the spend on pay Metric 2013 2012 % change Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group i. e. accounting cost 79.7 70.1 14% Average headcount 280 251 12% Distributions to shareholders dividends and or share buy backs 105.2 101.0 4% Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy External advisors in the year commencing 1 July 2013 The Remuneration Committee received independent advice The Committee intends to continue to apply broadly the same from New Bridge Street NBS consultants throughout the metrics and weightings to annual variable remuneration as in the period from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013.
NBS abides by the year ended 30 June 2013.
Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires it to provide objective and impartial advice.
NBS fees for the year For long-term incentive awards Restricted Shares, Matching Shares ending 30 June 2013 were 30,344.
The Company participates in and their Phantom equivalents, the Committee intends to apply the the McLagan Partners compensation survey from which relevant same relative TSR performance metric as used the previous year, data is provided to the Remuneration committee.
Neither of the subject to any changes to the peer group that may be necessary above provide other services to the Company.
to take account of fide-listings, new listings or other sector changes that are relevant.
Statement of shareholder voting Membership of the Remuneration Committee At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders: The members of the Committee are listed in the table below.
All of these are independent Non-executive Directors, as defined Figure 16 under the Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of the Shareholder voting Company Chairman who was independent on his appointment.
2012 AGM resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Committee attendance Remuneration Report for the year ended Number of meetings attended out of 30 June 2012 % of votes cast potential maximum Nick Land 100% Votes cast in favour 540,550,935 94.97% Votes cast against 28,635,810 5.03% Simon Fraser 100% Total votes cast 569,186,745 100.00% The Hon.
Michael Benson 100% Abstentions 1,778,153 The Companys CEO attends the meeting by invitation and assists the Committee in its deliberations, except when his Approval personal remuneration is discussed.
No Directors are involved This Directors Remuneration report, including both the Directors in deciding their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts Remuneration Policy and the Annual report on remuneration have as Secretary to the Committee.
Other executives may be invited been approved by the Board of Directors.
to attend as the Committee requests.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Nick Land Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 9 September 2013 66 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
