64 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Extract of directors remuneration report Dear shareholder On behalf of the Board, the Remuneration Committee is pleased to present an extract of the Directors Remuneration Report DRR for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Responding to new requirements Annual bonus a 2013 bonus of 112.5% of Avivas 2013 DRR reflects the new reporting basic salary, equivalent to 1,102,500 was requirements introduced by the Department approved.
The basis for this decision is set out for Business, Innovation & Skills regulations.
in the remuneration report in the annual report We have endeavoured to reflect the letter and accounts and the spirit of those new requirements in Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP an LTIP grant the DRR.
We have drawn on the guidance, in 2014 with a face value of 2,940,000 which notably by the GC100 Investor Group, in is 300% of basic salary its preparation.
In addition, we have consulted widely with Appointment of new CFO shareholders on the contents of our new The Board announced on 28 February 2014 the directors remuneration policy and, following appointment of Tom Stoddard as CFO.
Mr consideration of their comments, we have made Stoddard will join on 5 May 2014.
Details a number of amendments in this final version.
of his remuneration arrangements were included in the announcement of his appointment, and Paying for performance are set out in the DRR.
We believe there is a clear link between the performance of the Group, the value we add for Continuing the shareholder dialogue shareholders and the remuneration of our most We have met our major institutional shareholders senior executives.
Our remuneration policy and and the main proxy agencies regularly in the practice reflects performance against the Groups course of 2013. main strategic priorities, which are: We believe this regular contact is proving Improve financial performance total beneficial for both parties in increasing mutual remuneration is heavily weighted towards pay understanding, addressing and resolving issues dependent on outcomes against the Key of concern and helping informed decision Performance Indicators KPIs of our business, making.
We remain committed to continuing notably cash flow, profit and Return On that dialogue.
Equity ROE Build capital and financial strength the Remuneration reward review expenditure on variable pay is very much Our remuneration policy report reflects our aligned to the measurement of the financial reward framework as we will apply it for senior strength of our business.
The Remuneration executive remuneration in 2014.
Committee assures itself that any bonus Usual practice would be that our remuneration proposed is justifable based on the business policy is put to a vote every three years, although being sustainable over the long term we expect to conduct a strategic review of our Focus on core businesses through the executive remuneration in 2014 to ensure our measurement of a number of key financial, reward frameworks, policies and practices remain operational and longer-term return measures, fit for purpose, aligned with the wider talent overall remuneration is closely aligned to the market and compliant with relevant regulation.
achievement of the Groups strategic objectives If that review leads to proposed changes to our remuneration policy, we expect to consult with Our reward approach in practice shareholders in the latter half of 2014.
The application of our policies and practices Subject to the outcomes of that consultation, in the 2014 reward round has resulted in the we will aim to put proposals to shareholders at following outcomes for the Group Chief our 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM Executive Officer Group CEO : for approval.
Basic pay basic salary of 980,000 will remain unchanged Patricia Cross Chairman, Remuneration Committee Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 65 Aviva plc Extract of directors remuneration report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors remuneration policy for Executive Directors EDs Element Operation and recovery provisions if applicable Maximum opportunity Performance measures Basic salary Annual review, with changes normally taking effect from Current basic salaries are disclosed in the Any movement in basic salary takes account 1 April each year.
The review is informed by: full DRR.
There is no maximum increase of performance.
Purpose and link to strategy Relevant pay data including market practice among within the policy.
However, basic salary To provide core, market related pay the 25 FTSE-listed companies either side of Aviva in increases take account of the average to attract and retain the required terms of market capitalisation basic salary increase awarded to UK level of talent.
Levels of increase for the broader UK employee employees.
Different levels of increase population may be agreed in certain circumstances Individual and business performance at the committees discretion, such as: An increase in job scope and responsibility Development of the individual in the role The committee is aware of shareholder concern on ED basic salary racheting and would consult on proposed increases if they were to significantly exceed the general level of increases for UK staff.
Element Awards are based on performance in the year.
Targets are Maximum bonus opportunity is 150% Performance is assessed against a range of set annually and pay-out levels are determined by the of basic salary with 75% of basic salary relevant financial, employee and customer Annual bonus committee based on performance against those targets.
payable for performance in line with targets and personal objectives as set by the Two-thirds of any bonus awarded is deferred into shares target.
For example, in 2013 the Purpose and link to strategy which vest after three years.
Additional shares are Threshold performance would result in a financial KPIs were: To incentivise EDs to achieve the awarded at vesting in lieu of dividends paid on the bonus payment of no more than 25% of Net capital returns annual business plan.
IFRS profit before tax Deferral provides alignment with Unvested awards are subject to reduction for Performance below threshold would MCEV value of new business shareholder interests and aids misconduct or materially adverse misstatement of result in no bonus being paid.
Combined operating ratio retention of key personnel.
Discretion remains with the committee to Total expenses amend the bonus payout taking account of financial, Financial performance is the major factor in market and other considerations.
considering overall expenditure on bonuses.
In particular the committee will review the alignment of bonus awards with the experience of shareholders.
Shares are awarded which vest dependent on the The plan rules allow for awards to be Currently, performance targets over three Element achievement of performance conditions over a three year made up to a maximum of 350% of years are: Long-Term Incentive period.
Additional shares are awarded at vesting in lieu of basic salary.
50% vest based on targets for absolute Plan LTIP dividends on any shares which vest.
Threshold performance would result in ROE performance Unvested awards are subject to reduction in the event a vesting level of 20% of maximum.
50% vest based on relative Total Purpose and link to strategy of misconduct or materially adverse misstatement of Performance below threshold on both Shareholder Return TSR against a To motivate EDs to achieve the accounts.
targets would result in the award lapsing comparator group.
Companys longer-term objectives, The committee has discretion to amend vesting in its entirety.
Actual targets for ROE and the appropriate to align EDs interests with those of downwards depending on business or individual TSR comparator group are agreed by the shareholders and to aid the retention performance or conduct.
committee annually and disclosed in the of key personnel.
annual remuneration section of the full DRR.
Element EDs are eligible to participate in a defined contribution The level of benefit takes account of the N A plan up to the annual limit.
Any amounts above the seniority of EDs and of the local market.
Pension annual or lifetime limits are paid in cash.
Ordinarily, the employer contribution to Purpose and link to strategy pension benefits under UK contracts does not exceed 31% of basic salary, To give a market competitive level of minus an employee contribution of 8% provision for post-retirement income.
of the Scheme Specific Earnings Cap, 141,600 for 2013 14.
Element Benefits are provided on a market related basis.
The Set at a level which the committee N A Company reserves the right to deliver benefits to EDs considers is appropriate against Benefits depending on their individual circumstances, which may comparable roles in companies of a include a cash car allowance, life insurance and private similar size and complexity to provide Purpose and link to strategy medical insurance.
In the case of non-UK executives, the a reasonable level of benefit.
To provide EDs with suitable core committee may consider additional allowance in line with Cost would normally be limited to benefits as part of a competitive standard relevant market practice.
providing a cash car allowance, private remuneration package, which EDs employed under UK contracts are eligible to medical insurance, life insurance, and enables us to attract and retain the participate in any HMRC-approved all employee share reasonable travel benefits, including the right level of talent necessary to plans operated by the Company on the same basis as tax cost where applicable.
In addition, deliver the Companys strategy.
there may be one-off or exceptional items on a case by case basis, which would be reported in the DRR.
Employees who are relocated or re-assigned either in Dependent on location and family size, N A Element country or internationally receive relevant benefits to assist benefits are market related and time Relocation & mobility them and their dependants in moving home and settling bound.
They are not compensation for in to the new location.
performing the role but to defray costs Purpose and link to strategy of a relocation or residence outside the To assist with mobility across the home country.
The committee would Group to ensure the appropriate pay no more than it judged reasonably talent is available to execute necessary, in the light of all applicable strategy locally.
Element A requirement to build a shareholding in the Company N A N A equivalent to 200% of basic salary for the Group CEO Shareholding requirement and 150% of basic salary for other EDs.
Purpose and link to strategy To align EDs interests with those of shareholders.
66 Aviva plc Extract of directors remuneration report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Single total figures of remuneration for 2013 Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors audited information The table below sets out in the required form the total 2013 remuneration for each of our Directors who served with the Company during 2013.
He received no emoluments in respect of 2012.
2 Patrick Regan tendered his resignation as Chief Financial Officer on 22 January 2014 and will leave the Board and the Group prior to the AGM and so received no bonus award for 2013.
His LTIP awards granted in 2011, 2012 and 2013 will lapse.
3 Trevor Matthews left Aviva on 6 June 2013 and so 2013 figures represent the period up to that date.
4 Bonus payable in respect of the financial year including any deferred element at face value at date of award.
5 Value of the LTIP for 2013 relates to the 2011 award, which had a three year performance period ending on 31 December 2013.
34.48% of the award will vest in March 2014.
An assumed Aviva ordinary share price of 431.9 pence has been used to determine the value of the award based on the average share price over the final quarter of the 2013 financial year.
6 The LTIP value for Patrick Regan for 2012 has been updated to reflect the actual value at vesting of the award.
The figure previously disclosed was 607,302.
7 Pension contributions consist of employer contributions into the defined contribution section of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme, excluding salary exchange contributions made by the employees, plus payments in lieu of pension above the lifetime or annual allowance caps.
8 Benefits for John McFarlane include the entitlement previously agreed for him to be reimbursed against evidenced expenditure for reasonable and appropriate costs associated with his relocation to the UK, up to a maximum of 125,000, inclusive of any tax liability, which was rolled forward to 2013.
9 Richard Karl Goeltz and Russell Walls retired from the Board with effect from 8 May 2013.
The remuneration figures shown in the table are for or relate to the period during which they were a director of the Company.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 5 March 2014.
Mark Wilson Group Chief Executive Officer Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 67 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance In this section Directors and Corporate governance report 68 Directors remuneration report 86
