Governance Directors remuneration report INTRODUCTION Having taken account of all the relevant factors and the The Board presents the Directors Remuneration Report for the analysis of fees paid in the investment companies sector, the year ended 31 December 2013 which has been prepared in conclusion was that the level of Directors fees should be accordance with section 420-422 of the Companies Act 2006. higher for the time and challenges which the Board faces in In addition, following the publication by the Department for carrying out its responsibilities, together with the associated Business, Innovation and Skills BIS of final remuneration risks.
disclosure regulations effective from 1 October 2013, the Companys remuneration policy will be subject to a triennial It is the Companys policy that no Director shall be entitled binding shareholder vote.
The rest of the Directors Remuneration toany performance related remuneration, bene ts in kind, Report will continue to be subject to an annual advisory vote.
long term incentive schemes, share options, pensions or These resolutions are items of ordinary business and are otherretirement bene ts or, compensation for loss of included as Resolution 2 and Resolution 3 in the Notice of of ce.
Directors are entitled to claim expenses in respect Meeting on page 71 of the Annual Report.
The law requires the Companys auditor to audit certain of the Other than the Directors, the Company has no employees disclosures provided.
Where disclosures have been audited, andconsequently no consideration is required to be given to they are indicated as such.
The auditors opinion is included employment conditions elsewhere in setting Directors pay.
intheir report on pages 39 and 40.
The statement by the Chairman and the policy report are not subject to audit.
REMUNERATION SERVICE CONTRACTS The maximum remuneration of the Directors is determined STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN within the limits of the Companys Articles of Association The Boards policy on remuneration is set out below.
A key andcurrently amounts in aggregate to 250,000 per annum.
element is that fees payable to Directors should re ect the Noneof the Directors has a service contract with the Company time spent by them on the Companys affairs, and should be or receive any non cash bene ts or pension entitlements.
suf cient to attract and retain individuals with suitable Theterms of their appointment are detailed in a letter sent knowledge and experience.
Following a review, with effect tothem when they join the Board.
These letters are available from 1 October 2013, the Board agreed that the Chairmans forinspection at the registered of ce of the Company.
fees increase from 30,000 to 45,000, the Chairman of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee receive a fee CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS increase from 25,000 to 37,500 and Directors fees increase An ordinary resolution to approve the remuneration report from 20,000 to 30,000.
The basis for determining the level isput to members at each Annual General Meeting, and ofincrease in Directors remuneration is set out in the Policy shareholders have the opportunity to express their views Report below.
andraise any queries in respect of remuneration policy at thismeeting.
To date, no shareholders have commented in REMUNERATION COMMITTEE respect of remuneration policy.
The Board as a whole ful ls the function of the Remuneration Committee and considers any change in the Directors In accordance with recent changes to the Companies Act 2006, remuneration policy.
A separate Committee has therefore the Company is required to seek shareholder approval of its notbeen established.
The Companys Directors are all remuneration policy.
Consequently, an ordinary resolution for non-executive and are independent of the Investment Manager.
the approval of the remuneration policy as set out in the table on page 28 will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
It is the intention of the Board that POLICY REPORT the policy on remuneration will continue to apply for the next During the year, the Board employed the services of an three financial years.
independent rm, Trust Associates, to carry out a review to seewhether any change in remuneration was necessary.
This will be the first year that a binding vote is put to Insetting the appropriate level of Directors fees a number shareholders in respect of the Companys remuneration policy.
offactors were considered including the workload of the In previous years, the remuneration report has been subject to Directors, their responsibilities, the relationship with their an advisory vote by shareholders.
At the Companys previous suppliers and the size and complexity of the Company.
Fees Annual General Meeting, held on 25 April 2013, 99.91% of were also compared with the levels of directors remuneration votes cast were in favour of the resolution to approve the for other investment companies with similarities, such as size, Directors Remuneration Report in respect of the year ended specialisation, emerging markets, illiquidity of investments 31 December 2012. and valuation issues.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [27] Governance Directors remuneration report continued FUTURE POLICY TABLE Fees payable to Directors should be suf cient to attract and retain individuals of high calibre with suitable knowledge and experience.
Those chairing the Board and key Committees should be paid higher fees than other Directors in recognition of their more demanding roles.
Fees should re ect the time spent by Directors on the Purpose and link to Companys affairs and the responsibilities borne by the Directors.
strategy It is the Companys policy that no Director shall be entitled to any performance related remuneration, bene ts in kind, long term incentive schemes, share options, pensions or other retirement bene ts or, compensation for lossof of ce.
Directors are entitled to claim expenses in respect of duties undertaken on behalf of the Company.
Current levels of xed annual fee: Chairman 45,000 Audit & Management Engagement Committee Chairman 37,500 Description Directors 30,000 All reasonable expenses to be reimbursed.
Remuneration consists of a xed fee each year, set in accordance with the stated policies and as such there is no set maximum threshold: however, any increase granted must be in line with the stated policies.
The Companys Articles of Association set a limit of 250,000 in respect of the total remuneration that may be Maximum and paid to Directors in any financial year.
In addition, the Directors propose a limit of 50,000 per annum in relation minimum levels to the maximum that may be paid in respect of taxable bene ts.
These ceilings have been set at a level to provide exibility in respect of the recruitment of additional Board members and in ation.
The Board reviews the quantum of Directors pay each year to ensure that it is in line with the level of Directors remuneration for other investment trusts of a similar size.
When making recommendations for any changes in pay, the Committee will consider wider factors such as the average rate of in ation over the period since the previous review, and the level and any change in complexity of the Fixed fee element Directors responsibilities including additional time commitments as a result of increased regulatory or corporate governance requirements.
There is no compensation for loss of of ce.
Taxable bene ts comprise travel expenses incurred by the Directors in the course of travel to attend Board and Committee meetings which are held at the Companys registered of ce in London, and which are reimbursed by the Company and therefore treated as a bene t in kind and are subject to tax and national insurance.
The Companys Taxable bene ts policy in respect of this element of remuneration is that all reasonable costs of this nature will be reimbursed as they are incurred.
Chairman of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
The information in the above table has been audited.
[28] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC Operation The amounts paid by the Company to the Directors were for SHAREHOLDINGS services as non-executive Directors.
No past Director has been The Board has not adopted a policy that Directors are required compensated for loss of of ce.
to own shares in the Company, although all Directors are currently shareholders.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the As the Company has no employees, the table on page 28 also Company are set out in the table below.
None of the Directors comprises the total remuneration costs and bene ts paid by has an interest in share options in the Company.
To enable shareholders to assess the relative importance of spend on pay, this has been shown in the chart 31 December 31 December below compared with the Companys total revenue, operating 2013 2012 expenses and dividend distributions.
30,000 2013 2012 25,000 The information in the above table has been audited.
20,000 15,000 All of the holdings of the Directors are bene cial.
No changes to these holdings have been noti ed up to the date of this report.
10,000 5,000 RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS 0 All of the Companys Directors are subject to retirement Total revenue Total operating Dividend Directors Total expenses distributions Remuneration byrotation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors are appointed for an initial term Directors total remuneration as a % of total revenue for the year ended covering the period from the date of their appointment until 31 December 2013 was 0.3% 2012: 0.3%.
the first Annual General Meeting thereafter, at which time theyare required to stand for election in accordance with PERFORMANCE theArticles of Association.
Subsequently, Directors retire by The graph which follows compares the Companys net asset rotation at least every three years.
value and mid-market share price with income reinvested with the Euromoney Global Mining Index income reinvested.
This BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Index was chosen for comparison purposes as it is deemed to BLACKROCK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT UK LIMITED be the most relevant to the Companys investment objective and Secretary is the benchmark used when reporting to shareholders.
20 February 2014 PERFORMANCE 1 JANUARY 2008 TO 31 DECEMBER 2013 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 BlackRock World Mining Trust net asset value per share income reinvested Euromoney Global Mining Index income reinvested BlackRock World Mining Trust share price income reinvested Total return performance record rebased to 100.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [29] 000
