60 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Directors Remuneration Policy This Policy provides details of the remuneration policy for the Directors The non-executive Directors of the Company are entitled to such rates of and employees of the Company.
All Directors are non-executive, annual fees as the Board at its discretion shall from time to time determine, appointed under the terms of Letters of Appointment, and none has subject to the aggregate annual fees not exceeding 200,000, and a service contract.
The Company has no employees.
reimbursement of reasonable fees and expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
In line with the majority of investment trusts, A resolution to approve this Remuneration Policy will be proposed at no component of any Directors remuneration is subject to performance the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 19 December factors.
There are no provisions in Directors Letters of Appointment for 2013.
If the resolution is passed, the Remuneration Policy provisions set recovery or withholding of fees or expenses.
Annual fees are pro-rated out below will apply until they are next put to shareholders for renewal where a change takes place during a financial year.
of that approval, which must be at intervals of not more than three years, or the Remuneration Policy is varied in which event shareholder approval for the new Remuneration Policy will be sought.
Table of Directors Remuneration Components Component Director Rate annual maximum Purpose of reward Operation Annual Fee All Directors 23,000 For commitment as Directors Determined by the Board at of a public company its discretion see note 1 Additional Fee Chairman 12,000 For additional responsibility Determined by the Board at of the Board and time commitment its discretion see note 1 Additional Fee Chairman of the 4,000 For additional responsibility Determined by the Board at Audit Committee and time commitment its discretion see note 1 Additional Fee Senior Independent 2,300 For additional responsibility Determined by the Board at Director and time commitment its discretion see note 1 Expenses All Directors n a Reimbursement of expenses paid Reimbursement upon by them in order to perform submission of appropriate their duties invoices Notes: 1.
The Board only exercises its discretion in setting rates of fees after an analysis of fees paid to Directors of other companies having similar profiles to that of the Company, and consultation with third party advisors.
Accordingly, there are no differences in policy on the remuneration of Directors and the remuneration of employees.
No Director is entitled to receive any remuneration which is performance-related.
As a result there are no performance conditions in relation to any elements of the Directors remuneration in existence to set out in this Remuneration Policy.
There have been no changes to the Companys remuneration policy for Directors, except the fee change below, since the issue of the Companys last annual report & accounts.
61 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report 02 13 Investment Review 14 25 Governance 24 35 Financial Statements 36 71 The rates of annual fees for Directors were increased with effect from Service Contracts none of the Directors has a service contract with 1 April 2013, from the rates prevailing for the year to 30 September the Company.
Non-executive Directors are engaged under Letters of 2012.
The new rates were set after consideration of a report from Appointment Trust Associates, which recommended higher levels of fees than those implemented by the Board.
Loss of Office Directors Letters of Appointment expressly prohibit any entitlement to payment on loss of office.
Trust Associates are an independent external consultancy firm with no connection to the Company, its Directors or the Investment Manager.
Scenarios as the Chairman and non-executives Directors remuneration is fixed at annual rates, and there are no other scenarios The table below shows the rates of annual fees payable to non-executive where remuneration will vary.
It is accordingly not considered appropriate Directors applicable at 30 September 2013 ie from 1 April 2013 and at to provide different remuneration scenarios for each Director.
Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Fees Company as the Company has no employees, the process of 2013 2012 consulting with employees on the setting of the Remuneration Policy 000 000 is not relevant.
Chairman 35,000 31,860 Other Items Board Member 23,000 21,240 None of the Directors has any entitlement to pensions or pension related Additional responsibilities benefits, medical or life insurance schemes, share options, long-term Chairman of Audit Committee 4,000 3,540 incentive plans, or performance related payments.
No Director is entitled to Senior Independent Director 2,300 N A any other monetary payment or any assets of the Company except in their capacity where applicable as shareholders of the Company.
The remuneration package for any new Chairman or non-executive Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is maintained by the Director will be the same as the prevailing rates determined on the Company, at its expense, on behalf of the Directors.
The fees and entitlement to reclaim reasonable expenses will be set out in Directors Letters of Appointment The Company has also provided indemnities to the Directors in respect of costs or other liabilities which they may incur in connection with any claims 2.
The Board will not pay any introductory fee or incentive to any person to relating to their performance or the performance of the Company whilst encourage them to become a Director, but may pay the fees of search they are Directors.
and selection specialists in connection with the appointment of any new non-executive Director The Directors interests in contractual arrangements with the Company are as shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Company only intends to appoint non-executive Directors for the the Directors Report no Director was interested in any contracts with the foreseeable future Company during the period or subsequently.
The maximum aggregate fees currently payable to all Directors Review of the Remuneration Policy is 200,000.
The Board has agreed that there would be a formal review before any change to remuneration policy: and at least once a year the Remuneration Policy would be reviewed to ensure that it remained appropriate.
