Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2013 43 Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with Part 15 of the remuneration packages for the executive directors should be Companies Act 2006 and related regulations.
The statements competitive, but not excessive, in terms of market practice, in below on directors remuneration and emoluments, deferred order to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of the share awards, pensions, share options, performance share scheme quality needed to manage and grow the company successfully.
awards and payment to a former director, have been audited.
In order to align further the interests of the executive directors The Remuneration Committee with those of shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has The Remuneration Committee is a standing committee of the adopted guidelines for minimum shareholdings which executive board whose current members are Mr Gregson Chairman, directors will be expected to attain over a reasonable period of Mr Allen-Jones, Mr Thompson and Mr Woods, all of whom served time.
For these purposes, shareholdings include the value to throughout the year.
Mr Davies also served as Chairman or a executive directors, net of associated income tax and national member of the committee until his retirement from the board insurance, of options granted under the companys executive on 31 December 2012. share option schemes and awards granted under its performance share scheme for which the performance targets have been met The Remuneration Committee, whose written terms of reference and also bonuses deferred into shares, both compulsorily and are published on the companys website, has been established voluntarily, under the companys deferred bonus plans.
For the for the following purposes: Chief Executive, the minimum guideline shareholding has been to determine and agree with the board the framework and set at a value of 200% of basic salary and for other executive directors 150% of basic salary.
The current shareholdings of all broad policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and such other members of the executive management as it is of the executive directors meet these guidelines, other than of requested by the board to consider and to review the on-going Mr King, who joined the company in December 2009 and has yet appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy to attain the minimum shareholding.
to approve the design of, and determine targets for, any In determining executive directors remuneration, consideration is given to matters specific to the company, such as the performance related pay schemes operated by the company and to approve the total annual payments made under performance of its net asset value NAV per share on a total such schemes return basis, both in absolute terms and as measured against external benchmarks, to the experience and performance of to review the design of all share incentive plans for approval individual directors and to their areas of responsibility.
The by the board and shareholders and, for any such plans, to Remuneration Committee also gives consideration to a report determine each year whether awards will be made and, if so, prepared by the Company Secretary on pay and employment the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards conditions through the Caledonia group, although, given that to executive directors and other senior executives and the Caledonias trading subsidiaries operate in a number of diverse performance targets to be used industries and geographical locations using both skilled and within the terms of the agreed policy, to determine the total unskilled workforces, the executive directors pay is principally set by the Remuneration Committee in the context of that of individual remuneration packages of each executive director Caledonias head office staff.
Comparable external market data and, if requested by the board, other senior executives, is also taken into account as a point of reference to determine including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, share options and other awards appropriate remuneration packages for specific roles.
to determine the policy for, and scope of, pension In July 2012, the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills announced new proposals which will grant shareholders of UK arrangements, service agreements, termination payments incorporated listed companies enhanced rights and greater and compensation commitments for executive directors and, transparency in relation to directors remuneration.
Final if requested by the board, other senior executives regulations have yet to be published, but it is expected that the to review and assess annually the remuneration trends new regime will apply for directors remuneration reports for across the group.
financial years ending after 1 October 2013.
Under the new regime, companies will have to publish a forward looking report The Remuneration Committee also determines the fees of on pay policy, which will be subject to a binding shareholder vote.
The Remuneration Committee will be reviewing Caledonias During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice policies on directors pay in the light of the new requirements and from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, who are the companys will present its policy report for approval of shareholders at the main legal advisers, in relation to various employment related 2014 annual general meeting.
The Remuneration Committee also consulted with the Policy on individual components of executive directors Chairman and the Chief Executive in relation to the remuneration remuneration of the executive directors and internal support was provided to Basic salary the Remuneration Committee by the Company Secretary.
Basic salary is determined by the Remuneration Committee by Remuneration policy for executive directors reference to the experience and responsibilities of the director The Remuneration Committee has adopted a remuneration concerned and taking into account external market research.
policy with the following objectives: The companys policy is to pay salaries and other benefits which are competitive, but not excessive, in relation to the marketplace.
remuneration packages for executive directors should be linked to the companys long term performance and in line Benefits with its business strategy The company provides a range of benefits, including cash allowances in lieu of company cars, life insurance, permanent performance related remuneration should seek to align health insurance and private medical cover.
the interests of the executive directors with those of the shareholders Bonus The company operates a discretionary annual bonus scheme a significant portion of the executive directors remuneration for executive directors, which takes into account both the packages should be linked to the performance of the company performance of individual directors and the performance of the 44 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Directors remuneration report continued company.
At the determination of the Remuneration Committee, deferred bonus plans.
The Remuneration Committees current and subject to the compulsory deferral provisions of the policy is that any annual bonus paid, the amount of which is above companys deferred bonus plans, bonuses may either be paid in 50% of a directors basic salary for the financial year to which the cash or as employer contributions to registered pension schemes.
bonus relates, must be so compulsorily invested.
Shares derived from the compulsory deferral of bonus are matched on a one for The maximum potential bonus that may currently be awarded one basis, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of is 100% of basic salary.
For the Chief Executive and the Finance performance conditions over a period of three years.
Director, a maximum of 50% of basic salary is determined by reference to the companys performance and 50% by reference to In addition, the deferred bonus plans entitle directors to convert individual performance.
For executive directors responsible for a voluntarily a proportion of any remaining cash bonus to an specific pool of capital, a significant proportion of bonus is linked entitlement to shares.
The Remuneration Committees current to the performance and objectives of their individual pool.
For policy is that up to half of any bonus not subject to compulsory these directors, the maximum potential bonus of 100% of basic deferral may be voluntarily converted into shares.
The shares salary is determined as to 25% by reference to the companys awarded for voluntary bonus deferral are also eligible for performance, 60% to pool performance and objectives and 15% matching, on a one for one basis, the vesting of which is subject to to individual performance.
In all cases, the company performance the satisfaction of performance conditions over a period of three related element of bonus is determined by reference to the years.
Further details of the companys deferred bonus plans and performance of the companys diluted NAV per share on a total awards made to executive directors thereunder are set out on return basis compared with that of the FTSE All-Share Total pages 46 and 47.
Return index over the financial year.
Bonus payments commence Pensions if the performance of the companys NAV per share matches that The companys policy on pensions is to pay a fixed percentage of the FTSE All-Share index, increasing incrementally to the of basic salary as employer contributions into either the maximum entitlement payable if NAV per share outperforms the Caledonia Group Personal Pension Plan GPPP or other FTSE All-Share index by 6% or more.
Pool performance is personal pension arrangements established by individual measured by reference to pool specific benchmark indices and directors or, alternatively, a cash supplement in lieu of all or part objectives and individual performance by reference to personal of their pension contributions.
If the cash supplement is chosen, objectives set at the start of the financial year, including the fixed percentage is reduced by such amount as is necessary non-financial measures such as marketing of the company, team to ensure that the cash payment is cost neutral for the company leadership and promotion of Caledonias corporate culture both after taking into account the companys National Insurance internally and externally.
The percentage of basic salary for the year In view of the boards decision, as described in the Chairman ended 31 March 2013 was 22.5% for Mr Wyatt and 17.5% for and Chief Executives report, to cease using the FTSE All-Share Mr Cayzer-Colvin and Mr King.
Total Return index as a one-year benchmark to measure For the portion of the year for which he was an executive director, performance, for the financial year ending 31 March 2014 and The Hon C W Cayzer was an active member of the Caledonia future years, the Remuneration Committee intends to change Pension Scheme, a defined benefits scheme which is now closed the existing bonus arrangements by adopting the relative to new members.
The scheme provides a pension of up to performance of the companys diluted NAV per share on a total two-thirds of final pensionable salary on retirement dependent return basis against the Retail Prices Index RPI as the measure on length of service and age and also provides dependants of the company performance related element.
The Hon C W Cayzer was a non-contributory member ending 31 March 2014, bonus payments will commence if the of the scheme and, on becoming a non-executive director, became performance of the companys NAV per share matches that of a deferred member.
RPI, increasing incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if NAV per share outperforms RPI by 7% or more.
It is the companys policy that any future executive directors On this basis, executives will be rewarded to the extent that they recruited from outside the company will be funded to operate deliver positive real returns for shareholders.
The Remuneration their own pension arrangements or offered participation in the Committee will review the rate of increase in RPI at the start GPPP and that the company will not offer participation in any of each subsequent financial year and may adjust the level of defined benefit arrangements.
outperformance required for the incremental and maximum Share option and performance share schemes bonus payments, if appropriate, in order to ensure that they A key objective of the companys remuneration policy is to remain a fair measure of performance.
motivate executive directors to deliver long term shareholder All bonus payments are subject to the overriding discretion of value.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this is the Remuneration Committee, which may reduce the amount of best achieved through the grant of share based awards, bonus payable, for example where NAV per share has reduced receivable only if demanding performance conditions are over the financial year, or increase it, for example if the amount met.
Such awards are considered to be a key element of the produced by a formulaic calculation does not represent a fair remuneration package, alongside annual salary, annual bonus reflection of an executives performance or to take account of and the deferred bonus plans.
factors such as portfolio income or overall market conditions.
In 2011, the Remuneration Committee introduced a new In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee executive performance share scheme to replace the existing may also award bonuses outside the terms of the annual bonus executive share option scheme which was established in 2005. scheme.
No bonus payments are pensionable.
Under the 2011 performance share scheme, participants are Deferral of bonus awarded nil-cost options over shares, rather than options based The companys bonus arrangements are designed to align the on the current market value of those shares.
The maximum value interests of directors with those of shareholders and to encourage of nil-cost options that may be granted in any year is 200% of retention by requiring, in the Remuneration Committees basic salary, although the Remuneration Committees general absolute discretion, that a proportion of any bonus paid to a policy is to grant awards of no more than 125% of basic salary.
director is compulsorily invested in shares under the companys Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2013 45 Further details of the companys executive share option schemes The company is entitled to terminate the Chairmans or a and the 2011 performance share scheme and awards made to non-executive directors appointment at any time without executive directors thereunder are set out on pages 47 to 49. compensation.
Policy on executive directors service contracts Performance graphs It is the policy of the company that no executive director should The graphs below show the companys total shareholder return be offered a service contract that cannot be terminated on TSR against that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index for more than one years notice or which contains provision for the five and ten financial years ending on 31 March 2013.
TSR has predetermined compensation in excess of one years total been calculated assuming that all dividends are reinvested on emoluments.
All existing directors service contracts comply their ex-dividend date.
The FTSE All-Share Total Return index with this policy.
The Remuneration Committee has regard to has been chosen as it is the benchmark by which the company compensation commitments and believes that these are best measures its delivery of shareholder value over the longer term.
addressed by restricting the term of the contract.
In the event TSR growth over ive years of a termination, the Remuneration Committee would consider all the relevant factors and circumstances and seek a just solution.
Caledonia TSR FTSE All-Share TR It is the Remuneration Committees intention that all future executive directors service contracts should include provisions 150 enabling the company to reduce compensation payments in the event that the director takes up alternative employment within 125 the notice period to which such payments relate.
Policy on external non-executive directorships held by 100 executive directors It is the companys policy to allow executive directors to hold 75 external non-executive directorships unrelated to the companys business, provided that the time commitment required is not 50 material.
Normally the company will retain any fees arising from 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 such non-executive directorships, but may permit the executive director to retain fees in certain circumstances.
Details of any TSR growth over ten years such fees retained by executive directors are disclosed in the Caledonia TSR statement on directors emoluments below.
FTSE All-Share TR Policy on the Chairmans and non-executive directors terms of appointment and remuneration 400 It is the companys policy that the Chairman and the nonexecutive directors should be appointed for fixed periods of no 300 more than three years from the next annual general meeting following initial appointment in the case of new appointments and that re-appointment at the end of such periods should not 200 be automatic.
The Chairman receives an annual fee determined by the 100 Remuneration Committee but does not receive any other 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 emoluments.
Non-executive directors are paid an annual fee determined by the board within the overall limit contained in Statement on directors remuneration audited the articles of association, but do not receive any other benefits Total remuneration of the directors was as follows: from the company.
For the year ended 31 March 2013, the fee for the Chairman was 167,670.
The basic fee for the non-executive 2013 2012 directors was 36,250 and additionally fees of 5,100 and 000 000 4,450 respectively were paid to the Chairmen of the Audit and Emoluments 3,134 2,439 Remuneration Committees and 2,100 and 1,450 respectively to the other members of those committees.
A further 4,650 Gains on exercise of share options 52 was paid to Mr Allen-Jones for his roles as Senior Independent 3,186 2,439 Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Governance Committee.
These fees have not been changed for the financial year ending 31 March 2014.
Non-executive directors may also be paid additional fees agreed by the board where they have performed services that, in the opinion of the board, are over and above their normal duties.
46 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Directors remuneration report continued Statement on directors emoluments audited company of 51,000.
The Remuneration Committee further The emoluments of individual directors were as follows: agreed to the reimbursement of his legal fees of 3,900.
The treatment of The Hon C W Cayzers share plan entitlements Compon the termination of his service agreement is set out below.
ensation Fees and Cash Deferred for loss Total Total As part of the arrangements for the termination of his service 1 salaries Benefits bonus shares of office 2013 2012 agreement, the Remuneration Committee also agreed that Name 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 The Hon C W Cayzer should be entitled to benefit personally from R D Kent 126 126 18 non-executive directors fees paid by certain investee companies W P Wyatt 480 18 240 240 978 485 of which he is a director being LondonMetric Property, Quintain J M B CayzerEstates & Development, Eredene Capital and General Practice Colvin 288 18 144 144 594 298 Investment Corporation and which had previously been retained by Caledonia.
Such fees amounted to approximately 146,000 S A King 340 4 170 170 684 434 per annum at the date of termination.
It was also agreed that C M Allen-Jones 44 44 45 The Hon C W Cayzer should receive from the termination date a 2 S J Bridges 10 10 fee of 60,000 per annum in respect of his services as Chairman Hon C W of the Sloane Club.
3 Cayzer 225 14 215 454 298 Directors deferred share awards R Goblet The deferred shares column in the table of directors emoluments dAlviella 38 38 38 shows the amount of shares to be compulsorily and or C H Gregson 41 41 40 voluntarily deferred into shares under the companys 2011 deferred bonus plan.
The number of shares awarded for both the D G F Thompson 43 43 42 compulsory and voluntary deferral of bonus is determined by R B Woods 38 38 16 reference to the market value of a share at the time the award 4 J R H Loudon 53 53 168 is made, which occurs shortly after the announcement of the 5 companys results for the financial year to which the bonus M E T Davies 31 31 41 relates or following the occurrence of exceptional circumstances Former director 516 justifying the making of awards.
In both cases, the number of 1,757 54 554 554 215 3,134 2,439 shares is set on a pre-tax basis, as the shares will be subject to income tax and National Insurance on release.
Deferred shares, forming part of the bonus, comprise amounts compulsorily and voluntarily deferred under the companys deferred bonus plan, which are satisfied in are awarded in respect of compulsory and voluntary deferral of shares shortly after the announcement of the companys final results for the particular year, bonus on a one for one basis.
Mr Bridges was appointed a director on 1 January 2013.
His non-executive directors fee is Compulsorily deferred share awards paid to Hiscox Underwriting Group Services Ltd.
The shares comprised in a compulsory deferral will normally 3.
The emoluments shown above for The Hon C W Cayzer include his salary and benefits as an executive director until 3 December 2012 and thereafter his fee as a non-executive director.
only vest, together with an amount equal to the dividends that His fees and salary also include 19,762 paid by a subsidiary undertaking in respect of his would have accrued on those shares, if the director remains an services as Chairman of the Sloane Club from 4 December 2012. employee of the Caledonia group for a three year period 4.
Mr Loudon retired as a director on 25 July 2012.
Mr Davies retired as a director on 31 December 2012. commencing on the first day of the financial year in which the award is made.
The vesting of these shares is not subject to a In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, Messrs further performance condition.
Wyatt, Cayzer-Colvin and King respectively were paid amounts of 63,233, 11,066 and 52,345 2012 65,209, 17,906 and Voluntarily deferred share awards 50,821 respectively in lieu of contributions to their money The shares comprised in a voluntary deferral are not subject to purchase pension arrangements as described in the statement a performance condition and will vest, together with an amount on directors pensions below.
equal to the dividends that would have accrued on those shares, at the earlier of three years from the first day of the financial year During the year, Mr King held external non-executive in which the award is made or the date the director ceases to be directorships of The Weir Group of which he ceased to be a an employee of the Caledonia group for any reason.
director on 9 May 2012 and TT Electronics and Mr Cayzer-Colvin of The Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust, which Matching share awards were unrelated to the companys business and where it had The vesting of matching shares under the 2011 deferred bonus been agreed that they could retain the fees arising therefrom.
plan is dependent on the companys performance over the three Mr King received fees from The Weir Group of 6,462 2012 financial years, starting with the year in which the award was 60,000 and from TT Electronics of 44,916 2012 16,707. made, by reference to two separate performance conditions, both Mr Cayzer-Colvin received fees from The Henderson Smaller of which relate to the performance of Caledonias diluted NAV per Companies Investment Trust of 28,000 2012 10,485, share on a total return basis.
For two-thirds of the matching of which 4,500 was used to purchase shares in that company.
shares awarded, the performance of diluted NAV per share on a total return basis is compared against the FTSE All-Share Total The Hon C W Cayzer was employed by Caledonia Group Return index over the three year period and, for the other Services Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, under one-third, the comparison is against the FTSE Actuaries UK a service agreement dated 11 June 2002 until 3 December 2012, Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index.
In each case, at which point his service agreement was terminated and he vesting of matching shares is on a graduated basis, commencing became a non-executive director.
Under his service agreement, with 10% vesting on the achievement of 0.5% outperformance of he was entitled to twelve months notice of termination, of which the relevant index, rising on a straight line basis to 100% vesting he worked under notice from 24 May 2012 to 3 December 2012 on 3.5% outperformance of the relevant index.
For the purposes and, for the balance of the twelve month period, received an of calculating the performance measures, an average of the amount of 215,265 as a contractual payment in lieu of notice and figures for the companys NAV per share and the two benchmark waiver of statutory claims.
Also in accordance with his service indices published daily over the three months prior to the start agreement, he received a credit of additional pensionable service and end of the performance period is used to reduce volatility.
in the Caledonia Pension Scheme for the period in respect of which he received the payment in lieu of notice, at a cost to the Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2013 47 There will be no re-testing of the performance conditions under Deferred share awards held as at 31 March 2013 by directors who the 2011 deferred bonus plan.
served during the year are shown in the table below.
In relation to The Hon C W Cayzers deferred share awards, the Remuneration The reasons why the Remuneration Committee has chosen the Committee determined in relation to the termination of his above performance conditions for the 2011 deferred bonus plan executive service agreement with effect from 3 December 2012 are set out below in the statement on directors performance that, based on the measurement of the performance targets since share scheme awards.
The Remuneration Committee may the grant date to that date, all of the matching shares granted to amend the performance targets if events occur that would him on 26 May 2011 should lapse.
The Remuneration Committee make the amended target a fairer measure of performance and also determined that The Hon C W Cayzers compulsory award provided that any amended target is no more difficult to satisfy.
granted on 26 May 2011 should vest immediately and therefore In addition, the Remuneration Committee will also have the he has a right to call for these in the twelve months following the ability to impose different performance targets in the future, termination of his service agreement.
provided that any targets that are imposed are no less demanding than those described above.
Any such amended or There have been no changes in directors deferred share awards different performance targets will be described in the directors up to the date of this report.
remuneration report for the relevant year.
The Hon C W Cayzer ceased executive service on 3 December 2012.
The accrued pension shown in row a was the amount which would be paid at normal Statement on directors pensions audited retirement age, ignoring any revaluation.
The Hon C W Cayzer left active service on Mr Wyatt has established his own money purchase pension 3 December 2012 and was granted a service credit in respect of the period for which arrangements into which the company made employer he received a payment in lieu of notice.
The transfer value was the present value of the accrued pension and associated contributions of 35,979 2012 30,196 and in addition to benefits at the relevant date.
Transfer values were calculated using the transfer value which he elected to receive cash in lieu of pension contributions basis as determined by the trustees of the Caledonia Pension Scheme, based on of 63,233 2012 65,209.
Mr King elected to receive his entire The Hon C W Cayzers accrued pension at the date he left active service but with reference to market conditions at 31 March 2013 and in accordance with regulations pension entitlement by way of cash payments in lieu of pension 7 to 7E of the Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 1996. contributions of 52,345 2012 50,821.
The transfer value shown in row d represented the value of the increase in accrued also established his own money purchase pension arrangements pension net of CPI inflation during the year, as set out in row c. into which the company made employer contributions of 37,778 4.
The change in transfer value over the year shown in row g calculated as row e less row f reflected the impact on transfer values of factors beyond the control of the company 2012 - 28,527 in addition to which he elected to receive cash and the directors, such as movements in stock markets.
Disclosed changes in value may payments in lieu of pension of 11,066 2012 17,906. therefore be subject to a large degree of volatility and may even be negative.
In particular, the Caledonia Pension Schemes transfer value assumptions have been updated to allow Pension benefits accrued by The Hon C W Cayzer during the year for changes in market conditions.
The transfer value at 31 March 2013 would have been under the companys defined benefit scheme were as follows: approximately 3% to 4% lower using the transfer value assumptions at 31 March 2012.
Statement on directors share options audited The company currently has two executive share option schemes Accrued pension at 31 March 2013 a 170,417 a 1998 scheme under which option grants were made from Increase in accrued pension during the year b 10,731 1998 to 2004 and a 2005 scheme under which option grants Increase in accrued pension during the year, were made from 2005 to 2010.
No further option grants have net of inflation c 6,292 been made under these schemes as all share-based long term incentives for 2011 onwards were awarded under the Transfer value of increase in accrued pension over the year, net of inflation d 93,919 performance share scheme introduced in July 2011.
Transfer value of accrued pension Under the terms of both executive share option schemes, options at 31 March 2013 e 2,980,793 may be exercised between three and ten years after the date of Transfer value of accrued pension grant, although only one-third of the shares comprised in an at 31 March 2012 f 2,622,399 option may be exercised after three years from grant, with the remaining two-thirds becoming exercisable six years after grant.
Change in transfer value over the year g 358,394 Options may only be exercised if performance targets are met.
48 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Directors remuneration report continued The performance targets for all of the outstanding options under As at 31 March 2013, the market price of the companys shares the 1998 and 2005 schemes have been tested.
was 1840p 2012 1485p and the range during the year was 1237p to 1840p.
The performance targets have been met for all outstanding options shown in the table below granted up to 2009.
The options Options to acquire ordinary shares in the company held as at granted in 2010 have failed to achieve their performance targets 31 March 2013, by those directors who served during the year and accordingly have lapsed in their entirety.
and gains on the exercise of share options were as shown in the following table.
In respect of the termination of The Hon C W Cayzers service Nil-cost options awarded under the 2011 performance share agreement, the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion scheme are subject to performance targets related to the under the 2005 executive share option scheme such that all of the companys diluted NAV per share on a total return basis outstanding share options granted to him up to 2009, which had measured against a benchmark index.
For two-thirds of the satisfied their performance targets prior to the termination date shares comprised in an award, the benchmark is the FTSE being an aggregate of 39,129 shares, would become fully All-Share Total Return index and, for the remaining one-third, exercisable for a period of one year following the termination the benchmark is the FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts date.
The Remuneration Committee further agreed that the all stocks Total Return index.
In each case, the performance options granted to The Hon C W Cayzer in 2010 should vest to the period is a period of three financial years commencing with the extent that they satisfied the performance targets at the end of financial year in which the awards are granted.
Awards vest their normal three year performance measurement period, and on a graduated basis, with 10% vesting on 0.5% outperformance any vested options should then be exercisable within one year of the relevant benchmark, rising on a straight line basis to from the date on which the performance targets calculations maximum vesting on 3.5% outperformance of the relevant were determined.
As stated above, the performance targets for benchmark.
There is no re-testing of either performance target the options granted in 2010 were tested as at 31 March 2013 and and, to the extent that a performance target is not met, the were not achieved.
Accordingly, the options over 26,179 shares relevant award will lapse.
For the purposes of calculating the granted to The Hon C W Cayzer on 21 May 2010 have lapsed.
performance measures, an average of the figures for the companys NAV per share and the two benchmark indices There have been no changes in directors options to acquire published daily over the three months prior to the start and ordinary shares up to the date of this report.
end of the performance period is used to reduce volatility.
Statement on directors performance share scheme awards To the extent that a performance target is met, awards may be audited exercised between the date of vesting and the tenth anniversary In July 2011, a new performance share scheme was introduced to of the date of grant, except that only two-thirds of the shares that replace the existing 2005 executive share option scheme.
Under have vested may normally be exercisable after three years from the performance share scheme, participants are awarded nil-cost grant, with the remaining one-third normally becoming options over shares, rather than options based on the current market value of those shares.
Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2013 49 exercisable five years after grant.
On exercise, the participant condition as it believes that this is the best way to incentivise will also receive an amount equal to the dividends that would executives to deliver continued strong NAV per share total return have accrued on the shares comprised in the award during the performance.
This underpins Caledonias objective of achieving relevant three or five year period.
total shareholder return in excess of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index.
The FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts For future performance share scheme awards, the Remuneration all stocks Total Return index has also been chosen as a Committee proposes to extend the performance measurement performance measure for both of the 2011 long term incentive period for a significant proportion of the shares comprised in plans as the Remuneration Committee regards it as reflective an award by revising the application of the existing benchmark of the companys aim to provide a long term store of wealth for indices and exercise periods described above as follows.
The Remuneration Committee believes that For one-third of the shares comprised in an award, performance these targets are significantly challenging and would reward will be measured against the FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked executives for delivering superior performance.
It also considers Gilts all stocks Total Return index over a period of three that the revised performance measurement and vesting periods financial years commencing with the financial year in which that it is proposing to adopt for the performance share scheme the award is granted.
Shares that vest as a result of the for the 2015 and subsequent financial years, in particular the performance measurement will become exercisable immediately.
lengthened performance measurement period for the majority For the remaining two-thirds of shares comprised in the award, of the shares comprised in an award, are better aligned to performance will be measured against the FTSE All-Share Total Caledonias longer term investment horizon and to the delivery Return index over a period of five financial years commencing of the business objectives stated above.
with the financial year in which the award is granted.
Shares that vest as a result of that performance measurement will also then The Remuneration Committee may amend the performance become exercisable immediately.
In each case, awards will vest targets if events occur that would make the amended targets a on the same graduated basis as currently applies.
fairer measure of performance and provided that any amended targets are no more difficult to satisfy.
The Remuneration In order not to disadvantage performance share scheme Committee will also have the ability to impose different participants by the immediate adoption of the proposed changes performance targets in the future, provided that any targets to the performance measurement and vesting periods which will imposed are no less demanding than described above.
Any such involve a longer vesting period for a proportion of each award, amended or different performance targets will be described in the Remuneration Committee will adopt transitional the directors remuneration report for the relevant year.
arrangements whereby, for the current financial year and the financial year commencing 1 April 2014, one-half of the shares Performance share scheme awards held as at 31 March 2013 comprised in an award will be measured against the FTSE by directors who served during the year are shown below.
Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index In relation to the termination of The Hon C W Cayzers service over three years and the other half will be measured against the agreement, the Remuneration Committee agreed that the FTSE All-Share Total Return index over five years, with shares performance share awards granted to him in 2011 should be that vest in each case then becoming immediately exercisable.
preserved until the end of their normal three year performance The revised performance measurement and exercise periods as measurement period and should then vest to the extent that the described above will then be adopted for financial years performance targets are met.
Any vested awards will then be commencing 1 April 2015 onwards.
exercisable within twelve months of the date on which the For both the 2011 performance share scheme and the 2011 outcomes of the performance targets are determined.
50 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Directors remuneration report continued Statement on executive directors service contracts and the The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have Chairmans and non-executive directors letters of appointment service contracts, but are appointed under letters of appointment Executive directors have service contracts with Caledonia Group which provide for termination without notice or compensation.
Services Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, details Executive directors service contracts and the Chairmans and of which are summarised below: non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of the company.
Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term W P Wyatt 02.06.05 12 months Rolling 12 months Payment to a former director audited Shortly after the year end, the company made a payment of J M B Cayzer-Colvin 19.04.05 12 months Rolling 12 months 25,000 to Mr T C W Ingram, who retired as Caledonias Chief S A King 19.11.09 12 months Rolling 12 months Executive in July 2010, in recognition of assistance and advice he provided to the company regarding its holding in Alok Industries Directors service contracts contain provisions whereby the and the disposal thereof.
company may, in its discretion, terminate the contract without The directors remuneration report was approved by the board notice and make a lump sum payment in lieu of notice and on 30 May 2013 and signed on its behalf by: other than in the case of Mr Kings service contract whereby a liquidated sum is payable in the event of termination within one year following a change of control.
Any such payment in lieu of Charles Gregson notice or liquidated sum would be equivalent to no more than one Chairman of the Remuneration Committee years total emoluments.
Mr Kings service contract contains provisions whereby, as an alternative to the payment of a lump sum in lieu of notice, the company may elect to pay the equivalent amount in equal monthly instalments, such instalments to be reduced by 50% of one-twelfth of the basic salary in excess of 20,000 per annum that Mr King receives from any alternative employment that he takes up during the notice period.
