Directors remuneration report of this report.
In addition, overriding judgement based on each executives performance was taken into account.
The Committee will continue to use such judgement in future years.
In respect of 2013, this resulted in a lower payout than would have been the case under a more formulaic approach.
The resulting bonus award of 63% of the maximum bonus potential to Paul Geddes and 60% of the maximum bonus potential to John Reizenstein are therefore broadly at the on-target level of performance.
We believe that this level of payout is appropriate and that it demonstrates that our remuneration policy effectively aligns pay with underlying performance.
Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee The first awards under our 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP were made only following the IPO in October 2012 Dear shareholder and are not due to vest until 2015.
Awards vesting under I welcome you to our second remuneration report.
In an legacy RBS plans are described in the annual remuneration important year for Direct Line Insurance Group plc, our first section of the report.
full year as a listed company, the Remuneration Committee Committee has sought to ensure that we continue to provide Looking forward to 2014 what we have decided a reward proposition that supports the Groups business In the context of the new requirements for executive pay strategy and is fair to our employees and our shareholders reporting in the UK, the Committee took the opportunity alike in the context of our overall performance.
to review our approach to remuneration and the associated policies put in place at the time of the IPO to ensure that, As a Group, we continue to make good progress against after their first full year of operation, they continue to support both our strategic priorities and financial targets and have our strategic objectives.
delivered on our COR target in 2013, which has resulted in a RoTE in excess of our long-term target, and have delivered As part of this review, we have not proposed any major a Total Shareholder Return of 24% over the financial year.
changes to the policy for 2014: however, we have reached At the same time, we are conscious of the need to exercise specific decisions as to how this policy will apply in the restraint in executive pay given the current economic future in order to enhance its effectiveness, fairness between environment and our cost savings initiatives.
These factors executives and other stakeholders and transparency for our have been reflected in our remuneration decisions as set out shareholders.
The section of this remuneration report describing in full in this remuneration report and highlighted below.
how we intend to implement our remuneration policy following approval at the 2014 AGM explains this further.
Linking remuneration to overall business objectives looking back to what we did in 2013 I would like to highlight the following areas: We remain committed to ensuring that Executive Directors are appropriately incentivised to deliver superior long-term as in 2013, and in line with our commitment to exercise business performance and that they will receive their full restraint in executive pay, there will be no increase to remuneration opportunity only when material value has Executive Directors salaries in 2014 been created for shareholders.
the approach to measuring performance under the AIP in 2014 will be similar to that followed in 2013 and the To that extent, we have carefully considered the 2013 Committee will continue to apply judgement in assessing bonus outcome under the Annual Incentive Plan AIP to payouts.
Additional financial and non-financial indicators ensure that payouts are appropriate and reflect a rounded will be considered which will include forward-looking assessment of performance.
The initial AIP outcome is based metrics as opposed to purely historical ones on a balanced scorecard in line with our approach last year.
In addition, recognising both the complexity of the business we are not proposing any changes to the performance and that assessment of success, particularly in an insurance measures for 2014 awards under the 2012 LTIP and we group, requires the application of broader judgement than will continue the practice of making LTIP awards twice a a simple application of the audited results, the Committee year at the same levels as during 2013, subject to stretching considers it appropriate to look at the wider factors of Group performance targets over each awards performance period performance and exercise its judgement to better reflect the overall position.
For 2013, it exercised such judgement by applying a quality of earnings assessment of the financial elements and a gateway assessment for all AIP elements, as described in more detail in the annual remuneration section 76 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Our shareholder register has changed significantly in the Questions and answers on our executive year since IPO, following a further disposal of shares by remuneration policy in the first full financial RBS Group.
As a consequence I, as the Chair of the 1 year of listing since the IPO Remuneration Committee, jointly with the Chairman of the Board contacted our major institutional shareholders, as well Q Why do Executive Directors and other senior executives as the ABI and Institutional Shareholder Services, and we need to be paid bonuses on top of their salary and made ourselves available to discuss our remuneration policy.
Structure of remuneration report When we listed in October 2012, we set out our commitment We have made some changes to the order in which this to offer remuneration at the right cost, while ensuring that we years remuneration report is presented, in line with the provide Executive Directors with market-competitive rewards new regime for the reporting of executive pay in the UK.
compared with relevant peer companies.
Variable pay in the form of short and long-term incentives forms a significant Accordingly, over the following pages we have set out: proportion of total remuneration in the market in which we compete for executive talent and including this as part of our forward-looking Directors remuneration policy which our remuneration offering gives us the ability to attract the is subject to a binding shareholder vote at our 2014 right calibre of executives without the need to increase AGM: and fixed remuneration.
our annual remuneration report setting out the details of the At the same time, in line with our value to aim higher and implementation of our reward policy in 2013 and how the strive to be the best in everything we do, we actively want proposed remuneration policy will be implemented in 2014. to motivate Executive Directors and other senior executives, This section of the report is subject to an advisory vote at our incentivise the delivery of strong performance and recognise 2014 AGM.
and reward success at the individual and Group level.
Our AIP is just one of many tools used throughout the business and In preparing the disclosures on our forward-looking policy, not just at senior executive level to achieve these objectives.
we have sought to balance the need to give our shareholders sufficient information to be able to evaluate it with the need Finally, having a high proportion of our total remuneration to maintain sufficient operational flexibility over pay to allow dependent on the achievement of stretching performance us to respond to changing circumstances.
targets through both the AIP and the LTIP enables us to manage our costs appropriately by ensuring that the total I hope that you will find this report informative and accessible expenditure on executive pay appropriately reflects and I welcome any feedback you may have.
performance at both the individual and Group level.
The context of the external market environment is also taken into account.
This would not be possible if our executive remuneration package comprised only fixed elements of pay.
Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee Q How were 2013 bonuses determined for the Executive Directors?
We started by setting a range of measures and targets reflecting the Committees assessment of what success would look like against the business plans set by the Board.
Following the year-end, the Committee undertook a quantitative assessment of performance against the financial measures included within the AIP, and an assessment of performance against all other measures including each individuals personal objectives.
This assessment simply determined the initial outcomes under the AIP: however, no payments were approved until after the Remuneration Committee carried out a quality of earnings assessment of the financial elements and a gateway assessment for all AIP outcomes.
The gateway criteria used by the Committee included factors such as affordability, the Groups overall performance against the agreed risk profile, performance relative to peers, the occurrence of any regulatory breaches or reputational damage, whether the payment of any bonus may give rise to reputational damage and the wider economic environment.
The Committee also considered whether there were any exceptional events or other factors that should be taken into account in assessing the bonus outcome.
This section and the Group remuneration policy on page 79 are not subject to the binding vote on remuneration policy.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 77 Directors remuneration report continued The quality of earnings and gateway assessments resulted It has been agreed with RBS that awards granted under the in the reduction of the initial bonus outcome for Executive RBS Group LTIP in 2011 and 2012 will now be delivered in Directors as explained on pages 94. the form of Direct Line Insurance Group plc shares transferred by RBS Group, to the extent that the original performance For both Executive Directors, 40% of the bonus awarded will conditions have been met.
This ensures maximum alignment be deferred in Company shares for a period of three years.
with the performance of Direct Line Group.
Awards granted This is in line with the approach followed for all our strategic under the RBS Group Deferral Plan will continue to be leaders around 60 of our most senior executives, including delivered in RBS Group shares.
Executive Committee members, who are responsible for developing and executing Group strategy.
These awards were granted to the Executive Directors in respect of their work as executives of RBS Insurance, as the Q How can you justify paying bonuses to Executive Directors Group was previously known when it was wholly owned by when at the same time you are going through cost reduction RBS Group.
The extent to which awards under the RBS Group initiatives and making redundancies?
LTIP vest is determined by the Remuneration Committee of RBS Making redundancies is a tough decision: however, we Group based on an assessment against the performance sometimes need to take steps like this, to make the business conditions shown on page 99 of this remuneration report.
sustainable in the long run and remain competitive.
Where RBS Group deferred awards are not subject to any possible, we are managing redundancy decisions through performance conditions, as they represent the deferral redeployment and support.
Our aim is to treat respectfully element of annual bonuses that have already been earned.
and fairly all those affected.
Q Do you comply with the provisions of the In this context, the Committee aims to ensure that employees, FCAs Remuneration Code?
including Executive Directors, are continuously engaged to As an insurance business, we are not subject to the provisions deliver against our plan and are provided with fair pay for the of the FCAs Remuneration Code.
However, we seek to comply job, which takes into account the context of pay in the wider with the core requirements of the Code that we should market as well as their individual performance.
It is also vital to establish, implement and maintain remuneration policies, ensure that we continue to pay competitively, at all levels.
procedures and practices that are consistent with and promote sound and effective risk management.
Accordingly, for all of As discussed elsewhere, the Committee has exercised its our strategic leaders including Executive Directors, significant judgement in determining the final bonus levels to reduce elements of incentive-related pay are subject to deferral and the amount of AIP awards to the Executive Directors for potential malus and clawback as explained further within the 2013, to reflect its qualitative assessment of performance remuneration report.
In addition, the independence of our during the year.
control functions is maintained by assessing their annual bonuses independently of the Group financial results.
Q Why are you paying bonuses to Executive Directors when gross written premium has reduced in 2013?
Although not impacting Directors pay, separately, following As explained elsewhere in the annual report, the reduction the publication of the FCAs guidance on risks to customers in gross written premiums reflects the impact of a competitive from financial incentives, we have reviewed our remuneration market, particularly in UK motor, and our decision to maintain systems for customer-facing employees to ensure that they are a cautious underwriting approach by emphasising underwriting fit-for-purpose and that the risk of mis-selling and other risks margins over volume.
identified by the FCA are appropriately managed.
The Remuneration Committee and the Board Risk Committee Gross written premium is just one of the set of metrics that contributed to and reviewed the outcome of this assessment.
we consider when assessing our business performance.
This forms the basis of an ongoing joint review.
Our initial Overall, we believe that good progress has been made assessment concluded that our existing plans were broadly across a range of financial and non-financial metrics and compliant and that evolutionary changes, where necessary, these determined the final bonus for Executive Directors.
Q Why are the Executive Directors still receiving shares under RBS Group Long-Term Incentive Plans?
In line with other Group employees previously granted awards under RBS Employee Share Plans, Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein continue to hold awards granted under the RBS Group Long-Term Incentive Plans RBS Group LTIP and the RBS Group Deferral Plan granted prior to the IPO.
78 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance o M w a n n e r a s g h i e t p r n r e i r a a f p d s n n a a r T V o u a l r u p e e Group remuneration policy for all employees This section is not subject to the binding vote on remuneration policy Performance related Transparent and fair Reward reflects individual and business performance We aim to have a competitive total reward proposition Outstanding individual performance is recognised and rewarded We aim to be open about our salary and variable pay arrangements and how they work Group and individual performance will be reflected through variable pay We aim to manage pay consistently for people doing the same role with Poor performance is identified with effective equal opportunity for all management remedies in place Remuneration is benchmarked periodically to ensure continued competitiveness with the market Manager ownership Simple and robust We empower managers to genuinely lead The reward proposition is straightforward and foster a culture consistent with the Groups and simple for everyone to understand attitude to risk and values Reward structures are easy to administer Individual performance is assessed both in The mix between fixed and variable pay is terms of what is achieved and the way in right for our business which it is achieved Individual performance will be reflected in employees reward through their salary and variable pay Valued by our people Our people know what is expected of them.
Performance is fairly rewarded against internal and external comparators We offer one pension arrangement for everyone We offer product discounts and build flexibility in our benefits offering Employees are able to choose a range of other benefits to suit their lifestyle and needs Within this overall policy, the individual elements of remuneration for Executive Directors are shown below: Base salary, pension & benefits Annual Incentive Plan Long-Term Incentive Plan Cash Deferred shares three years Performance shares three years Financial, customer and other strategic and RoTE and relative Total Shareholder Return personal objectives All employee share plans Introduction Companies Act 2006 and, on approval, will take effect immediately following the 2014 AGM.
The remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Context of policy The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups The Groups remuneration policy is to provide, in the Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 context of the Groups business strategy, a compelling reward the Regulations.
The Company also complies with the proposition at the right cost to attract, retain, motivate and UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to remuneration.
reward high-calibre employees so that they are engaged to deliver superior long-term business performance within Directors remuneration policy acceptable risk parameters.
The following section contains the material required to be set out as the Directors remuneration policy for the purposes of The remuneration policy guides the design and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and implementation of reward programmes in the Group Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
that are market competitive and aligned to business This policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the objectives, both financial and non-financial.
2014 AGM in accordance with section 439A of the Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 79 d o p b l e y e c n d a e m t r a o l e f r r e P a n S d i m r o p b l u e s t Directors remuneration report continued Policy report pages 80 to 88 Policy table The policy shown for Directors will apply immediately after approval at the 2014 AGM.
Information in relation to the operation of the policy for 2014 is set out in the annual remuneration report section starting on page 89 of this report.
Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures This is the core element Base salaries are reviewed annually and set in April of each year, although the Committee The Committee has determined that Not applicable Base salary of pay that reflects the may undertake an out-of-cycle review if it determines that this is appropriate its policy will be to only set base salaries individuals role and position Salaries are typically reviewed against: by reference to the factors set out in within the Group and is level of skill, experience and scope of responsibilities, individual and business the previous column for the duration payable for doing the performance, economic climate and market conditions: of this policy.
In any event no increase expected day-to-day job the median market pay in the context of insurance peers and companies of a similar size, will be made if it would take an Executive Ensuring we are competitive particularly FTSE 31-100 companies being companies which are considered to be Directors salary above the median in the market allows us to reflective of the size and complexity of the Group: and level of salaries for relevant roles in the attract, retain and motivate general base salary movement across the Group.
FTSE 100 as determined using data high calibre executives The Committee does not strictly follow data but uses it as a reference point in considering, available to the Committee at or shortly with the skill sets to achieve in its judgement, the appropriate level having regard to other relevant factors including prior to when any increase is considered our key aims while corporate and individual performance and any changes in an individuals role Where salary increases are awarded, managing costs and responsibilities the Committee will have regard to the The principles for setting base salary are similar to those applied to other employees in the increase being awarded to employees Group, although the specific benchmarking groups used to review external market relativities within the Group more generally, as well may differ across employee groups as the other factors outlined in this table Base salary is paid monthly under Operation To motivate executives For Executive Directors, at least 40% of the award is deferred into shares under the Deferred Maximum and target bonus levels for Performance over the financial year is assessed against performance measures which the Annual and incentivise delivery Annual Incentive Plan the DAIP typically vesting three years after grant with deferred Executive Directors are set by reference Committee considers to be appropriate Incentive Plan of performance over awards also capable of being settled in cash.
The remainder of the award is paid in cash to practice at other insurance and These may be financial, non-financial Group, divisional or business line and individual.
the AIP a one-year operating cycle, following year-end general market comparators Each year, at least 50% of the bonus is based on financial measures.
The remainder of the focusing on the short to The percentage deferred and the terms of deferral will be kept under review by the The maximum bonus level potential bonus will be based on a combination of non-financial and individual performance measures medium-term elements of Committee to ensure that levels are in line with regulatory requirements and best practice under the AIP is 175% of base salary Targets are set at the beginning of each financial year by the Committee our strategic aims and may be changed in future years but will not, in the view of the Committee, be changed per annum.
The current maximum bonus No more than 10% of the bonus is paid for threshold performance 30% for the individual to be less onerous overall level applying for each individual Executive performance element.
No more than 60% of the maximum opportunity pays out for target Malus and clawback provisions apply to both the cash and deferred elements and are Director is shown in the statement of performance.
However, the Committee retains flexibility to amend the level of payout at explained in more detail in the notes to the policy table implementation of policy in 2014 section different levels of performance for future bonus cycles based on its assessment of the of the annual remuneration report level of stretch inherent in the targets that have been set and will disclose any such determinations appropriately Before any payment can be made, the Committee will perform an additional gateway assessment to determine whether the amount of any bonus is appropriate in view of such facts or circumstances as the Committee considers relevant.
This assessment may result in moderation either positive or negative of each AIP performance measure but subject to the individual maximum bonus levels The AIP remains a discretionary arrangement and the Committee reserves discretion to adjust the out-turn from zero to the cap should it consider that to be appropriate.
In particular, the Committee will operate this discretion as a gateway in respect of any risk concerns To motivate and incentivise Awards will typically be made in the form of nil-cost options or conditional share awards The Plan allows for awards over shares The Committee will determine the performance condition for each award made under the 2012 delivery of sustained which vest to the extent performance conditions are satisfied over a period of at least three with an absolute maximum value of 200% LTIP, with performance measured over a single period of at least three years with no provision Long-Term business performance over years.
Under the Plan rules, awards may also be settled in cash of base salary per financial year although to retest Incentive Plan the long term, aligning Vested options will remain exercisable for a period of seven years awards of up to 300% of base salary Performance is measured against targets set at the beginning of the performance period which the LTIP executives interests with Malus and clawback provisions apply to the LTIP and are explained in more detail in the are permitted in exceptional circumstances may be set by reference to the time of grant or financial year those of shareholders notes to the policy table in relation to the recruitment or retention Awards vest based on performance against financial and or share return measures, To aid long-term retention Awards under the LTIP may be made at various times during the financial year.
While the of an employee, as determined by the as set by the Committee, to be aligned with the long-term strategic objectives of the Group of key executive talent Committee reserves the right to do otherwise, practice has been to make awards Remuneration Committee For awards to be granted in 2014, vesting is determined based on two measures: RoTE twice in each financial year following the announcement of the Groups annual and and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against the FTSE 350 excluding half-year results investment trusts.
The Committee may apply different performance measures and targets in future years Awards will be subject to a payment gateway such that the Committee must be satisfied that there are no material risk failings, reputational concerns or regulatory issues In addition, there is an underpin relating to the Committees view of the underlying financial performance of the Group Fuller details of the performance conditions and targets for 2014 awards are set out in the statement of implementation of policy in 2014 section of the annual remuneration report For both the TSR and RoTE elements, 20% of the award vests for threshold performance with 100% vesting for maximum performance.
The Committee reserves the discretion to make changes to these levels which it considers non-material The Committee reserves the right to lengthen but not reduce any performance period and or to introduce a separate holding period 80 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Policy report pages 80 to 88 Policy table The policy shown for Directors will apply immediately after approval at the 2014 AGM.
The Committee reserves the discretion to make changes to these levels which it considers non-material The Committee reserves the right to lengthen but not reduce any performance period and or to introduce a separate holding period Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 81 Directors remuneration report continued Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Pension To remain competitive Pension contributions are paid only in respect of base salary Pension contributions for both Executive Not performance related within the market place Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension Directors are set at 25% of base salary To encourage retirement arrangement or alternatively they may choose to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension per annum planning and retain flexibility This is in line with the approach taken for all Group employees for individuals A comprehensive and Executive Directors receive a benefits package generally set by reference to market practice The costs of benefits provided may Not performance related Benefits flexible benefits package in companies of a similar size and complexity, particularly FTSE 31-100 companies.
fluctuate from year to year even if the level is offered, with the emphasis Benefits currently provided include a company car or car allowance, private medical of provision has remained unchanged on individuals being able insurance, life insurance, health screening and income protection An annual limit of 10% of base salary to choose the combination The Committee may periodically amend the benefits available to employees.
The Executive per Executive Director has been set for of cash and benefits that Directors are eligible to receive such additional benefits on similar terms to other the duration of this policy.
The Committee suits them senior executives will monitor the costs in practice and ensure In line with our approach to all employees, certain Group products are offered to Executive that the overall costs do not increase Directors at a discount by more than the Committee considers Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any of the employee share plans to be appropriate in all the circumstances operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines where relevant, on the same In addition, the limit for any employee basis as for other eligible employees.
Currently this includes the Share Incentive Plan, which share plans in which the Executive Directors was also used to provide an award of free shares to all employees including Executive participate will be in line with the caps Directors at the time of the IPO permitted by HMRC from time to time The Executive Directors may be entitled to retain fees received for any directorships held outside of the Group Share To further align the interests Executive Directors are expected to retain all of the ordinary shares vesting under any of the 200% of salary for the Chief Executive Not applicable of Executive Directors with Companys share incentive plans, after any disposals for the payment of applicable taxes, Officer and 150% for the Chief ownership those of shareholders until they have achieved the required level of shareholding Financial Officer guidelines The Committee reserves the discretion to amend these levels in future years Notes to the policy table Exercise of discretion Stating maximum amounts for each element of remuneration In line with market practice, the Committee retains discretion Where the table refers to the maximum amounts that may be in relation to the operation and administration of the AIP, paid in respect of any element of the policy as required under DAIP and LTIP.
This discretion includes, but is not limited to: the Regulations these will operate simply as caps and not be The timing of awards and payments indicative of any aspiration.
The size of awards, within the overall limits disclosed in the Malus and clawback policy table Malus being the forfeiture of unvested awards and clawback The determination of vesting being the ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid amounts as a debt provisions apply to the AIP cash and The treatment of awards in the case of change of control deferred element and LTIP if, in the opinion of the Committee, or restructuring any of the following has occurred: The treatment of leavers within the rules of the plan and the termination policy summary shown on page 86 There has been a material misstatement of the Companys financial results which has led to an overpayment Adjustments needed in certain circumstances, for example, a rights issue, corporate restructuring or special interim dividend The assessment of performance targets is based on an error or inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions The Committee also retains the discretion to amend the Circumstances warranting summary dismissal in the performance measures, weightings and targets after they have relevant period been set if events make it appropriate to do so.
Any changes A material failure of risk management or any other act will be explained in future annual remuneration reports and, if or omission that has had a sufficiently significant impact appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys on the reputation of the Company to justify such action major shareholders.
Adjustment to number of shares under deferred bonus and LTIP Amounts in respect of awards under both plans may be subject The number of shares subject to deferred bonus and LTIP to clawback for up to three years post payment or vesting awards may be increased to reflect the value of dividends that as appropriate.
would have been paid in respect of any dates falling between the grant of awards and the date of vesting of awards the date of transfer of shares for awards made prior to 2014.
82 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Pension To remain competitive Pension contributions are paid only in respect of base salary Pension contributions for both Executive Not performance related within the market place Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension Directors are set at 25% of base salary To encourage retirement arrangement or alternatively they may choose to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension per annum planning and retain flexibility This is in line with the approach taken for all Group employees for individuals A comprehensive and Executive Directors receive a benefits package generally set by reference to market practice The costs of benefits provided may Not performance related Benefits flexible benefits package in companies of a similar size and complexity, particularly FTSE 31-100 companies.
Currently this includes the Share Incentive Plan, which share plans in which the Executive Directors was also used to provide an award of free shares to all employees including Executive participate will be in line with the caps Directors at the time of the IPO permitted by HMRC from time to time The Executive Directors may be entitled to retain fees received for any directorships held outside of the Group Share To further align the interests Executive Directors are expected to retain all of the ordinary shares vesting under any of the 200% of salary for the Chief Executive Not applicable of Executive Directors with Companys share incentive plans, after any disposals for the payment of applicable taxes, Officer and 150% for the Chief ownership those of shareholders until they have achieved the required level of shareholding Financial Officer guidelines The Committee reserves the discretion to amend these levels in future years The terms of incentive plan awards may be adjusted in the these awards relate to financial and operational performance event of a variation of the Companys share capital, demerger against the strategic plan for Direct Line Group and effective or a similar event that materially affects the price of the shares risk management with, in the case of Paul Geddes only, or otherwise in accordance with the plan rules.
25% of vesting also dependent upon RBS Group performance.
The 2012 awards also applied measures based on employee Remuneration payments agreed prior to appointment and customer satisfaction.
to the Board The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration In addition, both Executive Directors continue to hold awards payments and payments for loss of office including, where originally awarded under the RBS Group Deferral Plan and relevant, exercising any discretions available to it in connection these will continue to be delivered in RBS Group shares.
with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line These awards are not subject to any performance conditions with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment on vesting.
were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at Selection of performance measures a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Annual Incentive Plan Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment The AIP performance measures have been selected by was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director the Committee to incentivise Executive Directors to achieve of the Company.
For these purposes payments include financial targets for the year as well as specific strategic and pension arrangements, the Committee satisfying awards personal objectives.
These measures are aligned with the key of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over performance indicators that we use as a business to monitor shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the performance against our strategic priorities, as shown on award is granted.
pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Report & Accounts.
RBS legacy arrangements The relevant targets are set at or following the start of each Both Executive Directors continue to hold unvested awards year to ensure that Executive Directors are appropriately previously granted to them under the RBS Group LTIP 2011 focused on the key objectives for the next 12 months.
and 2012 which are subject to performance conditions to be assessed by the RBS Group Remuneration Committee.
These awards were granted to Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein at a time when they were divisional directors of RBS Group and will now be satisfied by the transfer of Company shares from RBS Group on vesting.
The performance conditions for Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 83 Directors remuneration report continued Long-Term Incentive Plan packages differ to take into account appropriate factors The ultimate goal of our strategy is to provide long-term in different areas of the business: sustainable returns for our shareholders.
AIP approximately 5,000 employees participate in For 2014, awards under the LTIP will therefore continue to the AIP and the corporate performance measures for all be subject to performance against both RoTE and relative employees are consistent with those used for Executive TSR targets, which are important KPIs for the business.
The Directors although the weighting attributable to those factors Committee believes that this combination provides a balanced may differ.
The Groups strategic leaders also receive part approach to the measurement of Group performance over the of their bonus in Company shares deferred for a period longer term by using both a stated financial KPI that incentivises of three years individuals to keep growing the business in an efficient way LTIP our strategic leaders participate in the LTIP currently and a measure based on relative shareholder return.
This based on the same performance conditions as those for combination of measures achieves an appropriate balance Executive Directors, although the Committee reserves the of absolute and relative returns.
discretion to vary the performance conditions for awards made to employees below the Board for future awards Differences in remuneration policy from broader employee population All employee share plans the Committee considers it When determining Executive Directors remuneration, the is important for all employees to have the opportunity to Committee takes into account pay throughout the Group to become shareholders in the Company.
The HMRC-approved ensure that the arrangements in place remain appropriate.
Buy-As-You-Earn plan in the UK and an International plan mirroring the UK plan for Italy were both launched during The Group has one consistent reward policy for all levels 2013.
The International plan is being further rolled out to of employees, as outlined on page 79.
Therefore, the same employees in Germany and the Committee expects this reward principles guide reward decisions for all Group process to be completed in 2014.
At year end, employees, including Executive Directors, although remuneration approximately 1,900 employees throughout the Group had signed up to these schemes Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Element Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees Purpose and link To enable the Company to recruit and retain Non-Executive Directors of the highest calibre, to strategy at the appropriate cost Approach to Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic annual fee plus reasonable travel expenses.
Additional fees setting fees may be paid to Non-Executive Directors who chair a Board Committee, sit on a Board Committee and and cap for the Senior Independent Director.
The level of fees for 2014 is shown in the annual remuneration section Fee levels for Non-Executive Directors are reviewed and may be increased at appropriate intervals by the Board, with affected individual Directors absenting themselves from deliberations In setting the level of fees, the Company takes into account the expected time commitment of the role and fees at other companies of a similar size, sector and or complexity to the Group The fees paid to the Chairman are inclusive of all Board and Committee membership fees and are determined by the Remuneration Committee Subject to a Non-Executive Director aggregate fee cap in the Articles of Association currently 2,000,000 per annum, the Company reserves the right to change how the elements and weightings within the overall fees are paid and to pay a proportion of the fees in shares within this limit Other items The Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive any compensation for loss of office, other than fees for their notice period.
They do not participate in the Groups bonus, employee share plan or pension arrangements and do not receive any benefits 84 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Recruitment remuneration policy The recruitment remuneration policy aims to give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and promotion of high-calibre executives to strengthen the management team and secure the skill sets to deliver the Groups strategic aims.
Principles for In terms of the principles for setting a package for a new Executive Director, the starting point for the recruitment Committee will be to look to the policy for Executive Directors as set out in the policy table and structure remuneration a package in accordance with that policy.
Consistent with the Regulations, the caps contained within the policy table for fixed pay do not apply to new recruits, although the Committee would not envisage exceeding these caps in practice For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue on its original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment, as appropriate For external and internal appointments including a major change in role, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses, legal and other fees involved in negotiating any recruitment or pay expatriate benefits in line with the Groups international assignment policy, as appropriate Buy-out awards Where it is necessary to make a recruitment-related pay award to an external candidate, the Company will not pay more than is necessary, in the view of the Committee, and will in all cases seek, in the first instance, to deliver any such awards under the terms of the existing incentive pay structure All such awards for external appointments, whether under the AIP, LTIP or otherwise, to compensate for awards forfeited on leaving their previous employer will be capped at the commercial value of the amount forfeited and will take account of the nature, time-horizons and performance requirements of those awards.
In particular, the Committees starting point will be to ensure that any awards being forfeited which remain subject to outstanding performance requirements other than where substantially complete are bought-out with replacement requirements and any awards with service requirements are bought out with similar terms.
However, exceptionally the Committee may relax those obligations where it considers it to be in the interests of shareholders and those factors are, in the view of the Committee, equally reflected in some other way, for example through a significant discount to the face value of the awards forfeited.
It will only include guaranteed or non pro-rated amounts under the AIP where the Committee considers that it is necessary to secure the recruitment The elements of any package for a new recruit, including the maximum level of variable pay, but excluding buy-outs, and the approach taken by the Committee in relation to setting each element of the package will be consistent with the Executive Directors remuneration policy described in this report, as modified by the above statement of principles where appropriate.
The Committee reserves the right to avail itself of the current Listing Rule 9.4.
2 if needed in order to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director.
Awards granted under this provision will only be used for buy-out awards.
Any commitments made before promotion to the Board except when made in connection with the appointment to the Board can continue to be honoured under the policy even if they are not consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
In exceptional circumstances, the initial notice period may be longer than the Companys 12-month policy up to a maximum of 24 months.
However, this will reduce by one month for every month served, until it has reduced to 12 months in line with the Companys policy position.
The remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors as set out earlier in this report will apply in relation to any recruitments to those positions.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 85 Directors remuneration report continued Service contracts Subject to the discretion noted above for new recruits, it is the Companys policy to set notice periods for Executive Directors of no more than 12 months both by the Director or Company.
The Executive Directors service agreements summary is as follows: Notice period Director Effective date of contract by Director or Company Exit payment policy Paul Geddes 1 September 2012 12 months Base salary only for unexpired portion of notice period and to be paid in a lump sum or monthly instalments, in which case instalments are subject to mitigation if an alternative role is found.
John Reizenstein 1 September 2012 12 months Base salary only for unexpired portion of notice period and to be paid in a lump sum or monthly instalments, in which case instalments are subject to mitigation if an alternative role is found.
There are no further obligations which could give rise to a remuneration or loss of office payment other than those set in the remuneration policy table and termination policy summary.
Termination policy summary It is appropriate for the Committee to retain discretion to consider the termination terms of any Executive Director, having regard to all the relevant facts and circumstances available to them at the time.
A Director is deemed a good leaver if the following circumstances are met: Annual Incentive Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan death, injury, ill-health, redundancy, retirement, the sale of the individuals employing company or business out of the Group, or in such other circumstances as the Committee determines Deferred Annual Incentive Plan for any reason other than summary dismissal or resignation unless, in the case of resignation only, the Committee determines otherwise The table below sets out the general position although it should be noted that the Committee, consistent with most other companies, has reserved a broad discretion to determine whether an Executive Director should be categorised as a good leaver and that discretion forms part of the approved policy.
Similarly, while the policy is generally to reduce AIP and LTIP awards on a pro-rata basis, the Committee has reserved discretion to disapply such reduction if, in the circumstances, it considers that to be appropriate taking into account the performance of the departing executive and the circumstances of leaving.
If a leaver is a bad leaver, for example leaving through resignation Other events, for example, change in control Incentives or summary dismissal If a leaver is deemed to be a good leaver or winding up of Company Annual No awards made Bonus paid at the normal time and Bonus determined on such basis as the Incentive Plan on a time pro-rata basis, unless the Committee considers appropriate and Committee determines otherwise.
paid on a time pro-rata basis, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Deferred Annual All awards will lapse Deferred shares typically vest on Awards will vest in full.
Incentive Plan the normal vesting date, although In the event of a demerger or similar the Committee reserves discretion event, the Committee may determine to accelerate vesting.
In the case that awards vest on the same basis.
of the participants death or other exceptional circumstances, awards may vest immediately.
Long-Term All awards will lapse Awards will vest on the normal vesting Awards will vest subject to the Incentive Plan date subject to performance and, unless application of the performance the Committee determines otherwise, conditions and, unless the Committee time pro rating.
In exceptional determines otherwise, time pro rating.
circumstances, as determind by the In the event of a demerger or similar Committee, for example in the case event, the Committee may determine of the participants death, awards that awards vest on the same basis.
86 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Following RBS Groups shareholding in the Company reducing to less than 50% of the Ordinary Shares in the Company, the Company can in its discretion terminate each Executive Directors service agreement with immediate effect by making a payment in lieu of notice.
Service agreements for Executive Directors provide that Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein are not eligible to receive any enhanced redundancy terms which may be offered by the Group from time to time.
Their rights to a statutory redundancy payment are not affected.
Depending on the circumstances of departure, an Executive Director may have additional claims under relevant employment protection laws and the Company may contribute to any legal fees involved in agreeing a termination.
It may also agree to incur certain other expenses such as the provision of outplacement services.
Any such fees would be disclosed as part of the detail of any termination arrangements.
Non-Executive Director letters of appointment Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term which may be renewed by mutual agreement.
In common with the Executive Directors, all Non-Executives are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Mark Catton, being the Director nominated by the RBS Group, will step down as Director when RBS Group owns less than 20% of Direct Line Group.
The Directors may appoint additional members to join the Board during the year.
Directors appointed in this way will be subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
In subsequent years the Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at each AGM.
Terms and conditions of appointment of all of the Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have notice periods of three months from either party, which do not apply in the case of a Director not being re-elected by shareholders or retiring from office under the articles of association.
Other than fees for this notice period, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation on exit.
External directorships The Company encourages Executive Directors to accept, subject to the approval of the Chairman, an invitation to join the board of another company outside the Group in a non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such wider experience.
In these circumstances, they are permitted to retain any remuneration from the non-executive appointment.
Executive Directors are generally limited to accepting one external directorship.
Currently, the Executive Directors do not hold any external directorships.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group As explained elsewhere in the Directors remuneration report, the Committee reviews the overall pay and bonus decisions in aggregate for the wider Group and therefore takes account of pay and conditions in the wider Group in determining the Directors remuneration policy and the remuneration payable to Directors.
Through the Chief Executive Officer, Paul Geddes, and other senior management the Committee may receive input provided by employee groups within the Group, such as the Employee Representative Body ERB, as required.
In accordance with prevailing commercial practice, the Committee did not consult with employees in preparing the Directors remuneration policy.
Consideration of shareholders views The Committee takes into account the approval levels of remuneration related matters at the AGM in determining that the current Directors remuneration policy remains appropriate.
The Committee, consistent with its approach of operating within the highest standards of corporate governance, takes significant account of guidelines issued by the ABI and shareholder bodies such as the National Association of Pension Funds when setting the remuneration policy for the Company.
The Committee will also seek to build an active and productive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally and any changes to the Companys executive pay arrangements in particular.
During the year, the Chair of the Committee and the Chairman of the Board jointly wrote to major shareholders and made themselves available to discuss remuneration policy.
The Committee is satisfied that no element of the Directors remuneration policy conflicts with the Groups approach to environmental, social or corporate governance matters.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 87 973 589 Directors remuneration report continued Performance scenarios The Directors remuneration policy has been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of total remuneration is delivered in the form of variable pay and is therefore dependent on performance against our strategic objectives.
The Committee has considered the level of remuneration that may be paid under different performance scenarios to ensure that it would be appropriate in each situation in the context of the performance delivered and the value created for shareholders.
The following charts show the potential remuneration that may be earned by Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios as follows: CEO Paul Geddes CFO John Reizenstein 000 000 Minimum Minimum 100% 100% On-target On-target 47% 38% 15% 50% 35% 15% Maximum Maximum 0m 1m 2m 3m 4m 0m 1m 2m 3m 4m Total xed pay l Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Total xed pay l Short-term incentives Long-term incentives The elements of remuneration included in each scenario are as follows.
Minimum Consists of fixed remuneration only that is, base salary, benefits and pension : Base salary is the salary to be paid in 2014 Benefits measured as benefits paid in 2013 as set out in the single figure table on page 93 Pension measured as the defined contribution or cash allowance in lieu of Company contributions, as a percentage of salary 25% of 2014 salary for both Executive Directors On-target Based on what the Director would receive if performance was on-target excluding share price appreciation and dividends : Fixed remuneration as above AIP consists of the on-target bonus of 60% of maximum bonus opportunity LTIP consists of the threshold level of vesting 20% vesting Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable excluding share price appreciation and dividends : Fixed remuneration as above AIP consists of the maximum bonus 175% of base salary for Paul Geddes, 150% for John Reizenstein LTIP consists of the face value of awards 200% of salary 88 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 2,075 1,187 25% 35% 40% 3,823 27% 31% 42% 2,199 Governance Distribution statement Annual remuneration report section A: The following chart shows the overall expenditure on pay unaudited information across all Group employees compared against the total value of dividends paid to shareholders for both 2012 and 2013.
Remuneration Committee governance The members of the Remuneration Committee during 2013 Dividend Overall expenditure which remained unchanged during the year are shown m on pay m below.
Each members attendance at meetings is set out in the Corporate Governance section on page 73.
Committee Chair 242.7m 501.0m Priscilla Vacassin Non-Executive Directors Mike Biggs Andrew Palmer Clare Thompson 12 13 12 13 Advisers to the Committee The Committee regularly consults with the Chief Executive Note: Officer and the Human Resources Director on matters relating The 1,000 million dividend paid out in 2012 was to RBS Group and made to the appropriateness of all elements of remuneration for prior to the IPO.
There were no share buy-backs since the IPO other than shares purchased by the Employee Benefits Trust to satisfy the awards of shares under Executive Directors and other strategic leaders.
The Chief the Companys share plans.
Consistent with expected practice elsewhere, the Executive Officer and the Human Resources Director are not overall expenditure on pay has been taken from note 10 to the income statement present when their own remuneration is discussed.
The Director and has not, therefore, been calculated in a manner consistent with the single figure contained in this report.
of Performance and Reward provides advice on compensation and benefits to the Committee, and the General Counsel and Historical performance of Total Shareholder Return Company Secretary advises the Committee on corporate The following graph shows the Companys TSR since trading governance guidelines and provides secretarial assistance to of the Companys shares began on the London Stock Exchange the Committee.
The Committee works closely with the Chairs in October 2012 against the FTSE 350 Index excluding of the Board Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
investment trusts over the same period.
The FTSE 350 Index In addition, the Committee has appointed FIT Remuneration excluding investment trusts has been selected as it is a broad Consultants LLP FIT, signatories to the Remuneration index, of which the Company is a constituent, and is also the Consultants Groups Code of Conduct, as its independent same group of companies used for the purposes of measuring adviser.
This appointment was made by the Committee in relative TSR under the LTIP.
preparation for the IPO and following consideration of the firms experience in this sector.
FIT was reappointed by the Committee during the year following a review of its performance.
FIT provided advice during the year on market practice, 170 corporate governance, incentive plan design and other matters under consideration by the Committee.
FIT does not provide any other services to the Company, and accordingly the 140 Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by FIT is objective and independent.
110 FITs total fees for the provision of remuneration-related advice in 2013 were 197,793 exclusive of VAT.
FITs fees were charged on the basis of the firms standard terms of business for advice provided.
16 10 12 31 12 12 31 12 13 Allen & Overy LLP, one of the Groups legal advisers, has Direct Line Group FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts also provided legal advice in relation to the Groups executive remuneration arrangements, and has provided the Group with other legal services.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 89 1,000.0 242.7 557.1 501.0 Directors remuneration report continued The following table shows historical levels of the Chief Executive Officers pay for 2012 and 2013 and vesting of annual and long-term incentive pay awards as a percentage of the maximum available opportunity.
Single figure of Annual bonus Long term total remuneration payout incentive vesting 1 2 Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 000 % of maximum % of maximum 2013 2,430 63% 55% 3 2012 1,908 65% 30% Notes: 1.
The relevant percentages were calculated by reference to the salary paid over the financial year.
Based on vesting under the 2010 and expected vesting under the 2011 RBS legacy long-term incentive awards in respect of 2012 and 2013.
The 2012 figures represent the whole of 2012 and not simply the period from IPO.
Percentage change in pay of Chief Executive Officer 2012 to 2013 The table below shows the percentage change in the total annual remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer against all UK employees.
The remuneration elements included in the calculation are salary, taxable benefits, and annual bonus outcomes.
The Committee considers that it is appropriate to compare against all UK employees but to exclude those based outside the UK to ensure that the comparison against the Chief Executive Officers total annual remuneration can be made on a consistent basis.
Change 2012 to 2013 % Bonus including Total annual 1 Salary Benefits deferred amount remuneration Chief Executive Officer 13% -51% 10% 9% All UK employees 6% -63% 17% 4% Note: 1.
The reduction in the value of benefits between 2012 and 2013 reflects the change in benefit arrangements with the corresponding increase in base pay to ensure total fixed pay was comparable both before and after separation from RBS Group.
Paul Geddes salary and benefits for 2012 reflect a period as an employee of RBS Group, prior to his appointment as a Director of the Company on 1 September 2012, when his salary and benefits were set at current levels in advance of the Companys IPO.
Paul Geddes salary and benefits package remain unchanged since then and will not be increased in 2014.
Voting outcomes from AGM 2013 The table below shows the percentage of shareholders voting for, voting against and the percentage of votes withheld in relation to the resolution to approve the 2012 Directors remuneration report put to the 2013 AGM.
For Against Number of votes Percentage votes withheld withheld Number Percentage Number Percentage abstentions abstentions Approval of Directors remuneration report 1,226,921,305 98.8% 14,419,804 1.2% 16,879,549 1.3% Note: The percentages of votes for and against are expressed as a percentage of votes cast, excluding abstentions.
The percentage of votes withheld is expressed as a percentage of total votes cast, including abstentions.
Statement of implementation of policy in 2014 Executive Directors salaries in 2014 The current base salaries paid to the Executive Directors were set prior to the IPO.
The Committee has considered the current level of salaries in the context of the need to apply restraint in executive pay whilst recognising the need to retain key executive talent in the context of a highly competitive market.
It concluded that there will be no increase to Executive Directors salaries in 2014.
Percentage 2014 2013 change in base salary base salary base salary Director Position 000 000 2013-2014 Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 760 760 0% John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 460 460 0% 90 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Annual Incentive Plan 2014 The maximum annual incentive awards which may be payable to Executive Directors in respect of 2014 are shown below and have remain unchanged from the maximum awards payable under the AIP in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
Maximum annual incentive award for Percentage deferred under the Director Position 2014 % base salary Deferred Annual Incentive Plan Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 175% 40% John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 150% 40% During 2013, the Committee considered the relative importance of the performance measures and whether the Boards strategic priorities going forward were fully reflected in the AIP.
This assessment resulted in the introduction of lead strategic indicators for 2014, which will include both financial and non-financial measures which indicate the overall strategic progress of the business.
Furthermore, to further emphasise the gateway factors, the Committee concluded that while it would set a target for each measure which is commercially confidential at the outset but which may be disclosed on a retrospective basis, it would not set threshold and stretch targets, leaving such assessment to judgement.
Through 2013, the Committee worked alongside the Board Risk Committee to ensure that risk management is central to all pay decisions and, for 2014, will more explicitly use risk as a gateway to moderate all aspects of the AIP.
The Committee therefore decided to remove the specific risk measure, as it felt that attributing 10% to such aspect devalued the criticality of this metric.
It also took the opportunity to improve the alignment to strategic objectives and removed the COR element which was felt to be largely duplicative with profit.
Measures 2014 weighting 2013 weighting 40% 35% Adjusted on-going operating profit Other financial measures not reflected in the definition of profit, primarily movements 10% 10% Financial in historic reserves, the performance of run-off businesses and management of tax and restructuring costs which replaces COR for 2013 Cost targets 10% 10% Risk Risk management within risk appetite As gateway 10% A mix of financial and non-financial lead indicators including market share, 10% n a retention, quote to conversion ratio, scored loss ratio, progress with technology and strategic projects and others Strategic Based on a balance of customer metrics for 2014, this will include 10% 10% Net Promoter Score 20% 25% Personal No more than five defined objectives objectives Given the competitive nature of the insurance sector, while the performance measures for annual bonus are disclosed, the detailed targets are considered commercially sensitive and likely to remain so and are accordingly not disclosed.
The level of achievement against each measure in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 is shown in the audited section of the annual remuneration report.
The Committee will aim to provide a consistent level of disclosure in future years.
All AIP outcomes will be determined following the Committees determination of a payment gateway, which requires the Committee to be satisfied that it is appropriate to permit the award of a bonus, at all or at a given level.
The gateway necessarily involves an element of subjective judgement of performance and may result in moderation, either positive or negative, of each AIP performance measure.
The gateway criteria for AIP for 2014 are set out overleaf.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 91 Directors remuneration report continued Gateway criteria for 2014 AIP outcomes Affordability Risk management within risk appetite The relative performance of the Group to that of its peers The wider economic environment Exceptional events, such as abnormal weather The occurrence of any regulatory breaches and or reputational damage to the Group Committee satisfaction that payment of the bonus does not give rise to major reputational concerns Such other factors as the Committee may consider to be relevant In addition to the gateway criteria, the Committee may use its discretion to take into account additional factors such as customer conduct and experience, the quality of financial results, the view of the direction of travel in all metrics and a wider consideration of reputation, risk and audit.
Performance conditions for LTIP awards to be made in 2014 LTIP awards to be granted in 2014 will continue to be subject to the achievement of the following performance conditions: 60% to be based on RoTE over a three-year performance period 2014, 2015 and 2016 : and 40% to be based on relative TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts over a three-year performance period starting on the date of grant.
The starting TSR and closing TSR will both be averaged over a three-month period.
For these purposes, the Groups standard definition for RoTE is used see definition on page 178 subject to such other adjustments as the Committee considers appropriate.
The performance targets are as follows: Performance measure Threshold vesting Maximum vesting RoTE 20% of portion of award vests for average Full vesting for average annual RoTE annual RoTE performance of 14% performance of 17% Relative TSR 20% of portion of award vests for Full vesting for upper quintile performance median performance For both the TSR and RoTE elements, 20% of the award vests for threshold performance with 100% vesting for maximum performance.
There is a straight-line interpolation between these points for the TSR measure on a ranked basis.
For the RoTE element, 40% vests for 15% RoTE, otherwise, similar to TSR, a straight-line interpolation occurs from threshold to target and then from target to maximum performance.
In addition, the LTIP awards will vest only to the extent that the Committee is satisfied that the outcome of the TSR and RoTE performance conditions reflects the underlying financial performance of the Group over the period from the date of grant until vesting.
In making these considerations, the Committee will take into account whether there have been any material risk failings.
Pension and benefits A pension contribution of 25% of base salary will continue to be paid to both Executive Directors in 2014 as shown in the table below: Director Position Pension contribution % base salary Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 25% John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 25% Benefits will continue to comprise the provision of a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance, income protection and health screening.
The Executive Directors are also eligible to receive certain Group products at a discount, in line with the approach for all employees.
92 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Non-Executive Director fees The current fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were set in 2012 and have not been changed to date.
2013 Fees Position 000 Board Chairman fee 400 Basic Non-Executive Director fee 70 Additional fees Senior Independent Director fee 30 Chair of Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees 30 Chair of CSR Committee 10 Member of Board Committee Audit, Risk or Remuneration 10 Member of Board Committee CSR or Nomination 5 No additional fees are paid for membership or chairmanship of the Investment Committee.
Annual remuneration report section B: audited information Single figure table Pension contributions Participation and cash in RBS Group Long-term All Employee allowance in defined 1 2 3,4 1,5 6 1 7 000 Salary Annual bonus incentives Benefits share plans lieu of pension benefit plan Total Paul Geddes 2013 760 835 622 23 0 190 2,430 2012 671 760 205 47 0 190 35 1,908 John 2013 460 415 135 14 1 115 n a 1,140 Reizenstein 2012 407 345 n a 26 0 115 n a 893 Notes: 1.
Base salary, benefits, pension contributions and cash allowance in lieu of pension during the financial year ending 31 December 2012 include part of the year as an employee of RBS Group and part of the year as an employee of Direct Line Group.
Includes amounts earned for performance during the year but deferred under the Deferred Annual Incentive Plan as shown on page 94.
Long-term incentives in 2012 and 2013 for Paul Geddes and in 2013 for John Reizenstein represent the vesting of the RBS Group Long-Term Incentive Plan awards granted in 2010 and 2011 respectively, with vesting amounts assessed by the RBS Group Remuneration Committee.
For 2011 RBS Group LTIP awards vesting by reference to 2013 performance, the vesting outcome is calculated at 54.75% for Paul Geddes giving 274,514 Company shares and at 58% for John Reizenstein, giving 59,713 Company shares.
These expected vesting outcomes are then accordingly multiplied by the average Company share price from 1 October 2013 to 31 December 2013 of 2.2658.
Details of the performance measures and targets applicable to the vesting of RBS legacy LTIP awards are shown on pages 98 to 99.
Benefits include a company car or allowance, private medical and income protection insurance.
In 2012 the Executive Directors were participants in benefits provided by RBS Group prior to being appointed Directors of the Company on 1 September 2012.
The benefits figure reported for 2012 has been updated from the figure presented for the 2012 accounts to reflect changes in the reporting rules.
Includes the value of matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan.
For 2012, this also includes the free share awards made to each Director valued at 289 for each Director.
All figures in the table are rounded to the nearest thousand.
Paul Geddes was a participant in an RBS Group defined benefits scheme until 1 September 2012, when he became a member of Direct Line Groups defined contribution scheme.
He has kept his accrued pension in the RBS Group defined benefits scheme but received no benefit in the year as he is a deferred member only and no additional accruals were made to the scheme in respect of his participation.
Confirmation has been received by each Executive Director that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration, other than those already disclosed in the single figure table.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 93 Directors remuneration report continued 2013 AIP Outcomes against the specific performance metrics during the year both before and after the exercise of judgement by the Committee were as follows: Group performance metrics Personal objectives Combined Cost Risk management Customer Measure Profit operating ratio reduction target within risk appetite experience Paul Geddes John Reizenstein 2013 weighting 35% 10% 10% 10% 10% 25% Unadjusted assessment Adjusted assessment Where the icons above represent performance broadly as follows: below threshold, threshold to 90% of on-target, 90% to 110% of on-target, above 110% of on-target, maximum In considering outcomes against the specific measures, the Committee applied judgement in relation to the quality of earnings assessment of the financial elements, gateway considerations as described elsewhere in this report and its overriding judgement in assessing the actual payment for each Executive Director and, where appropriate, outcomes were moderated accordingly.
The Committee intends to operate a similar approach in future years and will explain the use of its judgement accordingly.
Overall, the Committee felt that a broadly on-target level of performance was warranted for the financial elements, with the exception of the cost reduction target where all of the stretch objectives were met.
In respect of the customer experience metric, despite a strong performance on customer conduct, with improvements in many measures, the Committee considered that the Group had not met its own stretching objectives to develop and differentiate customer propositions, and this remains a priority in 2014.
The Committee therefore reduced this element to below threshold to recognise this.
Consequently, the annual incentive awards payable to the Executive Directors in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 are shown in the table below: Actual annual incentive Actual annual incentive award for 2013 including Maximum annual incentive award for 2013 cash and deferred element Director Position award % of base salary % of base salary 000 Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 175% 110% 835 John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 150% 90% 415 Deferred Annual Incentive Plan The table below details the deferred share awards to be granted to Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein in respect of the 2013 financial year.
These awards are not subject to any conditions other than continuous employment.
Unlike the bonus in respect of 2012, when Paul Geddess bonus was deferred on terms comparable to those applying to all members of the RBS Group Executive Committee, due to his having been a member of the RBS Group Executive Committee for part of 2012, the deferral terms for the bonus outcome in respect of 2013 will be the same for both Executive Directors.
Total AIP award Amount for 2013 Percentage deferred Director 000 deferred 000 Vesting date Paul Geddes 835 40% 334 March 2017 John Reizenstein 415 40% 166 March 2017 94 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Non-Executive Directors Remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013 is shown in the table below.
The only remuneration paid to the Non-Executive Directors in 2012 and 2013 was in the form of fees.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Groups bonus or share incentive schemes or join any Group pension scheme.
Mark Catton, a Director nominated by the RBS Group, resigned as a Director of the Company on 26 April 2013, following the reduction in the shareholding of RBS Group to less than 50% on 13 March 2013, and was reappointed as a Director on 1 October 2013 following the resignation of Bruce Van Saun.
RBS Group is entitled, under its Relationship Agreement with the Company, to nominate one Non-Executive Director to the Board while its shareholding in the Company remains 20% or more.
During their appointment as Non-Executive Directors, Bruce Van Saun and Mark Catton were RBS Group employees with any fees they may receive payable to RBS Group.
Shareholdings The Executive Directors are subject to share ownership guidelines and are expected to retain all of the Ordinary Shares that they obtain from any of the Companys share incentive plans, after any disposals necessary for the payment of personal taxes on the acquisition of such Ordinary Shares, until they have achieved the required level of shareholding.
For these purposes, the holding of Ordinary Shares will be treated as including all vested but unexercised awards, valued on a basis that is net of applicable personal taxes.
The extent to which Executive Directors have achieved the guideline requirements by 31 December 2013 can be summarised as follows: Value of shares held at Share ownership guideline 31 December 2013 Position % of salary % of salary Chief Executive Officer 200% 32% Chief Financial Officer 150% 33% Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 95 Directors remuneration report continued The total share interests of each Executive Director under share plans are shown in the table below: Share plan interests at 31 December 2013 Beneficial share interests Share plan Share plan awards subject awards not subject Share plan Shares held at Shares held at to performance to performance interests vested 31 December 31 December 1 2 3 4,5 Director Position conditions conditions but unexercised 2013 2012 Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 2,416,123 113,256 75,409 58,768 57,142 6 John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 958,796 68,859 60,904 57,142 Notes: 1.
Includes legacy RBS LTIPs granted in 2011 and 2012.
As described in the notes to the single figure table, 54.75% and 58% of Direct Line Group shares in respect of 2011 awards granted to Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein respectively are expected to vest in March 2014 following an assessment of performance by the RBS Group Remuneration Committee.
Includes matching and free shares held under the Share Incentive Plan as disclosed on page 98 and deferred shares under the DAIP.
RBS Group deferred awards are not included as these are to be settled in RBS Group shares.
40% of the shares awarded to Paul Geddes under the DAIP in March 2013 vested during the financial year, consistent with the policy applying at RBS Group.
As at the date of this report the number of shares beneficially held by Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein had increased to 59,247 and 61,910 respectively.
Includes holdings of connected persons, as defined in sections 252-255 of the Companies Act.
Beneficial share interest includes participant shares held under the Share Incentive Plan.
The beneficial interests of the Non-Executive Directors in the Companys shares as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013 are shown in the table below: Shares held at Shares held at 1,2 Director 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Mike Biggs Mark Catton Jane Hanson 28,571 28,571 Glyn Jones 60,395 57,142 Andrew Palmer 11,428 11,428 Clare Thompson 30,197 28,571 Priscilla Vacassin 30,197 28,571 3 Bruce Van Saun Notes: 1.
As at the date of this report, the number of shares held by Directors was as follows: Glyn Jones 61,353: Clare Thompson 30,676: and Priscilla Vacassin 30,676.
There were no other changes between the year end and the date of this report.
Bruce Van Saun resigned as a Director on 1 October 2013.
His shareholding for 2013 is shown as of that date.
96 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Direct Line Group share awards Direct Line Group Deferred Annual Incentive Plan The table below details the first awards made to Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein under the Direct Line Group Deferred Annual Incentive Plan relating to the bonus in respect of 2012, the monetary value of which was disclosed in full in last years Remuneration Report.
Share price Face value Awards held at Awards granted at grant date of award 31 December Director during the year Grant date Vesting date 2013 1 188,522 28 March 2013 2.0157 380,004 1 June 2013 188,522 Paul Geddes 2 1 March 2016 1 John Reizenstein 68,462 28 March 2013 2.0157 137,999 28 March 2016 68,462 Notes: 1.
The awards in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2012 were granted on 28 March 2013 as nil-cost options.
The terms on which Paul Geddes 2012 bonus outcome was deferred meant that 60% of the outcome was deferred, with deferral split broadly evenly between deferral into deferred cash and deferred shares, with phased vestings of the deferred amounts over the three year deferral period.
As shown on page 96, 75,409 of the awards granted on 28 March 2013 vested during the year.
Direct Line Group Long Term Incentive Plan The table below details the unvested awards held by Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein made under the Companys LTIP.
Percentage of 3 dayscheme interests average that would be share price receivable if the Awards Awards at Awards for grant minimum held at 1 January granted during of award Face value performance 31 December Director 2013 the year Grant date of award Vesting date was achieved 2013 2 388,250 377,040 28 March 2013 2.0157 760,000 28 March 2016 20% Paul Geddes 352,439 28 August 2013 2.1564 759,999 28 August 2016 20% 1,117,729 2 234,993 228,208 28 March 2013 2.0157 459,999 28 March 2016 20% John Reizenstein 213,318 28 August 2013 2.1564 459,999 28 August 2016 20% 676,519 Notes: 1.
The Companys share price on 31 December 2013 was 2.496 and the range of prices in the year was 1.982 to 2.496.
These awards take the form of nil cost options over the Companys shares and are subject to performance conditions to be assessed by the Committee, which are the same as those for awards to be made in 2014 as described on page 92.
Awards accrue dividend entitlements until the date of transfer of shares.
These figures do not include those RBS Group LTIP awards held by the Executive Directors which are included in the table on page 98.
The Companys policy is to make awards twice a year following the announcement of the Groups full and half-year results.
The value of each grant of awards is set at 50% of the normal annual policy level, so that the total face value of awards to each Executive Director during the year equates to 200% of base salary, measured using an average share price prior to the date of grant.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 97 Directors remuneration report continued Direct Line Group 2012 Share Incentive Plan From 18 February 2013, all employees including Executive Directors can invest from 10 up to 125 per month from their pre-tax pay into the BAYE Share Incentive Plan the SIP and receive one matching share for every two shares purchased.
The limit of 125 per month may be reviewed as legislation evolves to take account of any changes, where appropriate.
The table below details the number of shares held by John Reizenstein under the SIP.
Paul Geddes does not participate in the plan.
Value of matching shares Balance of matching Matching shares granted Matching shares granted shares at 31 December Director during the year cancelled during the year 2013 John Reizenstein 254 561 254 Note: 1.
The accumulated market value of matching shares at the time of each award.
Purchase of the matching shares takes place within 30 days of the BAYE contributions being deducted from salary.
In addition, at the time of the IPO, and under the same terms as other employees, Executive Directors were offered the opportunity to subscribe for 143 free Company shares which will vest in November 2015, three years from grant.
Both Executive Directors subscribed for this offer and the value of 289 for each Director is included in the single figure table.
Dilution The Company complies with both of the dilution levels recommended by the ABI guidelines of 10% in 10 years for all share plans and 5% in 10 years for discretionary plans consistent with the rules of the Companys share plans.
Legacy RBS Group awards to be satisfied in Company shares will be satisfied by RBS Group rather than the Company and RBS Group has placed shares in trust to facilitate this.
Legacy RBS Group awards The Executive Directors continue to hold unvested awards previously granted to them under the RBS Group Employee Share Plans as employees of the RBS Group.
These awards have been included as they were granted to the Executive Directors in respect of their work as directors of RBS Insurance, as the Group was previously known.
RBS Group Long-Term Incentive awards Awards originally granted under the RBS Group Long-Term Incentive Plans RBS Group LTIP in 2011 and 2012 will be delivered in Company shares transferred by RBS Group to the extent that the originally set performance conditions for these awards are considered achieved by the RBS Group Remuneration Committee.
The table below details the awards made to Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein under RBS Group plans which will vest in Company shares.
No awards were granted, vested or lapsed during the year although the potential value of the 2011 LTIP has been included in the single figure of remuneration as described on page 93.
Awards held at Market price at 1 January 2013 Awards held at grant date RBS Direct Line 31 December Group shares Director and scheme Group shares 2013 Grant date Vesting date Paul Geddes RBS Group LTIP 2011 501,394 501,394 7 March 2011 4.45 7 March 2014 RBS Group LTIP 2012 797,000 797,000 9 March 2012 2.80 9 March 2015 John Reizenstein RBS Group LTIP 2011 102,953 102,953 7 March 2011 4.45 7 March 2014 RBS Group LTIP 2012 179,324 179,324 7 March 2012 2.80 7 March 2015 Notes: 1.
The Direct Line Group share price at 31 December 2013 was 2.496 and the range of prices in the year was 1.982 to 2.496.
It was agreed with RBS Group that participants now employed by Direct Line Group holding awards granted in 2011 and 2012 under the RBS Group LTIP would be given the opportunity to have those awards satisfied by the transfer of Company shares from RBS Group on vesting.
The conversion rate applied to these awards was the average price of RBS Group shares over the five business day period prior to 11 October 2012 divided by the Direct Line Group share offer price 1.75.
This conversion equated to 1.487 Company shares for every RBS Group share under grant.
Both Executive Directors took up this offer.
98 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance These awards are subject to performance conditions to be assessed by the RBS Group Remuneration Committee.
The conditions relate to financial and operational performance against the strategic plan for Direct Line Group and effective risk management with, in the case of Paul Geddes only, 25% of vesting also dependent upon RBS Group performance.
The 2012 awards also applied measures based on employee and customer satisfaction.
The table below details the awards held by Paul Geddes made under the RBS Group LTIP in 2010 which vested in RBS Group shares during 2013.
Awards Awards held at Awards vested Awards lapsed held as at 1 January 2013 during the year during the year 31 December Director and scheme RBS Group shares RBS Group shares RBS Group shares 2013 Grant date Vesting date Paul Geddes RBS Group LTIP 2010 229,779 69,509 160,270 14 May 2010 24 April 2013 Note: 1.
The market price of RBS Group shares at vesting was 2.9477.
These awards were subject to performance conditions assessed by the RBS Group Remuneration Committee at the time of vesting, as described above.
RBS Group deferred awards Awards which were originally awarded under the RBS Group Deferral Plan will continue to be delivered in RBS Group shares.
The awards detailed below under the RBS Group Deferral Plan give a conditional right to acquire ordinary shares under the RBS Group 2010 Deferral Plan.
No awards were granted or lapsed during the year.
Vested on 7 March 2013 when the RBS Group share price was 3.036.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 25 February 2014.
Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 99
