Directors Remuneration Report Statement by Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee The Company welcomes the reforms to Directors Remuneration Reporting which have been introduced by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
This is the first reporting period that Electra has reported under these requirements, which mean Electra is providing both a Remuneration Policy and a separate Annual Report on Remuneration as parts of the Companys Directors Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Policy sets out how the Company proposes to pay the Directors, including each element of remuneration that the Directors are entitled to and how this supports the Companys longterm strategy and performance.
The policy also includes details of the Companys proposed approach to recruitment and loss of office payments.
The Remuneration Policy will be subject to the approval of the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be binding on the Company.
The Remuneration Policy must be put to a shareholder resolution at least every three years and if the Company wishes to make any changes to the Remuneration Policy it will have to put the new policy to a vote of its members at a general meeting.
The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out annually how the Remuneration Policy has been implemented, including a single figure for the total remuneration of each of the Directors in the financial year to 30 September 2013.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will also be subject to the approval of the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The vote will be advisory but if the Company fails to pass a resolution in a year where the Remuneration Policy was not put to a members resolution this will trigger the need for the Company to put the Remuneration Policy to a vote of its members the following year.
There have been no substantial changes in the Companys approach to the remuneration of its Directors during the year and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee did not consider it necessary to recommend any changes to the existing Directors fee arrangements during the year.
However, Ms Barker proposed, when she was appointed as the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and the Senior Independent Director, that she should not be paid the full additional fees to which she would be entitled for both roles 3,000 and 6,000 respectively.
The Committee agreed, at a meeting that Ms Barker did not attend, that she should be paid a total of 6,000 to cover both roles.
Remuneration Policy This is the first occasion that the Directors have submitted this policy in accordance with the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
An Ordinary Resolution for the approval of this policy will be put to members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, if the resolution is passed by the members the policy will take effect from the date of the Annual General Meeting.
All provisions of this policy are expected to remain in effect until the Annual General Meeting in 2017 when the Company is next required to submit its policy on the remuneration of its Directors to the members.
Future Policy Table The fee levels paid to the Companys Directors are determined by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
The Companys policy is that the remuneration of non-executive Directors should be fair and sufficient to oversee the affairs of the Company and should reflect the specific circumstances of the Company, the duties and responsibilities of the Directors and the value and amount of time committed to the Companys affairs.
The policy is to pay a basic fee to each Director and to pay additional fees to the Chairman of the Company, the Chairmen of the Boards Committees and the Senior Independent Director as set out in the future policy table below.
Fees may be increased in line with inflation from time to time.
The Committee may consider paying additional fees to a Director or Directors in the event that they carry out additional work for the Company, except that non-executive Directors are not eligible to receive bonuses, pension benefits, share options or other benefits and subject to the requirement that the total remuneration of the Directors is determined by the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and by shareholder resolution.
70 Components of Remuneration Package Current Level of Fee Basic Directors Fee 35,000 Additional fee for Chairman of Company 65,000 Additional fee for Chairman of Audit Committee 6,000 Additional fee for Chairman of Valuations Committee 6,000 Additional fee for Chairman of Management Engagement Committee 6,000 Additional fee for Chairman of Remuneration and Nomination Committee 3,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 6,000 The Companys remuneration policy of its non-executive Directors as described above is considered by the Board to be effective in supporting the short and long-term strategic objectives of the Company by ensuring that the Company continues to be able to recruit Directors who are suitably qualified and experienced to supervise the Companys affairs.
Statement of Principles of the Companys Approach to Recruitment Remuneration 1 Remuneration of non-executive Directors should be fair and sufficient to enable Directors properly to oversee the affairs of the Company and should reflect the specific circumstances of the Company, the duties and responsibilities of the Directors and the value and amount of time committed to the Companys affairs.
2 Non-executive Directors are not eligible to receive bonuses, pension benefits, share options or other benefits.
3 The total remuneration of the Directors is determined by the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and by shareholder resolution.
4 The basic Directors fee will be paid to each Director with an additional fee per annum for the Chairman of the Company.
An additional fee per annum will be paid to the Chairman of each of the Audit, Valuations, Management Engagement, and Remuneration and Nomination Committees and to the Chairman of any other Committees that the Company forms, and to the Senior Independent Director.
5 Directors are not entitled to any variable remuneration.
Service Contracts None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
No arrangements have been entered into, nor is it proposed that arrangements be entered into, between the Company and the Directors to entitle any of the Directors to remuneration or compensation for loss of office which is not disclosed elsewhere in this policy.
Notice Period and Loss of Office Payment Policy The Directors are subject to a notice period of one month.
It is the Companys policy not to enter into any arrangement with any of the Directors to entitle any of the Directors to compensation for loss of office.
Statement of Consideration of Conditions elsewhere in the Company The Company has no employees and therefore the Company cannot take into account the pay and employment conditions of its employees when setting the remuneration policy.
For similar reasons the Company cannot consult with its employees when setting the policy for Directors Remuneration or use comparison metrics or other specific information comparing its employees remuneration when determining Directors Remuneration.
Statement of Consideration of Shareholder Views The Company places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Company has had regular dialogues with institutional shareholders and City analysts throughout the year to 30 September 2013 and at the Annual General Meeting held in 2013 and can confirm that it is not aware of negative views being expressed by shareholders in relation to its policy on Directors Remuneration.
