Directors remuneration report objectives and ultimately delivers returns for our shareholders.
I look forward to continued and regular engagement such Annual as this.
As was set out in the Companys prospectus at the time of statement Listing, the balance between annual and long-term variable pay is currently weighted to the long-term.
Flexibility has been incorporated into the maximum limits to allow for this weighting to be adapted, if appropriate, during the life of this remuneration policy.
However, the Committee would engage with major shareholders before changing the annual bonus or performance share award limits from their current levels.
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to introduce our report on Directors Remuneration for this, the Payments for 2013 and 2014 first year of being listed.
In accordance with the new directors The salaries for the Chairman and Executive Directors and the remuneration reporting regulations, the report is divided into fee levels for the Non-Executive Directors were set on Listing three sections: and no changes are proposed to these for 2014.
This Annual Statement which summarises the major The annual bonus for 2013 was calculated in two parts, decisions taken in respect of the Directors remuneration: re ecting the di erent plans in place pre and post-Listing.
The bonus for 2013 was based on trading pro t performance 2.
The Directors Remuneration Policy setting out the and aggregate bonuses of 32% and 24% of salary have been remuneration policy for the Companys Directors: and awarded to the CEO and CFO respectively.
The Annual Report on Remuneration.
This sets out how the to the maximum bonus opportunity for 2014 which is 75% of Committee will implement the Directors Remuneration salary for the CEO and 50% of salary for the CFO.
However, Policy for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 and personal and customer measures have been introduced which also the remuneration payable in respect of the financial will account for 25% of the overall bonus opportunity for year ended 31 December 2013.
2014 the remainder will continue to be based on trading pro t performance.
The Directors Remuneration Policy will be subject to a binding shareholder vote and this Annual Statement and the Annual The Company operates a Performance Share Plan PSP as Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder its long-term incentive vehicle.
The first awards were granted vote at our forthcoming AGM on 13 May 2014. under the plan on Admission and are subject to challenging Earnings per Share EPS and relative Total Shareholder Our remuneration policy Return TSR targets.
The awards for 2014 will also be based 2013 has been a year of great change for the Group.
In 2014, the TSR condition, which accounts In preparation for Listing, the Committee gave careful for one-third of the award, will be the same as that set for the consideration to the revision of the Groups remuneration 2013 award.
The EPS target for the 2014 awards will require policy to ensure that it was appropriate for the listed EPS growth of 15% to 39% over the three-year performance company environment and to drive our business strategy.
The Remuneration Committee I would like to take this opportunity to explain some of the considers these targets to be challenging given the current key elements of our remuneration policy.
market conditions, providing the opportunity for management to receive some reward if they do very well in di cult Through its overall remuneration policy, the Group seeks to conditions but with exceptional performance required for full attract and retain the best talent for the bene t of the Business vesting.
These targets should not be interpreted as providing and to align the interests of Executive Directors, senior guidance on the Groups performance over the relevant period.
management and employees with the long-term interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
To that end, the policy The Executive Directors have agreed to retain any shares aims to provide appropriate reward for good performance vesting under the PSP net-of-tax for a six-month period without creating incentives that will encourage excessive post-vesting and in 2014 the Remuneration Committee will risk taking.
review the holding requirement again.
The Committee is conscious that there should be no reward I believe that the remuneration received by our Executive for failure.
To this end annual bonus payments and the Directors in respect of the financial year 2013 fairly rewards vesting of long-term incentive awards can be scaled back if them for the business performance achieved, and also that the Committee believes that they represent an excessive their remuneration arrangements for the year ahead will proportion of the Groups overall pro t. The Committee can appropriately incentivise and reward them to deliver our also scale back annual bonus payments in the event of, inter business strategy and returns for our shareholders.
alia, risk or regulatory compliance issues and claw back annual I trust that this report provides a clear and helpful explanation bonus and long-term incentive awards paid in the event of of our remuneration policy and that we will receive your financial misstatement, an error in the performance condition support at our AGM to be held on 13 May 2014. assessment or gross misconduct.
Yours sincerely During the latter part of 2013 and early part of 2014, I met with a number of our largest institutional shareholders to discuss our remuneration policy and respond to any queries that they had.
This provided an excellent opportunity to have a full and open dialogue with some of our investors, to explain our remuneration strategy and how the Committee believes Dame Helen Alexander this supports and drives the Groups strategic business Chairman of the Remuneration Committee esure Group Annual Report 2013 48
