ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 33 Directors Remuneration Report Introduction from the Chairman of the Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy Committee Introduction I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the The Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to the year ended 31 December 2013.
Board the Groups Policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, As shareholders will be aware, F&C is required to comply with the Directors and members of senior management including employees new regulations governing disclosure of Directors remuneration and designated as Code staff under the FCAs Remuneration Code.
this report has been prepared in accordance with these requirements.
It is an objective of the F&C Group to provide total compensation to its employees that is warranted by corporate, business unit and The Group continues to take a team-based approach to investment individual performance.
management and to the management of the business as a whole.
This is reflected in our Remuneration Policy which is applied The Remuneration Policy defines the means by which F&C will consistently to Executive Directors, investment professionals and all achieve this objective.
The Policy will facilitate the achievement of employees.
business goals and reinforce our corporate values.
High level summary of events and accomplishments Key Principles 2013 has been another significant year for the Group.
The Directors Remuneration Policy is based on the following key This has been the first full year with our new CEO leading the principles: Group.
a Remuneration is structured to enable the Group to motivate, The new Chairman of the Board was appointed on 22 August retain and attract the talent required to achieve its goals: 2013.
The corporate strategy outlined in 2011 and 2012 has b Remuneration policies, procedures and practices are consistent continued to be implemented.
with, and promote, sound and effective risk management and There has been substantial progress in repositioning the avoid incentivising risk-taking that exceeds the approved risk business for long-term growth.
appetite of F&C: c Remuneration components are structured to ensure alignment Remuneration Committee activity during 2013 with the business strategy, objectives, values and long-term The Remuneration Policy has been reviewed to ensure it interests of F&C: continues to be fit for purpose.
d Remuneration is comparable to market competitors, whilst Policy revisions have been approved and implemented taking being consistent with and promoting the achievement of fair into account future regulatory changes.
outcomes for all customers: Following shareholder consultation the Committee has e The Policy is applied consistently to F&C employees across the approved and implemented a broader base of long-term performance measures for awards in 2013.
Group: and The Committee has agreed to reintroduce deferrals of cash f Total variable remuneration should, in general, reflect the bonus awards.
The policy was last applied in 2009. financial performance of the Group.
We have taken account of shareholder feedback and implemented a cap on the potential cash bonus payable to Policy and approach Executive Directors.
The Committee has designed a Remuneration Policy that balances The Committee has agreed with management that future dilutive these factors, taking account of prevailing best practice, investor LTRP awards will not exceed 1% of issued share capital per expectations and the level of remuneration and pay awards made annum.
generally to employees of the Group.
Our shareholders views are appreciated and as in previous years, The Group takes a total compensation approach in applying its the Committee believes it is important to provide shareholders with Policy which is consistent for employees at all levels.
The Board the opportunity to comment on all aspects of our Remuneration believes that shareholders interests are best served by containing policy and approach.
fixed costs and emphasising the proportion of total compensation We welcome any further comments and hope that you will support that is directly performance-related and thus aligned with the 2013 Report at this years AGM.
As such the Committee does not seek to apply fixed ratios between fixed and variable pay.
The Committee also does not prescribe a fixed ratio of total compensation between different levels of employees as this may inhibit the Groups ability to recruit talented individuals and to reward strong performance.
Total Keith Bedell-Pearce compensation will comprise basic salary, employee benefits, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee pension provision, discretionary annual bonus and awards under the LTRP share incentive scheme.
9 April 2014 34 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Remuneration Report A range of benchmark data is used to determine appropriate total The Head of Compliance is involved in the review of policy and compensation based on comparable asset management practice to ensure there is an appropriate risk and compliance link to businesses.
Relevant market data is also used for each geographic the Remuneration Policy.
The Remuneration Policy in detail The Committee monitors the extent to which the Policy meets its This section of the report sets out in detail the Policy for Executive objectives to motivate, engage, retain and attract employees.
The and Non-executive Directors which shareholders are asked to CEO reports to the Committee on how the Policy is viewed by approve at the AGM in 2014.
The Committee intends that the Policy employees and whether it continues to meet its objectives.
will come into effect from the financial year starting 1 January 2015.
For the 2014 financial year, the remuneration of the Directors will be Compliance with FCA Remuneration Code consistent with the Policy.
The Remuneration Committee reviews its policies at least annually to ensure they meet all of the requirements under the FCA Details of the Policy are set out in the table below.
Remuneration Code as applicable to F&C.
Total Compensation Policy Table Executive Directors Element and Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary To recognise the individuals level Base salaries are reviewed The Committee reviews base None of responsibility, skills and annually with reference to salary salaries annually and determines experience.
levels for similar roles and whether it is appropriate to incumbents at relevant sector recommend any increase.
To provide a competitive base comparators e. g. financial reward.
To avoid an overly prescriptive services companies and FTSEapproach to salary listed companies of similar size management, no maximum and complexity to individual salary is set under the Policy.
contribution to performance, and However, it is anticipated that to the experience of each aggregate salary increases will Executive.
not exceed an equivalent of 5% p. a. over the term of this Policy.
The Committee has the discretion in exceptional circumstances to make appropriate upward adjustments to salary levels to ensure they remain competitive.
This may include, but not be limited to, a material change in the scope, size and complexity of the role.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 35 Element and Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Pension To provide an opportunity for F&C seeks to ensure that its Pension payments are based on None Executive Directors to build up pension policy is in line with its basic salary.
No other cash income on retirement.
business strategy, objectives, payments or benefits are values and long-term interests.
operates a number of pension Executive Directors may plans, of which only Defined supplement the Groups Contribution plans are open to contributions with their own.
In the UK the Defined Benefit plan was closed The level of pension to new members in 2002.
No contributions is consistent for Executive Director is a member employees and Executive of a Group Defined Benefit Directors.
Executive Directors receive contributions equal to 13% of pensionable salary.
Benefits To provide non-cash benefits Executive Directors receive Executive Directors can make a None which are competitive in the benefits including vacation and personal choice up to a market in which the Executive insured benefits, including death maximum value and may Director is employed.
in service, private medical and purchase additional benefits income protection.
from their salary to reflect personal circumstances and preferences.
It is anticipated that the cost of benefits provided to Executive Directors will not exceed 10% of salary per annum over the period of this Policy.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the Groups control have changed materially e. g. increases in insurance premiums.
Share Incentive Plan SIP An all-employee share scheme An HMRC-approved scheme Savings are capped at the None to encourage the ownership of where employees including individual monthly limit set by shares in F&C.
Executive Directors may save HMRC from time to time.
up to the monthly limit set by HMRC from time to time.
36 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Remuneration Report Element and Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Discretionary annual bonus Executive Directors are Executive Directors participate in The Group has a single incentive The assessment of responsible for providing the an annual discretionary bonus pool from which the annual performance is based on leadership to ensure that the pool, the size and allocation of bonuses for all employees achievement of the Groups Group meets its annual goals.
which is approved by the including Executive Directors are KPIs for the year.
will typically include: The annual bonus is designed to The annual bonus pool is For Executive Directors, the Investment Performance incentivise and reward strong performance against financial and determined by the following annual bonus provides for Profitability factors: awards of between 0% and corporate targets, thus delivering Fund flows value to shareholders, consistent 500% of base salary.
the financial performance of Treating Customers Fairly with the implementation of the the Group: If the deferred element of the provisions strategic plan.
cash bonus is invested in F&C motivation and retention of New business targets shares a cash award equal to key employees: Risk Management goals the aggregate value of practice of market reinvested dividends declared Compliance with competitors: and Regulatory Standards.
over the vesting period will be appropriate balance paid to the participant on The Committee has discretion between fixed and variable release.
to adjust the performance pay.
measures and weightings to The Executive Directors ensure that they continue to be allocation from the pool is based linked to the delivery of the on the achievement of corporate Groups strategy, although targets as assessed at the end typically weightings for each of each business year.
performance category account for up to 40% of the overall At least 25% of the cash bonus bonus.
above 100,000 is deferred into F&C shares and or F&C funds The level of performance for 3 years subject to continued required under each measure is employment.
calibrated with reference to F&Cs internal targets and Performance Adjustment financial budgets.
provisions are outlined on page 37.
The achievements of respective executives are based on the value of their contribution and performance during the year as measured by the annual assessment.
The Committee will determine the overall outcome based on achievement of the targets and the Committees assessment of Group and individual performance.
Further details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for a given period are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 37 Element and Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Long-Term Remuneration Plan LTRP This Plan is designed to The LTRP is a discretionary Awards are determined by the Vesting of LTRP awards is emphasise the requirement for contingent share award scheme Committee with reference to subject to continued sustained long-term providing for annual awards of Group performance, market employment and Group performance that supports the restricted shares.
competitiveness assessed on a performance measured with creation of shareholder value.
total compensation basis using reference to: LTRP shares vest after 4 years, independent market total subject to both continued Underlying earnings per It is intended to provide both an compensation data, and incentive to achieve longer-term employment and to the share EPS growth: individual performance.
achievement of long-term performance and retention Relative Total Shareholder value.
The Committee does not link the Return TSR : value of LTRP awards explicitly The Plan ensures that Executive The Remuneration Committee Relative investment to a multiple of base salary, Directors have an alignment of retains the discretion to amend performance: and believing that making such long-term interest with or remove a Performance Target Net new business targets.
linkage provides an incentive to shareholders in the future in exceptional circumstances to increase base salaries, and It is the Committees current performance of the Group.
therefore fixed costs, which is intention to apply equal Any revised Performance Target contrary to shareholders weightings to each will provide a fairer measure of interests.
performance and will not be However, it is anticipated that These may vary at the materially more difficult or easy discretion of the Committee annual awards under the LTRP to satisfy.
to an Executive Director will not cycle-to-cycle in a range of up Performance Adjustment to 50%, to reflect strategic exceed 750% of salary except in provisions are outlined below exceptional circumstances.
A cash award equal to the Further details are provided in aggregate value of reinvested the table below.
dividends declared over the vesting period will be paid to the participant on release of LTRP shares.
The calculation of these bonus pools is linked to the financial Performance Adjustment provisions performance of the Group.
The performance measures which are Cash bonus and LTRP awards may, at any time prior to payment or used to determine the allocation of these pools are also linked to the vesting, be reduced at the discretion of the F&C Group Groups strategic objectives and priorities.
Remuneration Committee in the following circumstances: The performance measures applied to LTRP awards as shown i there is misconduct or material error: or below are reviewed annually to ensure they remain aligned with ii the F&C Group suffers material decline in financial performance: shareholder interests.
The Remuneration Committee believes these or performance measures to be appropriate and stretching.
However, the Committee reserves the discretion to change the measures if iii the F&C Group is the subject of any material failure in risk warranted by specific circumstances which are not currently management or material increase in risk profile.
The Committee will ensure that any revised measures Performance Conditions - details will be no easier or difficult to achieve.
The size and allocation of the discretionary cash bonus pool and the Awards made under the LTRP have a performance period of four long-term pool are recommended by the Committee to the Board years aligned with the respective financial years, and a minimum for approval.
vesting period of four years.
38 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Remuneration Report Performance Measures Applied to LTRP Awards Proportion of Award Performance Condition Details EPS-based awards Underlying earnings per Share EPS 25% 100% Vesting, % 25% RPI 3% p. a. RPI 11% or more p. a. EPS outcome Below RPI 3% p. a.
100% vesting Straight-line vesting applies between 25% and 100%.
TSR-based awards Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR 25% 100% Vesting, % 25% th Median 75 percentile F&Cs 4-year TSR rank Below median 0% vesting Median 25% vesting Upper quartile or more 100% vesting Straight-line vesting applies between 25% and 100%.
The Committee reviews the comparator group against which TSR performance is measured from time to time to ensure it remains appropriate.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 39 Performance Measures Applied to LTRP Awards Proportion of Award Performance Condition Details Investment Performance-based awards Relative investment performance 25% 100% The investment performance Vesting, % condition is based on the revenueweighted outperformance of assets compared against the 25% respective benchmarks.
0% 42%50% 75% Proportion of outperformance against approved objective Less than 42% of outperformance 0% vesting For 42% of outperformance 0% vesting At 75% of outperformance 100% vesting Straight-line vesting applies between 42% and 75%.
Net New Business-based awards Net new business 25% 100% 75% Vesting, % 0% 25% 100% 125% Achievement of Board approved target 25% of target 0% vesting 125% of target or more 100% vesting Straight-line vesting applies between 25% and 125%.
40 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Remuneration Report capturing the critical elements of performance which reinforce value Notes to the policy table creation for shareholders.
Payments from previous awards Performance targets applicable to the annual cash bonus are The Group will honour any commitment entered into, and Executive reviewed annually as are long-term targets applicable to LTRP Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award made, awards.
Targets are determined to ensure the Group continues to prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy meet its strategic objectives.
Performance targets are set to be detailed in this report.
stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular strategic Performance conditions for LTRP awards granted in 2012 differ to priorities and economic environment in a given year.
those in the Policy table above, being based solely on EPS performance in 2015.
For further details see page 110 of the Remuneration Policy for other employees Annual Report.
F&Cs approach to annual salaries is consistent across the Group and includes reference to appropriate market comparators and In 2011 Richard Wilson received an LTRP award when he was a taking into account the level of experience, responsibility and scope member of the Executive Committee but was not an Executive of the role.
At that time the F&C policy was to award a combination of deferred and restricted LTRP awards to Executive Committee All employees are eligible to be considered for a discretionary annual members other than Executive Directors.
The deferred LTRP award bonus award.
Any award is based on the same principles which was subject to continued employment only.
The restricted LTRP apply to Executive Directors.
Opportunities and specific award was subject to the achievement of performance conditions performance conditions vary by business function and level of and continued employment.
The restricted LTRP award made in responsibility.
The deferred LTRP award vested in Executive Directors and other key employees are eligible to March 2014. participate in the LTRP.
Performance conditions are consistent for all Richard Wilson is entitled to receive further LTRP awards, all of participants, while award sizes will vary in order to ensure which are subject to the achievement of pre-determined competitive total compensation and to reflect relative contribution performance conditions.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the Groups SIP Performance measure selection and approach to target scheme on the same terms.
setting The performance measures used to determine the annual bonus Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis plan are selected annually to reflect the Groups main KPIs for the The Group operates a Total Compensation Policy.
A significant year which capture both financial and non-financial priorities.
proportion of total compensation is awarded to Executive Directors For LTRP awards granted in 2012, the performance condition was in the form of performance related variable pay.
Actual awards to the linked solely to EPS for the year ended 31 December 2015 to Executive Directors are determined by reference to the performance reinforce the required turn-around in the Groups long-term of the Group relative to targets.
profitability following the restructuring of the business initiated in The scenario chart below shows both the minimum fixed 2011.
The Committee reviewed the LTRP performance measures remuneration and provides an indication of the total remuneration for during 2013 to ensure that they are fully aligned with Group strategy a year of strong performance based on the year ending and with shareholders interests.
As a result of this review the 31 December 2013.
The Committee has not determined an Committee has determined that for awards made in 2013 the LTRP appropriate long-term award to be confirmed in 2014.
For the vesting will be based on four equally-weighted performance purposes of the scenario analysis below the long-term award is measures EPS, TSR, Net New Business and Investment based on the accounting value of the award made in 2013.
These measures were selected as they are considered by the Committee to be the most relevant in 000 3,000 1,000,000 2,000 363,333 375,000 1,000 139,514 726,667 279,028 401,000 401,000 317,000 317,000 0 Minimum Fixed Actual Minimum Fixed Actual Richard Wilson David Logan Notes: Minimum Fixed salary taxable benefits pension Actual fixed pay cash bonus deferred cash award LTRP restricted award ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 41 Approach to recruitment remuneration When hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Maximum annual Component Approach grant value Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current basic salary.
Where new appointees have initial basic salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years subject to their development in the role.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions or an equivalent cash Appropriate market supplement in line with existing executives.
comparators Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include but are not limited to vacation, death in service, private medical and income protection.
New appointees will also be eligible to participate in all-employee SIP share schemes.
Performance-related The annual bonus described in the Policy table will apply to new appointees 500% of salary annual bonus and pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Targets for the individual element will be tailored to reflect the expected level of contribution.
LTRP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTRP on the same terms as As stated in the other executives, as described in the Policy table.
Remuneration Policy table, LTRP awards have no formal cap.
However it is the expectation that the annual grant value would not exceed 750% of salary for a new hire.
In determining appropriate remuneration, the Committee will take Internal promotion into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, nature of In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal remuneration and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was promotion, the Committee will be consistent with the Policy for recruited to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has both F&C and its shareholders.
The Committee may make an award contractual commitments made prior to his promotion to Executive in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements Director level, the Group will continue to honour these forfeited on leaving a previous employer, i. e. over and above the arrangements.
approach outlined in the table above.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions Non-executive Directors attached to these awards and the likelihood of those conditions In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-executive Director, the being met.
The Committee may also use the flexibility afforded to it Committee will utilise the Policy as set out in the table on page 43.
2 R if appropriate to make a share-based base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for award under a structure not captured in the Policy table.
Board membership, with additional fees payable for acting as Senior Independent Director or as Chairman of any of the Boards Committees.
42 | GOVERNANCE| Directors Remuneration Report compensation for loss of office.
Executive Director service contracts Service contracts and exit payment policy are available to view at the Groups registered office.
Provisions for compensation on early The Groups Policy on termination payments is to consider the termination based on circumstances on an individual basis, taking into account the the payments due relevant contractual terms of the individual, the circumstances of the Date of service salary and benefits Executive contract in lieu of notice termination and any applicable duty to mitigate.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and LTRP are Richard Wilson 4 December 2012 395,000 typically treated in specific circumstances.
Note that the LTRP Plan David Logan 31 July 2006 310,000 Rules prescribe the treatment of awards in the event that the Director should leave the Group.
Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee.
In The Remuneration Committee reserves the discretion to take into accordance with general market practice, each of the Executive account exceptional circumstances in determining the appropriate Directors has a service contract with the Group for a rolling period of application of this policy.
If the Committee does make any variation, 12 months.
Such contracts contain no specific provision for the rationale will be fully explained to shareholders.
Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Bad leaver e. g. resignation No entitlement Not applicable Good leaver e. g. retirement, On cessation of Entitlement to a cash bonus will be based on an assessment of performance redundancy, ill-health employment relative to targets as set at the beginning of the plan year.
Any such bonus will be determined by reference to the individual contribution and to the period of time served during the year.
Change in Control Dependent on circumstances Entitlement to annual bonus payments will be a function of the timing of the change in control and will be a matter for agreement between the parties.
This will take into account an assessment of performance relative to targets.
LTRP Bad leaver e. g. resignation Awards lapse Not applicable Good leaver e. g. retirement, Original vesting date The Committee determines whether and to what extent outstanding awards redundancy, ill-health vest based on the extent to which performance conditions have been achieved and the proportion of the vesting period worked.
The determination of vesting will be made as soon as reasonably practical following the end of the performance period.
Change in Control Original vesting date The performance period is measured up to the date of Change in Control.
This determines the proportion of the award to vest.
The awards will vest on the original vesting date.
The Board approves the Chairmans annual remuneration.
The Non-executive Directors Board as a whole determines the fees for Non-executive Directors, All Non-executive Directors have a letter of appointment.
Nonthe Senior Independent Director supplement and the additional fees executive Directors must submit to re-election on an annual basis payable for membership and chairing of Board Committees.
and are not eligible for bonuses or participation in savings-related share schemes or share incentive schemes.
Non-executive Directors Non-executive Director Date of Appointment are not eligible to join any of the Groups pension schemes.
No K Bedell-Pearce 10 May 2013 pension contributions are made on their behalf and no NonC Porter 15 October 2013 executive Director receives a salary from the Group.
The K Jones 10 May 2013 remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the R Sack 4 October 2013 Board as a whole within the limits stipulated in the Groups Articles D ONeill 10 May 2013 of Association.
All fees are reviewed annually.
K Percy 10 May 2013 Non-executive Directors have a 1-month notice period.
K Poynter 10 May 2013 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 43 Details of the Policy on fees paid to Non-executive Directors are set out in the table below: Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics To attract and retain NonFee levels are reviewed annually Non-executive Director fee None executive Directors of the with any adjustments taking increases are applied in line with highest calibre with broad effect from 1 January each year.
the outcome of the annual fee commercial and other review.
Fees for the year ended The Board approves the experience relevant to the 31 December 2013 are set out Chairmans annual remuneration.
in the Annual Report on The Board as a whole Remuneration on pages 46 determines the fees for Nonand 47. executive Directors, the Senior Independent Director To avoid setting expectations, no supplement and the additional maximum fee is set under the fees payable for membership Policy.
Non-executive fee and chairing of Board increases are applied taking into Committees.
Additional fees are account the outcome of the payable for acting as Senior review.
The maximum aggregate Independent Director and as annual fee for all Directors Chairman of any of the Boards provided in the Groups Articles Committees Audit, of Association is 600,000.
Fee levels are benchmarked against sector comparators and FTSE-listed companies of similar size and complexity.
Time commitment and responsibility are taken into account when reviewing fee levels.
External appointments Consideration of shareholder views With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the The Committee takes into account shareholder views received in overriding requirements of the Group, Executive Directors may relation to the Annual General Meeting each year and guidance from accept external appointments as Non-executive Directors of other shareholder representative bodies more broadly.
The Committee companies and retain any fees received.
Currently no Executive considers shareholder feedback an important input when Director holds any external appointments.
formulating Remuneration Policy and regularly reviews F&Cs Remuneration Policy against the guidelines of key institutional Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group shareholders and their representative bodies.
As a matter of sound employee relations practice, the management Following feedback from shareholders, the Committee has team closely monitors the views and concerns of all employees.
This introduced a cap on annual bonuses and re-introduced an element includes feedback about the Remuneration Policy and its of mandatory bonus deferral.
The Committee will continue to application.
This information is provided to the Committee on a monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and periodic basis during the year.
As such, the Committee does not market practice to ensure the structure of the executive consult formally with employees over the effectiveness and remuneration remains appropriate, and will consult with appropriateness of the Executive Director Remuneration Policy and shareholders before any significant changes are made to the Policy framework.
or the measures used to assess performance.
The Group seeks to promote and maintain good relationships with employee representative bodies including trade unions and works councils as part of its employee engagement strategy, and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
44 | GOVERNANCE | Annual Report on Remuneration remains independent of the Company and that the advice provided is Remuneration Committee membership in 2013 impartial and objective.
Kepler is a founding member and signatory The Committee has been established by the Board to: of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of Recommend to the Board the Groups policy on Directors which can be found at www.
remuneration: Total fees for the provision of remuneration services in 2013 were Ensure that the Executive Directors and senior employees are 48,475 on the basis of time and expenses.
fairly rewarded and that a significant proportion of Executive During the year the Committee also received independent Directors remuneration is linked to the Groups corporate, and remuneration research undertaken by McLagan & Partners 20,000 their individual, performance: fees paid in 2013, Deloitte 5,000 and Pricewaterhouse Coopers Demonstrate to shareholders that the remuneration of Executive 18,000, leading firms of executive remuneration consultants, to Directors and senior employees of the Group is determined by a assess comparability of the Groups remuneration policies to market committee of Board members which has no personal interest in practice.
the level of remuneration of the Groups Executive Directors or senior employees and who will pay due regard to the interests of Summary of shareholder voting at the 2013 AGM shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the Group: and 2012 Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM: Ensure that full consideration has been given to Section D and Total number % of Schedule A of the UK Corporate Governance Codes best of votes votes cast practice provisions as annexed to the Listing Rules.
For including discretionary 338,320,731 93% The Committees terms of reference are set out on the Companys Against 26,138,003 7% website.
As of 31 December 2013, the Committee comprised three Total votes cast excluding independent Non-executive Directors: withheld votes 364,458,734 Keith Bedell-Pearce Committee Chairman Votes withheld 87,175,077 Total votes cast including Derham ONeill withheld votes 451,633,811 Keith Jones Jeff Medlock retired from the Board and the Committee in May F&Cs 15 largest shareholders together with the ABI and ISS were 2013.
Kieran Poynter served as a member of the Committee until consulted on proposed changes to LTRP performance conditions August 2013 when he was appointed as Chairman of the Board.
In and dilution limits for 2013.
The proposed changes were for LTRP addition, certain executives, including the Chief Executive Officer, performance measures to revert from the single Earnings per Share Chief Financial Officer and Group Head of Human Resources, are, EPS measure applied to 2012 awards to the four measures EPS, from time to time, invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
No Total Shareholder Return TSR, Net New Business and Investment individuals are involved in decisions relating to their own Performance used for 2010 and 2011.
The Board re-affirmed the remuneration.
The Committee met four times during the year and performance period as 4 years having been increased from 3 years details of members attendance at meetings are provided in the in the previous year.
The Committee also proposed a temporary Corporate Governance section on page 30. increase in the dilution limit for LTRP awards from 10 per cent to 15 per cent of the Companys share capital.
Advisers Shareholders were generally supportive on the basis that, while the The Committee received advice from Kepler Associates during the proposal was to raise the aggregate dilution limit, the Company has year on general remuneration strategy, senior executive pay undertaken that any new dilutive awards will be no greater than 1 benchmarking and on the Companys bonus and LTRP structures.
per cent of share capital per year so that the dilutive capacity will Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee in 2007 as its progressively reduce to less than 10 per cent over future years.
independent adviser and provided no other services to the Company during the year.
The Committee are satsfied that Kepler ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 45 Single total figure of remuneration audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the prior year: 1 Richard Wilson David Logan 2013 2012 2013 2012 Salary 350,000 25,000 275,000 275,000 2 Taxable benefits 2,132 167 853 801 3 Pension benefits 48,750 3,125 41,250 41,250 4 Annual Cash Bonus 726,667 67,000 279,028 325,000 4,5 Deferred Bonus 363,333 N A 139,514 N A 6 7 6 7 Long-term incentives 160,337 N A 447,189 484,884 Total 1,651,219 95,292 1,182,834 1,126,935 1 Richard Wilson was appointed Chief Executive on 3 December 2012.
2 Taxable benefits consist of private medical insurance it excludes the cost of vacation entitlement.
3 During the year Richard Wilson and David Logan each participated in a Money Purchase Pension Scheme.
The Company contributed 48,750 and 41,250 respectively in 2013 2012: 3,125 and 41,250 respectively.
4 These awards are based on actual performance relative to the measures shown in the Annual Bonus Performance Measures table.
5 In April 2014, the Deferred Bonus will be deferred into F&C funds for 3 years.
The entitlement to receive the deferred award on vesting is subject to continued employment.
6 The value of the 2011 LTRP award is based on performance for the period from 2011 to 2013 inclusive see page 47 for details including the value of accrued dividends.
The TSR element of the 2011 LTRP award will be measured on the vesting date May 2014.
However as the TSR measure has been substantially completed by the end of 2013 it has therefore been included in the valuation of the single figure for 2013.
The TSR component is calculated as the number of shares vesting multiplied by the average three month share price to 31 December 2013.
The actual value will be based on the share price as at the vesting date May 2014 and will be included in the 2014 Remuneration Report.
Richard Wilsons 2011 awards were for the period before he was an Executive Director.
7 The value of the 2010 LTRP award is based on performance to the end of the 2012 financial year and includes the value of accrued dividends.
The 2010 LTRP award was based on four equally weighted measures of performance: EPS growth, relative TSR, net new business targets and relative investment performance.
Annual Bonus Performance Measures The measures below are the basis for determining the 2013 annual bonus.
Area Performance Measure Performance achieved Comments Corporate Performance Investment performance and asset 90% of fixed income assets were growth in core investment capabilities above benchmark over three years.
70% of equity assets were above benchmark over three years.
77% of property portfolios were above benchmark over three years.
100 new institutional clients added during the year.
Create greater flexibility in our cost Core operating costs reduced by a base further 19.3 million.
Focus on revenue growth and new Revenue growth achieved from business specialist areas for new business.
Net Consumer and Institutional new business 1.3 billion.
Performance fees earned 11.6 million 2012 9.5 million.
46 | GOVERNANCE | Annual Report on Remuneration Annual Bonus Performance Measures continued Area Performance Measure Performance achieved Comments Profitability Underlying EPS increased by 25.7% to 8.8p 2012 7.0p Group underlying profit before tax increased by 33%.
Strategic Objectives Achievement of targets as determined Net debt reduced to 76.0 million by the Board 2012 97.3 million.
The Group focused on its financial objectives of delivering the planned cost savings associated with the strategic review and improving cash flow generation.
The Group has worked to retain Strategic Partner assets, execute Consumer and Institutional short-term sales and growth plans and develop product and marketing plans for the medium term.
Summary 2013 was a positive year for the Group which made important progress in line with the strategic objectives.
Our investment performance was strong.
We launched a number of new products in areas of growing client demand.
Our cost base reduced in line with the targets we previously set out.
Importantly net fund flows in our Consumer and Institutional business improved substantially.
Mr Bramson did not receive any additional remuneration in either 2012 or 2013 for serving as an Executive Director of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 47 With effect from 1 January 2013, the Chairman of the Board, who for value delivered to clients and shareholders.
The Directors are chairs the Nomination Committee, receives an annual all-inclusive committed to a strong control environment throughout the Group.
F&C fee of 150,000 per annum and the basic fee payable to each Nonhas a culture that emphasises the importance of rigorous disciplines Executive is 60,000 per annum.
An additional fee of 12,500 per and procedures to safeguard the interests of our clients and other key annum is paid to the Chairman of each of the Board Committees.
This high standard of risk and compliance has been The fee paid for being Senior Independent Director SID is 15,000 maintained throughout the year.
Details of performance measures are per annum.
A fee of 20,000 was paid to members of the Thames shown under the Single Total Figure of Remuneration.
The bonus policy provides for awards of between 0 per cent and 500 per cent of salary.
The size and allocation of the annual Incentive outcomes for the year ended discretionary bonus pool is recommended by the Remuneration 31 December 2013 Committee to the Board for approval.
Performance-related annual bonus in respect of 2013 performance Overall bonus outcomes On the basis of the performance delivered by the Executive The 2013 annual bonus recognises the contribution of the Executive Directors in achieving the Companys results.
The assessment of Directors in 2013 as above, the bonus awards were as follows: their contribution is determined by applying the Annual Bonus Cash Deferred Total Performance Measures set out in the table on pages45 and 46 as Director 000 000 000 well as personal performance.
The weighting for each factor is Richard Wilson 727 363 1,090 determined as appropriate for the business each year and in respect David Logan 279 140 419 of the role and responsibilities of the individual.
Deferred bonus awards vest, subject to good bad leaver provisions, in May In summary, outcomes against the performance measures have 2017. improved over the previous year and are in line with 2013 expectations 2011 LTRP award vesting in 2014 Awards were granted under the LTRP in May 2011.
Vesting of the awards was dependent on four equally-weighted measures over a three-year performance period: EPS, TSR ranking versus FTSE 250 financial services companies, net new business and investment performance.
Further details, including vesting schedules and performance against each of the metrics is provided in the table below: Performance Measure period ends Weighting Targets Vest % 0% vesting below RPI 3% p. a.
Fully met 31 December 25% vesting for RPI 3% p. a.
1 Vesting EPS 25% 100% vesting for RPI 11% p. a. or more 2013 100% Straight-line vesting between these points Not Met as 0% vesting below median TSR versus FTSE 250 25% vesting for median at 31.12.13 financial services 4 May 2014 25% 100% vesting for upper quartile or more Vesting 2 companies Straight-line vesting between these points 0% Not met 0% vesting for 25% of target 31 December 1 Net new business 25% 100% vesting for 125% of target or more Vesting 2013 Straight-line vesting between these points 0% 0% vesting for less than 42% of funds outperforming benchmark Estimated 0% vesting for 42% of funds outperforming Relative investment Vesting 31 December 2013 25% benchmark 1 performance 100% 100% vesting at 75% of funds outperforming benchmark or more Straight-line vesting between these points 2 Indicative % vesting 50% 1 Elements with performance period ending during the 2013 financial year The performance period for the EPS, Net New Business and Relative Investment Performance elements of the 2011 LTRP award ends on 31 December 2013, with vesting on the third anniversary of the date of grant May 2014.
2 Elements with performance period ending during the 2014 financial year The performance period for the TSR element of the 2011 LTRP award ends in May 2014, with vesting on the third anniversary of the date of grant May 2014.
For information only this element has been measured up to 31 December 2013.
48 | GOVERNANCE | Annual Report on Remuneration The actual value at vesting of this element will be disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Indicative vesting is as follows: Interests Assumed Estimated Executive Director Interests held Vesting % vesting Date vesting market price value Richard Wilson 300,105 50% 150,052 4 May 2014 94.4p 141,649 David Logan 837,001 50% 418,500 4 May 2014 94.4p 395,064 Excluding cumulative re-invested dividends.
In line with regulations, the value disclosed above and in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 45 captures the full number of interests vesting.
As the market price on the date of vesting is unknown at the time of reporting, the value is estimated using the average market value over the last quarter of 2013 of 0.94.
The actual value at vesting will be disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTRP awarded in 2013 vesting in 2017 audited In May 2013, Executive Directors were granted awards under the LTRP as detailed in the table below.
The four-year performance period over which performance will be measured began on 1 January 2013 and will end on 31 December 2016 for all measures i. e. the TSR performance period is now aligned with the financial year.
Each Executive Directors award is eligible to vest on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant i. e. 13 May 2017.
Shares over which Market price at Executive Director Date of grant awards granted date of award Face value Richard Wilson 13 May 2013 2,105,263 95.0p 2,000,000 David Logan 13 May 2013 789,473 95.0p 750,000 Vesting of the 2013 LTRP award is dependent on four equally-weighted measures: EPS, TSR ranking versus FTSE All-Share financial services companies, net new business and investment performance.
Investment performance is revenue weighted to reflect the strategic objective to secure higher-fee assets and vests 25 per cent in relation to trailing 1-year performance over 2016 and 75 per cent to trailing 3-year performance i. e. 2014-2016.
Details of the vesting schedules are provided below: Measure Weighting Targets 0% vesting below 8.2p 25% vesting for 8.2p EPS 25% 100% vesting for 13.7p or more Straight-line vesting between these points 0% vesting below median TSR versus FTSE All-Share 25% vesting for median financial services 25% 100% vesting for upper quartile or more companies Straight-line vesting between these points 0% vesting for 25% of target.
100% vesting for 125% of target or more Net new business 25% Straight-line vesting between these points 0% vesting for less than 42% of funds outperforming benchmark 0% vesting for 42% of funds outperforming benchmark Relative investment 25% 100% vesting at 75% of funds outperforming benchmark performance or more Straight-line vesting between these points ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 49 Performance measures are summarised below.
The proposed target Exit payments made in the year audited levels of achievement have been set to be challenging.
No exit payments were made to any person who has served as a Director during the year, or in any previous year.
Area Performance Measure Corporate Performance Profitability measured as: Payments to past directors audited relative to 2013 Alain Grisay Restricted LTRP award vested May 2013 relative to targets set by the Board Alain Grisay retired from the Group in September 2013 and received in the context of expectations and the following LTRP award in accordance with the Rules of the Plan: market conditions No of shares vesting 1,013,805 Fund Flows gross and net measured Vesting share price 96.85p as: Value of shares on vesting 981,870 relative to 2013 Value of dividends 118,252 relative to targets set by the Board Total shares & dividends 1,100,122 Consultant buy ratings Group control environment.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2014 Client retention Base salary Fully implement measures for The level of base salary is determined on an individual basis.
The Treating Customers Fairly Committee takes account of: New business fee margins advice received from the Committees independent advisors Investment Performance Investment Performance measured as: on salary levels for similar roles in selected comparable percentage of assets above index organisations: benchmark or peer group on an asset-weighted basis individual performance and experience: and This is for fixed income, equity and salary movements for employees across the Group.
property assets The Committee approved the following base salaries with effect from Strategic Objectives Growth objectives as determined by the 1 July 2014: Board Base Base Personal Performance Individual objectives appropriately Executive salary salary Percentage weighted in respect of the above criteria Director 2013 - 2014 2014 - 2015 increase Richard Wilson 350,000 350,000 0% LTRP David Logan 275,000 275,000 0% No LTRP awards are expected to be granted in 2014.
Salary increases averaging 4 per cent across the Group were Chairman and Non-executive Director Fees awarded as part of the annual compensation review.
New salaries Chairman and Non-executive Director fee levels for 2014 will be will be with effect from 1 July 2014. reviewed prior to the 2014 AGM.
Any changes will take effect from 1 January 2014.
Pension Executive Directors will continue to receive a pension contribution Percentage change in CEO remuneration: 2012 to 2013 under the Money Purchase Pension Scheme equal to 13 per cent During 2012, Alain Grisay retired as CEO and Richard Wilson was of salary.
Alain Grisay remained as CEO until May 2012.
Edward Bramson Performance-related annual bonus had executive responsibility as the Executive Chairman of the Group The Committee has approved that the annual bonus opportunity in between May 2012 and December 2012.
Richard Wilson was 2014 for Executive Directors, will be capped at 500 per cent of salary.
appointed as CEO in December 2012.
Performance bonuses will be based on similar criteria to those in The data in the table below is based on CEO remuneration costs in 2013 and which are of primary importance to shareholders.
The 2012 for Alain Grisay on a full year basis.
Edward Bramson did not Executive Directors will each receive a material proportion of their receive any additional remuneration during 2012 for his Executive annual bonus by way of a deferred award.
50 | GOVERNANCE | Annual Report on Remuneration Average for TSR performance compared to FTSE 250 Financial % Change in: Chief Executive all employees Companies Index For the five financial periods ending 31 December Base salary No change 4% 400 Benefits No change No change 350 Cash bonus excluding 2013 deferred cash element -9% -8% 300 250 200 Relative importance of spend on pay 150 The following table shows the year-on-year movement in the total remuneration of employees and members of limited liability 100 partnerships excluding exceptional costs compared with the 50 ordinary dividends paid or payable for each year.
0 2013 2012 % m m Change Employee and member FCAM FTSE Financials Source:Datastream benefits expense 92.4 110.5 -16.4 The following table shows the total remuneration of the CEO for the Dividends paid or payable financial years shown in the TSR graph above.
As there has been no on Ordinary Shares 17.6 16.3 8.0 cap on the annual bonus or long-term incentive awards historically Profit loss after tax attributable with the exception of the annual bonus in 2013 for which an to Ordinary Shareholders 8.5 0.3 N A individual cap was introduced, a per cent of maximum is not shown for those years.
Comparison of Company performance 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The graph below compares the performance of the Company with a notional investment made up of shares of the group of companies CEO single figure from which the FTSE 250 financial companies index of companies is of remuneration calculated.
The graph is based on TSR for each period assuming all 000 2,419 1,168 1,183 2,015 1,651 dividends are reinvested over the five year period from 1 January Short-term 2009 to 31 December 2013.
The FTSE 250 financial companies incentive award index has been chosen as the comparator index as it is the index rates against that includes the Company and is considered the most appropriate maximum benchmark.
The table below details the Chief Executives single 1 opportunity N A N A N A N A 62% figure remuneration over the same period.
Long-term incentive award rates against 2 maximum opportunity N A N A N A N A N A Note: 1 The short-term incentive award includes the annual cash bonus and the deferred cash bonus paid in 2014 in respect of 2013.
2 The long-term incentive award was made to Richard Wilson prior to his appointment as an Executive Director.
29 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 30 Dec 2013 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 51 Directors interests audited A table setting out the beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2013 is set out on page 24.
Details of unvested awards over ordinary shares are set out below.
Unvested Unvested and and not subject subject to to performance performance conditions as at conditions as at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2013 D Logan 3,119,011 R Wilson 384,697 5,390,442 K Bedell-Pearce K Jones D ONeill K Percy K Poynter C Porter R Sack By order of the Board, W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Secretary 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU 9 April 2014
