GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Companys affairs: the level of fees payable to non-executive The Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended directors in the industry generally: our requirement to attract and 31December 2013 has been prepared in accordance with retain individuals with suitable knowledge and experience: and Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006, the Large & Mediumthe role that individual Directors fulfil.
There are no specific sized Companies & Groups Accounts & Reports Amendment performance related conditions attached to the remuneration of Regulations 2013 and the Enterprise & Regulatory Reform Act the Board and the Board are not eligible for bonuses, pension 2013.
Ordinary resolutions to approve both the Remuneration benefits, share options, long term incentive schemes or other Policy and the Directors Remuneration Report will be put to non-cash benefits or taxable expenses.
No other payments are shareholders for their consideration at the Annual General made to Directors other than reasonable out of pocket expenses Meeting to be held on 15 May 2014.
The Companys Auditor is which have been incurred as a result of attending to the affairs required to audit certain sections of this report and where such of the Company.
disclosures have been audited, the specific section has been indicated as such.
The Independent Auditors opinion is included The level of Directors fees are determined by the whole Board.
in its report on pages 37 and 38.
Directors do not vote on their own fees.
The Board reviews the Companys Remuneration Policy and implementation on an The Board, due to its size and the Company being an investment annual basis.
Reviews are based on information provided by the trust with no employees, does not consider it necessary to have Companys Manager, Fidelity and research from third parties, a separate Remuneration Committee.
Instead the entire Board which also includes information on the fees of other similar carry out the function of a Remuneration Committee under my investment trusts.
Every third year, in accordance with Code B.
As the Board is comprised entirely of of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as a FTSE 350 company, non-executive Directors and has no employees, many parts of the Board is required to carry out an externally facilitated the Large & Medium-sized Companies & Groups Accounts & evaluation of its performance.
This evaluation process also Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, inparticular those provides input into the appropriate level of Directors fees from relating to Chief Executive Officer pay and employee pay, do not anindependent source.
apply and are therefore not disclosed in this report.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
New Directors Fee Review Directors are provided with a letter of appointment which, On 15 January 2014 it was agreed to increase the Boards fees amongst other things, provides that their appointment is subject with effect from 1 January 2014.
The revised fee structure is: to the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Chairman 36,500: Chairman of the Audit Committee 27,000: Association.
Copies of the Directors letter of appointment are and Directors 23,000.
The Board had previously reviewed available at each of the Companys Annual General Meetings their feeson 1 July 2012 at which point the Chairmans fee was and can be obtained from the Companys registered office.
increased to 35,000 from 33,000: the Chairman of the Audit Committees fee was increased to 26,000 from 25,000 and The Directors are not entitled to exit payments and are not theDirectors fees remained unchanged at 22,500.
The provided with any compensation for loss of office.
reviewof the Boards fees was based on information provided by the Companys Manager, Fidelity, and research from third In common with most investment trusts there is no Chief Executive parties which included reference to the fees of other similar Officer and no employees.
The opinion of shareholders has not been sought in preparing THE REMUNERATION POLICY the Remuneration Policy and no communication has been The Remuneration Policy is subject to a binding vote, in the form received from shareholders with regard to the Companys of an ordinary resolution at every third Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Policy or Directors fees.
A binding vote means that if it is not successful the Board will be obliged to revise the policy and seek further shareholder approval The Companys remuneration policy will apply to new Board at a General Meeting specially convened for that purpose.
members, who will be paid the equivalent amount of fees as Thecurrent policy is set out below.
The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate fees This policy has beenfollowed throughout the year under review payable to each Director to 50,000 per annum.
Subject to this but will be formalised for the first time at the Companys overall limit, it is the Boards policy to determine the level of forthcoming AnnualGeneral Meeting to be held on 15 May 2014 Directors fees having regard to the time spent by them on the and it will takeeffect from that date.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 31
