Our approach to executive directors remuneration Remuneration is directly linked to strategy and performance, with particular emphasis on matching rewards to results over the long term.
A simple approach Total remuneration is determined by a relatively simple approach Directors remuneration report to attract and retain high calibre executives.
The largest components See bp.
com remuneration are share based and vest over a number of years further aligning and page 81. executives interests with those of our shareholders.
Performance Salary Annual Deferred Pension and bonus bonus shares benets Reects scale Variable level Reinforces the long-term nature Links the largest portion of remuneration to Recognizes and dynamics of dependent on of the business and the importance long-term performance, with the level awarded competitive practice the business.
short-term of sustainability, and links more varying according to performance based on in home country.
measures directly linked to strategic priorities.
Underpinned by six key principles The remuneration policy for executive directors and the decisions of the remuneration committee of the board are guided by six key principles: A substantial portion of executive remuneration 1 Linked to strategy Group KPIs used as performance is linked to success in implementing the measures companys strategy.
Operating cash ow Strategic priorities and group key performance indicators KPIs provide key metrics for the Total shareholder return performance shares and deferred bonus, and are Reserves replacement ratio focused through the annual plan to provide the Major project delivery measures for annual bonus.
Recordable injury frequency Loss of primary containment Strategy Tier 1 process safety events See page 13.
Underlying replacement cost profit KPIs See page 18.
The major part of total remuneration varies with 2 Performance related performance, with the largest elements share based, further aligning interests with shareholders.
High pay requires high performance.
Achieving the maximum pay requires sustained high performance over several years.
Min Target Max Performance 20 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Sustained performance Pay Strategic report The structure of pay is designed to reect the over three years.
The matched shares that vest 3 Long-term based long-term nature of BPs business and the under the plan have an additional three-year signicance of safety and environmental risks.
retention period, resulting in a six-year time frame.
Similarly, performance shares have a The largest components of total remuneration six-year time frame a three-year performance are share based and vest over the longest period followed by an additional three-year period.
The deferred bonus plan requires retention period for those shares that vest.
sustained safety and environmental performance 1 3 years 4 6 years Performance period Retention period Deferred Shares vest based on performance Matched shares released bonus Performance Shares vest based on performance Vested shares released shares There are quantitative and qualitative 4 Informed judgement assessments of performance with the remuneration committee making informed There are no perfect judgements within a framework approved by shareholders.
Conditions The committee has a preference for quantiable change.
targets that can be factually measured and Judgement is vital.
objectively assessed according to well understood principles and denitions.
It seeks the views of other relevant committees when Antony Burgmans arriving at conclusions.
It is not constrained when conditions change requiring different perspectives or when unanticipated events, both good and bad, occur.
The remuneration committee actively seeks 5 Shareholder engagement to understand shareholder preferences and be % transparent in explaining its policy and practice.
94 During 2013 the remuneration committee of votes cast were in favour of the chairman met personally with shareholders 2012 Directors remuneration representing nearly 15% of total outstanding report.
A number of adjustments to policy were made in response to the feedback received see page 82.
Total overall pay takes account of both the 6 Fair treatment external market and company conditions to achieve a balanced, fair outcome.
The committee attempts to balance Consistent Competitive sometimes conicting perspectives to arrive internally externally at total pay results that not only reect performance relative to strategy, but also are Fair deemed fair by external stakeholders and treatment employees, as well as the executive team.
Recognizing Aligned with stakeholder shareholders views BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 21
