96 a Executive directors Directors remuneration policy 96 Introduction 98 Remuneration policy table The following pages set out the remuneration policy 100 Remuneration policy in more depth 100 Salary and benets for directors of BP p. l. c. which, if approved by 100 Annual bonus shareholders at the AGM on 10 April 2014, will take 101 Deferred bonus 102 Performance shares effect from the date of that meeting.
103 Pension 104 Scenario charts The policy is divided into separate sections for 105 Recruitment executive and non-executive directors.
The 105 Service contracts 105 Exit payments remuneration of the executive directors is set by the 106 External appointments remuneration committee the committee under 107 b Non-executive directors delegated powers from the board.
The committee makes a recommendation to the board for the remuneration of the chairman.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the board based on a recommendation from the chairman, the group chief executive and the company secretary.
a Executive directors Fair treatment: Total overall pay takes account of both the external market Introduction and company conditions to achieve a balanced, fair outcome.
The remuneration policy for the executive directors and the decisions of Shareholder engagement: The remuneration committee actively seeks the remuneration committee have been consistently guided by six key to understand shareholder preferences and be transparent in explaining its principles.
These principles were introduced more than 10 years ago and policy and decisions.
have been described in all remuneration reports to shareholders since then.
The aim of this policy is to ensure that executive directors are remunerated Key principles in a way that reects the companys long-term strategy.
Consistent with this, a high proportion of directors total potential remuneration has been, The principles represent the overarching approach of the board and the and will be, strongly linked to the companys long-term performance.
committee to the remuneration of the executive directors.
Linked to strategy: A substantial proportion of executive director remuneration is linked to success in implementing the companys strategy.
Performance related: The major part of total remuneration varies with performance, with the largest elements being share based, further aligning with shareholders interests.
Long term: The structure of pay is designed to reect the long-term nature of BPs business and the signicance of safety and environmental risks.
Informed judgement: There are quantitative and qualitative assessments of performance with the remuneration committee making informed judgement within a framework approved by shareholders.
96 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
