HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement from the Group Remuneration Committee Chairman domestic competitors do not have to comply with similar Directors Remuneration restrictions.
This situation has necessitated a review of Report our remuneration policy, especially the balance between Page App fixed and variable pay, to ensure that HSBC can remain Annual Statement from the Group competitive on a total compensation basis for our key Remuneration Committee Chairman....... 378 talent.
Directors remuneration policy.................... 381 Under the variable pay cap introduced by CRD IV, Annual report on remuneration.................... 392 variable pay awards are restricted to 100% of fixed pay for a material risk taker but this can be increased to 200% Appendix to Directors Remuneration Report........................................................ 406 of fixed pay with shareholders approval.
Following a review of the key factors of our Annual Statement from the Group remuneration policy and bearing in mind the interests of Remuneration Committee Chairman our shareholders, the Committee believes it is necessary to increase the variable pay cap to 200% of fixed pay for Dear Shareholder, material risk takers, who include all the executive I am very pleased to present the Remuneration Report for Directors.
This will be put to shareholders for approval at the year ended 31 December 2013.
In this report we the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014.
The provide details of the HSBC remuneration policy, what requested increase in the cap would give us the ability to we paid our Directors in respect of the year 2013, and minimise the increase in fixed remuneration costs and so why.
help to maintain greater flexibility on total pay.
It will also enable us to retain a larger quantum of variable pay I believe the Directors Remuneration Report should that would be subject to malus than would be the case if be transparent, and include a link between the the Committee were not to take advantage of this performance of our executives and their pay.
We believe that it is vital to maintain the link therefore, that this report will give you a greater of variable pay to the achievement of the business understanding of this link.
This report has been prepared objectives of the Company, and it is also necessary to in compliance with Schedule 8 of the Large and ensure our total compensation package for material risk Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and takers remains competitive.
As a result, a rebalancing Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, as well as the from variable pay to fixed pay to the extent necessary to Companies Act 2006 and other related regulations.
achieve this objective is warranted.
Building on the enhancements we made last year in We have discussed with a representative group of anticipation of the new regulations, this report is divided our major shareholders the proposed changes to our into three sections: my letter to you as Chairman of the remuneration policy to deal with this rebalancing.
Group Remuneration Committee the Committee : our Overall, our shareholders have been broadly supportive proposed remuneration policy: and an annual report on of the proposed changes and recognise the importance of what we paid our Directors for the year ended 31 ensuring that we can retain our key talent not just in the December 2013.
Additional remuneration-related EU, but also in Asia, Latin America and North America disclosures are provided in the appendix to this report.
where the majority of our material risk takers reside.
Industry changes and key challenges These changes are detailed in the section on remuneration policy.
The main drivers of change in remuneration policy and practice within the financial services industry are the new One further change relates to the proposed regulations under CRD IV and the additional regulatory arrangements for the Group Chairman.
Upon his technical standards released under the requirements of appointment in 2010, it was agreed that he would not be CRD IV by the European Banking Authority eligible for any annual incentive.
Specifically, the changes in the rules on appropriate.
Our current remuneration policy provides remuneration and the application of a cap on variable pay that the Group Chairman is not expected to be granted that can be paid to any material risk taker being awards under the Group Performance Share Plan employees who have been identified as having a material 'GPSP' other than in exceptional circumstances.
To impact on the institutions risk profile in EU date, the Committee has not made any such awards to headquartered banks, presents significant challenges for him.
In framing the proposed remuneration policy, the the HSBC Group.
Committee is required to clarify and more clearly define the circumstances in which an award could be made.
As a worldwide business, a significant number of Under the current policy, the theoretical maximum award our material risk takers are based outside the EU.
In these for the Group Chairman would have been the same as for key markets, most of our international peers and 378 other executive directors, namely 200% of fixed pay.
The These elements support the achievement of our Committee determined this should be restricted to 100% objectives through balancing reward for both short-term of fixed pay.
Additionally, the Committee determined and long-term sustainable performance.
Our strategy is that given the exceptional circumstances over the designed to reward only success, and to align employees medium term of intense regulatory change, an increased remuneration with our risk framework and risk outcomes.
focus on changing conduct and behaviour and the For our most senior employees, the greater part of their implementation of enhanced banking standards, it would reward is deferred and thereby subject to malus, that is, it be appropriate for the Group Chairman to be eligible to can be cancelled if warranted by events.
receive an award under the GPSP, given his executive In order to ensure alignment between what we pay role in leading the Group's interactions on regulatory our people and our business strategy, we assess policy and providing leadership and tone to drive an individual performance against annual and long-term improvement in the Group's compliance, conduct and financial and non-financial objectives summarised in behaviour.
Any GPSP award to the Group Chairman will performance scorecards.
This assessment also takes into be determined by reference to non-financial and account adherence to the HSBC Values of being open, qualitative measures and will in all other material connected and dependable and acting with courageous respects be made on the same basis as GPSP awards to integrity.
Altogether, performance is therefore judged other executive directors.
All other components of the not only on what is achieved over the short and long-term Group Chairmans remuneration arrangements are but also importantly on how it is achieved, as the unaffected and he will not be eligible for the fixed pay Committee believes the latter contributes to the long-term allowance outlined above.
Further details are set out in sustainability of the business.
Overall performance summary of 2013 We are not proposing any other material changes to our remuneration policy.
The votes in favour of our During 2013, management continued to reshape the Directors Remuneration Report at recent Annual Group and improve returns.
The Group announced 20 General Meetings show that this policy has been well additional disposals or closures, exiting non-strategic supported by our shareholders in the past.
markets and selling businesses and non-core investments.
The Group also recorded an additional US$1.5bn in The Committee is aware that the UK government sustainable cost savings, which takes the total annualised has lodged a legal challenge to the variable pay cap in savings to US$4.9bn.
This surpasses the cumulative CRD IV with the European Court of Justice ECJ.
If target of US$2.5bn to US$3.5bn on sustainable savings the legal challenge is successful, depending on the detail since 2011.
Managements continued focus on of the ECJs ruling and the extent and timing of any positioning the business for growth delivered increased consequential challenges to CRD IV, a revised underlying revenue in our home markets of the UK and remuneration policy may need to be submitted to Hong Kong.
The following summarises the Groups 2013 The Committee continues to ensure that its malus financial performance highlighting the features which policy and procedures are sufficiently robust to handle were most influential in the Committees assessment of any potential redress and has sought advice from external managements performance: legal counsel in shaping this policy.
profit before tax rose on both a reported and Remuneration strategy underlying basis compared with 2013: The quality and long-term commitment of all of underlying revenue grew by 3%, notwithstanding our employees is fundamental to our success.
We the continuing run-off of our US CML portfolio and therefore aim to attract, retain and motivate the very best the repositioning of our client base in GPB.
Revenue people who are committed to maintaining a long-term increased in CMB reflecting balance sheet growth career with the Group, and who will perform their role in and improved collaboration with other global the long-term interests of shareholders.
In GB&M, revenue was higher in part reflecting our concentration on customer-facing HSBCs reward package comprises four key businesses: elements: Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 1. fixed pay: provisions LICs reduced significantly, notably in 2. benefits: North America, Europe, and in the Middle East and 3. annual incentive: and North Africa.
In North America, which drove the 4. the Group Performance Share Plan majority of the decrease, the reduction was due in part to improvements in housing market conditions, 379 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy actions taken to accelerate the continued run-off of would have generated.
The details are contained on page the portfolio, and lower levels of newly impaired 397. loans and delinquencies in the CML portfolio.
In Discretion was also applied to reduce variable pay Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, LICs proposed for 2013 for other Group employees by remained at low levels.
By contrast, LICs rose in US$22m, including members of senior management, Latin America, particularly in Mexico, due to consistent with the approach for the Group CEO.
Further, specific impairments in CMB relating to the Committee used its discretion to postpone homebuilders reflecting a change in public housing communication and payment of 2013 variable pay policy and higher collective impairments awards and postpone the vesting of unvested deferred in RBWM.
In Brazil, although credit quality awards granted to certain individuals in prior years improved as changes to credit strategies in prior pending completion of internal reviews of certain Groupperiods took effect, higher charges were required for wide notable events.
The Committee has the authority to restructured loan account portfolios in RBWM and reduce or cancel such awards and may use this authority CMB, and higher specific impairments in CMB: based on the outcome of the on-going reviews.
the cost efficiency ratio decreased from 62.8% in As previously disclosed in the Directors 2012 to 59.6% in 2013.
There was a reduction in Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Accounts legal and regulatory settlement costs, notably in the 2012, the Committee used its discretion to apply malus United States, together with lower customer redress provisions to cancel part of the unvested deferred awards charges and restructuring and related costs.
The granted to certain individuals, in respect of the US Group continued to invest in strategic initiatives, regulatory and law enforcement fines and penalties.
risk management and compliance resources.
Additional sustainable cost savings were generated Summary of awards to partially offset higher operational costs and general inflation: The Group variable pay pool for 2013 was established by reference to the Groups underlying profit before tax, we maintained a strong balance sheet, with a ratio of after excluding movements in the fair value of own debt customer advances to customer accounts of 72.9%: attributable to credit spread and the gains and losses from the return on average ordinary shareholders equity disposals.
For the sake of clarity, the impact of fines, was 9.2%, up from 8.4% in 2012, primarily penalties and other items of redress is included in the reflecting lower adverse movements in the fair value profit measure used to calibrate the variable pay pool.
of our own debt attributable to credit spreads and The table below summarises the variable pay pool lower operating expenses: outcome for 2013.
For details see page 393. dividends in respect of 2013 were increased from US$0.45 per ordinary share in 2012 to US$0.49 per Group 2013 2012 ordinary share: and US$m US$m our core tier 1 capital increased to 13.6%, up from Variable pay pool 12.3% in 2012 and our estimated CRD IV end point total......................................... 3,920 3,689 as a percentage of basis common equity tier 1 ratio increased to 10.9%, pre-tax profit pre-variable pay up from 9.5% in 2012, driven by a combination of calculated as described above 15% 17% capital generation and a reduction in risk-weighted percentage of pool deferred... 18% 17% assets from management actions.
The following table summarises awards made to Major decisions and changes to Directors executive Directors for the relevant performance remuneration in 2013 years.
A breakdown of the awards and further details There were no major changes to Directors remuneration can be found within the single figure of for 2013.
Marc Moses was appointed an executive remuneration section on page 395.
Director with effect from 1 January 2014, reflecting the Totalremuneration Variable pay criticality of the Risk function to HSBC, his leadership of 2013 2012 2013 2012 that function and his personal contribution to the Group.
000 000 000 000 His remuneration has therefore been brought in line with Douglas Flint...... 2,427 2,424 the executive Directors remuneration policy.
Stuart Gulliver.... 8,033 7,532 5,500 4,950 Iain Mackay......... 4,365 3,887 3,222 2,748 Exercise of discretion The Committee exercised its discretion to reduce the Sir Simon Robertson annual incentive and GPSP award for the Group CEO Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee from that which a formulaic application of his scorecard 24 February 2014 380
