HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement from the Group Remuneration Committee Chairman domestic competitors do not have to comply with similar Directors Remuneration restrictions.
This situation has necessitated a review of Report our remuneration policy, especially the balance between Page App fixed and variable pay, to ensure that HSBC can remain Annual Statement from the Group competitive on a total compensation basis for our key Remuneration Committee Chairman....... 378 talent.
Directors remuneration policy.................... 381 Under the variable pay cap introduced by CRD IV, Annual report on remuneration.................... 392 variable pay awards are restricted to 100% of fixed pay for a material risk taker but this can be increased to 200% Appendix to Directors Remuneration Report........................................................ 406 of fixed pay with shareholders approval.
Following a review of the key factors of our Annual Statement from the Group remuneration policy and bearing in mind the interests of Remuneration Committee Chairman our shareholders, the Committee believes it is necessary to increase the variable pay cap to 200% of fixed pay for Dear Shareholder, material risk takers, who include all the executive I am very pleased to present the Remuneration Report for Directors.
This will be put to shareholders for approval at the year ended 31 December 2013.
In this report we the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014.
The provide details of the HSBC remuneration policy, what requested increase in the cap would give us the ability to we paid our Directors in respect of the year 2013, and minimise the increase in fixed remuneration costs and so why.
help to maintain greater flexibility on total pay.
It will also enable us to retain a larger quantum of variable pay I believe the Directors Remuneration Report should that would be subject to malus than would be the case if be transparent, and include a link between the the Committee were not to take advantage of this performance of our executives and their pay.
We believe that it is vital to maintain the link therefore, that this report will give you a greater of variable pay to the achievement of the business understanding of this link.
This report has been prepared objectives of the Company, and it is also necessary to in compliance with Schedule 8 of the Large and ensure our total compensation package for material risk Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and takers remains competitive.
As a result, a rebalancing Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, as well as the from variable pay to fixed pay to the extent necessary to Companies Act 2006 and other related regulations.
achieve this objective is warranted.
Building on the enhancements we made last year in We have discussed with a representative group of anticipation of the new regulations, this report is divided our major shareholders the proposed changes to our into three sections: my letter to you as Chairman of the remuneration policy to deal with this rebalancing.
Group Remuneration Committee the Committee : our Overall, our shareholders have been broadly supportive proposed remuneration policy: and an annual report on of the proposed changes and recognise the importance of what we paid our Directors for the year ended 31 ensuring that we can retain our key talent not just in the December 2013.
Additional remuneration-related EU, but also in Asia, Latin America and North America disclosures are provided in the appendix to this report.
where the majority of our material risk takers reside.
Industry changes and key challenges These changes are detailed in the section on remuneration policy.
The main drivers of change in remuneration policy and practice within the financial services industry are the new One further change relates to the proposed regulations under CRD IV and the additional regulatory arrangements for the Group Chairman.
Upon his technical standards released under the requirements of appointment in 2010, it was agreed that he would not be CRD IV by the European Banking Authority eligible for any annual incentive.
Specifically, the changes in the rules on appropriate.
Our current remuneration policy provides remuneration and the application of a cap on variable pay that the Group Chairman is not expected to be granted that can be paid to any material risk taker being awards under the Group Performance Share Plan employees who have been identified as having a material 'GPSP' other than in exceptional circumstances.
To impact on the institutions risk profile in EU date, the Committee has not made any such awards to headquartered banks, presents significant challenges for him.
In framing the proposed remuneration policy, the the HSBC Group.
Committee is required to clarify and more clearly define the circumstances in which an award could be made.
As a worldwide business, a significant number of Under the current policy, the theoretical maximum award our material risk takers are based outside the EU.
In these for the Group Chairman would have been the same as for key markets, most of our international peers and 378
