HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy Annual report on remuneration Component of remuneration Approach taken Annual incentive Executive Directors are not eligible to be considered for or receive an annual incentive award if, on the date of grant, they are no longer employed by the Group or are under notice of termination of employment, other than in exceptional circumstances as determined by the Committee based on the individual executive Directors circumstances.
In relation to unvested annual incentives granted in prior years, these may be subject to good leaver rights at the discretion of the Committee see below for further details on reasons that may qualify for good leaver status.
If the executive Director is deemed a good leaver, the following apply: unvested awards will continue to vest in line with the applicable vesting dates, subject to the share plan rules, malus and clawback provisions see notes below : or in the event of Death unvested awards will vest and will be released to the executive Directors estate as soon as practicable.
If the executive Director is not deemed a good leaver, all unvested awards will lapse.
GPSP Executive Directors are not eligible to be considered for or receive a GPSP award if, on the date of grant, they are no longer employed by the Group or are under notice of termination of employment, other than in exceptional circumstances as determined by the Committee based on the individual executive Directors circumstances.
In relation to deferred GPSP awards granted in prior years, these may be subject to good leaver rights at the discretion of the Committee see below for further details on reasons that may qualify for good leaver status.
If the executive Director is deemed a good leaver, the following apply: vested shares, subject to retention, will be released to the executive Director on cessation of employment: unvested awards will continue to vest in line with the applicable vesting dates, subject to the share plan rules, and malus provisions and will be released on the normal vesting dates see also notes below : or in the event of death unvested awards will vest and, together with the vested shares, they will be released to the executive Directors estate as soon as practicable.
If the executive Director is not deemed a good leaver, the following applies: vested shares, subject to retention, will be released to the executive Director in three equal tranches on each of the first, second and third anniversary of cessation of employment: and all unvested awards will lapse.
Legal claims The Committee retains the discretion to make payments including professional and outplacement fees to mitigate against legal claims, subject to any such payments being made pursuant to a statutory settlement agreement.
1 The other benefits as part of the payment in lieu of notice do not include the taxable value of accommodation, car and chauffeur provided in Hong Kong to Stuart Gulliver.
Our policy is for notice periods to be set at 12 firm.
If the Committee becomes aware of any months for both the executive Director and HSBC.
evidence to the contrary before vesting, the award will lapse.
Subject to the approval of the Committee, an individual would be considered as a good leaver if Under the HSBC Share Plan 2011 rules, the they cease to be employed by reason of: Committee has the discretion to determine that the award will vest immediately or on any other date.
redundancy: sale of business: Annual report on remuneration retirement from HSBC: death: Role, membership and advisers to the injury, ill health and disability: or Committee any other reason as determined by the Role Committee.
Within the authority delegated by the Board, the In respect of GPSP awards, for an individual Committee is responsible for approving the Groups to be considered as a good leaver by reason of remuneration policy.
The Committee also determines retirement or any other reason, the Committee the remuneration of executive Directors, senior needs to be satisfied that the executive has no current employees, employees in positions of significant or future intention at the date of leaving HSBC of influence and employees whose activities have or being employed by any competitor financial services could have an impact on our risk profile and, in 392
