Directors remuneration policy opportunity set out in the table below.
Information on how the policy will be implemented is given on The following section sets out HSBCs remuneration page 386. policy for our executive and non-executive Directors There are two main changes from our current which is subject to shareholder approval.
Our policy remuneration policy: is in accordance with the new CRD IV regulations subject to shareholders approval which we will seek the introduction of a fixed pay allowance based at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014.
If on role and responsibility: and approved, the policy is intended to apply for three variable remuneration opportunity limited to a years to the conclusion of the Annual General maximum of 200% of fixed pay.
During the term of the policy, the Committee will have the authority and discretion to Both of these changes are detailed in the policy determine, where appropriate, the quantum of each table and the accompanying notes below.
element of remuneration up to the maximum Remuneration policy executive Directors Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics strategy Fixed pay Base salary To attract and retain key Base salary reflects the individuals The annual base salary for each None talent by being market role, experience and responsibility.
executive Director is set out in the competitive and Changes are reviewed and table on page 404. rewarding on-going approved by the Committee within Base salaries are set at an contribution to role.
the context of local requirements appropriate level within the range and market competitiveness.
determined by the benchmark group, Base salaries are benchmarked on reflecting each Directors role, an annual basis against relevant experience and responsibility.
comparator groups as set out on Other than in exceptional page 388. circumstances, base salary increases for each of the current executive Directors will not increase by more than 15% of current base salary levels during the duration of this policy for three years to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2017.
1 Fixed pay allowance To deliver fixed pay required Fixed pay allowances are nonFixed pay allowances are No performance conditions are to reflect the role, skills, and pensionable and will be granted in determined based on the role and attached to the fixed pay allowance.
experience of the Directors shares that vest immediately on a responsibility of each individual.
However, to align the interest of the and to maintain a quarterly basis or in such other executives with the long-term competitive total frequencies as the Committee Other than in exceptional interest of shareholders, the shares remuneration package for deems appropriate.
circumstances, the expectation will awarded will be subject to a the retention of key talent.
be that the maximum fixed pay retention period.
These shares net of shares sold to allowance for each executive cover any income tax and social Director will be the difference security will be subject to a between i 50% of target total retention period.
20% of these remuneration of the executive shares will be released in March Director under this policy as shown immediately following the end of in the Remuneration scenarios the financial year in which the chart on page 389 and ii the shares are granted.
The remaining aggregate of the base salary and 80% will be subject to a retention cash allowance in lieu of pension for period of at least 5 years.
will be paid on the vested shares held during the retention period.
Pension To attract and retain key Directors receive a cash allowance The policy maximum will be 50% None talent by being market in lieu of pension entitlements.
381 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy Remuneration policy executive Directors continued Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics strategy Variable pay Adhering to the HSBC Values is a prerequisite for any employee to be considered for any variable pay.
The HSBC Values are key to the running of a sound, sustainable bank.
Specifically, our most senior employees have a separate HSBC Values rating which directly influences their overall performance rating considered by the Committee following the financial year end and, accordingly, their variable pay.
1 Annual incentive To drive and reward Awards are delivered in the form The maximum opportunity for Performance is measured against performance against annual of cash and shares.
A minimum variable pay awards is set at 200% an annual scorecard, based on 2,3 financial and non-financial of 50% of awards will be made of fixed pay.
targets set for financial and measures and adherence to in shares.
The For the purpose of determining HSBC Values which are scorecards vary by individual.
A minimum of 60% of the total incentive awards, fixed pay consistent with the medium award will be deferred and vest consists of base salary, fixed pay For Stuart Gulliver, the financial to long-term strategy and over a period of three years or allowance and cash allowance in measures have a weighting of 60% align to shareholder such other period as determined lieu of pension.
Other benefits are and non-financial measures have a interests.
Deferral structure The share awards net of shares The maximum annual incentive For Iain Mackay and Marc Moses, provides retention value sold to cover any income tax and award will be 1 3 of the maximum the performance measures will be and the ability to apply social security will be subject to variable pay opportunity, resulting based on their respective malus.
a retention period upon vesting, in a maximum annual incentive of functional objectives linked to our for such period of time as 67% of fixed pay.
Target award is strategic priorities with a determined by the Committee 50% of the maximum annual weighting of 90% and peopleusing its discretion and taking into 2 incentive award.
based objectives with a weighting account regulatory requirements.
The Committee assesses In respect of deferred share awards, on the vesting of these performance against targets set for Over the duration of the current each performance measure and remuneration policy, the awards, an amount in cash or shares, equal to the dividends uses its judgement to determine the Committee has the discretion to level of performance achieved for change the overall weighting of paid or payable between the grant date and the vesting of the award that measure.
The overall payout each category based on feedback level could be between 0% and from shareholders and regulators.
may be paid on the number of shares vested.
100% of the maximum amount In addition, the Committee has the discussed above.
discretion to vary the measures and In respect of deferred cash their respective weightings within awards, a notional return, The Committee can reduce to zero each category.
The specific determined by reference to the if appropriate the level of payout performance measures will be dividend yield on shares or such of awards as determined based on disclosed in the Annual report on other rate as determined by the the outcome of the performance remuneration for the relevant year Committee for the period between measures, if it considers that the in question.
grant and vest, may be paid on level of payout so determined does vesting in respect of the amount not properly reflect the overall The Committee reserves the right that vests.
position and performance of the to make adjustments to Awards are made on a Company during the performance performance targets to reflect period.
significant one-off items which discretionary basis.
The Committee can, in appropriate occur during the measurement period for example a major circumstances, apply malus to all or part of an unvested award.
The Committee will make full and clear disclosure of may also determine to introduce and operate clawback, in any such adjustments within the Annual report on remuneration, appropriate circumstances and subject to compliance with subject to commercial confidentiality.
applicable local laws and regulations, in respect of incentive awards whether paid in cash or shares that have vested and been paid out.
See page 388 for more details on malus and clawback.
The rules of the HSBC Share Plan 2011 provide the Committee with the discretion to adjust the vesting period of share awards and or the number of shares underlying an award on the occurrence of corporate events and other reorganisation events specified in the plan rules.
382 Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics strategy 1 Group Performance Share Plan GPSP To incentivise sustainable Award levels are determined by The maximum opportunity for Performance is measured against a long-term performance considering performance up to variable pay awards is set at 200% long-term scorecard with financial 2,3 through the use of pre-grant the end of the financial year of fixed pay.
60% weighting and non-financial performance measures and against enduring performance 40% weighting measures.
For the purpose of determining aligns with shareholder measures set out in the long-term incentive awards fixed pay Awards for the Group Chairman interests by requiring shares performance scorecard.
consists of base salary, fixed pay will be determined by reference to to be held for the duration of The award vests after a five year allowance and cash in lieu of non-financial and qualitative employment.
On vesting, the shares pension.
Other benefits are not measures including: monitoring Five-year vesting period net of shares sold to cover any included.
and improving HSBCs reputation provides retention value and income tax and social security with all stakeholders, and The maximum GPSP award will the ability to apply malus.
must be retained for the duration providing leadership and tone to be 2 3 of the maximum variable of the participants employment.
drive improvement in the Groups pay opportunity, resulting in a On cessation of employment the compliance, conduct and maximum GPSP award of 133% of vested shares for good leavers behaviour with a view to becoming fixed pay.
Target award potential will be released within 30 days of over time one of the most reliably is 50% of the maximum GPSP cessation of employment for the compliant financial institutions.
definition of good leaver, see Overall performance is to be policy on payments for loss of The maximum GPSP award for the judged on achievement of office section on page 391.
For Group Chairman will be 100% of measures in the long-term leavers not deemed to be good his fixed pay.
Target award scorecard during the financial year leavers, the vested shares will be potential is 50% of the maximum and adherence to HSBC Values, released in three equal instalments GPSP award.
on each anniversary of the date of The Committee assesses cessation of employment.
Over the duration of the current performance against targets set for remuneration policy, the On the vesting of these awards, an each performance measure and Committee has the discretion to amount in cash or shares, equal uses its judgement to determine the change the overall weighting of to the dividends paid or payable level of performance achieved for financial and non-financial between the grant date and the that measure.
The overall payout categories based on feedback from vesting of the award may be paid level could be between 0% and shareholders and regulators.
In on the number of shares vested.
100% of the maximum amount addition, the Committee has the discussed above.
Awards are made on a discretion to vary the measures and discretionary basis.
The their respective weightings within The Committee can reduce to zero Committee can, in appropriate each category.
The specific if appropriate the level of payout circumstances, apply malus to all performance measures will be of awards as determined based on or part of an unvested award.
It disclosed in the Annual report on the outcome of the performance may also determine to introduce remuneration for the relevant year measures, if it considers that the and operate clawback, in in question.
level of payout so determined does appropriate circumstances and not properly reflect the overall The Committee reserves the right subject to compliance with position and performance of the to make adjustments to applicable local laws and Company during the performance performance targets to reflect regulations, in respect of incentive period.
significant one-off items which awards whether paid in cash or occur during the measurement shares that have vested and been period for example a major paid out.
See page 388 for more transaction.
The Committee will details on malus and clawback.
make full and clear disclosure of The rules of the HSBC Share Plan any such adjustments within the 2011 provide the Committee with Annual report on remuneration, the discretion to adjust the vesting subject to commercial period of share awards and or the confidentiality.
number of shares underlying an award on the occurrence of corporate events and other reorganisation events specified in the plan rules.
383 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy Remuneration policy executive Directors continued Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics strategy Benefits To provide benefits in On-going benefits take account of The maximum for each benefit is None accordance with local local market practice and include determined by the nature of the market practice the provision of medical benefit provided and the cost of insurance, income protection benefits may vary from year to insurance, health assessment, life year based on market premium assurance, club membership, tax rates, the Directors personal assistance, use of company car and or other external including any tax due on the circumstances.
Stuart Gulliver is also provided with an accommodation and car benefit in Hong Kong.
Any tax due on this benefit is borne by HSBC.
Additional benefits may also be provided where an executive is relocated or spends a substantial proportion of his her time in more than one jurisdiction based on business needs.
Such benefits could include, but are not restricted to, airfare, accommodation, shipment, storage, utilities and any tax and social security that may be due in respect of such benefits.
Other Provision in case of regulatory changes In the event that regulatory Not applicable Not applicable requirements change, such that HSBC must make changes to remuneration that would be in breach of this policy, HSBC will ensure regulatory compliance, even if a revised policy has not been put to shareholders for approval.
Any such change in policy would be put to shareholders for approval at the next Annual General Meeting.
