Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics strategy Provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply: 2011 2013 GPSP, deferred Vesting of outstanding deferred Award levels have already been Performance was measured against cash and share awards.
cash and share based awards determined based on the outcome a long-term scorecard including granted in prior years, including of relevant performance measures financial and non-financial restricted shares and GPSP in the relevant prior year.
awards granted under the HSBC The unvested award would be The vesting of these awards is Share Plan 2011 and HSBC Share cancelled if the relevant service subject to a service condition.
For Plan, will continue to form part of condition is not met.
Also, the the deferred share awards granted the remuneration policy until deferred share awards granted in in March 2013 as part of the vesting.
March 2013 would be cancelled if annual incentive awards for The awards normally vest over a the Committee determines in its financial year 2012, the vesting of period of up to five years from the absolute discretion that the the awards is also subject to date of grant.
On vesting of GPSP condition of the satisfactory satisfactory conclusion of the awards, the shares net of any conclusion of the Deferred DPA.
The DPA condition ends on shares sold to cover income tax Prosecution Agreement with the the fifth anniversary of the award and social security will be US Department of Justice DPA, date unless the DPA is extended or subject to a retention period as is not met.
otherwise continues beyond that discussed in the table above for date, in which case the awards will The maximum grant in prior years GPSP awards.
On vesting of the vest on the date on which the DPA for a deferred share award was deferred share awards granted in expires and otherwise ceases to 5.20m, 0.84m for a deferred 2011 and 2012, the shares net of operate.
cash award, and 3.75m for a any shares sold to cover income GPSP award.
tax and social security will be subject to a retention period of up to six months as specified at the date of grant.
On vesting of the deferred share awards and GPSP awards, an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends paid or payable between grant and vesting would be payable on the number of shares vested.
For deferred cash awards, a notional return, determined by reference to the dividend yield on shares or such other rate as determined by the Committee for the period between grant and vest may be paid on vesting in respect of the amount that vests.
1 This approach applies to all executive Directors with the exception of the Group Chairman, Douglas Flint.
He is not eligible for fixed pay allowance and annual incentive awards but will be eligible for GPSP awards.
2 Maximum award potentials for fixed pay allowances and variable pay awards are based on obtaining shareholder approval to increase the maximum variable pay award as a percentage of fixed pay under CRD IV from 100% to 200% at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014.
If shareholder approval is not obtained the maximum fixed pay allowance payable for each executive Director under the policy will be the difference between i 50% of maximum total remuneration of the executive Director under this policy as shown in the Remuneration scenarios chart on page 389 and ii the aggregate of the base salary and cash allowance in lieu of pension for that executive Director.
Maximum variable pay award levels will be revised to 100% of fixed pay and the maximum annual incentive and GPSP awards will accordingly be reduced to 1 3 and 2 3 of this amount i. e. 33% and 67% of fixed pay respectively.
The increase in the cap to 200% would enable us to minimise the increase in fixed remuneration costs and so help to maintain greater flexibility on total pay, whilst retaining a larger quantum of variable pay that can be subject to malus.
3 Consideration was given to the application of discount factors under the proposed EBA guidelines to compute the value of the GPSP awards for the variable pay cap under CRD IV.
Based on the current terms of the EBA guidelines, the Committee considers the impact of the discount factors would be minimal and does not intend to use the discount factors to increase the variable pay cap for executive Directors in order to maintain a simple and transparent remuneration structure.
Notes to the Remuneration policy table employee is commensurate with the individuals executive Directors role, experience and responsibility and the local market.
Differences in policy applied to employees generally Fixed pay allowances will only be granted to certain material risk takers as defined by the EBA The mix of fixed and variable pay granted to an based on their role, function, experience and 385 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy technical expertise.
Group Managing Directors and Performance targets are set taking into account Group General Managers will receive shares with the economic environment, the Groups strategic the same release profile as the executive Directors.
All other employees will receive the fixed pay allowance in cash when it is below a specified Changes in policy for 2014 from 2013 threshold.
Where the fixed pay allowance is above The requirement in CRD IV to limit the variable pay the specified threshold, all of it will be received in that can be awarded to 100% of fixed pay or, with shares that vest immediately.
Any shares delivered shareholders approval, 200% of fixed pay in net of shares sold to cover any income tax and accordance with the requirement in CRD IV social security as part of the fixed pay allowance presents challenges for HSBC to remain competitive would be subject to a retention period.
40% of the commercially with our non-EU based international shares will be released in March following the end of and domestic competitors and protect our talent and the relevant financial year in which the shares were market positions.
In order to deal with these granted.
The remaining 60% will be released in three challenges we have introduced changes to our equal annual tranches on each anniversary of the remuneration structure for 2014.
The table below initial release.
summarises the changes from the remuneration policy.
These changes will be effective from the Group Managing Directors participate in both 2014 Annual General Meeting, subject to the annual incentive and the GPSP.
Managers participate in the annual incentive and may receive other long-term awards.
Other UK government legal challenge employees across the Group are eligible to participate in annual incentive arrangements.
The UK government has lodged a legal challenge to the variable pay cap in CRD IV with the ECJ.
If the Choice of performance measures and targets legal challenge is successful, depending on the detail The Committee selected the performance measures of the ECJs ruling and the extent and timing of any as they reflect the Group's financial targets and consequential changes to CRD IV, a revised strategy.
The measures were determined in remuneration policy may need to be submitted to consultation with major shareholders.
shareholders for approval before the expiry of the current policy at the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Changes in remuneration policy for 2014 Purpose and link to Performance strategy Operation Maximum opportunity metrics Salary No change No change No change none 1 Fixed pay allowance Introduction of Maximum fixed pay allowance for each executive Director will be share allowance the difference between i 50% of target remuneration of the executive Director under this policy as shown in the Remuneration scenarios None chart on page 389 and ii the aggregate of the base salary and cash allowance in lieu of pension for that executive Director.
Benefits No change No change No change none Total variable pay No change Maximum at 900% of salary reduced to 200% of fixed pay No change 1 Annual incentive No change Maximum incentive reduced from 300% of base salary to 67% of See page 382 fixed pay 1 GPSP No change Maximum incentive reduced from 600% of base salary to 133% of See page 383 fixed pay Pension No change No change No change none 1 Maximum award potentials for fixed pay allowances and variable pay awards are based on obtaining shareholder approval to increase the maximum variable pay award as a percentage of fixed pay under CRD IV from 100% to 200% at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014.
The increase in the cap to 200% would enable us to minimise the increase in fixed remuneration costs and maintain greater flexibility on total pay whilst retaining a larger quantum of variable pay that can be subject to malus.
