British American Tobacco 61 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Statement Earnings per share EPS.
This retains its 50% weighting but moves We have listened carefully to the points to an absolute growth range of 510% vs. the current range of UK RPI 3 to 8% since UK inflation has minimal relevance to our raised by shareholders and we believe global operations.
that we have achieved a fair balance I wrote to around 40 of our major shareholders outlining these to reward Executive Directors for proposals, offering to meet to discuss them in person.
As a result, Ispoke with around half of those contacted between September delivering sustainable value.
A broad range of views and opinions were Dr Gerry Murphy raised, but the majority coalesced around four themes: Chairman, Remuneration Committee Why had we chosen an individual performance adjustment factor and how would it be applied in practice?
Dear Shareholder, Why had we reduced the weight of TSR in the LTIP and introduced NTO as a metric?
This Report is the first in the new format following the introduction of new UK Government regulations in respect of remuneration Had the Committee set a stretching target for NTO and, more disclosures.
It is split into two distinct sections: a policy report which particularly, EPS performance?
looks forward to the Groups proposals for remuneration for the next three years and an annual report on remuneration, which Could the long-term alignment of interests between Executive sets out the work of the Committee in 2013 and the payments Directors and shareholders be improved further?
and awards made to Executive Directors during the year.
Together, they provide a comprehensive picture as to how the Committee In relation to the first of these, we wanted to be able to recognise seeks to link executive remuneration with the Companys strategy outstanding individual performance in supporting strategic and performance.
delivery and penalise poor individual performance in a direct and immediate way.
The mechanism to do this ensures that individual As many of you will know, the Committee completed a performance is only recognised if business performance objectives comprehensive review of executive remuneration during the year.
One of BATs distinguishing features and a real We came to the conclusion that the broad structure of our existing source of competitive advantage has been, and continues to be, remuneration arrangements continues to serve shareholders well its strong collegiate culture and the new approach to recognising and rewards management appropriately.
Consequently, the changes individual as well as team performance will apply to the entire senior we have introduced are focused and limited, remaining faithful to management population, not just the Executive Directors.
We were our established principles of simplicity and transparency while at the also mindful that while there are good reasons for rewarding same time ensuring closer alignment with the Companys strategy individual performance, the quantum needed to be set at a level that and long-term shareholder interests.
acknowledged the cultural context hence the decision to cap the maximum adjustment factor at 20%.
The Committee has agreed The principal changes are: that it will provide a full rationale for any application to an Executive Directors IEIS award supplemented by disclosing the distribution of The introduction of an individual performance adjustment factor outcomes for the relevant senior management population.
in the annual International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS to reward outstanding or penalise poor performance of the senior With regard to TSR, we had a very broad range of views with some management population, including the Executive Directors.
shareholders expressing concern about the reduction in the overall This adjustment factor can, where applied, adjust the award weight of the TSR components and others saying that we should outcome for an individual executive upwards by either 10% or eliminate TSR altogether.
In the round, I believe that retaining 20% or downwards by 50% in relation to the corporate result.
the 25% TSR component, assessed against the most relevant However, with regard to its application to any Executive Director, competitive set of global companies, is justified.
I also believe that any upward adjustment will operate within the current scheme the introduction of NTO as an indicator of organic business growth maximum award levels, i. e. 200% for the Chief Executive and is timely and appropriate.
The Committee believes that this organic 180% for the other Executive Directors.
The new individual sales growth measure captures trends fundamental to delivering performance element is being introduced for all of British theCompanys strategic objectives growth of higher margin American Tobaccos 220 senior managers for performance in Global Drive Brands, the impact of product innovation, geographic 2014, recognised in 2015 and the assessment of an individuals shifts, developments in pricing and volume and will serve to performance will be based on an established and robust annual strengthen the link between scheme design and business strategy.
In order to allay any concerns that incentivising NTO growth might risk rewarding growth in sales without corresponding growth in The introduction of net turnover NTO as a metric in our profit, we have decided that the NTO component will be subject long-term incentive scheme LTIP.
Under this metric, 25% of to an economic underpin.
No vesting will occur under this measure LTIPshare awards will vest for compound annual growth in organic unless the corresponding three-year compound annual growth rate sales over a three-year period of between 2% 6% vesting and CAGR of underlying operating profit UOP at constant currency 5% 25% vesting.
exceeds the CAGR at the minimum threshold performance levels The reduction of the TSR component in the LTIP.
forUOP as defined in the IEIS.
The TSR-dependent weighting of the LTIP drops from 50% to 25%, focusing solely on the more relevant global consumer companies FMCG comparator group.
No change investing conditions is proposed under this metric.
British American Tobacco 62 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Statement continued Regarding the specific target and ranges for the measures used Given the practical requirements for the IEIS annual award and forboth the annual and long-term incentive schemes, I would the LTIP to be based on full financial years, the Committee has pointout that these are entirely consistent with the Companys introduced these changes to the policy with effect from 1 January long-term strategy to deliver sustainable high single digit EPS 2014.
It will become our Future Policy if approved by shareholders at growthwhile at the same time making very significant revenue the AGM in April 2014.
I look forward to reporting against it in detail and capital investments which will underwrite that sustainability.
As described elsewhere in this Annual Report, British American As the Chief Executives overview highlights, the Groups Tobacco is investing in new product developments, in the performance in 2013, in continued challenging global market fast-growing non-combustible arena, in globally integrated conditions, has been robust with strong sales, primarily through a information systems all of which will drive and sustain long-term balanced approach to pricing and driving the higher margin Global growth in shareholder value while at the same time delivering Drive Brand portfolio, supplemented by a sharp focus on efficiencies a levelof financial performance consistent with shareholders to improve margin and deliver healthy growth in operating profit.
I believe it isessential that the ranges agreed by This strong operating performance has also been reflected in the Committee for the NTO and EPS are understood in this excellent cash conversion to maintain the strength of the Groups business context.
balance sheet and enable continuing return of cash to shareholders Some shareholders wanted to see a greater emphasis on returns in the form of dividends and share buy-backs.
In this regard, please refer to the This satisfying business performance during 2013 is, I believe, commentary from our Chief Executive on the Groups return on appropriately and accurately reflected in the measures we have capital employed ROCE in the Chief Executives Overview in chosen to track the Groups performance in terms of profit and the Strategic Report, where we report on this for the first time.
cash, the fundamental strategic yardsticks of market share and We will keep this matter under review but, for now, the Committee Global Drive Brand growth and in the outcome of the IEIS with is satisfied that the 60% weighting in the IEIS for delivery of awards achieved for the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors demanding profit and cash targets and 50% weighting for EPS of 162.7% and 146.4% of base salary respectively.
growth in the LTIP provides sufficient focus on hard measures of economic output and cash discipline.
The vesting level of the 2011 LTIP at 49.2% is also reflective of the tough global economic environment and in particular currency Finally, several investors wanted to see more alignment between fluctuations.
In spite of achieving a CAGR of 10.7% for EPS the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders.
when measured on a constant currency basis over the three-year In response to these requests, the Committee has incorporated performance period, the recent appreciation of sterling has meant thefollowing elements into the Policy: that EPS measured at current rates of exchange has grown only An increase to the minimum shareholding guidelines to by a CAGR of 4.1% over this period.
These substantial currency 400%ofbase salary for the Chief Executive and to 250% of headwinds have not only reduced reported EPS performance but basesalary for the other Executive Directors previously 300% also held back TSR performance relative to companies which are far and200% respectively.
less exposed to non-sterling earnings.
In this respect, I believe that the changes to the LTIP metrics the Committee has implemented for Any long-term incentive awards made from 2014 and outstanding awards for 2014 and beyond will serve to better align performance at the date of departure of an Executive Director will not now vest outcomes to management performance.
until the original vesting date.
Departing Executive Directors will retain an interest in a particular LTIP awards performance for up Finally, the Committee agreed the terms of the retirement in April totwo years following their departure.
of the outgoing Chief Operating Officer, John Daly, at its February meeting, awarding him good leaver status in respect of long-term The Committee recognises its responsibility to exercise and explain incentive plan and deferred annual share plan awards.
to shareholders its judgement in choosing and setting performance targets and concluding on results delivered by management The Committee believes it has achieved a fair balance to reward against those targets.
The Committee also retains discretion to vary Executives for delivering sustainable value and I hope that we can outcomes in exceptional circumstances where the overall application count on shareholders to support both our policy revisions as well of the schemes produces results that are anomalous or unfair to asour annual report on remuneration at the forthcoming AGM.
either management or shareholders and will explain clearly any Gerry Murphy suchexercise of discretion.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee We have listened carefully to the points raised by shareholders and the Committee has responded by making several key changes to the original proposals.
I am very grateful to those shareholders who engaged with us as we developed the Policy presented here.
British American Tobacco 63 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Policy Report to remain aligned to the UK market while enabling the Company Policy Report to recruit and retain top talent internationally: Introduction This policy section of the Remuneration Report the Policy to keep incentive plans as simple and transparent as possible: and Report sets out and describes the policy that has been applied to ensure that long-term shareholder interests are taken into by the Company from 1 January 2014 and which will, subject to account in the development of policy.
shareholder approval at the AGM on 30 April 2014, become the approved policy applicable to Executive Directors for three years The Companys strong performance, delivering top quartile total from the date of that AGM.
If approved, it will be displayed on shareholder returns since 2003, provided additional context to the the Companys website, in the investor relations area, as soon as review.
We believe that our policy has served shareholders well and practicable after the 2014 AGM.
rewarded management appropriately for consistent outperformance in previous years.
The review focused on the variable compensation The Policy Report has been prepared in accordance with the relevant components, in particular, the design, award levels, performance provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and on the basis prescribed metrics and their alignment to medium and long-term strategy.
in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts The Company was keen to undertake an engagement process and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
with investors as part of the formulation of the revised policy.
Where required, data has been audited by  The Chairman of the Committee wrote to and offered meetings LLP and this is indicated appropriately.
with some 40 key shareholders and representative groups and To aid understanding of this report, we have included an discussed the Committees proposals personally with around half explanation of how our forward-looking policy differs from the ofthose contacted.
policy in operation for the 2013 financial year and the process by Summary of key changes which these changes were developed and incorporated.
IEIS: Introduction of an individual performance element Principles of remuneration We have introduced an individual performance element into the IEIS The Committee considers the remuneration policy annually for all senior management, including Executive Directors.
Such a to ensure that it remains aligned with business needs and is measure strengthens the link between individual performance and appropriately positioned relative to the market.
Its overriding reward while aligning both of these elements to British American objective is to reward the delivery of the Groups strategy in a Tobaccos underlying strategy as reflected in the IEIS performance manner which is simple, straightforward and understandable.
Outstanding personal performance can, at the Committees The remuneration package comprises core fixed elements base discretion, result in an Executive Directors overall corporate IEIS salary, pension and other benefits designed to recognise the skills bonus being adjusted upwards by up to an additional 10% or and experience of our Executive Directors and to ensure current 20% of the corporate result.
Poor personal performance can, at the and future market competitiveness in attracting talent.
In addition, Committees discretion, result in an Executive Directors overall IEIS two performance-based variable elements a single cash and bonus being adjusted downwards by 50% of the corporate result.
share incentive annual bonus plan IEIS, and a single long-term The adjustment factor will only apply within the current maximum incentive scheme LTIP are designed to motivate and reward the bonus potential under the IEIS, i. e. 200% for the Chief Executive and delivery of growth to shareholders on a long-term sustainable basis.
180% for the other Executive Directors.
The performance-based elements form an approximate range of As a consequence of introducing the adjustment factor to apply for 70% to 80% of the total remuneration package.
performance in 2014, recognised in 2015, the Committee expects This approach has remained largely unchanged for a number of that future salary increases will be aligned with pay inflation in the years and following a review in 2013 we believe this approach wider British American Tobacco UK population, except in those continues to be generally appropriate.
However, a number of exceptional circumstances, such as where a recently appointed revisions to the remuneration policy were proposed as a result Executive Directors salary is increased to reflect his her growth in of the review and, following discussion with and feedback from the role over time or where significant additional responsibilities are shareholders, further changes have been incorporated into our added to the role.
This is discussed in more detail in the section below.
Policy Review 2013 Improving Alignment of Remuneration with Shareholders Interests The policy review was based on a number of key objectives: to ensure that remuneration rewards the delivery of British American Tobaccos strategy: British American Tobacco 64 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Policy Report continued Annual Incentive Scheme: Change to the Global Drive The existing adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS measure is Brand GDB Volume Metric also retained with a 50% weighting within the scheme, but moving For 2014, the GDB volume metric has been augmented to include to an absolute growth range of 510%, based on current rates of the Rothmans brand as an additional GDB and also the brands State foreign exchange, versus the previous range of UK RPI 38%, Express 555 and Shuang Xi, being Key Strategic Brands associated asUK inflation is of little relevance to the Companys business which with the CNTC joint venture.
is truly global both in terms of asset base and sources of income.
Annual Incentive Scheme: Introduction of a claw-back element in Long-term shareholding by Executive Directors respect of the Deferred Share Award component Our original proposals did not incorporate any changes in this area.
A malus provision has been introduced into the deferred share However, during the consultation exercise, a number of shareholders element of the IEIS to align it with a similar provision already in expressed a wish to see greater alignment between the interests of existence in our long-term incentive plan.
This will apply where the Directors and shareholders.
Board considers there has been a material misrepresentation by any The Committee has therefore decided to increase the shareholding person in relation to the performance of the Company and or the guidelines to 400% of base salary for the Chief Executive up from participant which the Board believes has influenced the extent to 300% and to 250% of base salary up from 200% for other which any prior award vested or where any other event has arisen Executive Directors.
In addition, any long-term incentive awards which the Board considers, in its absolute discretion, justifies such granted from 2014 onwards will now vest at the original vesting a reduction.
date with no accelerated vesting if the Director retires during Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP the performance period.
As a consequence, departing Executive A reformulation of the LTIP performance metrics to reinforce Directors will retain an interest in a particular schemes performance alignment with BATs key strategic objective of delivering sustainable for up to two years following their departure.
Net turnover NTO, multi-year growth in organic sales measured on a constant currency basis, is introduced for the first time.
This measure provides the best indicator of business sustainability, capturing elements such as volume and price development, geographic trends, growth of higher margin Global Drive Brands, as well as the impact of product innovation all key in delivering the Companys growth objectives.
The new measure, weighted at 25%, has a target range of compound annual growth CAGR of 25%, consistent with the Companys strategic objectives for balanced growth in revenue, operating profits and net earnings.
To alleviate concerns expressed by some shareholders, this metric is subject to an economic underpin: no vesting will occur for NTO unless the corresponding three-year constant currency CAGR of underlying operating profit exceeds the CAGR of the threshold performance level for underlying operating profit, as defined annually in the IEIS and which is approved by the Board.
The new metric for NTO replaces the total shareholder return TSR measure against the FTSE 100 companies.
TSR against the more relevant global FMCG comparator group, with its 25% weighting, isretained in 2014.
British American Tobacco 65 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Future Policy Table Executive Directors Base salary How the element supports the Companys strategic objectives To attract and retain high calibre individuals to deliver the Companys strategic plans by offering market competitive levels of guaranteed cash: to reflect an individuals skills, experience and role within the Company.
Operation of the element Base salary is paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year.
Salaries are normally reviewed annually in February with salary changes effective from April or subject to an ad hoc review on a significant change of responsibilities.
Salaries are reviewed against general UK pay trends and a company size and complexity model based on UK companies, coupled with the Pay Comparator Group see note 1, page 72.
Further reference is also made for discussion purposes only, to published salary data of internationally listed companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Committee will exercise its judgement to vary the constituents of the Pay Comparator Group over the life of this remuneration policy.
There are no contractual provisions for claw-back or malus in place for this element.
Maximum potential value Increases from current levels stated in the Annual Report following the 2014 salary review will generally be in line with other UK-based employees in the Group.
The salary of a recently appointed Executive Director as he or she progresses in a role may exceed the average salary increase to reflect the accrual of experience.
A change in responsibilities may also be reflected in an above average increase in salary.
Promotion leading to a complete change of role would be considered in line with the Committees approach to recruitment.
Year-on-year increases for Executive Directors, currently in role, will not exceed 10% per annum during the policy period.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable None.
Benefits How the element supports the Companys strategic objectives To provide market competitive benefits consistent with role which: allow the attraction and retention of high calibre individuals to deliver the Companys strategic plans: and recognise that such talent is global in source and that the availability of certain benefits e. g. relocation, repatriation, taxation compliance advice will from time to time be necessary to avoid such factors being an inhibitor to accepting the role.
Operation of the element The Company currently offers the following contractual benefits to Executive Directors: a car or car allowance: the use of a driver: tax advice in instances where multi-jurisdictional tax authorities are involved : tax equalisation payments where appropriate : private medical insurance, including general practitioner walk-in medical services: personal life and accident insurance: relocation and shipment of effects and associated expenses on appointment and at the end of tenure, in each case where the individual is not a long-term resident of the UK including housing and education allowances or similar arrangements as appropriate to family circumstances.
Other benefits not identified above may be offered, if in the Committees view, other benefits are necessary in order to remain aligned with market practice.
British American Tobacco 66 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Policy Report continued Other benefits, such as legal fees spent in reviewing a settlement agreement on departure may also be provided where appropriate.
With the exception of the car or car allowance, it is also practice to pay the tax that may be due on these and any similar benefits.
Further, HM Revenue & Customs may classify the provision of certain services and payments as taxable benefits.
These include: the installation and maintenance of home security systems: the reimbursement of travel and related expenses: and other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events.
It is also the Companys practice to pay the tax that may be due on these types of benefits.
Maximum potential value The maximum potential values are based on market practice for individuals of this level of seniority and considerations of a cost that is affordable to the business together with a range of benefits consistent with market practice.
The maximum annual benefit that can be offered for each element is: car or car allowance: 20,000 subject to periodic inflation-related increases : use of a company driver: variable maxima as the actual cost is dependent on the miles driven in any year: variable maxima will apply to the cost of private medical insurance which is dependent on an individuals medical history and is provided on a family basis: GP walk-in facility: 5,000 per annum: personal life and accident insurance designed to pay out at a multiple of four and five times base salary respectively: international tax advice as required, but not exceeding 30,000: and tax equalisation payments as agreed by the Committee from time totime: and relocation and shipment expenses for non-UK citizens at the beginning and end of service as an Executive Director if appropriate up to 200,000 together with housing and education allowances or other similar arrangements appropriate to the individuals family circumstances.
It is the Companys practice, in addition to providing the benefits to the values stated above, to also pay the tax that may be due on these and other similar benefits.
There are no contractual provisions for claw-back or malus.
Pensions How the element supports the Companys strategic objectives To provide competitive post-retirement benefit arrangements recognising both the individuals length of tenure with the Group and the external environment in the context of attracting and retaining high calibre individuals to deliver the Groups strategy.
Operation of the element British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund the Pension Fund non-contributory defined benefit section The early retirement rules in the Pension Fund permit a member to draw the accrued retirement pension within five years of Fund normal retirement age without actuarial reduction, subject to the employing companys agreement.
Alternatively, an Executive Director may choose to leave and take a pension at any time on or after his or her 50th birthday without the employing companys agreement, subject to a reduction as determined by the Pension Fund trustee in conjunction with the Pension Fund actuary.
Accrual rates differ according to individual circumstances but do not exceed 1 40th of pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service.
The defined benefit section closed to new members with effect from 1 April 2005.
The Pension Fund includes provision for spouses and childrens benefits on death in service or after retirement.
In the event of death in service, a spouses pension equal to half of the members prospective pension at normal retirement age would be payable as is a pension equal to half of the members prospective pension at normal retirement age, shared equally between any eligible children.
A spouses pension payable in the event of death after retirement is equal to half of the members pension, irrespective of any previous decision British American Tobacco 67 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials to exchange part of the benefit for a lump sum at retirement.
Eligible children share equally a pension equal to half of the members full pension.
British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund defined contribution section Individuals joining the organisation since April 2005 participate in a defined contribution arrangement.
On the appointment of a new Executive Director a contribution of up to the equivalent of 35% of base salary would be made.
The actual level of contribution paid to the Pension Fund is restricted to take into account the annual allowance and lifetime allowance with any balance payable as a gross cash allowance.
Unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS The Pension Fund retains a scheme-specific salary cap, currently 141,600 effective 1 April 2013, which is adjusted in April each year in line with the Retail Prices Index as at September of the previous year.
Where an individual is entitled to benefits calculated on a base salary that exceeds the scheme-specific cap, these are accrued in the Companys UURBS.
Pension accrual in the UURBS will not exceed the accrual rate applicable to the individual in respect of their Pension Fund entitlement maximum 1 40th per annum.
In addition, where pension accrual in the Pension Fund exceeds the UK regulated annual and lifetime allowances, subject to the individuals consent, benefits are adjusted to remain within these limits with any excess being provided through the UURBS.
Upon retirement, Executive Directors who have accrued benefits in the UURBS will have the opportunity to receive this element of their overall entitlement either in the form of a single lump sum or as an ongoing pension payment.
Lump sums in lieu of a pension entitlement in the UURBS are subject to a decrement of between 19% and 21%, depending on age.
In addition, a further reduction that recognises the Companys liability to employers national insurance will also be made.
Pensionable pay covers base salary only and therefore bonus awards and the value of benefits in kind are not pensionable.
Maximum potential value Internal appointees as Executive Directors may have existing defined benefit or defined contribution pension entitlements with the Group which will ordinarily remain unchanged.
Pension benefits and entitlements will continue to be calculated with reference to an individuals base salary.
Pension entitlements for external appointees as Executive Directors will be subject to negotiation taking into account the relevant annual and lifetime allowances: will be defined contribution in nature and will not exceed 35% of base salary in value.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable There are no performance metrics.
Pensions in payment are paid monthly or quarterly in accordance with the rules of the relevant section of the Pension Fund.
Short-term incentives: International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS How the element supports the Companys strategic objectives To incentivise the attainment of corporate targets aligned to the strategic objectives of the Company on an annual basis.
Performance-based award in the form of cash and deferred shares, so that the latter element ensures alignment with shareholders longterm interests.
Strong alignment and linkage between individual and corporate annual objectives via the application of an individual performance adjustment factor to the corporate result.
To ensure, overall, a market competitive package to attract and retain high calibre individuals to deliver the Groups strategy.
Operation of the element IEIS comprises an annual award referenced to base salary which is normally paid approximately three months after the end of the financial year to which it relates: 50% is paid immediately in cash and 50% of the total bonus amount is awarded in shares through the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS.
Deferred shares attract a cash payment equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position of all of a participants unvested ordinary shares held in the DSBS at the dividend record date.
Any individual performance element awarded being an adjustment factor of either 10% or 20% of the annual corporate result is paid in cash.
In cases of identified poor individual performance, the corporate result will be reduced by 50%.
British American Tobacco 68 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Policy Report continued The Remuneration Committee sets the performance targets each year and is able to vary the exact measures and the weighting of them from year to year.
The corporate result under the IEIS for the prior year is based on achievement against targets set and is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee in February each year.
The Groups external auditors adopt specified procedures to assist the Committees assessment of the calculations used to determine the IEIS corporate bonus outcomes and future targets.
The total payout is determined by the Companys performance under each measure relative to that measures performance target.
The Committee may adjust the payout in circumstances where, in its judgement, the overall performance of the Company warrants a different outcome, whether higher or lower, than that determined by the application of the bonus formula.
A malus facility has been introduced under which part or all of a DSBS award can be recovered where there has been a material misrepresentation by any person in relation to the performance of the Company and or the participant which the Board believes has influenced the extent to which any prior award vested or where any other event has arisen which the Board considers, in its absolute discretion, justifies such a reduction.
Awards under the annual incentive scheme are not pensionable and no element of the bonus is guaranteed.
Maximum potential value and payment at threshold The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive including any individual adjustment factor is 200% of base salary.
The equivalent bonus opportunity for the other Executive Directors is 180% of base salary.
The individual adjustment factor is capped so that under no circumstances can the maximum award levels of 200% and 180% respectively be exceeded.
No bonus is paid at the threshold level of performance, which must be exceeded for any element of the bonus to be paid.
The annual on-target bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive is 100% of base salary increasing up to 120% if the Committee assesses individual performance as outstanding and applies the individual adjustment factor at 20% to an on-target corporate result the maximum award under any circumstances is 200% of salary.
For the other Executive Directors, the on-target bonus opportunity is 90% increasing up to 108% if the individual adjustment factor is awarded at a 20% level, based on an on-target corporate result with a maximum opportunity under any circumstances capped at 180% of base salary.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable For 2014, the IEIS contains four corporate performance measures and weightings measured over the financial year: 1 Adjusted profit from operations 40% this is the profit from operations of the Groups subsidiaries at constant rates of exchange adjusted for the items shown as memorandum information in the Group Income Statement.
It is the Groups medium to long-term aim to grow adjusted profit from operations on average by 6% annually.
2 Increase in the Groups share of key markets 20% this is the Groups retail market share in its key markets, which accounts for around 80% of the volumes of the Groups subsidiaries.
The aim is to increase the Groups share year on year.
The information used in this calculation is based on information available on subscription on retail audit share.
The process is subject to rebasing as and when the Groups key markets change.
When rebasing occurs to reflect changes in the sample or estimated market size, the Company will also restate history and provide fresh comparative data on the markets.
3 Global Drive Brand and Key Strategic Brands volumes 20% this comprises: 1 the cigarette volumes of the following GDB brands sold by the Groups subsidiaries: Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall and Rothmans a new addition as a GDB from 2014, including volumes of the Fine Cut variants of the above brands sold in Western Europe: and 2 the cigarette volumes of State Express 555 and Shuang Xi, being Key Strategic Brands associated with the CNTC joint venture.
The aim is to improve the quality of the Groups portfolio by increasing the volume of GDBs faster than the rest of the brands in the Groups portfolio.
4 Cash flow from operations 20% is defined as the free cash flow excluding restructuring costs, dividends and other appropriations from associate undertakings as referenced to the cash flow and net debt movements.
The aim is to generate the optimal level cash flow while continuing to invest to support the short, medium and long-term requirements of the business.
A specific target is set each year.
British American Tobacco 69 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Three levels of award attainment relative to the measures are defined under the IEIS: 1 Threshold which must be exceeded to attract any bonus pay-out in respect of that measure : 2 Target which amounts to the budgeted performance : and 3 Maximum the level of performance exceeding budget and at which the bonus pay-out for that measure is capped.
An award is pro-rated in respect of attainment between the measures set out above.
The specific performance targets for each measure are considered to be commercially sensitive and are not disclosed.
Indicative performance against them will be disclosed in the Annual Report onRemuneration in the following year.
An individual performance element may also be awarded by the Remuneration Committee based on its assessment of the Executive Directors performance against specific individual KPIs set at the beginning of the year.
This element is applied to the corporate result butissubject to the maximum award limit as explained above.
Long-term incentives: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP How the element supports the Companys strategic objectives To incentivise long-term sustainable growth in total shareholder return TSR, adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS and net turnover NTO, over a three-year period: and to attract and retain high calibre individuals required to deliver the Companys strategic plans.
To put in place a combination of measures with appropriately stretching targets around the long-term plan which provides a balance relevant to the Companys business and market conditions as well as providing alignment between Executive Directors and shareholders.
In setting performance criteria and thresholds targets, the Committee takes account of the Groups long-term plans and market expectations.
Operation of the element Discretionary annual awards of shares with vesting levels based on the achievement of defined and appropriately stretching targets which for 2014 are relative TSR, EPS growth and NTO growth aligned to Groups strategic objectives over a three-year performance and vesting period.
TSR performance is measured against a peer group of international FMCG companies using the return index calculated by Datastream and reviewed by the Companys remuneration consultants.
TSR is measured on the basis that all companies dividends are reinvested in the shares of those companies.
The return is the percentage increase in each companys index over the three-year performance period.
The opening and closing indices for this calculation are respectively the average of the index numbers for the last quarter of the final year ofthat performance period this methodology is employed to reflect movements of the indices over that time as accurately as possible.
A local currency basis is used for the purposes of TSR measurement.
This approach is considered to have the benefits of simplicity and directness of comparison with the performance of the comparator companies.
EPS growth in adjusted diluted EPS for these purposes incorporates an increase in adjusted diluted EPS between the base year and the final year of the performance period, expressed as an annual growth rate over the period.
NTO is defined for these purposes as growth in gross turnover less excise, duties and rebates and is considered as the most appropriate measure of the Companys long-term business sustainability.
No vesting will occur for NTO unless the corresponding three-year constant currency compound annual growth rate CAGR of underlying operating profit exceeds the CAGR of the threshold performance level for underlying operating profit, as defined annually in the IEIS, as approved by the Board.
LTIP awards vest only to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied at the end of the three-year performance period.
The Remuneration Committee may apply its discretion to vary the outcome of the formulaic performance to ensure a fair result for both the Executive Directors and the shareholders.
Participants are entitled to receive a dividend equivalent payment to the value of the dividends that they would have received as shareholders on their vesting awards.
Any proportion of an award that lapses does not attract the payment of the LTIP dividend equivalent payment.
A malus facility is in operation under which a part or the whole of the LTIP award can be recovered where there has been a material misrepresentation by any person in relation to the performance of the Company and or the participant which the Committee believes hasinfluenced the extent to which any prior award vested.
The Remuneration Committee is able to vary the exact measures and the weighting of them from year to year, but will generally only seek tomake amendments to them following consultation with shareholders.
Note the Remuneration Committee will also assess the performance of the LTIP awards made in 2012 and 2013 against the performance conditions applicable to those awards and which are set out in the notes to this Future Policy Table.
British American Tobacco 70 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Policy Report continued Maximum potential value and payment at threshold Maximum award of shares permitted is 400% of salary for the Chief Executive and 300% for other Executive Directors.
Proportion of vesting is determined by reference to achievement of defined targets over a three-year performance period in respect of three measures: earnings per share 50% : total shareholder return 25% : and net turnover 25%.
A maximum vesting of 100% will result in the vesting of shares to a value equivalent to 400% of the Chief Executives salary as at the time of award, plus the appropriate dividend equivalent payment.
For other Executive Directors, a maximum vesting 100% will result in the vesting of shares to a value of 300% of salary as at the time of award, plus the applicable dividend equivalent payment.
If the threshold performance level were to be attained in respect of all three measures, 20% of the original award level in respect of the Chief Executive shares with a value equivalent to 80% of salary would vest, plus the appropriate dividend equivalent attaching to the shares vesting.
A threshold performance outcome for the other Executive Directors would result in 20% of the original award level vesting.
This amounts to shares with a value equivalent to 60% ofsalary, plus the appropriate dividend equivalent payment.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable Performance conditions must be met over a three-year period in respect of three measures: 1 25% of an LTIP award based on the Companys TSR performance against a peer group of international FMCG companies see note 2, page 72.
In the event of a top quartile performance by the Company relative to this comparator group, this element of the award vests in full.
6% vests for median performance and there is a pro rata vesting between these two points.
The TSR portion of an LTIP award will not vest for below median performance.
2 50% of an LTIP award is based on adjusted diluted EPS growth measured at current rates of exchange.
If the Company achieves a compound annual growth rate of 10%, this element of the award will vest in full.
If 5% growth is achieved, then 8% of the award will vest.
For performance between these two points, a pro-rated award will vest.
If EPS growth over the period is less than 5%, none of the EPS portion of an award will vest.
3 25% of an LTIP award is based on the compound annual growth rate of NTO measured at constant rates of exchange.
If the Company achieves a growth rate of 5%, this element of the award relating to NTO will vest in full.
If the Company achieves a compound annual growth rate over the three-year period of 2%, then 6% of the award will vest in full.
There is a pro rata vesting between these points.
The NTO portion of the LTIP award will not vest for growth below 2%.
There is an underpin to the NTO measure whereby the corresponding three-year constant currency CAGR of underlying operating profit must exceed the CAGR of the threshold performance level for underlying operating profit as defined annually in the IEIS and approved by the Board in order for an LTIP vesting payment in respect of the NTO measure to become payable.
All-employee share schemes How the element supports the Companys strategic objectives Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes which are designed to incentivise employees by giving them an opportunity to build shareholdings in the Company.
Operation of the element Sharesave Scheme an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved scheme where eligible employees are granted savings-related share options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company.
Options are granted to be exercisable in conjunction with either a three-year or five-year savings contract with a monthly savings limit of 250.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 20% to market price at the time of invitation.
Further to recent changes in legislation, the monthly savings limit will increase to 500: the Company intends to apply thisnew savings limit during the lifetime of this policy.
British American Tobacco 71 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Share Incentive Plan SIP an HMRC-approved plan incorporating: 1 Partnership Scheme eligible employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary up to a maximum of 1,500 in any year to purchase shares in Company.
Shares purchased are held in a UK-based trust, normally capable of transfer to participants tax-free after a five-year holding period.
Further to recent changes in legislation, the annual value of partnership shares that can be purchased will increase to 1,800: the Company intends to apply this new limit during the lifetime of this policy.
2 Share Reward Scheme eligible employees receive an award of shares in April of each year in which the Scheme operates in respect of performance in the previous financial year.
The performance conditions are aligned to those set for the IEIS in respect of the same performance period.
The plan shares are held in a UK-based trust for a minimum period of three years and during that time the trust will exercise its voting rights as directed by the plans participants.
The maximum individual award under the Share Reward Scheme is 3,000.
Further to recent changes in legislation, the annual value of free shares that can be awarded to employees will increase to 3,600: the Company intends to apply this new limit during the lifetime of this policy.
Maximum potential value Sharesave Scheme: the market value of the shares under option at the date of maturity of the Sharesave savings contract, less the grant price of the option at the contract start date.
SIP Partnership Scheme: the value of the shares purchased out of the potential maximum annual purchase value of 1,800 at the end of the five-year holding period.
SIP Share Reward Scheme: the value of the shares awarded out of the potential maximum annual award value of 3,600 at the end of the three-year holding period.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable See above.
Shareholding guidelines How the element supports the Companys strategic objectives To strengthen the alignment between the interests of the Executive Directors and those of the shareholders by requiring Executive Directors to build up a high level of personal shareholding in the Company.
Operation of the element Executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company equal to the value of a multiple of salary.
Arrangements apply to those Executive Directors who do not, at any point, meet the requirements of the shareholding guidelines.
Individuals may sell a maximum of up to 50% of any shares vesting after tax under the Companys share plans until the threshold for the shareholding guidelines has been met.
Shares earned but not yet vested under the Companys share incentive plans are not taken into account when assessing compliance.
Maximum potential value Chief Executive: 400% of salary.
Other Executive Directors: 250% of salary.
British American Tobacco 72 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Policy Report continued External Board appointments How the element supports the Companys strategic objectives The Company recognises the opportunities and benefits that accrue to both the Company and its Executive Directors who serve as NonExecutive Directors on the Boards of comparable companies.
Operation of the element Each Executive Director is limited to one external appointment, with the permission of the Board.
Maximum potential value Any fees from such appointments are retained by the individual in recognition of the increased level of personal commitment required.
Executive Directors may also serve as nominated directors on the Boards of the Companys associate undertakings.
In such instances, the fees will be paid to the Group and are not for the individuals account.
The constituents of the Pay Comparator Group used in the review of base salary at the date of this report are as follows: AstraZeneca Reckitt Benckiser BP Reed Elsevier BT Group Royal Dutch Shell Diageo SABMiller GlaxoSmithKline Tesco Imperial Tobacco Group Unilever Pearson Vodafone Philip Morris International WPP Group 2.
The current constituents of the FMCG peer group used to assess the Companys TSR performance in respect of an LTIP award and as at the date of this report are as follows: Anheuser-Busch InBev Imperial Tobacco Group PepsiCo Campbell Soup Japan Tobacco Pernod Ricard Carlsberg Johnson & Johnson Philip Morris International Coca-Cola Kellogg Procter & Gamble Colgate-Palmolive Kimberley-Clark Reckitt Benckiser Danone LVMH SABMiller Diageo Mondelz International Unilever Heineken Nestl British American Tobacco 73 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 3.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company undertook an extensive programme of communication with its key shareholders on changes to its remuneration policy.
This is described in more detail earlier in this Policy Report section of the Remuneration Report.
The following sets out the key changes to the previous remuneration policy of the Company which was in place during the year ended 31 December 2013: Short-term incentives: IEIS The definition of brands constituting the Global Drive Brand performance measure has been extended.
For 2014, it comprises 1 the cigarette volumes of the following GDB brands sold by the Groups subsidiaries: Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall and Rothmans a new addition as a GDB from 2014, including volumes of the Fine Cut variants of the above brands sold in Western Europe: and 2 the cigarette volumes of State Express 555 and Shuang Xi, being Key Strategic Brands associated with the CNTC joint venture.
For the deferred share element of awards made from 2014 onwards, a malus provision has been introduced under which part or all of this deferred share bonus can be recovered where there has been a material misrepresentation by any person in relation to the performance of the Company and or the participant which the Board believes has influenced the extent to which any prior award vested or where any other event has arisen which the Board considers, in its absolute discretion, justifies such a reduction.
An individual performance element has been introduced for performance in 2014, recognised in 2015, to further align individual performance and reward outcomes to those of the Company.
An individual can receive an additional 10% or 20% of the corporate result for outstanding performance.
However, the application of this performance adjustment is capped so that the maximum bonus opportunity available to the Chief Executive and the other Directors of 200% and 180% respectively cannot be exceeded.
Poor personal performance by an individual can result in an overall IEIS bonus being adjusted downwards by 50% of the corporate result.
Long-term incentives: LTIP For performance periods and awards commencing in 2014, the LTIP metrics will move from two to three measures.
The measures existing at the time of the awards apply to the following LTIP awards: May 2011 LTIP awards vesting 13 May 2014 : March 2012 LTIP awards vesting 28 March 2015 and March 2013 LTIP awards vesting 22 March 2016.
Measures applying from 2014 vesting in 2017 Measures applying for 2011, 2012 and 2013 awards EPS: compound annual growth of 5% threshold to 10% EPS: compound annual growth of 3% measured at current rates of maximum, measured at current rates of exchange.
exchange in excess of UK inflation triggers threshold performance.
Growth of 8% in excess of inflation would trigger maximum vesting Component weighting: 50%.
Details of the calculations supporting this measure are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
TSR: relative to and measured against a group of international FMCG TSR: relative to and measured against two groups of companies: companies consistent with previous years.
To achieve threshold i a group of international FMCG companies weighting 25% and vesting, median performance must be achieved versus this group.
ii the constituents of the London Stock Exchanges FTSE 100 Index If top quartile or above performance is achieved, maximum vesting weighting 25%.
under this metric is triggered.
Details of the calculations supporting this measure are set out in the Component weighting: 25%.
NTO: compound annual growth of 2% threshold to 5% N A maximum, measured at constant rates of exchange.
There is an underpin to this measure whereby vesting will only be triggered if assuming threshold or above is achieved in respect of the measure the corresponding three-year constant currency CAGR of underlying operating profit exceeds the CAGR of the threshold performance level for underlying operating profit, as defined annually in the IEIS and which is approved by the Board.
In respect of LTIP awards made from 2014 and beyond, departing Executive Directors will receive vesting shares, conditional upon plan performance, based upon the final vesting percentage measured over the full three-period of the award.
There will be no application of an early vesting percentage in respect of long-term incentive plan awards made in or after 2014.
As a consequence, departing Executive Directors will continue to have an interest in a particular LTIP awards performance for periods of approximately two years following their departure from their role.
Shareholding guidelines With effect from 1 January 2014, the minimum shareholding requirements of the Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors are increased from 300% to 400% and from 200% to 250% of base salary respectively.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments where the terms were agreed prior to an individual being appointed an Executive Director of the Company or prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
This includes the achievement of the applicable performance conditions, for Executive Directors who are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
British American Tobacco 74 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Policy Report continued 5.
The policy in relation to the remuneration of the Executive The remuneration outcomes charts have been prepared on the basis Directors applies in a similar form, with appropriate eligibility of the following assumptions.
criteria and gradations of salary, benefits and incentive awards to the members of the Management Board and senior Maximum award opportunities % of salary Chief Executive Finance Director management.
The senior management population below Management Board operates within a job grading structure and IEIS 200% 180% its most senior members may participate in both the LTIP and LTIP 400% 300% IEIS incentive arrangements.
Award levels vary with seniority up Minimum Fixed pay only: No bonus payout to the appropriate maxima expressed within the relevant scheme No vesting under the LTIP rules.
Performance measures in both LTIP and IEIS are aligned At expectation Fixed pay plus: 50% payout of the IEIS across the Group and for the IEIS locally relevant targets are set 20% vesting under the LTIP as appropriate.
More junior members of the senior management population participate in the IEIS only.
Maximum Fixed pay plus: 100% payout of the IEIS 100% vesting under the LTIP For UK employees of the Group, remuneration will cover annual base salary, retirement plus other benefits and participation in Salary Benefits Pension the Companys annual short-term incentive scheme, including effective value value Total 1 eligibility to participate in all-employee share plans.
1 April 2014 for 2013 for 2013 fixed pay 000 000 000 000 For employees employed outside of the UK, remuneration policy Chief Executive is set in accordance with conditions in the local market place.
Nicandro Durante 1,155 158 307 1,620 Local policy is established with reference to Group guidelines Finance Director concerning: annual base salary relative to the local market, Ben Stevens 842 103 607 1,552 the provision of retirement and other benefits where locally relevant and participation in short-term incentive plans where Note: 1.
Benefits value for 2013 excludes: 1 any non-recurring payments: and 2 other expenses the incentive opportunity is established with reference to the incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business local market conditions.
functions and or corporate events.
Illustrations of the application of the remuneration policy John Daly will retire as an Executive Director in April 2014 and has therefore not been included in the above scenarios.
Details of his The levels of remuneration received by Nicandro Durante and Ben remuneration and entitlements upon departure will be released Stevens as Executive Directors for the first complete year in which on the relevant regulatory news services and disclosed on the the policy applies are shown as the hypothetical values of their Groups website as soon as practicable.
They will also be reported remuneration packages under different performance scenarios in the in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ending charts below.
No share price growth has been assumed and benefits 31 December 2014. from all-employee share schemes Sharesave Scheme and Share Incentive Plan have been excluded.
Other policy provisions in relation to Directors pay The Regulations do not mandate the measurement basis for the The Remuneration Committee makes the following additional components of the bar charts.
The Company has made reference disclosures in respect of Directors pay.
to the GC100 and Investor Group Guidance October 2013 and for the purposes of the bar charts the description at expectation Flexibility, judgement and discretion means: 1 IEIS outcome at on-target performance: and 2 LTIP The Companys remuneration policy needs to be capable of outcome at threshold performance for each specific LTIP measure.
As such, the Committee has taken care to prepare and explain how the policy will operate Remuneration outcomes for varying levels of performance and has built in a degree of flexibility to enable the practical implementation of the policy over that prospective lifetime.
Chief Executive 1 Flexibility Minimum 100% 1,620k Areas of the policy which include a degree of flexibility are around: At expectation 44% 31% 25% 3,699k Maximum 19% 27% 54% 8,550k pay and benefits, allowing the Committee to set pay either on appointment or following an annual salary review, and to review Finance Director and change the pay comparator groups to ensure they remain Minimum appropriate.
The degree of flexibility to operate is constrained by 100% 1,552k the policy maximum: At expectation 55% 27% 18% 2,814k Maximum 28% 27% 45% 5,591k the IEIS bonus plan, for example, allowing the Committee to design performance measures, agree their relative weighting and Fixed remuneration IEIS LTIP set annual targets to incentivise business outcomes aligned to the Groups short-term strategic objectives.
This is to ensure that these remain relevant and aligned to the Group strategy: and the LTIP, allowing the Committee to make revisions to the performance measures, their respective weightings, threshold and target levels as permitted under the scheme rules.
British American Tobacco 75 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 2 Judgement In each case, wherever the Committee exercises its discretion in relation to an Executive Director, it will disclose the rationale for The Committee will be required to exercise its judgement in doing so in its annual report on remuneration the following year.
many ways throughout the year, specifically in those areas of the policy where there is some flexibility.
This may occur, for example, Approach to remuneration of Directors on recruitment when considering an individuals remuneration award or the British American Tobacco seeks to appoint high calibre managers specific benefits applying to an appointment, or in varying the and many of its competitors for talent are outside the UK.
measures and their weightings, as well as setting specific targets, for example, in the IEIS in any year to ensure that all elements In appointing a new Executive Director an internal or external continue to remain aligned to Group strategy and drive the appointee or promoting an existing Executive Director, the right behaviours.
Judgement is also applied in determining the Committee will, within the maxima set out in the Future Policy percentage of salary up to the maximum set out in the policy Table, apply the following principles: table which can be earned as a bonus in excess of threshold, target and up to the maximum, or the percentage salary level again up To offer a package both fixed and performance-related to the maximum in the policy table in respect of an LTIP award.
remuneration which is sufficiently competitive but not excessively Judgement is also required in assessing the performance of each so to attract, retain and motivate appropriate candidates for the individual Executive Director in delivering against his or her personal role.
It will consider the market, as defined by the remuneration performance objectives.
comparator group, and by reference to other companies of equivalent size and complexity to ensure that it does not overpay: 3 Discretion The Committee may also, on more limited occasions, exercise its Consideration will be given to relevant factors, such as the discretion either upwards or downwards to ensure fair outcomes for candidates skills, knowledge and experience and his or her both Directors and shareholders notwithstanding the application of currentlocation in determining the overall package: the policy.
Internal pay relativities and the terms and conditions of The Committee has reserved its ability to exercise its discretion employment of the new and existing Executive Directors will be as follows: considered to ensure fairness as between Executive Directors.
Short-term incentives IEIS : Where an external appointment is made to the role of Executive to assess whether a personal performance adjustment factor should Director and that individual has variable remuneration arrangements be applied to an Executive Directors bonus outcome and at what with his or her previous employer that will be lost on joining the level 10% or 20% for outstanding personal performance or Company, the Committee will also consider matching up to the -50% for poor personal performance, subject to the overall cap as maximum of the expected value of the lost awards in order to provided in the policy: facilitate the recruitment of that individual.
This may take the form of a one-off long-term incentive award with performance in relation to leavers as to whether deferred shares will be released conditions and vesting period, similar to those for the awards and whether any bonus in whole or in part is payable during the given up.
In addition, a sign-on award may be made on a like-foryear of departure: like basis to compensate for any short-term incentives which may be forgone.
Any cash-based awards will normally only be used whether circumstances have arisen which should result in the to replace a bonus that is within three months of the end of the application of the malus provisions to deferred shares held by financial year and where the outcome is reasonably foreseeable.
Where appropriate, such awards will also be made subject to malus provisions.
Long-term incentives LTIP : to assess and override the formulaic outcomes of the LTIP In the event that an appointee would need to relocate to the UK performance outcome to ensure that the resulting LTIP pay-out from overseas, the Company would provide appropriate relocation reflects fairly the underlying performance of the business and support, which would include: the shipment of personal goods to serves the interest of shareholders: the UK, the provision of relocation support to find accommodation, the provision of tax support services provided by the Companys in relation to leavers as to whether shares will vest, the terms on external advisers, the payment by the Company of the cost of which such shares will vest and the percentage level of the award spouse or partner career counselling, and the provision of housing which vests as well as whether any LTIP in whole or in part is and schooling support for up to four years as appropriate for the payable during the year of departure: individuals family circumstances.
whether circumstances have arisen which should result in the Executive Directors service contracts application of the malus provisions to unvested LTIP awards.
All of the current Executive Directors are employed on a one-year rolling contract, executed at the time of the original appointment.
Other: The contracts are governed by English law and may be varied from on appointment of a new Executive Director, to agree a contract, time to time to take account of changes in terms and conditions for an initial period only, longer than the normal one-year rolling as well as to incorporate best practice.
Each contract includes contract: and a provision for a termination or compensation payment in lieu where the shareholding requirements are not yet met to determine of notice.
and vary the terms which apply to ensure compliance and or Two or three-year contracts may be agreed at the discretion of the the retention of deferred shares or vesting LTIP shares to meet Remuneration Committee in the event that an Executive Director the requirement.
is recruited externally or from overseas.
Contracts with an initial period of longer than one year will then reduce to a one-year rolling contract after the expiry of the initial period.
indd 75 13 03 2014 11:41 British American Tobacco 76 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Policy Report continued These contracts place the following obligations on the Company Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts are available for which could give rise to, or impact upon, the remuneration or inspection at the Companys registered office.
These contracts are payments for loss of office of the Executive Directors: amended annually following the salary review and the dates of the latest service contracts are shown below: To provide pay, contributions to applicable pension arrangements Executive Directors Execution date of current service contract and benefits whether in cash or kind as specified in the contract, and to reimburse expenses incurred by the Executive Director in Nicandro Durante 10 Dec 2010 performing their duties.
1 Ben Stevens 26 Mar 2008 John Daly 24 Oct 2010 To give the Executive Director eligibility to participate in: 1 short-term IEIS and long-term LTIP incentive plans: and Note: 1.
Ben Stevens: as amended by a side letter dated 23 July 2010 to take account of additional 2 all employee share plans, subject to the rules of those schemes.
responsibilities upon appointment as Chief Information Officer from 1 September 2010.
To provide for the use of: 1 a company car for private and Policy on payment for loss of office business use, subject to the terms of the Companys car policy The service contracts of the current Executive Directors are ortoprovide a monthly car allowance: and 2 the personal use terminable on the expiry of 12 months notice from either the ofa car and driver.
Director or the Company which means that, where an internal To provide 25 working days plus public holidays paid holiday successor has not been identified the Company would have per annum and to provide pay in lieu of any accrued but untaken sufficient time to replace the Executive Director through an orderly holiday on termination of employment.
external recruitment process and ideally have a period of handover.
The principles on which the determination for payments on To provide sick pay as specified in the contract.
termination will be approached are as follows: To give the Executive Director eligibility to participate in the following benefit schemes: private medical expenses scheme: Compensation for loss of office in service contracts is limited to personal accident scheme: and life assurance scheme, subject no more than 12 months salary and benefits excluding pension.
to the terms and conditions of such schemes from time to time This amount would be payable where the requisite 12 months in force.
notice is not given to the Executive Director or when the Executive Director terminates by giving 12 months notice and the Company Subject to the termination, garden leave and suspension provisions does not wish the Executive Director to serve the notice.
of the service contract, to provide continued employment in the If an Executive Director is required to serve a period of notice, the role to which the Executive Director has been appointed.
compensation payment is reduced pro rata.
In the event that the To terminate the contract only on the expiry of 12 months written contract is terminated for cause such as gross misconduct, the notice, or to make a payment in lieu of notice equal to the value Company may terminate the contract with immediate effect and of 1 12 months salary at his or her then current base pay: and no compensation would be payable.
2 a cash payment in respect of benefits under the contract such as medical insurance, or the Company may, at its option, In cases of underperformance, termination payments will not continue those benefits for a 12 month period: see below for the exceed 12 months salary and benefits.
treatment of short-term and long-term share incentive awards Awards under share incentive schemes: Executive Directors do not on termination.
have contractual rights to the value inherent in any awards held under the share incentive schemes, whose rules make provision for In addition to the contractual rights to a payment on loss of office, vesting in different leaver scenarios.
The next table illustrates how Executive Directors will have statutory and or common law rights entitlements under these plans are managed on termination.
to certain additional payments, for example, in a redundancy situation available to all employees.
It is not currently intended that future service contracts for Executive Directors would contain terms differing materially from those summarised above and in the Future Policy Table.
British American Tobacco 77 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Plan Good leaver being death, disability, ill health, redundancy Other leaver scenarios and other circumstances at the Committees discretion International Executive The Companys policy is that, as provided for in the rules of No entitlement to a bonus under the IEIS but Incentive Scheme IEIS theIEIS, good leavers are entitled to a bonus pro-rated to the the Committee has the discretion to treat period of service during the year, payments are cash only.
other leavers in the same manner as good leavers.
This discretion will not be exercised Awards made under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS inthe case of summary dismissal.
component of IEIS will vest or transfer to an individual upon termination of their contract in accordance with the specific circumstances set out in the rules of the scheme.
Long-Term Incentive Under current plan rules good leavers, vesting is dependent In all other circumstances, the awards will Plan LTIP on performance to date of leaving and pro-rated for lapse immediately unless the Committee, in period employed.
For awards made from 2014 onwards and vesting on or after 2017, goodleavers vesting is dependent on final performance at the end of the performance period and pro-rated for periodemployed.
Share Reward Scheme This all-employee scheme award is not forfeited.
The Companys In cases of dismissal from the Company policy is that if an individual ceases to be employed within three awards will lapse.
years of the allocation date, the shares, and at the Trustees discretion, the dividend shares, will be withdrawn from trust andtransferred to the individual.
Executive Directors may leave employment for a broad variety of In addition, the Committee retains discretion to settle any other reasons which may not necessarily fall within the prescribed category amounts reasonably due to an individual, for instance to meet the of good leaver.
Accordingly, the Committee retains discretion legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with in determining good leaver status which is intended to provide reviewing a settlement agreed on termination of employment, flexibility in certain circumstances.
The Committee exercises its where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement discretion by reference to guidelines that set out a list of possible and the individual must obtain independent legal advice.
If the relevant factors to assist in the determination of a leavers status.
Executive Director has relocated to take up the appointment, the Committee may also agree to meet the reasonable costs associated These include whether the individual: with returning the individual and where relevant their family to their country of origin and winding up their affairs in the UK, resigns intending to cease work altogether indicative of good including the incidental costs incurred in doing so.
leaver status and discretion to releaseawards : In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new resigns intending to take up a different occupation, such as a contractual arrangements with departing executives, potentially portfolio career indicative of good leaver status and discretion including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive toreleaseawards : covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
Such arrangements would only be entered into where the Committee believes that it is delays their resignation from the Company to accommodate in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
the Companys plans or the demands of their current workload indicative of good leaver status and discretion to release awards : departs at the request of and or with the agreement of the Company indicative of good leaver status and discretion to release awards : resigns from the Company to work for a competitor or to undertake a role in conflict with the interests of the Company indicative of discretion not to release awards : is dismissed for any reason such as misconduct or poor performance indicative of discretion not to release awards.
In exercising its discretion, the Committee will also take into account the individuals overall performance as well as their contribution to the Company during their period of employment.
British American Tobacco 78 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Policy Report continued The current fees for the Non-Executive Directors for the year ending Statement of consideration of employment 31 December 2014 are: conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Committee does not consult directly with Fees from employees on the Directors remuneration policy.
The Committee 1 Jan 2014 to 31 Dec 2014 does consider the budgeted salary increases for the employee Non-Executive Directors fee structure population and remuneration arrangements and employment Basic fee 90,000 conditions for all employees, when determining the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
Supplements: Senior Independent Director 30,000 The Committee invites the Group Human Resources Director to Audit Committee Chairman 30,000 present annually on the proposed average salary increases for the CSR Committee Chairman 25,000 UK employee population and on any other significant changes to employee remuneration policy within the Company.
The Committee Nominations Committee Chairman expects that future salary increases for Executive Directors will be in Remuneration Committee Chairman 30,000 line with the salary review guidelines applicable for the general UK Committee Memberships Fees employed population, except in those exceptional circumstances, not Chairman : such as where a recently appointed Executive Directors salary Audit Committee 6,000 is increased to reflect his or her growth in the role over time or where significant additional responsibilities are added to the role.
CSR Committee 6,000 Annual bonus metrics and related targets for the Executive Directors Nominations Committee 6,000 are aligned with those of senior management and are cascaded Remuneration Committee 6,000 to lower tier bonus plans, in order to maintain alignment and line of sight.
It is anticipated that any future aggregate increase to any of the above fees will be within the salary guidelines which govern the The Company will continue to include general questions on its pay Companys annual salary reviews for UK-based staff and will not arrangements, within its employee opinion survey.
This is conducted exceed the equivalent of 10% per annum in aggregate.
every two years and the outcomes are reviewed by the Board.
Travel and related expenses Non-Executive Directors remuneration policy Non-Executive Directors are generally reimbursed for the cost Background of travel and related expenses incurred by them as Directors of The Company looks to recruit, as Non-Executive Directors, those the Company in respect of attendance at Board, Committee and who have a wide range of strategic and operational experience in General meetings.
In addition, it is the policy of the Board that the other businesses or organisations, usually in an international context.
partners of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors may, A Non-Executive Director is required, as a minimum, to make an from time to time, accompany the Directors to overseas or UK-based annual time commitment of about 30 days and is expected to Board meetings and otherwise at hospitality functions during the attend all Board and Committee meetings as well as maintaining year.
In the instances where such expenses are classified by HMRC an appropriate level of knowledge about the business and its as a benefit to the Director, it is also the practice of the Company to operations.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors need to be sufficient to pay the tax which may be due on any such benefits.
Non-Executive attract, motivate and retain individuals with the skills and senior-level Directors are also eligible for general practitioner walk-in medical experience required to drive the Companys strategy forward but no services.
They receive no other pay or benefits.
Shareholding requirements Fees process The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is paid in cash.
As a UK-listed entity, the quantum and structure of Non-Executive There are no formal requirements or guidelines for the Non-Executive Directors remuneration will primarily be assessed against the same Directors to hold shares in the Company.
However, Non-Executive remuneration comparator group of companies used for setting Directors are encouraged to acquire a smallinterest during the initial the remuneration of Executive Directors see note 1, page 72. years after their date of appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors The Board may also make reference to and take account of relevant do not participate in the British American Tobacco share schemes, research and analysis on non-executive directors fees in FTSE 100 bonus schemes or incentive plansand are not members of any companies published by remuneration consultants from time to Group pension plan.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed annually, although the review does not always result in an increase in the Board fees or Committee fees.
The Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the Non-Executive Directors fees on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration.
British American Tobacco 79 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Terms of appointment and termination Benefits, travel and related expenses The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with Richard Burrows is reimbursed for the cost of travel and related the Company but instead have letters of appointment which expenses incurred by him in respect of attendance at Board, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Committee and General meetings including the cost of return In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate airline tickets to London from his home in Ireland in connection Governance Code, all Non-Executive Directors have terms of with his duties as Chairman.
He is also entitled to the use of a appointment of one year only which are considered for renewal company driver: private medical insurance and personal accident around the time of the Companys AGM.
Each Director is then insurance benefits: and general practitioner walk-in medical subject to election or re-election by shareholders every year.
In addition, Richard Burrows spouse may, from time to On termination, at any time, a Non-Executive Director is entitled time, accompany him to overseas or UK-based Board meetings and to any accrued but unpaid Directors fees but not to any other otherwise at hospitality functions during the year.
No amounts due to a Non-Executive Director are reimbursements are classified by HMRC as a benefit to the Director, subject to any recovery or withholding arrangements.
it is also the practice of the Company to pay any tax due.
Approach to remuneration of Chairman on recruitment Chairman remuneration policy In appointing a new Chairman, the Committee will offer the Background components set out in respect of the current Chairman, as The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, appropriate, and may also offer housing allowances for a limited ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda, and for facilitating period and other relocation benefits.
the productive contribution of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
He or she is also responsible for ensuring that the interests Terms of appointment and termination of the shareholders are safeguarded and is accountable to the Board In common with the terms of appointment for the Non-Executive for leading the direction of the Companys strategy and for the Directors, Richard Burrows has a term of appointment of one overall supervision of Group policies governing the conduct of the year only which is considered for renewal around the time of the business.
The quantum of fees payable to the Chairman is therefore Companys AGM each year unless the appointment is terminated set at the level commensurate to reward the individuals seniority, earlier by: 1 the Company giving three months notice or a skills and experience.
discretionary compensation payment in lieu of notice: or 2 by his giving one months written notice, with the Company having Fee process discretion to make a compensation payment in lieu of such notice.
The Remuneration Committee considers annually the fee payable The compensation payment is limited to any fees which are payable to the Chairman.
Given that the role of a chairman can vary for such part of the relevant notice period as the Board does not considerably between companies and sectors, this process using require him as Chairman to perform his duties.
data from the FTSE 30 companies takes into account the breadth of that role coupled with its associated levels of personal commitment Richard Burrows does not participate in the British American and expertise in the overall context of international reach and the Tobacco share schemes, bonus schemes or incentive plans and ambassadorial aspect of the role.
As Chairman, Richard Burrows, isnota member of any Group pension plan.
is expected to make an annual time commitment of about 100 days to cover the responsibilities of the role.
The Chairman does Aggregate annual limit notparticipate in any discussions on his level of remuneration.
The fees of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of 2,500,000 The current fee for Richard Burrows for the year ending authorised by shareholders with reference to the Companys Articles 31 December 2014 has been determined as follows.
Fees from 1 Apr 2014 Richard Burrows Chairman 632,400 It is anticipated that any future aggregate increase to the above fee will be within the salary guidelines which govern the Companys annual salary reviews for UK-based staff and will not exceed the equivalent of 10% per annum.
British American Tobacco 80 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction Remuneration Committee This section of the Remuneration Report sets out the Companys remuneration of its Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the Current members Christine Morin-Postel financial year ended 31 December 2013 the Annual Report on Gerry Murphy Chairman Kieran Poynter Remuneration.
This report will, together with the annual statement Ann Godbehere by Gerry Murphy as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, be proposed for an advisory vote by shareholders at the AGM on 30 April 2014.
It has been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and on the basis prescribed in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
Where required, data has been audited by  LLP and this is indicated appropriately.
Attendance at meetings in 2013 The initial pages of this report set out the membership of the Name Attended Eligible to attend Gerry Murphy 5 5 Remuneration Committee that considered the remuneration of Ann Godbehere 5 5 Directors during the year ended 31 December 2013.
Details of the Christine Morin-Postel 5 5 advisers to the Committee are also given together with a summary Kieran Poynter 5 5 of its key activities during the year.
At the date of this report the Robert Lerwill 1 1 Anthony Ruys 1 1 Remuneration Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Karen fide Segundo 1 1 Directors of the Company as set out in the table opposite.
Karen fide Segundo, Robert Lerwill, Anthony Ruys and Sir Nicholas Scheele all ceased to be members of the Remuneration Committee on 27 February 2013.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive are required to attend meetings to discuss the performance of Executive Directors and may attend other meetings by invitation.
The Group Human Resources Director attends meetings and the Group Head of Reward and other senior management may also attend by invitation.
Neither the Chairman nor any Executive Director plays any part in determining his own remuneration.
The Committees remuneration consultants, Deloitte LLP, also attend meetings of the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee held five meetings in 2013, of which four were scheduled.
Role The Remuneration Committee is responsible for: setting executive remuneration policies covering salary and benefits: performance-based variable rewards: pensions: and the terms of service contracts: determining, within the terms of the agreed policy, the specific remuneration packages for the Chairman and the Executive Directors, both on appointment and on review and, if appropriate, any compensation payment due on termination of appointment: the setting of targets applicable for the Companys performancebased variable reward schemes and determining achievement against those targets, exercising discretion where appropriate and as provided by the applicable scheme rules: and monitoring and advising the Board on any major changes to the policy on employee benefit structures for the British American Tobacco Group.
For the Committees terms of reference see www.
com governance British American Tobacco 81 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Committee Advisers The Remuneration Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information it requires from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director or member of management.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, both the Chief Executive and Chairman were consulted and invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
The Group Human Resources Director and Group Head of Reward, supported by the Company Secretary, provide advice, guidance and assistance to the Committee.
In addition, the Committee was materially assisted in its work by the following external providers of consultancy and other services: Other services provided Adviser Appointment details Services provided to the Committee Fees paid tothe Company Deloitte LLP Letter of engagement for General advice on remuneration 2013: 214,846 Tax, corporate provision of services to matters including: market trends 2012: 270,150 finance and consulting theCommittee and comparator group analysis: services to Group policy review and shareholder companies worldwide engagement perspectives: independent measurement of TSR performance conditions Herbert Smith Corporate level Advice on law and regulation in Legal fees relate to General corporate legal Freehills LLP engagement authorised respect of share plan matters is advice provided to and tax advice by the Company Secretary provided to the Company and is the Company principally in the UK available to the Committee Ernst & Young LLP Engagement approved Provision of personal tax advice Fees relate to advice Tax, corporate finance by the Group Human regarding Executive Directors provided to the and consulting services Resources Director international pension planning Company to Group companies worldwide  Annual letter of Specified procedures to assist the 2013: 10,560 External auditor: LLP engagement Committees assessment of the 2012: 10,260 audit and tax calculations used to determine IEIS services and other bonus outcomes and future targets non-audit services The Remuneration Committee has not expressly considered the objectivity and independence of the advice received from these professional firms.
It does reflect upon the quality of the advice received and how this satisfactorily covers the matter under consideration as part of its normal deliberations.
The Committee is confident that none of the cross-relationships generate an unmanageable conflict of interest and that the fees paid in respect of each service do not compromise the objectivity and impartiality of the provision of the other services.
British American Tobacco 82 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Remuneration Committee Activities in 2013 Regular work programme February benchmarked, reviewed and set salaries for the Executive determined the LTIP awards for March 2013 for the Executive Directors from 1 April 2013 taking into account the pay Directors and the associated performance conditions employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, particularly in the UK reviewed and set the Chairmans fee from 1 April 2013 assessed the achievement of the targets for the 2012 Share Reward scheme and set the targets for the 2013 award assessed the achievement of the targets for the 2012 monitored the continued application of the Companys IEIS award and set the IEIS targets for 2012 shareholding guidelines for the Executive Directors assessed the measurement of the performance conditions for reviewed the Remuneration Report for the year ended 2012 the vesting of the LTIP 2010 award prior to its approval by the Board and subsequent approval by shareholders at the AGM on 25 April 2013 July an analysis of the voting on the Companys Remuneration the assessment of the performance measures for the Report at the AGM on 25 April 2013 six months to 30 June 2013 for the IEIS 2013 and the outstanding LTIP awards October a preview of the likely market trends affecting the salary review for 2014 including a review of areas of concern for key shareholders December a review of the report on the effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy review February consideration of an overview of remuneration policy areas a timetable for engagement with shareholders in light of the subject to review in 2013 proposed changes to the executive remuneration policy a presentation of the outcomes of the detailed review and benchmarking for executive remuneration together with initial recommendations for changes to the policy focusing on variable pay to be proposed to shareholders October an update on the remuneration policy review and progress on the consultation process with shareholders November consideration and approval of amendments to the remuneration policy as a result of the shareholder consultation process December agreement on the final details of the revised remuneration policy to apply to the Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2014 Other incentive matters February approval of the continuation of private medical insurance for a review of the Groups global mobility and localisation the Chief Executive in both Brazil and the UK policies with particular reference to international assignees July approval of the date of retirement and associated consideration of the impact of the UK lifetime pension arrangements in principle for the Chief Operating Officer allowance on overseas pensions arrangements with specific reference to the approval of the payment of the tax liability on a grossed-up basis in respect of the Chief Executives former pension accrual under the FASC December a review of summary guidance on remuneration matters an outline of the principal regulatory requirements for and voting and related guidelines published by shareholder disclosures in the Annual Report on Remuneration representative bodies British American Tobacco 83 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Performance and pay 2009 to 2013 This chart shows the performance of a hypothetical investment of 100 in the Companys shares as measured by the total shareholder 250 return TSR for the Company against a broad equity market index the FTSE 100 Index over a period of five financial years starting 200 from 1 January 2009 through to 31 December 2013, based on 30trading day average values.
150 100 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 British American Tobacco FTSE100 TSR measurement TSR is measured according to the return index calculated by Datastream and reviewed by the Companys remuneration consultants.
It is measured on the basis that all the Companys dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares.
The return is the percentage increase in the Companys index over the five-year period.
A local currency basis is used for the purposes of the TSR calculation, making it consistent with the approach to TSR measurement for the LTIP.
FTSE 100 Index The Directors consider that the FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate index against which TSR should be measured for this disclosure because it is a widely used and understood index.
Chief Executives pay The pay for the Chief Executive CEO for each of the financial years ended 2009 to 2013 is set out below for comparative purposes: Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 CEO single figure of total remuneration 000 1 Paul Adams to 28 Feb 2011 7,713 8,858 5,961 N A N A 2 Nicandro Durante from 1 Mar 2011 N A N A 5,589 6,340 6,492 Annual bonus IEIS paid against maximum opportunity % 1 Paul Adams to 28 Feb 2011 67.7 87.0 100 N A N A 2 Nicandro Durante from 1 Mar 2011 N A N A 100 85.0 81.3 Long-term incentive LTIP paid against maximum opportunity % 1 Paul Adams to 28 Feb 2011 100 100 100 N A N A 2 Nicandro Durante from 1 Mar 2011 N A N A 100 87.1 49.2 Notes: 1.
Paul Adams: a historic data is taken from the remuneration reports for the relevant years, but recast as appropriate on the basis of the single figure calculation as prescribed in the Regulations: b he retired as Chief Executive on 28 February 2011 which affected his short-term annual bonus IEIS and long-term incentives LTIP as follows in accordance with the rules of those schemes: i his performance-related bonus IEIS for the year ended 31 December 2010 was paid as a 100% cash bonus instead of 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares: ii the outstanding LTIP awards of shares vested immediately on his retirement either in full 2008 Award or on a pro-rated basis 2009 Award and 2010 Award : and iii the LTIP dividend equivalent payments for the LTIP awards which vested at his retirement were also paid in full and or on a pro-rated time and performance basis.
Nicandro Durante: a historic data is taken from the remuneration reports for the relevant years, but recast as appropriate on the basis of the single figure calculation as prescribed in the Regulations: and b he became Chief Executive on 1 March 2011 and his single figure remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2011 has accordingly been time apportioned.
Value of Hypothetical 100 holding British American Tobacco 84 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Relative importance of spend on pay To illustrate the relative importance of the remuneration of the Directors in the context of the Groups finances overall, the Remuneration Committee makes the following disclosure: 2013 2012 Item m m 1 Remuneration of Group employees 2,384 2,426 Remuneration of Executive Directors 14 15 Remuneration of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 2 2 Dividends paid in the year 2,611 2,538 Share buy-back programme 1,500 1,250 2 Adjusted profit from operations 5,820 5,641 Notes: 1.
The total remuneration of Group employees has changed in the year mainly as a result of local remuneration agreements, varying employment costs across end markets and regions: and the impact of exchange rate movements.
Adjusted profit from operations: this is the adjusted profit from operations of the Groups subsidiaries at constant rates of exchange for the items shown as memorandum information in the Group Income Statement.
It has been chosen as a benchmark for this disclosure given its linkage to the short-term incentive element of remuneration as one of the four performance measures under theIEIS.
Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2013 Single total figures for Directors remuneration Executive Directors: Aggregate audited The following table shows a single figure of remuneration for the Executive Directors in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31 December 2013 together with comparative figures for 2012.
Some data from the 2012 remuneration report has been recast as appropriate on the basis of the single figure calculations in the Regulations.
The aggregate directors emoluments are shown at page 97.
Details of the fees for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are set out in separate tables below.
Other emoluments these include: 1 life insurance: 2 cash dividend equivalent payments made under the LTIP and DSBS: and 3 the value of shares received under the Share Reward Scheme during the year.
British American Tobacco 85 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Analysis by individual Director audited Nicandro Durante 2013 2012 000 000 Salary 1,088 1,038 1 Taxable benefits Cash: car allowance 16 16 Non-cash: health insurance provision of walk-in health care services 7 3 tax advice 36 6 2 tax equalisation payment re tax charge for FASC pension accrual 440 the use of a company driver 64 65 travel and related costs in respect of relocation from Brazil 14 3 employee welfare and medical payments in Brazil 37 52 maintenance of home security systems in the UK and Brazil 19 9 other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business 7 13 functions and or corporate events Total taxable benefits 626 178 Short-term incentives annual performance-related bonus: IEIS cash receivable Mar 2014 YE 2013 895 annual performance-related bonus: DSBS award of deferred shares to this value Mar 2014 YE 2013 895 annual performance-related bonus: IEIS cash received Mar 2013 YE 2012 893 annual performance-related bonus: DSBS award of deferred shares to this value Mar 2013 YE 2012 893 Total short-term incentives 1,790 1,786 Long-term incentives LTIP: award 13 May 2011 of 147,329 shares: performance period 2011 2013: award will vest on 13 May 2014 2,380 at 49.2% resulting in 72,485 shares: estimated value shown for the purposes of this disclosure based on the average share price for the last three months for the year ended 31 Dec 2013 of 3,283.44p LTIP: award 25 Mar 2010 of 69,751 shares: performance period 2010 2012: award vested on 25 Mar 2013 at 2,201 87.1% resulting in 60,753 shares and was exercised on 25 Apr 2013 at an execution price of 3,623.29p per share Total long-term incentives 2,380 2,201 Pension-related benefits 4 Fundacao Albino Souza Cruz FASC Brazil 455 5 Unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS UK 307 279 Total pension-related benefits 307 734 Other emoluments Life insurance 15 13 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS : cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested 55 45 ordinary shares comprised in the share awards held by the participant in the DSBS at each dividend record date Cash dividend equivalent LTIP : a cash sum equivalent to the aggregated dividends that an LTIP participant would 228 323 have received as a shareholder over the 3-year period on the actual number of shares that vest under an LTIP award Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 3 3 Sharesave Scheme: grant of options on 28 Mar 2012 over 591 shares at an option price of 2,536p per share: 19 options were awarded at a discount of 20% of the market value 3,170p per share in accordance with the rules ofthe Sharesave Scheme Total other emoluments 301 403 Notes: 1.
The figures shown for benefits are gross amounts as it is the normal practice of the Company to pay the tax which may be due on any benefits, with the exception of the car or car allowance.
Tax equalisation payment: this is in respect of the tax charge arising from the FASC pension accrual in excess of the UK-regulated annual allowance and is met by a single one-off gross payment bythe Company.
Employee welfare medical payments in Brazil: Nicandro Durante retained certain termination or compensation rights in respect of his former employment with Souza Cruz SA until 2 April 2012, outstanding welfare payments were made in 2013.
FASC pension-related benefits: these have been in payment since 1 April 2012: refer to Total Pension Entitlements below.
UURBS pension-related benefits represent the individuals accrual for the period net of inflation as measured by the retail prices index at September 2013, multiplied by 20 in accordance with theRegulations.
Nicandro Durante was appointed non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc on 1 December 2013.
He retains the fees for this appointment 2013: 7,083 2012: nil.
British American Tobacco 86 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Ben Stevens 2013 2012 000 000 Salary 808 774 1 Taxable benefits Cash: car allowance 14 14 Non-cash: health insurance provision of walk-in health care services 4 3 the use of a company driver 74 78 maintenance of home security systems in the UK 3 4 other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business 5 10 functions and or corporate events Total taxable benefits 100 109 Short-term incentives annual performance-related bonus: IEIS cash receivable Mar 2014 YE 2013 598 annual performance-related bonus: DSBS award of deferred shares to this value Mar 2014 YE 2013 598 annual performance-related bonus: IEIS cash received Mar 2013 YE 2012 599 annual performance-related bonus: DSBS award of deferred shares to this value Mar 2013 YE 2012 599 Total short-term incentives 1,196 1,198 Long-term incentives LTIP: award 13 May 2011 of 79,558 shares: performance period 2011 2013: award will vest on 13 May 2014 1,285 at 49.2% resulting in 39,142 shares: estimated value shown for the purposes of this disclosure based on the average share price for the last three months for the year ended 31 Dec 2013 of 3,283.44p LTIP: award 25 Mar 2010 of 65,323 shares: performance period 2010 2012: award vested on 25 Mar 2013 at 2,062 87.1% resulting in 56,896 shares and was exercised on 25 Apr 2013 at an execution price of 3,624.35p per share Total long-term incentives 1,285 2,062 2 Pension-related benefits British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund 28 16 Unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS UK 579 563 Total pension-related benefits 607 579 Other emoluments Life insurance 7 6 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS : cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested 46 42 ordinary shares comprised in the share awards held by the participant in the DSBS at each dividend record date Cash dividend equivalent LTIP : a cash sum equivalent to the aggregated dividends that an LTIP participant 214 302 would have received as a shareholder over the 3-year period on the actual number of shares that vest under anLTIP award Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 3 3 Total other emoluments 270 353 Notes: 1.
Pension-related benefits represent the individuals accrual for the period net of inflation as measured by the retail prices index as at September 2013, multiplied by 20 in accordance with theRegulations.
British American Tobacco 87 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials John Daly 2013 2012 000 000 Salary 713 680 1 Taxable benefits Cash: car allowance 14 14 Non-cash: health insurance provision of walk-in health care services 5 3 tax advice 4 the use of a company driver 75 75 maintenance of home security systems in the UK 8 7 other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business 2 6 functions and or corporate events Total taxable benefits 104 109 Short-term incentives annual performance-related bonus: IEIS cash receivable Mar 2014 YE 2013 528 annual performance-related bonus: DSBS award of deferred shares to this value March 2014 YE 2013 528 annual performance-related bonus: IEIS cash received Mar 2013 YE 2012 528 annual performance-related bonus: DSBS award of deferred shares to this value Mar 2013 YE 2012 528 Total short-term incentives 1,056 1,056 Long-term incentives LTIP: award 13 May 2011 of 71,823 shares: performance period 2011 2013: award will vest on 13 May 2014 1,160 at 49.2% resulting in 35,336 shares: estimated value shown for the purposes of this disclosure based on the average share price for the last three months for the year ended 31 Dec 2013 of 3,283.44p LTIP: award 25 Mar 2010 of 37,643 shares: performance period 2010 2012: award vested on 25 Mar 2013 at 1,150 87.1% resulting in 32,787 shares: these shares were exercised on 25 Mar 2013 and the holding was retained: an estimated value for the purposes of this disclosure is based on a share price of 3,509p per share at the date of vesting and exercise, 25 Mar 2013 Total long-term incentives 1,160 1,150 2 Pension-related benefits British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund 86 95 Unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS UK 394 344 Total pension-related benefits 480 439 Other emoluments Life insurance 8 7 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS : cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested 35 28 ordinary shares comprised in the share awards held by the participant in the DSBS at each dividend record date Cash dividend equivalent LTIP : a cash sum equivalent to the aggregated dividends that an LTIP participant 123 177 would have received as a shareholder over the 3-year period on the actual number of shares that vest under an LTIP award Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 3 3 Total other emoluments 169 215 Notes: 1.
Pension-related benefits represent the individuals accrual for the period net of inflation as measured by the retail prices index as at September 2013, multiplied by 20 in accordance with the Regulations.
John Daly ceased accrual in the PJ Carroll Directors Plan with effect from 31 August 2004.
John Daly is also a non-executive director of Reynolds American Inc RAI since 1 December 2010.
RAI is an associate undertaking of the Company and John Daly was designated by Brown and Williamson Holdings, Inc a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, as its nominee to sit on the board of RAI a BAT Designee.
In accordance with present arrangements, the Group received a fee of US$277,284 from RAI 2012: US$271,980 in respect of John Dalys service in that role for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Following his retirement as an Executive Director on 6April 2014, John Daly will remain a BAT Designee from that date and will receive an annual fee from RAI for these services.
British American Tobacco 88 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Base salary The process of the annual salary review for the Executive Directors took place in February 2013 with the following changes effective from 1 April 2013.
The basis for the salary review is stated in the policy table see page 65.
UK-based employees received salary increases averaging around 3.5% with effect from 1 April 2013.
Base salary Base salary from Percentage from 1 Apr 2013 change 1 Apr 2012 Executive Directors salaries % Nicandro Durante 1,100,000 4.76 1,050,000 Ben Stevens 817,000 4.48 782,000 John Daly 721,000 4.49 690,000 Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table This section sets out supporting information and details for the single total figure for remuneration for the Executive Directors with particular reference to the determination of the performance conditions for the annual IEIS short-term incentive payments: the extent to which three-year performance conditions have been satisfied for the LTIP: and more detailed narrative on pension entitlements.
Short-term incentives: International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS audited Annual awards under the IEIS are earned by reference to the financial year and are paid in March following the end of the financial year.
These variable performance-related awards are delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares deferred shares through the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS.
No element of the bonus is guaranteed.
The performance under the IEIS is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee in February each year on the basis of an internal report supplemented by specific procedures provided by the Groups external auditors to assist the Committees assessment of the relevant calculations.
The total payout is determined by the Companys performance for each measure relative to that measures performance points.
The Committee retains discretion to override that payout in circumstances where, in its judgement, the overall performance of the Company justifies a different outcome whether higher or lower than that determined by the application of the bonus formula.
In presenting the outcomes for the year, the Remuneration Committee considers the commercial confidentiality and sensitivity of the performance measures and associated targets and results.
This is done in the context of the Company operating in a highly consolidated industry where key competitors are not subject to the same regulatory disclosures and who could gain advantageous insights if actual targets were disclosed year on year.
Consequently, the ranges of indicative performance only will be disclosed in respect of the financial year completed.
The Committee will review the commercial confidentiality of the targets on an annual basis.
The ranges of indicative performance for the year ended 31 December 2013 are set out below.
Year Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Actual IEIS: performance measure KPI % performance Adjusted profit from operations 2013 40 7% growth over prior year 2012 40 8% The measure for 2013 Profit used in this assessment is the adjusted profit from operations of the Groups subsidiaries.
This is the profit from operations at budget rates of exchange adjusted for the items shown as memorandum information in the Group Income Statement.
Performance for 2013 The Group has seen another significant improvement in its adjusted operating margin by 100 basis points in 2013, at the top end of the target range of increasing operating margin by 50 to 100 basis points each year.
This was achieved due to efforts across the global organisation to address the cost base, to standardise systems and to deliver productivity savings year on year.
A strong price mix of effect 7% also contributed to the result.
British American Tobacco 89 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Actual IEIS: performance measure Year KPI Weighting % Threshold Target Maximum performance Increase in the Groups share of key markets 2013 20 0.2% growth over prior year 2012 20 0.1% The measure for 2013 This measure is the Groups retail market share in its key markets which account for around 80% of the volumes of the Groups subsidiaries.
The information used in this calculation is based on data supplied by subscriptionbased retail audit service providers.
The process is subject to rebasing as and when the Groups key markets change: the retail audit provider will occasionally amend the panel of representative outlets which is used to approximate the total market in any given territory.
This can cause changes in the actual market share reported for all competitors.
The changes rarely result in any adjustment to the growth or decline in share between the two periods.
When rebasing does occur, the Company will also restate history and provide fresh comparative data on the markets.
Performance for 2013 Global market share in key markets grew by 20 basis points, driven by the success of the GDBs which were up by 60 basis points.
The Groups share of the premium segment also grew, up by 80 basis points.
Actual IEIS: performance measure Year KPI Weighting % Threshold Target Maximum performance Global Drive Brand GDBs volumes 2013 20 2.1% growth over prior year 2012 20 3.0% The measure for 2013 Global Drive Brand volumes comprise the cigarette volumes of the following GDB brands sold by the Groups subsidiaries: Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall and include volumes of the Fine Cut variants of those brands sold in Western Europe.
Performance for 2013 GDB volumes as defined above grew by 2.1% in 2013, with their overall cigarette market share growing strongly in the Groups key markets by 60 basis points.
Actual IEIS: performance measure Year KPI Weighting % Threshold Target Maximum performance Cash flow from operations 2013 20 10% as against budget 2012 20 14% The measure for 2013 Cash flow from operations is defined as the free cash flow excluding restructuring costs, dividends and other appropriations from associate undertakings as referenced to the cash flow and net debt movements.
The aim is to generate the optimal level cash flow while continuing toinvest to support the short, medium and long-term requirements of the business.
Performance for 2013 The improvement in cash flow from operations reflected the growth in underlying operating performance and the decrease in net capital expenditure, partially offset by working capital movements.
British American Tobacco 90 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued The total payouts for the Executive Directors expressed as a percentage of base salary are shown below with the actual payments shown in the individual analysis tables on pages 8587.
Maximum Maximum IEIS payout: 2013 opportunity 2012 opportunity 50% in cash, 50% in deferred shares % % % % Nicandro Durante 162.7 200 170.1 200 Ben Stevens 146.4 180 153.1 180 John Daly 146.4 180 153.1 180 The awards made under the DSBS are in the form of free ordinary shares in the Company that are normally held in trust for three years and no further performance conditions apply in that period.
In certain circumstances, such as resigning before the end of the three-year period, participants may forfeit all of the shares.
Further, for DSBS awards made on or after March 2014, the Company may determine to reduce or lapse an award of shares in its entirety if it has been found that a participant has materially misrepresented his or her own performance and or that of the Company in respect of the basis upon which the award of DSBS shares was originally made.
Long-term incentives: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP audited The Remuneration Committee sets out the following additional details for LTIP.
Performance against performance targets for vesting for the LTIP The LTIP amount included in the 2013 single figure of remuneration is the LTIP award of conditional shares granted to Executive Directors on 13 May 2011 the 2011 LTIP Awards.
Vesting was dependent on: 1 performance over the three financial years ended 31 December 2013: and 2 the LTIP participant remaining a Director employee at the anniversary of the allocation or award date, subject to the number of award shares to be exercised being pro-rated as applicable in the instance of a departing executive.
2011 LTIP Awards Percentage of maximum Performance measure Threshold Maximum Actual achieved % Total shareholder return TSR ranking the constituents of the Median Upper quartile Ranked 17.9 London Stock Exchange FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the 6% of award vests 25% of award vests 34 97 performance period 1 Jan 2011 to 31 Dec 2013 : 25% of award Total shareholder return TSR ranking a peer group of Median Upper quartile Ranked 14.2 international FMCG companies at the beginning of the 6% of award vests 25% of award vests 10 24 performance period 1 Jan 2011 to 31 Dec 2013 : 25% of award Earnings per share growth relative to inflation: 50% of award 3% 8% 4.1% 17.1 Total 49.2 Notes: 1.
TSR FTSE 100 comparator group: the comparison is based on three months average values and the Company achieved an above median annualised TSR of 15.6%.
Three companies in the comparator group delisted during the performance period.
TSR FMCG comparator group: the comparison is based on three months average values and the Company achieved an above median annualised TSR of 15.6%.
Two companies in the comparator group of 26 entities delisted during the performance period.
British American Tobacco 91 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials The 2011 LTIP awards had not vested at the date of this report.
The average share price for the last three months of the financial year has been used to determine the value of the 2011 awards for the purposes of the single total figure.
The awards held by the Executive Directors were as below.
The average share price for the last three months for the year ended 31 December 2013 was 3,283.44p.
Current position on outstanding LTIP awards The tables below show the current position against the performance targets for the LTIP awards outstanding for Executive Directors as at 31 December 2013.
2012 LTIP awards Current percentage Actual to achieved at 31 Dec 2013 Performance measure Threshold Maximum 31 Dec 2013 % Total shareholder return TSR ranking the Median Upper quartile Ranked 0.0 constituents of the London Stock Exchange FTSE 100 6% of award vests 25% of award vests 66 97 Index at the beginning of the performance period 1 Jan 2012 to 31 Dec 2014 : 25% of award Total shareholder return TSR ranking a peer group Median Upper quartile Ranked 0.0 of international FMCG companies at the beginning of 6% of award vests 25% of award vests 22 24 the performance period 1 Jan 2012 to 31 Dec 2014 : 25% of award Earnings per share growth relative to inflation: 3% 8% 1.1% 0.0 50% of award Total 0.0 Notes: 1.
TSR FTSE 100 comparator group: the comparison is based on three months average values and the Company achieved a below median annualised TSR of 10.7% for the interim testing period.
Three companies in the comparator group have delisted during the performance period to date, 31 December 2013.
TSR FMCG comparator group: the comparison is based on three months average values and the Company achieved a below median annualised TSR of 10.7% for the interim testing period.
Twocompanies in the comparator group of 26 entities have delisted during the performance period to date, 31 December 2013.
British American Tobacco 92 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2013 LTIP awards Current percentage Actual to achieved at 31 Dec 2013 Performance measure Threshold Maximum 31 Dec 2013 % Total shareholder return TSR ranking the Median Upper quartile Ranked 0.0 constituents of the London Stock Exchange FTSE 100 6% of award vests 25% of award vests 72 98 Index at the beginning of the performance period 1 Jan 2013 to 31 Dec 2015 : 25% of award Total shareholder return TSR ranking a peer group Median Upper quartile Ranked 0.0 of international FMCG companies at the beginning of 6% of award vests 25% of award vests 20 24 the performance period 1 Jan 2013 to 31 Dec 2015 : 25% of award Earnings per share growth relative to inflation: 3% 8% 1.7% 0.0 50% of award Total 0.0 Notes: 1.
TSR FTSE 100 comparator group: the comparison is based on three months average values and the Company achieved a below median annualised TSR of 6.9% for the interim testing period.
Two companies in the comparator group have delisted during the performance period to date, 31 December 2013.
TSR FMCG comparator group: the comparison is based on three months average values and the Company achieved a below median annualised TSR of 6.9% for the interim testing period.
Vesting of past LTIP awards for the years ended 2009 to 2013 The following table shows the historical vesting of awards over the five-year period for the years ended 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2013, inclusive.
LTIP award date 13 May 2011 25 Mar 2010 27 Mar 2009 15 May 2008 15 May 2007 Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Performance period 2011 2013 2010 2012 2009 2011 2008 2010 2007 2009 Vesting date 13 May 2014 25 Mar 2013 27 Mar 2012 15 May 2011 15 May 2010 TSR FTSE 100 group of companies: Ranking 34 15 21 12 8 Percentage of vesting award 17.9 25 25 25 25 TSR FMCG peer group: Ranking 10 5 5 2 2 Percentage of award vesting 14.2 25 25 25 25 Earnings per share growth: Percentage per annum above inflation 4.1 6.5 10.8 15.9 12.1 Percentage of vesting award 17.1 37.1 50 50 50 Total vesting percentage 49.2 87.1 100 100 100 TSR performance condition LTIP awards to 2013 A total of 50% of the total award is based on the Companys TSR performance against two comparator groups 25% for each measure : 1 the constituents of the London Stock Exchanges FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the performance period: and 2 a peer group of international FMCG companies.
In the event of upper quartile performance by the Company relative to both the comparator groups, 50% of the total award vests in full: 6% of the total award vest for median performance.
There is a pro rata vesting between these two points.
The TSR portions of an LTIP award do not vest for below median performance.
British American Tobacco 93 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Comparator group The comparator group, which is regularly reviewed to ensure that it remains both relevant and representative, is chosen to reflect the Companys financial and business trading environments.
As at 31 December 2013, the constituents of the comparator group for the 2011, 2012 and 2013 LTIP Awards were as set out below.
FMCG peer group Anheuser-Busch InBev Imperial Tobacco Group PepsiCo Campbell Soup Japan Tobacco Pernod Ricard Carlsberg Johnson & Johnson Philip Morris International Coca-Cola Kellogg Procter & Gamble Colgate-Palmolive Kimberley-Clark Reckitt Benckiser Danone Mondelez International SAB Miller Diageo LVMH Unilever Heineken Nestl Measurement of TSR TSR is measured according to the return index calculated by Datastream and reviewed by the Companys remuneration consultants.
The opening and closing indices for this calculation are respectively the average of the index numbers for the last quarter of the final year of that performance period this methodology is employed to reflect movements of the indices over that time as accurately as possible.
This approach, used historically by the Remuneration Committee for the purposes of TSR measurement, is considered to have the benefits of simplicity and directness of comparison with the performance of the comparator companies.
EPS performance condition LTIP awards to 2013 Half of the award is based on earnings per share growth relative to UK inflation.
This element of the award will vest in full if EPS growth over the three-year performance period is an average of at least 8% per annum in excess of UK inflation.
8% of the award will vest if the EPS growth over the performance period is 3% in excess of inflation.
An award will vest on a pro rata UK basis between these two points.
None of the EPS portion of an award vests if EPS growth is less than 3% per annum in excess of UK inflation.
Calculation of EPS Growth in EPS for these purposes is calculated on an adjusted diluted EPS basis using a formula which incorporates: 1 an increase in adjusted diluted EPS between the base year and the final year of the performance period, expressed as an annual growth rate over the period: and 2 the annualised retail price RPI growth between the last month of the year immediately preceding the performance period and the last month of the final financial year of the performance period.
This method is considered to be a fair and reasonable measure of performance.
LTIP malus provision The rules of the LTIP give the Remuneration Committee the discretion to reduce or forfeit entirely a participants unvested award.
This would be considered in circumstances where there had been a material misrepresentation involving the participant in connection withaprior vested award.
All-employee share schemes The Company operates the following all-employee share schemes in which the Executive Directors participate, as shown as at 31 December 2013.
Executive Directors Nicandro Durante Ben Stevens John Daly All-employee share schemes: Sharesave Scheme Share Incentive Plan Partnership Scheme Share Incentive Plan Share Reward Scheme International Share Reward Scheme British American Tobacco 94 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in salary, taxable benefits and short-term incentives bonus of the Chief Executive between the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013 compared with the average of each of those components of remuneration over the same period for UK Senior Management defined below, that being the chosen comparator group of employees in the British American Tobacco group.
UK Senior Management: this group is a particularly relevant hierarchy of employees in the UK in terms of succession planning and management reporting, being the top 80 individuals who operate immediately below and principally report to the Management Board.
This group of individuals, like the Executive Directors, tend to be on UK-based contracts and are eligible to participate in the short-term incentive arrangements.
Taxable benefits: in order to provide a relevant comparative figure, the one-off tax equalisation payment of 440,000 made in 2013 has been excluded.
Single total figures for Directors remuneration Non-Executive Directors: Aggregate audited The following table shows a single figure of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31 December 2013 together with comparative figures for 2012.
The aggregate directors emoluments are shown on page 97.
1 Board fees Other fees Taxable benefits Total remuneration Non-Executive Directors 000 000 000 000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Karen fide Segundo 90 90 26 28 1 117 118 Chair: CSR Committee Ann Godbehere 90 90 13 10 1 2 104 102 Member: Audit Committee Member: Remuneration Committee Christine Morin-Postel 90 90 33 9 9 3 132 102 Senior Independent Director Member: CSR Committee Member: Remuneration Committee Gerry Murphy 90 90 30 22 1 1 121 113 Chairman: Remuneration Committee Kieran Poynter 90 90 29 10 119 100 Chairman: Audit Committee Member: Remuneration Committee Anthony Ruys 90 90 7 17 14 7 111 114 Member: Audit Committee Richard Tubb from 28 Jan 2013 84 N A 6 N A 54 N A 144 N A Member: CSR Committee Retired Non-Executive Directors Robert Lerwill to 25 Apr 2013 29 90 11 33 3 5 43 128 Chairman: Audit Committee Sir Nicholas Scheele 29 90 13 38 81 52 123 180 to 25 Apr 2013 Senior Independent Director Member: CSR Committee Total 682 720 168 167 164 70 1,014 957 Notes: 1.
The figures shown for benefits are gross amounts, as appropriate, and it is the normal practice of the Company to pay the tax which may be due on any benefits.
The Non-Executive Directors taxable benefits for 2012 have been restated where appropriate following the individual apportionment of travel expenses, as required under the Regulations, which had previously been disclosed in the 2012 Annual Report as a total aggregated figure in the notes section.
British American Tobacco 95 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Analysis of Non-Executive Directors taxable benefits audited Taxable benefits: Taxable benefits: accompanied attendance travel expenses and Total taxable at business functions walk-in medical services benefits Non-Executive Directors: taxable benefits 000 000 000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Karen fide Segundo 1 1 Ann Godbehere 1 2 1 2 Christine Morin-Postel 9 3 9 3 Gerry Murphy 1 1 1 1 Kieran Poynter Anthony Ruys 1 13 7 14 7 Richard Tubb from 28 Jan 2013 7 N A 47 N A 54 N A Retired Non-Executive Directors Robert Lerwill to 25 Apr 2013 3 5 3 5 Sir Nicholas Scheele to 25 Apr 2013 12 69 52 81 52 Total 20 144 70 164 70 Notes: 1.
Fees The basis for the fees is set out in the Policy Table above.
The fees structure applied during 2013 is set out in the table below.
Jan-Dec 2013 Non-Executive Directors fee structure Basic fee 90,000 Supplements: Senior Independent Director 30,000 Audit Committee Chairman 30,000 CSR Committee Chairman 25,000 Nominations Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman 30,000 Committee Memberships Fees not Chairman : Audit Committee 6,250 CSR Committee 6,250 Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee 6,250 British American Tobacco 96 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Travel and related expenses Non-Executive Directors are generally reimbursed for the cost of travel and related expenses incurred by them as Directors of the Company in respect of attendance at Board, Committee and General meetings.
In the instances where the cost of reimbursement of such expenses are classified as a benefit to the Director, it is also the practice of the Company to pay the tax which may be due on any such benefits.
With effect from 1 February 2013, the Non-Executive Directors were eligible for general practitioner walk-in medical services.
Spouses of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors may, from time to time, accompany the Directors to overseas or UK-based Board meetings and otherwise at hospitality functions during the year.
Non-Executive Director Anthony Ruys: ITC Limited audited Anthony Ruys has been a Non-Executive Director of ITC Limited ITC an associate undertaking of the Company since 20 January 2009.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, Anthony Ruys received INR 780,000 7,614 in fees from ITC 2012: INR 740,000 8,309.
This amount is the subject of an annual supplement from a Group company so that he receives a total annual fee for this appointment of75,000.
Anthony Ruys also has an interest in options over shares in ITC as set out below.
Anthony Ruys At Exercised at At Number of ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme 1 Jan 2013 Granted in 2013 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2013 options that Dates from share options over ordinary shares of Number of Grant price Number of Number of Number of may be which Latest 2 2 INR1 each in ITC Limited audited options Grant date per option options options options exercised exercisable expiry date 20,000 23 Jul 2009 Rs.
ITC Limited ITC is an associate undertaking of the Company and is listed on stock exchanges in India.
Anthony Ruys, a Non-Executive Director of the Company, is also a non-executive director of ITC.
Anthony Ruys has been granted options over shares in ITC under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme 2006 which provides for the grant of options to its non-executive directors as permitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme Guidelines 1999 the Scheme.
Each option entitles its holder to apply for and to be allotted 10 ordinary shares in ITC of INR1 each upon payment of the grant price during the appropriate exercise period.
An exercise period begins at the date of vesting of an option and expires at the end of five years from that vesting date.
The vesting period for the conversion of an option under the Scheme is as follows: a 30% vests12 months from the date of grant: b 30% vests 24 months from the date of grant: and c 40% vests 36 months from the date of grant.
British American Tobacco 97 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Single total figures for Directors remuneration Non-Executive Directors Chairman: Aggregate audited The following table shows a single figure of remuneration for the Chairman in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31 December 2013 together with comparative figures for 2012.
The aggregate Directors emoluments are shown below.
Taxable benefits Other Fees emoluments Total remuneration Chairman 000 000 000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Richard Burrows 615 593 105 99 720 692 Analysis of taxable benefits other emoluments 1 Taxable benefits health insurance 13 12 use of a company driver 59 61 installation and maintenance of home security systems in the UK and Ireland 13 7 hotel accommodation and related expenses incurred inconnection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events 14 7 Other emoluments commuting flights to London 6 12 Total taxable benefits other emoluments 105 99 Note: 1.
The figures shown for taxable benefits are gross amounts as it is the normal practice of the Company to pay the tax which may be due on any benefits.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the terms of engagement and fees payable to the Chairman.
The current terms of Richard Burrows appointment provide for: 1 an annual fee of 620,000: 2 the use of a driver: 3 private medical insurance and personal accident insurance benefits: and 4 the reimbursement by the Company of the cost of return airline tickets to London from his home in Ireland in connection with his duties as Chairman.
With effect from 1 February 2013, Richard Burrows was eligible for general practitioner walk-in medical services.
In common with the Non-Executive Directors, Richard Burrows does not participate in the British American Tobacco share schemes, bonus schemes or incentive plans and is not a member of any Group pension plan.
Aggregate Directors Emoluments audited The aggregate emoluments of the Directors of the Company were as follows: Executive Directors Chairman Non-Executive Directors Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Salary 2,609 2,492 2,609 2,492 Fees 615 593 850 887 1,465 1,480 Taxable benefits 830 396 99 87 164 70 1,093 553 Short-term incentives 4,042 4,040 4,042 4,040 Long-term incentives 4,825 5,413 4,825 5,413 Pension 1,394 1,752 1,394 1,752 Other emoluments 740 971 6 12 746 983 Total emoluments 14,440 15,064 720 692 1,014 957 16,174 16,713 British American Tobacco 98 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Total pension entitlements Executive Directors pension entitlements audited Accrued pension Additional value of at year end pension on early Normal retirement 31 Dec 2013 retirement Pension values age 000 000 Nicandro Durante UURBS UK 60 64 Fundacao Albino Souza Cruz 60 367 FASC Brazil Total 431 Ben Stevens Pension Fund UK 60 95 UURBS UK 60 197 Total 292 John Daly P J Carroll Ireland 60 92 Pension Fund UK 60 33 UURBS UK 60 133 Total 258 Notes: 1.
The amount of total accrued pension is the pension that would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, excluding any increase granted under the statute beforeretirement.
The UK Pension Fund is non-contributory.
Voluntary contributions paid by Executive Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
No excess retirement benefits have been paid to or are receivable by any Executive Director or past Executive Director.
Nicandro Durante and John Daly: the pension entitlements for the FASC and P J Carroll Directors Plan are denominated in Brazilian real and Euros respectively.
British American Tobacco 99 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Nicandro Durante Fundao Albino Souza Cruz FASC and UURBS Souza Cruz SA is a Brazilian registered company in which the Group has a 75% interest.
Its shares are listed on the So Paulo stock exchange and the remuneration, reward and pensions policies and practices of Souza Cruz reflect those of the Brazilian corporate market.
Nicandro Durantes pension entitlements are as follows: 1 From December 1981 to March 2012, membership of the FASC in Brazil.
This is a non-contributory defined benefit scheme and includes a spouses death in service benefit equal to 37.5% of the members prospective pension at normal retirement age.
Accrual rates do not exceed 1.85% of basic salary excluding bonus averaged over the 12 months to normal retirement age, for each year of pensionable service.
Nicandro Durantes Brazilian pensionable salary was reviewed by the Company annually with reference to the salary of that of a General Manager of Souza Cruz SA and adjusted annually by the same percentage as that applied to pensioners in receipt of benefits from the FASC.
Benefits from the FASC have remained subject to the rules of that scheme.
Following legislative changes to the applicable UK tax relief regulations in respect of overseas pension arrangements, Nicandro Durantes FASC pension benefits have been in payment since 1 April 2012 and currently amount to approximately 367,000 per annum after adjusting for currency exchange reflecting Nicandro Durantes 31 years service at Souza Cruz.
The Remuneration Committee has ruled that the resulting tax charges in variable amounts for the prior years from 2006 to 2012 would be tax equalised in 2013 by way of a non-recurring gross payment of 440,000 in respect of this liability to Nicandro Durante.
No further compensation payment was made or element of remuneration adjusted in lieu of there being no further pension accrual in the FASC.
2 Effective from 1 March 2006 being the date of his appointment as a member of the Management Board an accrual of 0.65% for each year of service the UK Accrual Rate on a basic sterling salary comparable to that of a General Manager of Souza Cruz SA: 747,494 per annum with effect from 1 April 2013.
At retirement the pension will be based on a 12 months average and will be provided through the UURBS.
3 With effect from 1 January 2011 being the date of his appointment as Chief Executive Designate, Nicandro Durante commenced an accrual of 2.5% for each year of service on a basic salary in excess of that stated in 2 above.
At retirement the pension is based on a 12 months average and will be provided through the UURBS.
Ben Stevens and John Daly British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund and UURBS Ben Stevens and John Daly each joined the British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund the Pension Fund after 1989 and before the closure of its non-contributory defined benefit section to new members in April 2005.
As a result, prior to 6 April 2006, these individuals were subject to the HMRC cap on pensionable earnings notionally 141,600 for the tax year 2013 14.
In addition, each has an unfunded pension promise from the Company in respect of earnings above the cap on an equivalent basis to the benefits provided by the Pension Fund.
This is provided through membership of an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS.
Further to the changes to the applicable tax regulations, the pension accrual in the Pension Fund for John Daly has been restricted to the statutory annual allowance of 50,000 with the balance of approximately 6,640 being provided through the UURBS.
Ben Stevens has reached his lifetime allowance of 1.8m and has therefore ceased accrual in the Pension Fund with all future benefits being provided through membership of the UURBS.
During the year, there has been no change to the overall pension entitlement of either Director.
These commitments are included in Note 12 on the accounts.
Members of the Pension Fund are entitled to receive increases in their pensions once in payment in line with price inflation as measured by the Retail Prices Index up to 6% per annum.
John Daly P J Carroll Directors Plan John Daly was formerly a member of the P J Carroll Directors Plan in Ireland.
He is also entitled to a deferred benefit currently amounting to 110,776 per annum, payable from the age of 60.
This benefit is scheduled to increase each year between January 2012 and December 2015 by the lower of 4% or the Irish Consumer Price Index.
John Daly stepped down as Chief Operating Officer on 31 December 2013 and he transferred the value of this deferred benefit out of the PJ Carroll Directors Plan to a private arrangement in January 2014.
He will cease to be an Executive Director on 6 April 2014.
British American Tobacco 100 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Directors shareholdings and scheme interests Executive Directors shareholding guidelines The shareholding guidelines require Executive Directors to hold shares in the Company equal to the value of a percentage of salary as set out in the table below.
The shares held to meet the requirements must exclude shares earned but not yet vested under the Companys short-term DSBS and long-term LTIP incentive plans as well as those held in trust under the all-employee share ownership plan SIP.
These guidelines are considered to be a practical way in which the Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a high level of personal shareholding to ensure a continuing alignment of interests with shareholders.
of eligible Value of eligible Actual requirements ordinary shares ordinary shares held at percentage % % of base salary held at 31 Dec 2013 of base salary at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2013 m 31 Dec 2013 Nicandro Durante 300 400 from 1 Jan 14 159,040 5.1 468.2 Ben Stevens 200 250 from 1 Jan 14 58,360 1.9 231.3 John Daly retires 6 Apr 2014 200 44,792 1.5 201.2 Notes: The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares on 31 December 2013 was 3,238p.
Arrangements are in place for those Executive Directors who do not meet, at any one point, the requirements of the shareholding guidelines.
In such cases, individuals may, generally, only sell a maximum of up to 50% of any shares vesting after tax under the Company share plansuntil the threshold required under the shareholding guidelines has been met.
There are no formal shareholding requirements for theNon-Executive Directors although they are encouraged to build a small interest in shares during the term of their appointment.
With effect from 1 January 2014 and in respect of shareholders requests made during the Companys policy consultations, the shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors have been increased as stated in the table above.
Share interests audited The interests of the Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2013, in the ordinary shares of the Company beneficial, family and any connected persons are as follows: DSBS: deferred 6 Shares held SIP shares shares Unvested: subject Held in employee to continued Owned outright benefit trust employment Awarded on Released on 22 Mar 2013 25 March 2013 At 31 Dec 2013 2 At 1 Jan 2013 At 31 Dec 2013 At 1 Jan 2013 At 31 Dec 2013 At 1 Jan 2013 Number of shares Number of shares At 31 Dec 2013 Number of shares Executive Directors Nicandro Durante 150,713 159,040 1,209 1,374 70,233 25,478 17,005 78,706 239,120 Ben Stevens 57,977 58,360 915 1,018 60,668 17,079 15,925 61,822 121,200 John Daly 48,306 44,792 289 280 44,669 15,069 8,601 51,137 96,209 Chairman Richard Burrows 10,000 10,000 10,000 Non-Executive Directors Karen fide Segundo 2,000 2,000 2,000 1 Ann Godbehere 477 2,907 2,907 Christine Morin-Postel 3,000 3,000 3,000 Gerry Murphy 3,000 3,000 3,000 Kieran Poynter 5,000 5,000 5,000 5 Anthony Ruys 3,000 3,000 3,000 Richard Tubb from 28 January 2013 Former Directors Robert Lerwill to 25 April 2013 3,000 3,000 N A Sir Nicholas Scheele to 25 April 2013 5,000 5,000 N A Notes: 1.
Ann Godbehere: these share interests include 1,215 American Depositary Receipts, each of which represents two ordinary shares in the Company.
The closing mid-market price on the date of release 25 March 2013 was 3,509p.
Based on the performance for 2013, the Executive Directors will each be awarded a number of ordinary shares to the value of 2,440 pursuant to an award of shares under the Share Reward Scheme on1 April 2014.
On 31 December 2013, the Groups employee share ownership trust, referred to later in this Remuneration Report, held a total of 8,929,075 ordinary shares in the Company.
All participating employees, including the Executive Directors, are deemed to have a beneficial interest in these shares.
Anthony Ruys as a non-executive director of ITC Limited ITC an associate undertaking of the Company has interests in share options granted to him by ITC under its stock options scheme.
Details of these share interests are set out above.
The SIP shares comprise vested and unvested shares in the Share Incentive Plan Partnership Share Scheme and Share Reward Scheme International Share Reward Scheme.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the LTIP.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of the LTIP interests during the year.
Scheme interests share options audited The scheme interests of the Executive Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2013 in the shares of the Company under the Sharesave Scheme are as follows: At At 1 Jan 2013 31 Dec 2013 Date Number of Grant price Granted Exercised Number of from which Latest shares Grant date pence in 2013 in 2013 shares exercisable expiry date Nicandro Durante 591 28 Mar 2012 2,536.0 591 May 2017 Oct 2017 Ben Stevens 1,000 25 Nov 2009 1,555.0 1,000 Jan 2015 Jun 2015 John Daly 457 25 Mar 2011 1,974.0 457 May 2014 Oct 2014 Notes: 1.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Sharesave Scheme.
No options lapsed for the Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2013.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of these interests in share options during the year.
The aggregate gain on the exercise of Sharesave options was nil 2012: 26,402.
British American Tobacco 102 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Scheme interests awarded during the year ended 31 December 2013 audited Basis of award Percentage vesting Date of multiple of Face value at threshold Performance Executive Directors Scheme award base salary % 000 performance No.
The face value of awards is calculated by reference to the share price at the date of grant of the award: 3,505p.
The percentage vesting at threshold performance is broken down as follows: TSR FTSE 100 group of companies Ranking median Percentage of vesting award 6 TSR FMCG peer group Ranking median Percentage of vesting award 6 Earnings per share growth Percentage per annum above inflation 3% Percentage of vesting award 8 Total 20 Shareholder dilution options and awards outstanding In accordance with the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers ABI, the Company can satisfy awards under all its share plans LTIP and its predecessor, the 1998 LTIP, SIP and Sharesave Scheme with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling ten-year period to employees under all its share plans.
Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury 5% of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans.
The Companys former executive share option plan the Share Option Scheme closed to further grants in March 2004: 95,266 options were outstanding as at 31 December 2013 and could be satisfied by the issue of new shares before expiry in March 2014.
The rules of the Companys Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS do not allow for the satisfaction of awards by the issue of new shares.
During the year, new ordinary shares were issued by the Company in relation to the Sharesave Scheme.
Under the Sharesave Scheme, a total of 728,873 options over ordinary shares in the Company were outstanding at 31 December 2013, representing 0.04% of the Companys issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
The options outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable until end October 2018 at option prices ranging from 1,435p to 2,807p.
The British American Tobacco Group Employee Trust BATGET BATGET is used to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the DSBS, the LTIP and the 1998 LTIP as wellasthe exercise of options under the closed Share Option Scheme.
The number of shares held in BATGET to satisfy outstanding awards isconsistently monitored by a committee of senior management that reports to the Boards Employee Share Schemes Committee.
Funding of the BATGET BATGET is funded by interest-free loan facilities from the Company totalling 700 million, enabling the trust to facilitate the purchase of ordinary shares to satisfy the future vesting or exercise of options and awards.
The loan to BATGET amounted to 603 million at 31 December 2013 2012: 538 million.
The loan is either repaid from the proceeds of the exercise of options or, in the case of ordinary shares acquired by BATGET to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards, the Company will subsequently waive the loan provided over the life of the awards.
If the options lapse, ordinary shares may be sold by BATGET to cover the loan repayment.
British American Tobacco 103 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Ordinary shares held in the BATGET Details of the ordinary shares in the Company held by BATGET are set out below.
1 January 2013 31 December 2013 Number of ordinary shares 10,520,098 8,929,075 Market value of ordinary shares 328.3m 289.1m Percentage of the issued share capital of the Company % 0.51 0.44 BATGET currently waives dividends on the ordinary shares held by it.
BATGET waived payment of the final dividend for 2012 of 9.4 million in May 2013 and the interim dividend for 2013 of 4.1 million in September 2013.
The trustee does not exercise any voting rights while shares are held by BATGET.
As soon as shares held in BATGET are transferred out to share scheme participants, the participants may exercise the voting rights attaching to those shares.
Details of the Companys material share-based payment arrangements, reflecting both equity share-based and cash-settled share-based arrangements, are set out in note 27 on the accounts.
Other required disclosures Payments to former directors The Company made no payment of money or other assets to former Directors during the year ended 31 December 2013.
Payments for loss of office The Company made no payments to Directors for loss of office during the year ended 31 December 2013.
Voting on the Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM At the AGM on 25 April 2013, the shareholders considered the annual advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration report under the legal regime that preceded the Regulations.
No other resolutions in respect of Directors remuneration and incentives were considered at the AGM.
The voting outcome is set out in the table below.
Total votes cast Total votes Votes for including excluding votes cast including 1 Resolution discretionary votes Percentage for Votes against Percentage against withheld Votes withheld votes withheld Approval of Directors Remuneration Report 1,257,995,534 91.36 78,807,245 5.72 1,336,802,779 40,209,042 1,377,011,821 Note: 1.
Votes withheld are not included in the final proxy figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
The Company undertook a regular programme of engagement with institutional shareholders and their representative bodies during the run-up to the AGM.
A wide range of issues were discussed and feedback was generally positive.
Details of the charges introduced following shareholder consultation on remuneration are set out in the Chairmans annual statement and in note 3 to the Future Policy Table.
No vote was required to be taken in relation to the Directors remuneration policy at the 2013 AGM.
British American Tobacco 104 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Long-term incentives: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Directors remuneration in the year ending 2014 2013 31 December 2014 LTIP Executive Directors Multiple of Multiple of Proposed implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 Award levels maximum opportunity base salary % base salary % Nicandro Durante 400 400 The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors is set out in the policy report and was Ben Stevens 300 300 effective from 1 January 2014.
Subject to shareholder approval at John Daly retires in April 2014 300 the AGM on 30 April 2014, it will become binding on the Company and it will become the approved shareholder policy the 2014 LTIP: measurement Weighting Policy.
The Policy Report explains the work undertaken by the of performance 2014 % Remuneration Committee, in consultation with the Companys TSR FMCG comparator group 25 largest shareholders, to produce revised remuneration structure asset out in the Future Policy Table see page 65.
EPS growth in range 50 of 5% to 10% The basic elements to note for 2014 are set out below.
NTO net turnover with underlying operating profit underpin 25 Executive Directors base salary Base salary Base salary from Percentage from 1 Apr 2014 change 1 Apr 2013 Non-Executive Directors fees Executive Directors salaries % Fees from Nicandro Durante 1,155,000 5.00 1,100,000 1 Jan 2014 Jan-Dec 2013 Ben Stevens 841,500 3.00 817,000 Basic fee 90,000 90,000 John Daly Supplements: retires in April 2014 721,000 721,000 Senior Independent Director 30,000 30,000 Short-term incentives: International Executive Audit Committee Chairman 30,000 30,000 Incentive Scheme IEIS CSR Committee Chairman 25,000 25,000 2014 2013 Nominations Committee Chairman IEIS Executive Directors Maximum Maximum 1 50% in cash, 50% in deferred shares opportunity % opportunity % Remuneration Committee Chairman 30,000 30,000 Nicandro Durante 200 200 Committee Memberships Fees not Chairman : Ben Stevens 180 180 2 Audit Committee 6,000 6,250 John Daly retires in April 2014 180 CSR Committee 6,000 6,250 3 Nominations Committee 6,000 IEIS: performance measures for 2014 Weighting % Remuneration Committee 6,000 6,250 Adjusted profit from operations 40 Groups share of key markets 20 Chairmans fees Global Drive Brand GDBs and Fees from Fees at Key Strategic Brands volumes 20 1 April 2014 1 April 2013 Cash flow from operations 20 Notes: Richard Burrows 632,400 620,000 1.
There is an individual performance element which can be awarded being an adjustment factor of either 10% or 20% of the annual corporate result and is paid in cash.
In cases of identified poor personal performance, the corporate result will be reduced by 50%.
The On behalf of the Board individual adjustment factor is capped so that under no circumstances can the maximum award levels of 200% and 180% be exceeded.
John Daly will retire as an Executive Director in April 2014 and will cease to be an employee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the Company from that date.
In accordance with the rules of the IEIS, his performancerelated bonus in respect of the year ending 31 December 2014 will be pro-rated for his period 26 February 2014 of service in 2014 at an on-target outcome, payable on retirement as a 100% cash bonus instead of 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares.
The specific target percentages for the performance measures at threshold, target and maximum levels for 2014 are considered to be commercially sensitive because of the information that this provides to market competitors.
Further, the ranges of indicative performance only will be disclosed after the end of the financial year in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration published in 2015.
The Remuneration Committee will review the commercial confidentiality of the targets and outcomes on an ongoing basis.
