CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: diRECTORs REmuNERATiON REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued diRECTORs REmuNERATiON REPORT continued fuTuRE REmuNERATiON POliCy: REmuNERATiON shares or cash.
The cash elements of performance-related For all participating employees, including the Executive Pensions ARRANGEmENTs fOR ExECuTiVE diRECTORs iN bonuses are paid in full within three months of the Directors, 50% of shares vest at the end of the three-year The Group contributes 15% of basic salary to personal fuTuRE PERiOds year-end.
period and 50% are deferred for a further year.
Awards pensions for each of the Executive Directors, who also Overall remuneration package review made under the VSP are discussed further in note 31 to the have the option to receive part, or all, of their pension Long-term value-sharing plans vesting in the future As indicated in last years annual report, the Remuneration Financial Statements.
The additional cash payment is The value-sharing plan VSP, which was approved by Committee has undertaken a wholesale review of Executive counted in lieu of pension, and is not treated as base shareholders in 2010, comprises annual awards, providing Additional awards are not expected to be made under the Remuneration.
The review concluded the following: salary for the purposes of calculating other benefits.
As the Executive Directors and other senior staff with a preVSP.
However, the 2011 and 2012 VSP performance periods an alternative to part-payment of a performance-related For a business at IG Groups current stage of defined number of shares for each 10.0 million of surplus run to 31 May 2014 and 31 May 2015 respectively.
bonus or basic salary, Executive Directors may choose to development, the existing arrangements are too highly shareholder value created over three years above a hurdle.
receive an equivalent contribution to their pension.
geared, with high upside in the value-sharing plan Surplus value is calculated under two criteria: VSP linked to exceptional growth, but with insufficient The Executive Directors have elected to: i Value created from the difference between the emphasis on sustained, reliable performance Total Shareholder Return TSR of IG Group Holdings T A Howkins Restrict pension contribution to Base salaries are significantly behind market levels, which plc and that of the FTSE350 Financial Services Index, 50,000 and receive the balance is designed to complement the high gearing of the VSP multiplied by the IG Group Holdings plc starting of the pension contribution as The package should be simplified with a focus on market capitalisation, defined as the average market an additional cash payment delivering sustained performance, through a mix of capitalisation in the three months to 31 May, in the year financial, non-financial and TSR-related measures C F Hill Receive the full pension in question Further shareholder alignment should be achieved by contribution increasing the emphasis on equity and through the ii Growth in profit before taxation PBT multiplied by a introduction of a formal shareholding requirement P G Hetherington Receive the full pension fixed multiple determined by the IG Group Holdings plc contribution as an additional starting market capitalisation, plus net equity cash flows The Remuneration Committee has proposed changes to cash payment to shareholders above a hurdle return.
For example, for the Executive Director remuneration policy as a result of the 2012 VSP the hurdle return was 12% per annum, with the review.
The Committee believes that the proposed Benefits the multiple being 8.829 changes provide a reward policy which is more closely The Group provides a range of benefits to employees, tailored to the Groups business aims and are being including private health cover and discounted health For Executive Directors, 60% of the shares will vest based discussed with the Groups major shareholders.
The Executive Directors are entitled to upon the first criteria and 40% will vest based upon the details will be set out in the Notice of AGM documents.
participate in these non-cash benefits on equal terms with second.
The 60:40 ratio between TSR and PBT applies In summary, the proposed changes aim to: all other staff.
Code Staff and other senior employees are paid on either a 50:50 TSR and PBT ratio or Simplify the overall remuneration package Performance-related bonuses a 40:60 TSR and PBT ratio, depending on seniority and role.
Ensure a rounded assessment of performance For the financial year ending 31 May 2014, the while retaining a focus on earnings and total Remuneration Committee is proposing that the Executive The decision to split the awards on this basis was made shareholder return Directors and Senior Management bonus scheme be by the Remuneration Committee after taking advice Provide an increased emphasis on equity through a replaced by a new incentive scheme as mentioned earlier from Kepler Associates.
It was agreed that the Executive shareholding requirement, delivery of awards in shares, in this section.
Directors are better placed to influence the performance of and the deferral of equity the Group relative to its peers.
It is intended the general staff bonus scheme, which Provide a better balance between fixed and variable pay, applies to the vast majority of the Groups employees, while retaining an emphasis on reward for performance The Remuneration Committee considers that profit will continue unchanged.
before taxation excluding impairment of goodwill and Basic salary intangibles is an appropriate measure of the Groups For the current bonus scheme, the Remuneration Base salaries have previously been set at below market financial performance as it is highly visible and regularly Committee retains the right to reduce, but not increase, levels by reference to equivalent roles in companies monitored and reported.
The use of TSR introduces the bonuses payable, if it considers that the formulaic selected on the basis of comparable size, geographic an element of relative performance into the Groups financial measures have not produced an appropriate spread and business focus, taking into account the highly remuneration package, which is intended to protect bonus outcome.
Assessment of performance against geared nature of the long-term share based incentive against general stock market movements and focus the non-financial measure is entirely at the discretion scheme.
Individual salary decisions take into account more closely on the value created for shareholders by of the committee.
personal contribution and business performance, as well management, over and above that delivered by peers.
as general pay conditions of employees elsewhere in In line with the final FCA Code rules on disclosure of the Group.
The blend of PBT and TSR measures provides strong remuneration published in December 2010, there is a alignment with shareholder interests and provides an deferral element in the current bonus scheme.
The first The intention of the Committee is that the proposed appropriate balance between internal and external, 100,000 of any bonus granted, plus one third of the Executive Directors salaries are presented to shareholders as well as absolute and relative, performance.
remainder, is to be paid in cash, with the excess balance in the notice of AGM as part of the overall changes deferred for 12 months basis share price and settled in to remuneration.
66 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 67
