governance directors remuneration report Bob Ivell Chairman The Remuneration Committee Objective Introduction from the committee chairman To agree remuneration policy and to set individual compensation I am pleased to present the Directors for directors and senior management.
Remuneration Report for the year ended 29 Membership September 2013, which was a particularly The Committee comprises Gerald Corbett, Ben Gordon, Michael strong year for Britvic and our shareholders.
Shallow and myself, as its Chairman.
The company Chairman and The companys 2013 year end has fallen one day before the new Chief Executive Officer who may attend by invitation do not regulations relating to the changes in narrative and remuneration attend meetings when their individual remuneration is discussed.
reporting came into force on 30 September 2013.
However, to Meetings reflect good practice, this report has been prepared not only in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of The The Committee meets at least three times a year.
As Chairman, I Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and report on the outcome of the Committees meetings to the board.
Reports Regulations 2008, but also includes the main elements of the new reporting regime under the regulations as amended Main activities during the year in August 2013, which the company will be required to fully adhere Full details of the Committees responsibilities and its activities are to next year.
The Committee has decided therefore to voluntarily set out in this report.
include the following additional disclosures in this years report: Committee evaluation A policy table which summarises how the Committee approaches each element of remuneration including details of The Committee was included in the external board evaluation our recruitment and termination policy: performed during the year, the details of which can be found on pages 30 and 31.
Performance scenario charts showing the value of packages based on different levels of performance: A single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director and a five year history of remuneration and incentive plan outcomes for the position of Chief Executive Officer CEO : and A distribution statement comparing annual changes in pay spend, profit after tax, dividends and capital expenditure.
To accommodate these additions, and to proactively adopt many of the key changes in the new reporting requirements, we are presenting this report in a different format than our previous Directors Remuneration reports.
The first part of the report sets out our forward-looking directors remuneration policy for 2014.
The second part of the report provides details of the implementation of our existing policies in respect of 2013.
As in previous years, at the AGM to be held on 29 January 2014, an advisory vote will be put to shareholders to approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
The board are not proposing that shareholders vote on our remuneration policy until next years AGM.
In addition, when preparing this report, the Committee has complied with the Code and with the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
We note that further guidance has been issued by the GC100 and by some institutional shareholders since the new regulations came into effect.
Whilst it has not been possible to fully reflect all of this guidance in this years report, for reasons of timing, I wanted to acknowledge the Committees general support of the principal suggestions which are emerging.
For example, we note the preference of many large shareholders for the development of a more flexible policy than that summarised in this report so that the companys remuneration policy is only put to shareholder vote once in every three years and it is how best we approach some of these emerging issues which the Committee will want to reflect on over the forthcoming year and as the relevant guidance evolves.
36 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information directors remuneration report continued The year under review In accordance with best practice, we introduced malus During the year we dealt with a number of specific pay-related provisions and discretion to allow the Committee to reduce issues.
These arose against the backdrop of a period of both future unvested or vested but unexercised long term incentive significant change and robust performance at Britvic.
For example: awards in various circumstances.
We set the remuneration arrangements of Simon Litherland Finally, we agreed the changes in salary for the CEO and Chief when he took up the role of CEO, following Paul Moodys Financial Officer CFO effective from 1 January 2014 as part of retirement on 26 February 2013, at the same position to allow a the annual pay review process for the whole company.
swift transition and agreed to review this package at the end of As Chairman of the Committee and Senior Independent Director, I the financial year.
am committed to ensuring an open dialogue with our shareholders.
In keeping with our market competitive remuneration policy we Therefore, should you have any comments in relation to the agreed it appropriate to move John Gibneys base salary to content of this report, or any issues relating to our approach to 345,000 to reflect his contribution during a period of significant executive remuneration, please feel free to contact me at potential change and uncertainty.
As referred to in last years report, we also agreed the detailed terms relating to Paul Moodys early retirement and subsequent six month consultancy arrangement.
In line with normal practice for eligible employees the Committee used its discretion to allow Paul Moody to apply the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility Bob Ivell EERF to his pension.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee We agreed bonus payouts for the year under review which reflected excellent progress on our new business strategy and the delivery of a material increase in shareholder value.
We further reviewed and confirmed the award levels and performance conditions for grants made under our two sharebased long-term incentive plans as well as confirming there would be no vesting of awards of certain grants made in earlier years due to the non-fulfilment of performance targets.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 37 directors remuneration report continued 38 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information directors remuneration report continued remuneration policy section Our overall approach to remuneration The principal objective of our executive remuneration policy is to support a high performance culture and the successful execution of our new business strategy.
In return we aim to provide competitive levels of remuneration opportunity for our senior executives and leadership team, a significant portion of which is in the form of variable pay.
Our new business strategy is based on unlocking opportunities to deliver substantial value to our shareholders by sustaining market leading growth in our established markets and investing in rapid growth opportunities in new international markets.
As set out in the Chief Executive Officers Review on page 9 a key part of the strategy is to successfully secure a step change in our cost base and realising the huge potential opportunities from our investment in international markets.
The Committee believes that this requires the provision of a simple, transparent and competitive total remuneration policy that can help attract, retain and inspire the calibre of senior executive talent to deliver our ambitious growth plans.
In particular this requires: Competitively positioned base salary and incentive levels taking into account both our industry sector and other companies of a similar size and scope.
An incentive mix that balances our short and medium priorities to ensure sustained longterm value creation for our shareholders.
An incentive structure that provides an appropriate degree of variability to only reward excellent performance with superior pay opportunity.
Benefit arrangements sufficient to maintain the overall reward package close to the competitive norms described above.
Share ownership levels which, over time, align the actions and interests of executives with those of our long-term shareholders.
The Committee regularly reviews the remuneration policy to ensure that it is sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the companys business operations and environment, provides alignment to shareholder interests and that it recognises key developments in remuneration practice.
The Committee believes our long-standing remuneration policy as described in this report continues to remain appropriate and that the incentive structures do not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The Committee also takes account of general workforce pay and conditions when determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors and is kept abreast of all relevant issues through regular interaction with our HR function.
Where our pay policy for directors differs to our pay policies for employees more widely, this reflects wider market-related influences.
In keeping with typical market practice, the Committee did not consult with employees or shareholders in relation to our executive remuneration policies but believes that these policies are entirely justified and appropriate in light of our wider reward practices.
The section below provides further detail on how we apply these overriding principles to each element of the executives remuneration packages.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 39 directors remuneration report continued Elements of the package The table below outlines the purpose for and, where relevant, performance measures attaching to each element of the remuneration package.
Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and perf ormance measures Implementation of policy in the year Base Salary To position the role and the individual fairly around mid-market Base salaries are paid in cash and reviewed annually, Paul Moodys salary was not increased during the year.
John A core element of fixed pay which reflects the individuals role derived from a peer group of similar sized UK listed companies with any changes normally taking effect from 1 January.
Gibneys salary was increased from 324,000 to 345,000 from and position within the group, with some adjustment to reflect both pan-sector and from the food and beverages sector.
When determining this increase, the Committee their experience, capability and contribution The Committee used this data when giving consideration to considered the overall GB salary review budget which was 3% in the appropriate pay level having regard to other relevant factors 2013 but considered this increase appropriate for the reasons set including corporate and individual performance and any changes out in the Committee Chairmans introduction above.
in an individuals role and responsibilities.
As an interim measure, Simon Litherlands salary was set at 510,000 upon him taking up the role as CEO and shall remain at this level until at least 31 December 2013.
The Committee has been considering what the appropriate level of salary for Simon Litherland should be, and from 1 January 2014 Simon Litherlands salary is planned to increase to 560,000 and John Gibneys salary is planned to increase to 360,000 in line with both their individual and the companys strong performance, in addition to the Committees market competitive policy.
Benefits To provide market competitive benefits in kind.
Values are shown in Main benefits include annual car benefit or allowance and No changes were made in the current year and no changes are To provide other standard benefits which should be later tables but may fluctuate without the Committee taking action.
membership of the companys private medical healthcare plan, proposed in the forthcoming year.
valued by recipient and the ability to buy or sell holiday under the companys The company may amend the benefits available to staff from time flexible benefits plan.
to time, and the Executive Directors would normally be subject to the same changes.
There is also a relocation policy which provides for reasonable expenses to be paid subject to the Committees approval.
While not considered a benefit, consistent with general market practice, executives may attend various functions representing the company whether provided by the company or by a third party.
Such attendance and the resulting costs are monitored under the companys anti-bribery policy.
Pension To provide a competitive suite of post-retirement benefits.
Executive Directors can receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension The cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions for Paul Moody To aid retention and to remain market-competitive contributions where they are in possession of protections from and subsequently Simon Litherland is 24.6% of basic salary and is HM Revenue and Customs in relation to the Lifetime Allowance.
Paul Moody and John Gibneys participation in the defined benefit No changes were made in the current year and no changes are section of the Britvic Pension Plan ceased on 10 April 2011 following planned in the forthcoming year.
the closure of the Plan to future accrual.
They both qualify for the As an early retiree, the basis of Paul Moodys retirement benefits Enhanced Early Retirement Facility EERF which means that their followed the same provisions that apply to all former members in pensions are not actuarially reduced if they retire within five years the defined benefit section of the Britvic Pension Plan who are of normal pension age.
However, the company has given notice to eligible to retire before 11 April 2016 and who remain in active all Plan members that the EERF will be withdrawn by 11 April 2016. service with the company.
Paul Moody and John Gibney are also members of the Britvic He qualified for the EERF which meant that his pension was not Executive Top Up Scheme BETUS, a securitised unfunded actuarially reduced as the date of Paul Moodys retirement was unregistered pension scheme.
BETUS closed to future accrual within five years of his normal pension age.
on 10 April 2011, in line with the closure of the defined benefit section of the Britvic Pension Plan.
Members of BETUS may be We also offered Paul the option to take his BETUS benefits as a offered a cash out of their benefits by Britvic on a basis previously cash payment which he exercised.
As pre-agreed with the agreed by the Committee.
Committee this was based on the IAS19 value of those benefits, reduced by 10%, and reduced further to account for the National Insurance costs arising for the company as a result of making the payment as a cash lump sum.
Short-term incentive plan STIP see Note 1 below Simon Litherlands maximum bonus opportunity is 140% of salary, The targets are split between profit before tax 50% of bonus Due to his exceptional performance since appointment as CEO, To motivate employees and incentivise delivery of annual with 70% at target.
The equivalent percentages for John Gibney opportunity, net revenue 20% and free cash flow 30%.
including the 24% increase in share price over the period to performance targets are 120% and 60%, respectively.
29 September, the Committee agreed to a bonus payment The Committee reserves the right to adjust these levels and or equivalent to 138% of Simon Litherlands annual salary out These levels were set in accordance with the same remuneration use different targets in accordance with our remuneration of a maximum possible of 140%.
The Committee reserves the right to principles from time to time.
adjust these levels from time to time in keeping with those objectives.
40 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information directors remuneration report continued Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and perf ormance measures Implementation of policy in the year Base Salary To position the role and the individual fairly around mid-market Base salaries are paid in cash and reviewed annually, Paul Moodys salary was not increased during the year.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 41 directors remuneration report continued Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and perf ormance measures Implementation of policy in the year Long-term incentives ESOP see note 2 on page 44 The Committee chooses performance metrics that support the The Committee undertook a review of the existing share incentive To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained and exceptional The policy is to award the CEO and CFO an initial face value equal companys strategy, provide a direct link with shareholder value plans at the outset of the year.
Due to the merger discussions with to no more than 300% and 250% of annual salary each year, and ensure a clear line of sight for participants between AG Barr plc, awards under the long-term incentive plans were performance over the medium and long-term, we operate two respectively.
For Executive Directors: delayed until March 2013 rather than December 2012. plans, the Performance Share Plan PSP and Executive Share Option Plan ESOP PSP see note 3 on page 45 ESOP Simon Litherland received on appointment ESOP and PSP awards The policy is to award Executive Directors shares with an initial Three year real i. e. above inflation EPS growth.
25% vests for over shares with a face value of 300% and 100% of his salary, face value equal to no more than 100% of annual salary each year.
achieving a challenging threshold level of real growth, with 100% respectively.
vesting for achieving particularly stretching targets.
John Gibney received ESOP and PSP awards over shares with PSP a face value of 250% and 100% of salary respectively.
Awards are equally split between three year relative TSR and Paul Moody received no awards in the year under review.
For the TSR element, 25% vests for median performance versus a peer group of similar sector companies, with In the event that awards under both plans are made in 2014, the 100% vesting at upper quartile.
For the ROIC element, 25% vests grant date will revert back to December 2013. for achieving a challenging threshold level of ROIC, with full vesting Malus and claw-back provisions will also be introduced into the for reaching particularly stretching targets in light of the current documents governing the PSP and ESOP to ensure the Committee economic environment.
have the ability to respond to unexpected financial events and The Committee sets these measures and targets having regard unacceptable behaviour in an appropriate manner.
both to Britvics ambitious long-term business plan and strategic See pages 52 and 53 for description of performance conditions priorities.
It reserves the right to use different targets in keeping attaching to awards made in March 2013 and pages 44 and 45 for with those objectives and realistic growth aspirations.
performance conditions agreed for awards planned for 2014.
Shareholding Guidelines Executive Directors are to acquire a shareholding equal to their The required shareholding is periodically reviewed and is currently No changes were made in the current year and no changes are To encourage long-term share ownership by the Executive salary within five years from the date of appointment to the board.
Until this holding is acquired, the Executive proposed in the forthcoming year.
Directors so that interests are aligned with other investors Directors may not sell any shares other than to finance the cost of However, the CEO has voluntarily agreed to purchase the exercising share options and any tax liabilities arising from the equivalent of 200,000 shares at the earliest opportunity following vesting of long-term incentive plans, unless approved by the the announcement of the financial results.
As a result of this Committee for example, in cases of financial hardship.
purchase his total holding will be equivalent to circa 36% of his new salary from 1 January 2014.
These shares will not be sold for at least three years and are intended to pro-actively strengthen his alignment with shareholder interests ahead of any future potential vesting of outstanding awards under the companys long-term incentive plans.
All-employee Share Plans Executive Directors are able to participate in an all-employee share Executive directors may participate in the Britvic Share Incentive In light of 2012 performance against internal targets, the To encourage share ownership by employees, thereby allowing plan on the same terms as other employees.
Plan, which is an all-employee HMRC approved share plan open to Committee determined that no award of free shares would be employees based in Great Britain.
The plan has three parts, all of made in the year under review.
them to share in the long-term success of the company and which the directors do participate in: align their interests with those of investors However, in light of 2013 performance a free share award will be - Free share awards, which are made annually subject to the made in January 2014, up to the maximum amount described in companys performance and at the discretion of the Committee.
The value of the award is discretionary and the maximum is 3% of reckonable earnings, capped at 3,000 per annum.
This award is typically made in the following financial year.
- Partnership shares, which are purchased by employees through payroll deductions ranging between 5 and 115 per pay period.
- Matching shares which are provided by the employer to individuals purchasing partnership shares on a one for one basis up to a maximum of 50 per pay period.
The Committee reserves the right to use its discretion to amend the operation of the all-employee share plan from time to time.
The table below summarises the policy applied to setting the remuneration of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors: Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and perf ormance measures Implementation of policy in the year Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees The fees paid to the Chairman and the fees of the other NonFees are paid in cash.
On 1 January 2013, the fees were increased as follows: 230,000 Executive Directors aim to be competitive with other fully listed for the Chairman of the board from 227,000, 50,000 for the role Fees for Non-Executive Directors are reviewed annually with any companies of equivalent size and complexity.
Fee levels are of Non-Executive Director from 48,000 with additional fees of: i changes taking effect from 1 January 2014. periodically reviewed by the board for Non-Executives and the 8,000 payable for the role of SID: and ii 8,000 payable where an Committee for the Chairman.
Additional fees are paid to Non-Executive Directors who are members of and who chair a board committee and to the Senior Independent Director SID.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in company incentive arrangements, and do not receive any form of pension provision.
42 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information directors remuneration report continued Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and perf ormance measures Implementation of policy in the year Long-term incentives ESOP see note 2 on page 44 The Committee chooses performance metrics that support the The Committee undertook a review of the existing share incentive To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained and exceptional The policy is to award the CEO and CFO an initial face value equal companys strategy, provide a direct link with shareholder value plans at the outset of the year.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 43 directors remuneration report continued Additional information to Policy Table 1 STIP For 2014, the Committee will maintain the same target and maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors as was the case in 2013.
The Committee has also decided that the key short-term operational drivers of the business used in the year under review remain appropriate.
Therefore, performance targets based on profit before tax 50% of total bonus, net revenue growth 20% and free cash flow 30% of total bonus will be set at appropriately stretching levels.
Further details of performance against these targets will be set out in the 2014 remuneration report.
Given the competitive environment in which the company operates, whilst the performance measures for annual bonus are disclosed, the detailed targets are considered to be commercially sensitive and therefore not disclosed.
2 Long-term incentives - Executive Share Option Plan Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied.
In the event that grants are made in 2014, the Committee has decided to maintain the same focus on long-term EPS growth as applied in 2013 and believes that the performance range remains sufficiently stretching in the context of the emerging business outlook and growth strategy of the company.
Therefore, the ESOP will operate for Executive Directors as follows and will include the malus clawback provisions referred to in the policy table: 1 Face value % of salary CEO: 300% CFO: 250% Performance metrics Earnings per share EPS defined as the companys adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share.
Performance condition in 2014 25% vests for EPS growth equivalent to RPI 3% compound per annum.
No awards will vest below this level of performance.
100% vests for EPS growth equivalent to RPI 7% compound per annum.
Vesting is on a straight line basis between threshold and maximum.
Options lapse to the extent that the performance condition is not achieved.
Change in control provisions Vesting is subject to achievement of performance conditions.
Vesting is pro rated for the portion of the performance period elapsed.
At the discretion of the committee vesting may be reduced to zero or the way that performance is measured can be adjusted but should be no more or less difficult to achieve.
Normally, awards must be exercised within six months of the change in control.
Subject to consent of the company and any acquiror, awards may be rolled over into other awards with equivalent structure and terms, except for performance conditions which may become subject to the performance conditions of the acquiror.
1 Based on average mid-market price for the three days prior to grant 44 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information directors remuneration report continued 3 Long-term incentives - Performance Share Plan In the event that grants are made in 2014, the Committee has decided to apply a higher ROIC range to those used for grants made in the year under review but will maintain the same relative TSR performance conditions.
The higher ROIC range is designed to support the new business strategy.
Therefore, the PSP will operate for Executive Directors as follows and will include the malus clawback provisions referred to in the policy table: 1 Face value % of salary CEO: 100% CFO: 100% Performance metrics Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR Return on invested capital ROIC is defined as pre-exceptional operating profit after tax divided by average invested capital including goodwill expressed as a percentage.
2, 3 Performance condition in 2014 Relative TSR portion 50% Peer group comprises a group of similar sector companies 18 for the last grant.
25% vests for ranking at median.
100% vests for ranking at or above upper quartile.
Vesting is on a straight line between threshold and maximum.
ROIC portion 50% 25% vests for three year average ROIC of 23.4%.
100% vests for three year average ROIC at or above 24.2%.
The extent of vesting also takes account the portion of the performance period elapsed.
At the discretion of the Committee the way that performance is measured can be adjusted but should be no more or less difficult to achieve.
Subject to consent of the company and any acquirer, awards may be rolled over into awards with equivalent structure and terms.
1 Based on the average mid-market price for the three days prior to grant 2 The comparator companies are currently: AG Barr plc, Associated British Foods, C&C Group, Dairy Crest, Diageo, Fuller Smith & Turner, Glanbia, Greencore, Greene King, Marstons, Nichols, Origin Enterprises, Premier Foods, Reckitt Benckiser, SABMiller, Smith & Nephew, Tate and Lyle, Wetherspoon.
The Committee retains discretion to review and amend the group of comparator companies from time to time where it is considered appropriate to do so.
3 The ROIC range has been changed from 20.7% to 21.5% which applied to awards made in 2013.
How our incentive plan targets link to our strategy Metric Incentive Plan Link to strategy Profit before tax PBT Short term incentive plan PBT is a key measure of the companys financial performance and, in particular, how successful the company has been in at accelerating its profitability from various strategic initiatives in place.
For STIP purposes PBT is pre-exceptional and other items in order to reflect the financial performance of the business, although the Committee will maintain discretion to adjust outcomes downward if deemed appropriate.
Net revenue Short term incentive plan Reflects a core strategic objective of growing revenues in all the companys markets, particularly in emerging markets.
Free cash flow Short term incentive plan FCF is a good indicator of the companys financial health, which links to a key corporate objective of improving cash conversion and is vitally important in ensuring our ability to invest in key international opportunities.
Three year EPS growth Executive share option plan EPS is an important long-term financial metric linked to value creation for our shareholders and provides an appropriate underpin for awards to vest under the ESOP.
For ESOP performance measurement, adjusted diluted EPS is used.
Three year relative Performance share plan TSR reflects the growth in value of the companys share price and dividends total shareholder compared to broad sector peers, thereby ensuring that participants only return growth receive rewards if they outperform a basket of other investment comparables.
ROIC Performance share plan ROIC is an important measure for the company to ensure it optimises its invested capital to deliver returns significantly in excess of the cost of that capital.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 45 directors remuneration report continued Recruitment remuneration policy Our recruitment remuneration policy aims to give the Committee The following represents the Committees guidelines in relation to sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and promotion of recruitment remuneration which may need to be interpreted flexibly high-calibre executives to strengthen the management team and by the Committee in relation to securing an appropriate candidate secure the skill sets to deliver our strategic objectives.
whose appointment would, in the view of the board, be in shareholders best interests.
For external appointments, the Committee may offer additional Where it is necessary to make a recruitmentrelated pay award cash share-based elements when they consider it in the best to an external candidate, the company will not pay more than is interests of the company and its shareholders.
necessary and will in all cases seek, in the first instance, to deliver any awards under the terms of the existing incentive pay structure.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in In some cases it may be necessary to make awards on terms respect of the prior role may either continue on its original terms or that are more bespoke than the existing annual and equity-based be adjusted to reflect the new appointment as appropriate.
pay structures at the company in order to secure a candidate.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree All awards for external appointments, whether under the STIP, that the company will meet certain relocation expenses as ESOP, PSP or otherwise, will take account of the nature, appropriate.
time-horizons and performance requirements for any remuneration Ignoring any special recruitment arrangements which may prove to relinquished by the individual when leaving a previous employer, be necessary, it is not envisaged that the annual bonus or long-term and will be appropriately discounted to ensure that the company incentive compensation arrangements will operate differently does not, in the opinion of the Committee, over-pay.
including the maximum award levels than for the predecessor of any newly appointed executive.
The elements of any reward package for a new executive recruit and the approach taken by the Committee in relation to setting each element of the package will be consistent with the Executive Directors remuneration policy described in this report, as modified by the above statement of principles, where appropriate.
Potential rewards under various scenarios The potential total rewards available to the Executive Directors, The Committee believes that the mix and variability in the reward ignoring any change in share price and roll-up of dividends, are set package is aligned with our  remuneration out in the illustration below.
principles and business objectives already described above.
3000 ESOP 2,553 PSP 2500 Short Term Incentives 20% Total Fixed Pay 2000 22% 1,522 1500 1,363 18% 9% 10% 31% 24% 1000 29% 834 705 8% 11% 28% 26% 460 500 100% 52% 27% 100% 55% 30% 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Simon Litherland John Gibney 46 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 000 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information directors remuneration report continued The previous chart has been prepared using the following assumptions: Minimum Consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary is the salary to be paid in 2014.
Benefits measured as benefits paid in 2013 as set out in the single figure table on page 51 which may vary, albeit not materially, over the course of next year.
Pension based on cash allowance levels described in policy table above.
Base Salary Benefits Pension Total Fixed Simon Litherland 560,000 7,500 138,000 705,500 John Gibney 360,000 21,000 79,000 460,000 On-target Based on what the director would receive if performance was on-target excl.
share price appreciation and dividends : STIP: consists of the on-target bonus i. e. 50% of maximum.
ESOP: 25% being the vesting level at threshold of 30% of the face value of the shares under option the 30% being a standard market value for options which have a lower per share value than the PSP awards : and PSP: 25% of the face value of the shares awarded equivalent to threshold level of vesting in the plan.
Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable excl.
share price appreciation and dividends : STIP: consists of maximum bonus.
ESOP: assumes maximum vesting, therefore 30% of the face value of the shares under option the 30% being a standard market value for options before any performance conditions are applied.
PSP: 100% of the face value of the shares awarded Directors service contracts General policy The current policy is for the notice period in the Executive Directors service contracts to be normally no longer than one year.
The service contracts of the Executive Directors at the start of 2013 included the following terms regarding notice periods: Unexpired term Notice period from Effective date of contract approx.
months director months Notice period from company months 1 Paul Moody 14 December 2005 12 6 12 1 2 2 Simon Litherland 14 February 2013 12 9 18 1 John Gibney 14 December 2005 12 6 12 1.
Executive Directors are appointed on 12-month rolling contracts.
Simon Litherland has temporary arrangements relating to notice periods which are explained in the paragraph below.
Simon Litherland was appointed CEO on 13 February 2013.
Due to There are no other special provisions for Executive or Non-Executive the ongoing uncertainty regarding the merger with AG Barr plc that Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office.
existed at the time of his appointment, it was considered necessary In the event of the employment of an Executive Director being to depart from the Committees normal notice period policy.
As a terminated, the Committee would pay due regard to best practice result, Simon Litherlands service contract, dated 19 March 2013, and take account of the individuals duty to mitigate their loss.
contains an initial notice period of eighteen months from the company In practice, any form of termination payment to an Executive Director nine months from Simon.
However, this notice period returns to a would require the Committee to consider all of the relevant facts policy-compliant twelve months from the company six months from and circumstances available at that time to ensure the company is Simon on 19 September 2014.
During the first eighteen months protected and to prevent any reward for failure being made to an following the service contract date of Simon Litherlands contract, Executive Director.
This policy applies both to any negotiations any payment in lieu of notice will take into consideration both base linked to notice periods on a termination and any treatment which salary and pension allowance.
In the period following this initial the Committee may choose to apply under the discretions available eighteen months, any payment in lieu of notice will be based on to it under the terms of the STIP, ESOP or PSP.
The potential base salary only.
For John Gibney, our standard notice period of treatments on termination under both of these plans are twelve months from Britvic six months from John applies with summarised on the next page.
payment in lieu of notice based on base salary only.
In both cases, the payment in lieu of notice will be made in monthly instalments in which case any income earned by Simon or John over the payment period will reduce the monthly amounts, however the Committee retains the discretion to make such payments as a lump sum where they consider the circumstances merit it.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 47 directors remuneration report continued Incentives Good leaver Bad leaver In the event of a change in If a leaver is deemed to be a good leaver: If a leaver is deemed to be a bad leaver: control or a winding up of the i. e. leaving through voluntary redundancy, typically voluntary resignation or leaving for company serious ill health or death or otherwise at disciplinary reasons the discretion of the Committee e. g. circumstances of departure, personal contribution to company performance, how close the next vesting date is.
STIP Pro-rated bonus Awards forfeited Pro-rated bonus ESOP & PSP Pro-rated award, subject to the All awards will normally lapse unless Awards will normally vest subject to application of the performance the Committee determines otherwise.
the application of the performance conditions at the normal measurement conditions at the date of the event and date.
If the Committee determines that will take account of the time elapsed awards vest on cessation, they will do since the start of the relevant so subject to the performance performance period.
conditions and taking account of time elapsed since the start of the relevant performance period.
Pension If the Executive Director is eligible for No special provisions apply.
the EERF then the Committee may determine at their discretion to grant early retirement with the EERF applying.
The EERF can only be applied to those who are eligible and only when taking early retirement.
Paul Moody Paul Moody had the following external appointments: Paul Moody retired on 26 February 2013 and did not receive any Non-Executive Director of Johnson Service Group plc severance arrangements under the terms of his contract or bonus Interactive Screen Media Limited payments in respect of 2013.
As an early retiree in the defined Director of The British Soft Drinks Association benefit section of the Britvic Pension Plan, his retirement benefits followed the same provisions as apply to all other company On 5 March 2013 Paul Moody ceased to be a director of The British employees who qualify for the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility, Soft Drinks Association Limited and was replaced by Simon resulting in his pension not being actuarially reduced as the date of Litherland.
John Gibney has, following the 2013 year end, replaced his retirement was within five years of his normal pension age.
Paul Moody as a director of Interactive Screen Media Limited.
Further information can be found in the Pensions section on page [1] Paul Moody received a fee of 30,000 per annum for his role as 54.
In addition, in order to provide expert support to the board in Non-Executive Director of Johnson Service Group plc.
relation to discussions with the Competition Commission regarding [1] Information from latest audited Johnson Service Group plc Report and the proposed merger with AG Barr plc, Paul was provided with a Accounts as at 31 December 2012. consulting services agreement with Britvic plc for a fixed period of six months following his retirement to ensure his expertise was Chairman and Non-Executive Directors available for as long as the board required it during that period.
Under his Letter of Appointment, Gerald Corbett was appointed The agreed fee for these services is 350,000 plus expenses.
Chairman of the company for an initial three-year term to 14 December 2008.
This has been extended until 14 December 2014 Other appointments subject to annual re-election by the companys shareholders in The Executive Directors are not permitted to have any engagement accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
with any other company during the term of their appointment without the prior written consent of the board.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but instead have Letters of Appointment for a three-year term, subject to annual re-election by Companys shareholders in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Effective date Unexpired term Notice period from Notice period from Non-Executive Directors: of contract approx.
months director months Britvic months 1 Gerald Corbett 14 December 2011 12 12 12 1 Joanne Averiss 14 December 2011 12 3 3 1 Ben Gordon 15 April 2011 4 3 3 1 Bob Ivell 14 December 2011 12 3 3 1 Michael Shallow 14 December 2011 12 3 3 1.
T he Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment were extended for a further three-year term to 14 December 2014 with the exception of Ben Gordon whose letter of appointment was extended for a further three-year term to 14 April 2014.
All Directors service contracts and Letters of Appointment are available for inspection at the companys registered office and at the AGM up until the start of the meeting.
48 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information directors remuneration report continued Advisors implementation report The Committees appointed external advisor on executive compensation issues and performance-related remuneration unaudited information is Towers Watson Limited Towers Watson.
Towers Watson were appointed following an extensive review of the leading The Remuneration Committee remuneration advisers as it was felt that they had the most Membership relevant experience and expertise to advise the Committee on During the year, the Committee consisted wholly of independent executive compensation issues.
The company is also advised by Non-Executive Directors: Towers Watson on other remuneration-related issues.
Towers Watsons fees in respect of advice to the Committee in the year Bob Ivell Chairman under review were 140,408 and were charged on the basis of that Michael Shallow firms standard terms of business for advice provided.
These fees Ben Gordon are higher than usual due to the aborted merger discussions with Gerald Corbett AG Barr plc.
During the year, Linklaters LLP and Addleshaw At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chief Goddard LLP were also engaged by the Committee to advise on Executive Officer and Group Human Resources Director attend the contractual arrangements, share schemes and pension matters.
meetings of the Committee except when their own remuneration The Committee is entirely comfortable that the advice it received is under consideration.
Details of the attendance by Committee from these organisations was objective and independent.
members at Committee meetings are shown in the Corporate The following individuals also provided material advice or services Governance Report on page 32. to the Committee during the year: Composition and terms of reference Paul Moody former Chief Executive Officer : The Committees composition and terms of reference are in line Simon Litherland current Chief Executive Officer : with the Code and are available on the companys website or on John Gibney Chief Financial Officer : request from the Company Secretary.
While the Chairman, who was independent on initial appointment, is a member of the Doug Frost Group Human Resources Director : and Remuneration Committee, he is not present when his own Mario Yiannopoulos Director of Compensation & Benefits.
Distribution statement The Committee meets no less than three times a year and has The new disclosure regulations require companies to provide responsibility for: information on how the total remuneration paid to all employees of Reviewing executives remuneration in terms of the pay policy the company compares to any distributions made to shareholders of the company as a whole, pay and conditions elsewhere in by way of dividends and or share buybacks.
The following chart the group, and the overall cost to the shareholders: sets out this information as it applies to the company, comparing figures for the year under review and the previous year.
Capital Determining, within agreed terms of reference, and taking into expenditure is also shown below for context given it is another account corporate performance on environmental, social and relevant and significant distribution decision by the company.
For governance issues, the remuneration of the Chairman and the purposes of this table capital expenditure is defined as net specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive cash flow from the purchase and sale of both tangible and Directors and other members of the executive team, including intangible assets:- pension rights, any compensation payments and benefits: Approving the design and operation of the companys incentive arrangements, both short and long-term.
This includes agreeing the targets that are applied to awards made to senior executives: Responsibility for all of the companys employee share plans and the share dilution position: and Ensuring, via regular reviews, that the companys pay policies remain appropriate and relevant.
Capex % Change 25.9% FY13 34.9m FY12 47.1m Profit after tax % Change 31.3% FY13 82.6m FY12 62.9m Dividend payout % Change 0.1% FY13 42.5m FY12 42.5m % Change 4.8% Salary roll FY13 119.4m FY12 125.4m Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 49 directors remuneration report continued Performance graph and table The committee considers the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts Index is a relevant index for total shareholder return and comparison disclosure as it represents a broad equity market index in which the company is a constituent member: Britvics Historical TSR Performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 350 FTSE 250 Excluding Investment Trusts Britvic 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 28 Sept 2008 27 Sept 2009 03 Oct 2010 02 Oct 2011 30 Sept 2012 29 Sept 2013 The new disclosure regulations require companies to set out certain details of the CEOs pay in the years covered by the chart above.
These include details of the payments the CEO received under short and long-term incentive plans over these financial years.
This information is set out below: Financial year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 Paul Moody 1,982.1 1,955.3 1,819.7 670.1 1,412.6 Single figure of total remuneration, 000 2 Simon Litherland n a n a n a n a 1,114.6 Single figure of total remuneration, 000 Annual variable element award rates 79% 95% 0% 0% 0% for 3 against maximum opportunity Paul Moody 501.6 637.8 0.0 0.0, 000 0.0 98.6% for Simon Litherland 703.8 Long-term incentive vesting rates against ESOP: 100% ESOP: 100% ESOP: 86% ESOP: 0% ESOP: 0% 4 maximum opportunity, 000 PSP: 100% PSP: 100% PSP: 91% PSP: 0% PSP: 0% 773.8 599.6 1,279.9 0.0 0.0 n a for Simon Litherland 1.
T his sum covers the period during which Paul Moody was an Executive Director up to his retirement on 26 February 2013.
It includes 1.1m in respect of the EERF enhancement received to his pension at the Committees discretion.
The total calculation comprises of base salary, benefits, pension and the value of ESOP and PSP awards at year end.
T his sum covers the period from Simon Litherlands appointment as CEO on 13 February 2013.
Actual value of shares at the date of vesting.
Voting outcomes The new regulations state that the Directors Remuneration Report should include details of how shareholders cast their votes on remuneration-related resolutions at the last AGM.
Of the votes cast to approve the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report, at the AGM held on 19 March 2013, 171,751,061 95.7% were cast in favour of the resolution, 7,555,269 4.2% were cast against the resolution, and 2,582,938 votes were withheld.
Directors Remuneration Report Votes for Votes against Withheld 2012 171,751,061 95.7% 7,555,269 4.2% 2,582,938 2011 154,461,496 99.6% 560,016 0.4% 6,315,270 2010 164,606,804 99.7% 527,943 0.3% 1,207,276 50 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information directors remuneration report continued implementation report audited information Directors remuneration The emoluments of the directors for the year under review based on the current disclosure requirements were as follows: Taxable Base salary benefits Performance Total Total 1 2 and fees other related bonuses 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors: 5 Paul Moody 273.7 38.8 - 312.5 670.0 3 Simon Litherland 383.0 27.8 703.8 1,114.6 n a John Gibney 414.2 22.5 401.1 837.8 428.0 Non-Executive Directors: 4 Gerald Corbett 213.7 26.9 - 240.6 227.0 Joanne Averiss 49.7 - - 49.7 48.0 Ben Gordon 49.7 - - 49.7 48.0 Bob Ivell 65.7 - - 65.7 64.0 Michael Shallow 57.7 - - 57.7 56.0 Paul Moody retired on 26 February 2013 figures shown are for the period in the role of CEO.
Simon Litherland was appointed CEO on 13 February 2013 having previously been MD GB from 3 October 2011 figures shown are only for the period in the role of CEO.
T he base salary and fees includes for Paul Moody a pro-rated base salary to 26 February 2013 of 219,692 and a pro-rated pensions cash alternative of 54,054.
For Simon Litherland this number includes a pro-rated base salary from 13 February 2013 of 307,479 and a pro-rated pensions cash alternative of 75,529.
For John Gibney this number includes a base salary of 339,639 and a pension cash alternative of 74,630 being representative of earnings during the period under review.
The agreed fee of 350,000 plus expenses for Paul Moodys consultancy agreement detailed on page 48 above has not been included.
B enefits for Paul Moody, Simon Litherland and John Gibney incorporate all taxable benefits and expense allowances arising from employment, which relate to the provision of car benefits or allowance and membership of the companys private medical healthcare plan worth 17,242 for Paul Moody to 26 February 2013, 7,831 for Simon Litherland from 13 February 2013 and 22,488 for John Gibney.
Paul Moody also received a payment of 21,577 in lieu of unused holiday allowance.
Includes a payment to Simon Litherland of 20,000 relating to the terms of his recruitment prior to his appointment as CEO.
Gerald Corbett received one-off benefits of 26,919 in relation to medical expenses.
1m in respect of the benefit of the EERF for Paul Moody is not included within the numbers above.
See page 54 Pension table for additional information.
Single figure table The new disclosure regulations require companies to provide a single total figure of remuneration for each director, broken down by each element of pay and compared to the prior year figures.
This information is set out in the table below for each of the Executive Directors.
To avoid further replication this year the Non-Executive Director fees described above have not been disclosed again in the new format.
P aul Moody, former CEO, retired on 26 February 2013.
The figures above have been adjusted to reflect the period of the 2013 year that Paul Moody was an Executive Director.
Upon retirement Paul Moody decided to crystallise his future pension promise under BETUS early at a discount to its current value equivalent to 0.5m.
The other number above includes 1.1m for the cost of the EERF.
Simon Litherland was appointed CEO on 13 February 2013, and the figures for 2013 above only reflect the period he was in role.
B enefits comprise car allowance and private medical insurance and life assurance.
In the case of Paul Moody this number also includes payment in lieu of unused holiday allowance of 21,577.
All three Ex ecutive Directors have opted out of the occupational pension scheme due to HMRC protections from the Lifetime Allowance.
They receive a cash sum rather than an employer contribution into the Britvic Pension Plan.
The Executive Directors are entitled to adjust their salary benefit combination under flexible benefits arrangements and the figures shown are before individual selections.
Details of the performance measures and targets applicable to the annual bonus and long-term incentive awards are set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table.
Simon Litherland became eligible f or a payment of 20,000 in September 2013 as per his employment terms as MD GB prior to his appointment as CEO.
This payment was made in November 2013 following approval by the Committee but is included in the single figure above.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 51 directors remuneration report continued STIP outcomes Although we are unable to disclose our detailed targets, the table below shows the actual out-turn against the STIP maximum for the year under review: 2013 maximum 2013 bonus Weighting bonus % of salary earned % of salary % of bonus Target maximum CEO CFO CEO CFO PBT 50% 70% 60% 70% 60% Net revenue 20% 28% 24% 26% 22% Free cash flow 30% 42% 36% 42% 36% Total 100% 140% 120% 138% 118% 1.
T he Committee decided that on account of Paul Moodys early retirement he would not participate in the STIP in the year under review.
Given the competitive environment in which the company operates, whilst the performance measures for annual bonus are disclosed, the detailed targets are considered commercially sensitive and are accordingly not disclosed.
However, as explained on page 37, these bonus payouts reflected a strong year for the company in which excellent progress on the companys new business strategy was achieved, significant shareholder value was delivered with our share price increasing by 58% as at 29 September 2013, both of which were underpinned by a material improvement in underlying financial performance.
Directors interests in share options The Executive Directors participate in the Britvic Executive Share Option Plan on the terms and subject to the EPS growth performance condition as described on page 44.
A wards of share options from 2005 to 2007 vested at 40% threshold EPS growth equal to RPI 3% compound over three years and 100% at maximum EPS growth equal to RPI 7% compound over three years.
Awards of share options from 2008 onwards vest 25% at threshold with the EPS performance condition calibrated as detailed above.
Awards pro-rated as a result of leaving by retirement on 26 February 2013.
The market price of the companys shares on 29 September 2013 was 575p and the range of closing prices during the year was 364.1p to 592.0p.
52 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information directors remuneration report continued Directors interests in the Performance Share Plan The Executive Directors participate in the Britvic Performance Share Plan as described on page 42.
Awards of performance shares in December 2009 vest 25% at threshold and 100% at maximum with 50% of the award subject to the TSR performance condition detailed above and 50% of the award subject to threshold ROIC of 21.9% and maximum ROIC condition of 23.2%.
Awards of performance shares in December 2010 vest 25% at threshold and 100% at maximum with 50% of the award subject to the TSR performance condition detailed above and 50% of the award subject to threshold ROIC of 21.9% and maximum ROIC condition of 22.7%.
Awards of performance shares in December 2011 vest at 25% at threshold and 100% at maximum with 50% of the award subject to the TSR performance condition detailed above and 50% of the award subject to threshold ROIC of 21.5% and maximum ROIC condition of 22.3%.
Awards of performance shares in March 2013 vest at 25% at threshold and 100% at maximum with 50% of the award subject to the TSR performance condition detailed above and 50% of the award subject to threshold ROIC of 20.7% and maximum ROIC condition of 21.5%.
Awards pro-rated as a result of retirement from the business as a good leaver on 26 February 2013.
Directors interests in shares Britvic plc ordinary shares of 20p each Executive and Non-Executive Directors 30 September 2012 29 September 2013 Paul Moody 445,040 445,246 Simon Litherland n a 222 John Gibney 373,434 243,900 Gerald Corbett 103,695 103,695 Joanne Averiss 14,696 14,696 Ben Gordon 11,393 11,393 Bob Ivell 10,870 10,870 Michael Shallow 21,739 21,739 as at date of resignation on 26 February 2013 The above shareholdings are all beneficial interests and include shares held on behalf of the Executive Directors by the Trustee of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan which is detailed on page 42.
As such, they count towards the shareholding guideline described on page 42, which will be reviewed in the forthcoming year.
In the period 30 September 2013 to 25 November 2013 there has been no change in the directors interests, other than through the monthly purchases in October and November of partnership and matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 53 directors remuneration report continued Pensions In line with all members of the defined benefits section of the Plan, John Gibney may benefit from the Enhanced Early Retirement The Executive Directors ceased participation in the defined benefit Facility EERF which allows the Plan members to retire within five section of the Britvic Pension Plan the Plan on 10 April 2011, years of reaching normal pension age without a reduction in their following the closure of the Plan to future accrual.
The EERF includes benefits payable from BETUS and is members of the Plan transferred to the defined contribution section non-contractual.
Continuation of the EERF formed part of the of the Plan, but the two Executive Directors opted to cease agreement with the Plan trustee on the closure of the defined tax-relievable pension provision at the point of closure and instead benefit section of the Plan.
The company has given notice to all of now receive a cash sum in lieu of pension contributions.
the Plan members that the EERF will be withdrawn by 5 April 2016.
The cash allowance payable: Where a BETUS member is retiring, the Committee may consider Reflects contributions the company would have made to the offering a discounted one-off cash settlement to the member at the defined contribution section of the Plan had these individuals point of retirement to reduce the companys balance sheet elected to join, less a deduction to ensure the cash allowance is exposure to the BETUS liability.
cost neutral to the company from a National Insurance The table below shows, amongst other items, as at the year end, perspective.
the accrued pension should the director leave employment: the Is paid at a rate of 24.6% of pensionable pay base salary only for increase in the accrued pension during the year: the increase the CEO both Paul Moody and subsequently to Simon Litherland excluding inflation and member contributions: the transfer value of and 22.0% of pensionable pay base salary only to the CFO.
accrued pension: and any increase decrease in this value assessed John Gibney continues to have a deferred pension in the defined on the transfer value basis as under the Plan.
This disclosure is in benefit section of the Plan and also the Britvic Executive Top Up compliance with both the London Stock Exchange Listing Rules Scheme BETUS, the companys unfunded retirement benefits and the Companies Act 2006. scheme which also closed to future accrual on 10 April 2011.
The normal retirement age for executive directors is 60.
Transfer value Transfer value Transfer value Increase in transfer Accrued Increase in Increase in of increase in of accrued of accrued value over accounting Age last pension at accrued accrued accrued benefits - benefits - period less directors 1 2 3 4 Name of birthday at 29 09 2013 pension pension pension 29 09 13 30 09 12 contributions Director 29 09 13 p. a. p. a. p. a. Paul Moody 56 216,600 n a n a n a 5,970,000 4,597,900 1,372,100 John Gibney 53 197,700 5,900 200 2,900 3,690,900 3,333,800 357,100 1.
Absolute increase during accounting period.
Increase in accrued pension during the accounting period, net of inflation measured using the Retail Prices Index.
Net of inflation measured using the Retail Prices Index and contributions.
Figures for Mr Moody have been presented as at his date of retirement as described in the notes below.
The transfer value shown above has been calculated in accordance with the relevant regulations, which preclude allowance being made for any discretionary options available.
The associated total liabilities of the BETUS in relation to Paul Notes in relation to Mr Gibney Moody were approximately 3.8m on an IAS19 basis.
In order to The accrued pension and transfer value listed above is calculated reduce the BETUS related company balance sheet exposure on the basis of entitlements accrued to 10 April 2011, but calculated sooner, the Committee agreed to a cash payment to the former where relevant in line with market conditions at 29 September 2013.
CEO of 2.9m to eliminate all current and future entitlement under The entitlement shown also includes increases to accrued pension BETUS for Paul Moody.
Taking into account employer NIC costs, since date of leaving defined benefit service for this member as this represents a saving of 0.5m to the company.
required under the rules of the Plan and BETUS, the aim of which On behalf of the board are to increase the benefits in line with price inflation between the date of leaving pensionable service in the Plan and BETUS and the date when benefits are drawn.
The increase due on 1 October 2013 has been included in the above figures.
Notes in relation to Mr Moody Mr Moody retired from the Britvic Pension Plan and the Britvic Executive Top-Up Scheme on 26 February 2013, utilising the Bob Ivell Committees discretion to allow him to retire under the EERF.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee accrued pension quoted above is calculated as the members 25 November 2013 pension prior to commutation of pension for tax free cash as at 26 February 2013, on the basis of entitlements accrued to 10 April 2011.
Mr Moody retired before receiving any pension increase on his accrued pension subsequent to 30 September 2012: we have therefore not disclosed any figures relating to increases in accrued pension for this financial year.
The transfer value listed above is calculated as the transfer value of his early retirement pension as at 26 February 2013 prior to commutation of pension for tax free cash and following the enhancement received through the EERF, using market conditions as at 29 September 2013.
The increase in the transfer value as a result of access to the EERF was 1.1m.
54 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information directors remuneration report continued Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 55
