Corporate Governance REMUNERATION REPORT I am pleased to introduce our Directors Remuneration Report for the year ending 31st December 2013.
Richard Harvey Chairman, Remuneration Committee This is our first report prepared under the new appropriate remuneration data relevant to UK public remuneration reporting regulations which came into effect companies of a similar size and complexity but also last year.
The report is split into two parts, in accordance recognises that there are no directly comparable UK with these regulations: companies and that its principal international competitors are often businesses which are part of much larger groups, The Remuneration Policy pages 56-60 sets out our primarily in the US.
It will be submitted to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
The Committee believes that the consistent application of these principles has served the business well in recent The Annual Report on Remuneration pages 61-67 years, supporting the delivery of strong earnings and share provides details on the remuneration we paid in 2013, price performance in what have been very difficult markets.
as well as how we intend to operate our policies in 2014.
It will be submitted to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
Our Remuneration Framework for Executive Directors As context for considering the report, set out below are the principles which underpin our remuneration framework, as well as a summary of the key activities and decisions of the Based on these principles, the key elements of Committee in 2013. our remuneration framework continue to be: Salary Market competitive.
Key principles Benefits & Appropriate for the nature and location of pension the role.
Our remuneration policies continue to be based on the following key principles: Pension contributions at a relatively low level compared to the market to reflect our focus Simple, consistent and transparent on performance-related reward.
A commitment to pay for performance.
Incentive Bonus Target 100% of salary 150% for CEO.
payments should reflect continuing strong financial Linked to challenging profit and individual performance of the Group, the contribution individual performance targets.
employees make to that performance and the creation Designed to be competitive in the market, of long term sustainable value for our shareholders particularly in the insurance industry, to retain and incentivise key executives to deliver Incentives should strike the right balance between performance for shareholders.
rewarding good performance in any one year and Deferral mechanism above 100% to achieve encouraging the necessary focus on long term alignment with long term shareholder returns.
The balance of the LTIP 150% of salary 300% for the CEO.
overall package should not encourage inappropriate Shares vest after three years based on the risk taking.
Share incentives are used throughout the delivery of stretching EPS growth targets Group as an essential tool to align the interests of staff 6-12% p. a. being 18% to 36% over 3 years.
with shareholders A renewed LTIP was approved by We must have sufficient flexibility to offer remuneration shareholders at the 2013 AGM see below.
packages which enable us to recruit, retain and motivate the calibre of individual which we need to operate successfully in the highly competitive global The framework above is codified in our Remuneration talent markets in which our business operates.
Equally, Policy pages 56-60, which also sets out our policies on we do not want to pay more than is necessary to the recruitment or exit of directors.
In both of these areas, achieve this the Committees overriding objective is to determine remuneration arrangements which are in the best interests In setting remuneration levels, the Committee is mindful of of the Company and its shareholders, taking into account the fact that our business operates in a highly competitive the specific circumstances of the individual.
The Committee takes into account 54 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 In addition, our shareholding guidelines include an objective 2013 to 177.4 million, representing strong performance for Executive Directors to build a long term shareholding of at ahead of the stretching target that had been set.
The least one times salary two times salary for the Chief Committee determined that the Executive Directors Executive through retaining ownership of vested shares.
would receive Target bonus for 2013 in respect of the financial measures PBT which represented 75% of their The Remuneration Policy was circulated ahead of the AGM award.
to major shareholders for comment.
Their views were taken into account in finalising the Policy.
Based on the delivery of strong basic EPS growth excluding exceptional items and impairment charges, We will continue to keep our policies under review to ensure and adjusted to neutralise the impact of IAS 19 over the they remain appropriate in the face of evolving best practice, three year performance period to 31st December 2013 regulatory developments and market data.
see chart, the Committee determined that the target for the 2011 LTIP award had been met and the award will Major activities and decisions in 2013 vest in full.
Around 40% of the value delivered from Renewing the LTIP vesting is from share price appreciation and dividends.
The Committee renewed the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP in 2013 as the LTIP 2004 had been due to expire.
Basic earnings per share 54.7 In reviewing the LTIP, the Committee considered that the plan had played an important role in driving annual 38.7 earnings growth and total shareholder return of c. 15% in the period since 2006, and concluded that the 2013 LTIP should be the same as the 2004 Plan, subject to minor updating to reflect current law and best practice e. g. the inclusion of a malus provision.
We undertook an extensive consultation with key 54.7p shareholders, and I would like to thank them for their 08 13 Adjusted for IAS 19 input into the final proposal.
The maximum award size under the LTIP was maintained The Committee determined the termination arrangements at 200% of salary, with the exception of the Chief for Vyvienne Wade.
As disclosed in this report, the Executive where the maximum was increased to 300% of incentive elements of these arrangements reflected salary.
The Committee concluded that this was performance and were pro-rated for time.
appropriate to reflect the delivery of significant and sustained increases in earnings and shareholder value Following the first review since 2011, the Chairmans fee which has positioned our Chief Executive as one of the increased from 250,000 to 270,000 on 1st April 2013 most highly regarded executives in a highly competitive to reflect market data and time commitment.
Award policy for other Executive Directors will remain at 150% of salary.
2014 decisions Recognising the increase in size and complexity of the The Committee is aware that some shareholders have business, personal performance and, where appropriate, indicated a preference for vesting periods which are changes in responsibility, the Committee awarded salary longer than the conventional three years.
However, on increases for 2014 of 5% to D J Burke, M F G balance, the Committee concluded that in a broking Drummond Brady and M T Reynolds.
business, three years remains appropriate to be market competitive and consistent with our business cycle.
The structure and quantum of our incentive opportunities will remain unchanged and will continue to be based on Earnings per share EPS was retained by the Committee the same kind of stretching performance targets which as the right performance measure for the LTIP.
To reflect have driven the growth of the business over recent years.
our significant international exposure, the link to UK RPI The Committee appreciates dialogue with, and feedback was removed and the target range was calibrated as 6- from, shareholders and hopes to receive your support for 12% per annum 18% - 36% over 3 years.
The both resolutions at the AGM on 29th April 2014.
Committee believes that this is an appropriately stretching performance range in the current environment.
I would like to thank my colleagues on the Committee for their continued support during the year.
Changes to policies The Committee increased the shareholding guideline for the Chief Executive from 100% to 200% of salary.
In line with the commitment made previously, a malus provision was also introduced for deferred bonus and LTIP awards made from 2013 onwards.
Under this provision, the Committee may reduce or cancel an award in circumstances of material and significant misstatement or gross misconduct.
Richard Harvey Chairman, Remuneration Committee 2013 events and outturns 14th March 2014 Building on the momentum of previous years, JLT has delivered another strong set of results.
As discussed on page 12, Underlying Group PBT grew by 13% during 55 Corporate Governance REMUNERATION REPORT This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Listing Rules and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Remuneration Policy This Remuneration Policy, determined by the Companys Remuneration Committee the Committee, will be effective following shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Policy Table for Executive Directors Component Purpose link to strategy Operation Base Salary Contractual fixed cash amount paid monthly.
Normally reviewed annually and any changes made effective from 1st April.
Salaries are set by the Committee, taking into account all relevant factors which include: the scale and complexity of the Group and or business unit, the scope and responsibilities of the role, the skills and experience of the individual, performance in role, the level of increase within the business, and the Committees assessment of the competitive environment including consideration of appropriate market data.
Salaries to be effective at 1st April 2014 are shown on page 62 of the Annual Remuneration Report.
Benefits Incorporates various cash non-cash benefits which are competitive in the relevant market, To provide fixed remuneration and which may include: a company car or equivalent cash allowance, subscriptions, life which is competitive in the assurance, private medical, permanent health cover and, where necessary, other benefits to markets in which the reflect specific individual circumstances, such as housing, relocation, travel, or other Company operates.
Executive Directors may also participate in the Save As You Earn SAYE and Share Incentive Plan SIP on the same basis as other employees.
Provided via contributions to the Defined Contribution DC section of the JLT UK Pension Pensions Scheme or as a cash salary supplement.
Contributions are made by reference to pensionable earnings for the Scheme currently 140,000 but reviewed annually.
Members of the Defined Benefit DB section of the scheme will continue to receive benefits in accordance with the terms of this plan, although it is closed to further accrual or to new members.
Since the closure of the DB scheme in 2006, affected employees, including some Executive Directors, receive a fixed salary supplement, which was determined at the time the scheme was closed based on each individuals circumstances.
Annual A variable pay opportunity, Provides an opportunity for additional reward up to a maximum specified as a percentage of bonus competitive in the markets in salary based on annual performance against targets set and assessed by the Committee.
which the Company operates, Paid in cash, except that any bonus in excess of a limit, normally 100% of salary, is deferred which motivates and rewards into Company shares in accordance with the terms of the Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP.
Deferral Under the DBSP, participants are granted a conditional award of shares which normally vest aligns reward with long term over three years, subject to continued employment.
Malus and dividend equivalent provisions value of JLT shares.
apply see explanatory notes on page 58.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Long term A variable pay opportunity, Awards are made under the terms of the JLT Long Term Incentive Plan 2013, approved by incentive competitive in the markets in shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Plan LTIP which the Company operates, Awards are normally in the form of a right to acquire shares in the Company for a zero or which motivates and rewards nominal amount.
Subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition.
long-term performance, and Malus and dividend equivalent provisions apply see explanatory notes.
is aligned with the value of JLT shares.
Note The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Amendments to policy The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval.
56 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 Maximum Performance framework There is no prescribed maximum N A salary.
Any increases will be at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account factors such as: changes in the size and complexity of the business, scope of the role, competitive positioning against the market and the level of salary increase within the business.
Benefit provision, for which there is no prescribed monetary maximum, is set at an appropriate level for the specific nature and location of the role.
Participation in all employee share plans subject to statutory limits.
The maximum DC cash supplement is 15% of pensionable earnings.
The maximum additional fixed salary supplement for current Executive Directors impacted by the closure of the DB scheme are: 79,000 for D J Burke: 24,000 for M F G Drummond Brady.
200% of salary Payment is determined by reference to performance assessed over one financial year using a combination of financial and personal performance measures, weighted towards the financial measures.
Target bonus, is set at 150% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the other Executive Directors.
Maximum awards under the plan Vesting is determined by reference to performance rules are: assessed over a period of at least three years, against key measures of financial performance, which for 2014 300% of salary for the Chief Executive will be earnings per share EPS.
200% of salary for other Executive The threshold level of vesting is 20% of the maximum Directors award.
57 Corporate Governance REMUNERATION REPORT Policy Table for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Component Approach of the Company Chairman fees Determined by the Remuneration Committee.
A single fee which reflects all Board and Committee duties.
Set at a level which reflects skills, experience, time commitment and appropriate market data.
NonDetermined by the Board excluding the Non-Executive Directors.
Executive fees The fee encompasses a basic fee and may also include supplementary fees for committee or other duties.
Benefits The current Chairman receives a club subscription, private medical insurance and health screen.
Lord Leach is provided with a company car.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any bonus or share incentive scheme, nor do they participate in any pension arrangements.
The performance targets for LTIP awards are Explanatory notes to Policy Tables determined by the Committee at the time of grant.
Malus provisions Differences in the Companys policy on the DBSP and LTIP awards granted since 1st January 2013 remuneration of employees across the Group are subject to a malus clause such that unvested awards may be reduced, cancelled or made subject to additional JLT operates in a number of different sectors and conditions at the Committees discretion, in the event of countries and therefore employee remuneration practices material misstatement of results or gross misconduct.
vary widely across the employee population within the Group.
However, employee remuneration policies are Dividends normally based on the same broad principles: Upon vesting of DBSP and LTIP awards, participants will Sufficient to attract and retain the calibre of talent receive income in the form of shares or cash equal in necessary to deliver the strategy for shareholders value to the dividends payable on the relevant number of vested shares during the performance period plus Where appropriate, a proportion should be aligned to interest.
results and performance, based on relevant specific and measurable criteria.
A significant number of Group Performance measures and target setting employees are eligible to participate in bonus or The annual bonus is assessed against both financial and incentive arrangements.
personal targets determined by the Committee.
This In addition to the DBSP and LTIP, the Group operates enables the Committee to reward both annual financial a number of other share incentive schemes to performance delivered for shareholders and performance encourage employee share ownership.
These include against specific financial, operational or strategic the Senior Executive Share Scheme SESS and objectives set for each director.
Sharesave Share Incentive Plan all employee schemes The LTIP is based on long-term financial performance, within which all employees, including Executive using performance measures which the Committee feel Directors, in the UK and certain overseas jurisdictions are most appropriate for the Company EPS for 2014 are eligible to participate.
58 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 Illustration of remuneration policy Chief Executive Finance Director Dominic Burke Mike Reynolds The charts opposite illustrate the potential value of the remuneration 4,380, 000, 000 2,138 packages under the following performance scenarios no share 2,340 48% price growth is assumed : 39% 1,046 18% Minimum reflects fixed pay only 863 16% 458 base salary as at 1st April 2014 45% 32% 40% 39% and benefits pension included 100% 44% 22% 100% 37% 20% using the disclosed values for the Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum year ending 31 December 2013 Target reflects fixed pay, target International Chairman of Risk & Insurance Group Commercial Director bonus CEO: 150% of salary, Mark Drummond-Brady James Twining other Executive Directors 100% 1,894, 000, 000 1,685 of salary and LTIP awards CEO: 300% of salary, other Executive Directors 200% of salary vesting 39% 39% 938 827 at 20% of maximum 16% 18% 365 424 Maximum reflects, maximum 39% 39% 45% 39% bonus 200% of salary and LTIP 100% 45% 22% 100% 37% 22% awards vesting in full.
Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum LTIP Annual bonus Fixed pay salary, benets, pension Approach to recruitment remuneration variable remuneration set out above.
The rationale for any such component would be disclosed.
When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed Executive Director, the Committee would seek Where an individual forfeits remuneration with a to apply the following principles: previous employer as a result of appointment to the Company, the Committee may offer compensatory The package should be market competitive to payments or awards to facilitate recruitment.
Such facilitate the recruitment of individuals of sufficient payments or awards could include cash as well as calibre to lead the business.
At the same time, the performance and non-performance related share Committee would intend to pay no more than it awards, and would be in such form as the Committee believes is necessary to secure the required talent.
considers appropriate considering all relevant factors The structure of the on-going remuneration package such as the form, expected value, anticipated vesting would normally include the components set out in the and timing of forfeited remuneration.
There is no limit Policy Table for Executive Directors.
Salaries would on the value of such compensatory awards, but the typically be set at an appropriately competitive level to Committees intention is that broadly the value reflect skills and experience.
They may be set at a awarded would be no higher than the value forfeited.
level to allow future salary progression to reflect While cash may be included to reflect the forfeiture of performance in role.
cash-based remuneration, the Committee does not envisage that substantial golden hello type cash The maximum level of variable remuneration which payments would generally be offered.
may be awarded excluding any compensatory awards referred to below is five times salary.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Companys The Committee considers that having flexibility to existing approved share plans.
If necessary, awards respond to specific commercial realities of a may be granted outside of these plans as currently recruitment scenario is in the best interests of the permitted under the Listing Rules, but within the limits Company and its shareholders.
Therefore, the set out in this section.
Committee has discretion, in exceptional or unexpected circumstances, to include other fixed The remuneration package for a newly appointed Nonremuneration components e. g. to reflect local market Executive Director would normally be in line with the practice in pension provision or performance-related structure set out in the Policy Table for Non-Executive awards which it believes are appropriate taking into Directors.
account the specific circumstances of the individual, and always subject to the five times salary limit on 59 Corporate Governance REMUNERATION REPORT Service contracts It is the Companys standard policy that Executive Directors should The treatment of outstanding share awards would be have service contracts with an indefinite term which can be determined by the relevant plan rules.
The table shown terminated by the Company or the director by giving notice not summarises the treatment of awards if a participant ceases to exceeding 12 months.
This applies to all current Executive Directors be an employee of the Group for any of the reasons shown.
and would normally be applied to future appointments.
The To the extent that an award does not vest in accordance with Committee retains discretion to offer service agreements with notice these terms, the award will lapse.
periods which exceed 12 months up to a maximum of 24 months.
Members of the defined benefit section of the JLT UK Pension If such a contract was offered, the notice period would normally be Scheme will receive benefits in accordance with the terms of reduced during the first year of employment to the standard 12 that scheme.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three year term, which payments where such payments are made in good faith in is renewable, with three months notice on either side.
The contract discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for the Chairman is subject to a six month notice provision on either for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or side.
For both Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman, no compromise of any claim arising in connection with the contractual termination payments would be due and both are termination of a directors office or employment.
In doing so, the subject to retirement pursuant to the Articles of Association at the Committee will recognise and balance the interests of Annual General Meeting.
shareholders and the departing Executive Director, as well as the Under all the current Executive Director service contracts, the interests of the remaining Directors.
Company may terminate employment by making a payment in lieu of notice which would not exceed 12 months salary, benefits and Change of control of the Company pension contributions.
This policy would be applied to future Where there is a takeover of the Company, awards will only vest to appointments.
the extent that any applicable performance conditions have been satisfied.
The Committee has discretion to determine that the extent Policy on payment for loss of office to which LTIP awards vest in these circumstances shall be reduced Where an Executive Director leaves employment, the Committees to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed.
approach to determining any payment for loss of office will normally be based on the following principles: Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company The Committees objective is to find an outcome which is in the When setting the policy for the remuneration of the Executive best interests of the Company and its shareholders, taking into Directors, the Committee will have regard to the pay and account the specific circumstances and performance of the employment conditions of employees within the Company.
The Committee does not consult directly with employees when Relevant contractual obligations referred to in the section above formulating the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
The are observed or taken into account should an Executive Director Committee considers salary increases within the business but does leave employment by mutual consent.
While not a contractual not formally consider any other comparison metrics.
obligation, the Committee may make termination payments on a phased basis and subject to reduction in the event that Consideration of shareholder views alternative employment is found.
Views expressed by the Companys shareholders were taken into The Committee has discretion to make a payment under the account by the Committee in the development of the Companys annual bonus in respect of the year of leaving employment, remuneration framework.
The Companys largest shareholder Jardine Matheson is represented on the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee undertook an extensive consultation between the Remuneration Reasons for leaving Treatment Committee Chairman and key independent shareholders and shareholder representative bodies in 2013 in respect of the renewal ill-health, injury or disability: Awards will normally vest on the of the LTIP prior to shareholder approval of the plan at the 2013 original vesting date subject to death: AGM.
The Committee also regularly reviews the policies in the the original performance retirement with the context of published shareholder guidelines.
Alternatively, the agreement of the Company: Committee has discretion to vest the participants employing the awards on an earlier date, company ceasing to be subject to performance.
under the control of the The Committee also has Company: discretion to reduce the award a sale of the business or to reflect the proportion of the entity for which the performance period that has participant works out of the elapsed.
Group: redundancy: and any other reason, if the Committee so decide in any particular case.
60 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration The table below summarises the remuneration for the directors in respect 2013.
Further discussion of each of the components, including the intended operation of the policy for 2014, is set out on the pages which follow.
Some of the disclosures in these sections, where indicated, have been audited by PwC.
Single Total Figure of Remuneration Table audited The remuneration in respect of the year ending 31st December 2013 of the Executive Directors who served during the year is shown in the table below with the prior year comparative.
The figures in the Salary, Benefits, Pension and permanent health cover.
Annual bonus columns for 2013 represent amounts in respect of the period of employment.
The LTIP column includes the value of the Pension includes all forms of cash contribution paid in respect of 2011 and 2012 LTIP awards which vested on termination, reduced pension entitlements, including contributions to the Defined pro-rata for time and subject to performance assessment in Contribution section of the JLT UK Pension Scheme or a cash accordance with the rules of the LTIP 2011 LTIP: 36,811 shares, salary supplement and, where relevant, the fixed cash salary 2012 LTIP: 15,803 shares, calculated using the share price on the supplement paid to those directors impacted by the closure of the date of vesting and including the value of dividends on the vested DB Scheme in 2006.
Further details are set out in the Pensions shares.
Full details of the termination arrangements are set out in the section on page 65. section on page 65.
Annual bonus includes the full value of the annual bonus awarded in The remuneration in respect of the year ending 31st December respect of the relevant financial year.
For D J Burke, one third of the 2013 of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors who served amount shown in the Annual bonus column 2012: one third is during the year is shown in the table below with the prior year deferred into shares which will vest after three years subject to comparative.
continued employment and the terms of the Deferred Bonus Share Plan.
Fees Benefits Total 000 LTIP includes unless stated otherwise the value of the 2011 LTIP 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 award which will vest on 23 March 2014.
The value is calculated G M T Howe 265 250 2 2 267 252 using the average share price over the final quarter of 2013 of 999p A E Court 55 23 - - 55 23 and includes the value of the dividends on the shares which will vest.
J D S Dawson 71 23 - - 71 23 J D R Twining was appointed to the Board on 1st August 2012.
R J Harvey 70 65 - - 70 65 M T Reynolds was appointed to the Board on 26th November 2012.
S L Keswick 18 55 - - 18 55 His recruitment package included a cash bonus award of 250,000 Lord Leach 55 55 6 6 61 61 repayable to the Company on a pro-rata basis in the case of Lord Sassoon 37 - - - 37 - resignation or other circumstances occurring in the first year of employment and an additional joining award payment of 450,000 N R MacAndrew 63 80 - - 63 80 to be used, after deductions for tax and National Insurance, for the Benefits include: GMT Howe: a club subscription and medical insurance: Lord purchase of shares in the Company by Mr Reynolds to be held in Leach: a company car.
accordance with the Companys share ownership guidelines.
Neither Simon Keswick stepped down from the Board and Lord Sassoon joined the of these payments were subject to additional performance and are Board on 30th April 2013. included in the Other column for 2012.
61 Corporate Governance REMUNERATION REPORT Key components of remuneration The following sections describe how the Committee implemented key elements of the policy in the year ending 31st December 2013 and how it is intended to operate in the year ending 31st December 2014.
Salary In setting salaries, the Committee takes into account the Based on performance against the targets, the scale and complexity of the Group, the scope and Committee determined that the Executive Directors would responsibilities of the role, the skills and experience of the receive the bonus for the year as shown in the Single individual, performance in role, the level of increase within Total Figure of Remuneration Table.
the business, and the Committees assessment of the The Committee is responsible for the setting, monitoring competitive environment including consideration of and final assessment of annual bonus performance appropriate market data.
The Committee takes into targets, under a robust process involving careful scrutiny account appropriate remuneration data relevant to UK at each stage.
The Committee firmly believes that the public companies of a similar size and complexity but also targets are stretching and have helped to drive the strong recognises that there are no directly comparable UK PBT growth performance delivered for shareholders in companies and that the Companys principal international recent years.
competitors are often businesses which are part of much Any bonus awarded in excess of 100% of salary must be larger groups, primarily in the US.
deferred into Company shares for three years in To recognise the increase in size and complexity of the accordance with the terms of the Remuneration Policy.
business, personal performance and, where appropriate, Since the amount payable to the Chief Executive exceeds changes in responsibility, the Committee awarded salary 100% of base salary, the excess 50% of salary will be increases for 2014 of 5% to D J Burke, M F G Drummond delivered in the form of deferred shares under the terms Brady and M T Reynolds.
Full details on the number of shares The base salaries of the Executive Directors effective 1st awarded will be disclosed when made and in next years April 2014 are set out in the table below together with the report.
However, the full value of the bonus for the year prior year comparative.
including the deferred amount is shown in the annual bonus column of the Single Total Figure of Remuneration 2013 2014 Change Table.
For 2014, the annual bonus will operate on the same Dominic Burke 670,000 703,500 5% basis as for 2013, based on an appropriate consideration Mark Drummond Brady 350,000 367,500 5% of stretching Group PBT targets and personal objectives Mike Reynolds 400,000 420,000 5% related to the enablement and achievement of the Company strategy of driving growth, international reach James Twining 330,000 330,000 0% and relevance, and improving operational efficiency and effectiveness.
Annual bonus The Committee and Board of JLT believe the specific performance targets and weightings are commercially In 2013, the Executive Directors had a target bonus sensitive and therefore it is inappropriate to publish further opportunity of 100% of salary 150% of salary for the detail here.
It is the current intention that they will be Chief Executive.
In exceptional circumstances, the disclosed next year provided the Committee is Committee could award a maximum of 200% of salary.
comfortable that they are no longer sensitive.
In 2013, the bonus was based on a combination of both financial and personal performance measures, requiring LTIP 2011 award, vesting in respect of 2013 the achievement of stretching performance targets, as The 2011 LTIP was based on basic EPS growth follows: excluding exceptional items and impairment charges in the three financial years to 31st December 2013 in 75% on Group Underlying Profit Before Tax PBT accordance with the following targets determined by the performance.
As described in more detail on page 12, Committee at the time of grant.
2013 saw growth of 13% in Group Underlying PBT to 177.4 million.
This was ahead of the stretching target Vesting set at the beginning of the year 174.9 million and EPS growth over a three year period % of maximum builds on the momentum of previous years.
Below RPI 5% per annum RPI 15% over 3 years 0% 25% on the achievement of personal objectives.
The personal objectives for 2013 related to the RPI 5% per annum RPI 15% over 3 years 16.67% achievement of the Company strategy and concern driving growth, international reach and relevance, and RPI 10% per annum or above RPI 30% over 3 years 100% improving operational efficiency and effectiveness.
Vesting on a pro-rata basis between these points Performance in these areas was strong during the year.
Based upon achieved EPS growth in the period as adjusted by the Committee to neutralise the impact of IAS 19 Revised the Committee determined that the 2011 LTIP awards will vest in full on 23rd March 2014.
62 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 The value of these vested 2011 awards to Dominic Burke LTIP 2013 award, will vest in 2016 and Mark Drummond Brady is shown in the Single Total Following shareholder approval of the LTIP at the 2013 Figure of Remuneration Table.
The chart below illustrates AGM, the Executive Directors received awards of 150% the proportion of the vested value which reflects the of salary 300% of salary for the Chief Executive.
These performance element i. e. the shares vesting at the share awards are shown in the Share Interests Awarded Table price when awarded and the proportion of the vested below and will vest after three years subject to a value as a result of share price appreciation and performance target based on growth in EPS, as follows: dividends since grant.
EPS growth over a three year Vesting % of maximum period Below 6% per annum 18% over 3 M F G 0% Drummond years Brady 6% per annum 18% over 3 years 20% D J Burke 12% per annum or above 36% 100% over 3 years 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 Vesting on a pro-rata basis between these points Performance element Shareholder return element The calculation of EPS is basic EPS, excluding exceptional items and impairment charges, and includes value from share price appreciation and dividends measured on actual achieved exchange rates, and will be verified by the Companys auditors.
Share Interests Awarded Table audited The following table sets out details of LTIP awards made during the year ending 31st December 2013 for Executive Directors who served during the year.
Threshold End of performance Executive Director Type of interest Basis of award Face value vesting period D J Burke LTIP 300% of salary 2,010k 20% 31st December 2015 M F G Drummond Brady LTIP 150% of salary 525k 20% 31st December 2015 M T Reynolds LTIP 150% of salary 600k 20% 31st December 2015 J D R Twining LTIP 150% of salary 495k 20% 31st December 2015 Awards under the LTIP are made in the form of nil-cost options.
The face value has been calculated using the average share price used to determine the number of shares awarded, being 850p the average over the three days to 2nd May 2013.
D J Burke also received an award of 38,800 shares under the Deferred Bonus Share Plan in respect of the deferred portion of his 2012 annual bonus the value of which is included in the annual bonus 2012 column of the Single Total Figure of Remuneration Table and shown in the share interests tables below.
No share interests were awarded to V Y A C Wade during the year ending 31st December 2013.
LTIP policy for 2014 Awards under the LTIP will be made on the same basis as those in 2013, as described above.
Full details on the number of shares awarded will be disclosed when made and in next years report.
Shareholding guidelines and share interests The JLT Share Ownership Guidelines have an objective for Executive Directors to build up long term share interests equivalent to 100% of base salary 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive.
In summary, the guidelines are for Executive Directors to retain 50% of shares acquired on the vesting of share awards after the payment of income tax and national insurance, until such time as the guideline has been met.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not subject to the share ownership guidelines.
63 Corporate Governance REMUNERATION REPORT Statement of shareholding and share interests audited The following table sets out for Directors who served during the year, the shareholding including connected persons in the Company as at 31st December 2013 or at the date of resignation and current interests in long-term incentives.
Shareholding Current share interests unvested Number of Shareholding Guideline met?
LTIP DBSP shares as a % of salary Executive Directors D J Burke 305,213 455% Yes 614,600 125,300 M F G Drummond Brady 50,254 143% Yes 205,800 - M T Reynolds 26,092 65% No 70,600 - J D R Twining 540 2% No 148,300 - V Y A C Wade 48,061 N A N A - - Non-Executive Directors A E Court 0 J D S Dawson 5,000 V Y A C Wade stepped down from the Board and left the Group on 7th May 2013.
Simon Keswick stepped down from the Board and Lord Sassoon was appointed to R J Harvey 11,569 the Board on 30th April 2013.
G M T Howe 25,709 Shareholding as a percentage of salary is calculated using the shareholding and base salary as at 31st December 2013 and the average share price for the final quarter of S L Keswick 1,927 2013.
Lord Leach 19,282 N R MacAndrew 4,284 Lord Sassoon 0 With the exception of the directors interests disclosed in the table above, no director had any additional interest in the share capital of the Company during the year.
Between 1st January 2014 and 13th March 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to the posting of this report the trustees of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc All Employee Share Plan have acquired 38 shares each on behalf of D J Burke and J D R Twining.
No further changes of directors interest have been notified since the end of the year.
The table below provides details of the interests of the Executive Directors in long-term incentives during the year.
As discussed above, 100% of the 2011 LTIP will vest on 23rd March 2014 based on performance.
This is an all employee HMRC approved scheme to which performance conditions are not attached.
DBSP: Awards under the Deferred Bonus Share Plan made in the form of conditional shares and are not subject to any further performance conditions.
LTIP: Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan made in the form of nil-cost options subject to EPS growth performance conditions.
For the 2011 and 2012 LTIP awards, the performance condition requires EPS growth over a three year period of RPI plus 5% pa RPI 15% over 3 years for 16.67% vesting to RPI plus 10% pa RPI 30% over 3 years for full vesting.
2013 LTIP awards are based on the performance condition set out on page 63.
Pension Pension benefits are provided to Executive Directors via the Defined Contribution DC section of the JLT UK Pension Scheme or as a cash salary supplement.
Member contributions are matched by a Company contribution equivalent to 2.5 times the amount paid by the member subject to a maximum of 5% to 15% of pensionable earnings for the Scheme in 2013, 130,000 increasing to 140,000 from 1st January 2014 and reviewed annually.
Contributions in respect of 2013 are included in the Single Total Figure of Remuneration Table on page 61.
Some Executive Directors are deferred members of the Defined Benefit DB section of the Scheme, which has been closed to further accrual or to new members since 2006, with members benefits based on their final pensionable salary at that time.
Details of these defined benefit entitlements are set out in the Total Pension Entitlements table below.
To reflect the closure of the DB scheme in 2006, affected employees, including some Executive Directors, also receive a fixed cash supplement, which was calculated as a percentage of salary determined at the time the scheme was closed based on each individuals circumstances.
These cash supplements are included in the Single Total Figure of Remuneration table on page 61.
Total Pension Entitlements audited The following table provides details, where applicable, of entitlements under the Companys defined benefit pension arrangements in respect of Executive Directors who served during the year ending 31st December 2013.
Normal Accrued Transfer value of Increase in Increase in Transfer value of retirement benefit at accrued benefits accrued benefits accrued benefits increase in 000 age 31 Dec at 31 Dec 2013 excluding due to inflation accrued benefits 2013 inflation excluding inflation M F G Drummond Brady 60 102.8 3,508.5 Nil 2.2 Nil V Y A C Wade 60 124.6 2,908.3 Nil 2.6 Nil D J Burke, M T Reynolds and J D R Twining do not have any entitlement under a Company defined benefit pension arrangement.
V Y A C Wade stepped down from the Board and left the Group on 7th May 2013.
No further pension benefit accrued following the date of termination.
The accrued benefit is the amount that the director would receive from retirement age if they left service on that date.
The increase in the accrued benefit is the difference between the accrued benefit at the year end and that at the previous year end.
Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice and approved by the Scheme Trustees.
The transfer value of the accrued entitlement represents the cash equivalent of the directors pension benefits which would be offered by the Trustees of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Pension Scheme to another pension scheme as consideration for the other scheme taking on the liability for providing the directors pension benefits at retirement.
The transfer value itself does not represent an actual sum payable to the individual director as part of pay and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
There are no discretionary benefits taken into account when calculating transfer values.
The directors have no guaranteed right to early retirement.
No additional benefit will become receivable by a director in the event that they retire before their normal retirement date.
Payments for loss of office Vyvienne Wade On 7th May 2013, Vyvienne Wade stepped down from her role as an Executive Director and left the Group.
The Committee agreed the following termination arrangements: Salary, benefits, and pension payments and accrual of benefit were paid up to the date of termination and are included in the Single Total Figure of Remuneration table.
Private medical insurance and life assurance benefits were maintained for a period of four months following termination.
Based on performance to the date of termination, the Committee determined that a pro-rata bonus payment of 128,000, representing target bonus, would be paid in cash.
To reflect service and performance delivered over the long term, the Committee exercised discretion to apply good leaver treatment to the outstanding 2011 and 2012 LTIP awards, which were both reduced pro-rata for time served and remained subject to an assessment of performance against the EPS targets.
50% was paid on leaving and 50% six months later.
The values for both are included in the Single Total Figure of Remuneration Table on page 61.
A termination payment amounting to 270,000 was also made.
This amount was below the contractual entitlement to salary and benefits over a one year notice period.
65 Corporate Governance REMUNERATION REPORT Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Supporting disclosures and additional context Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive The fees of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were reviewed during the year, with the previous review The table below shows the percentage change in salary, having taken place in 2011.
Following this review, the benefits and annual bonus of the Chief Executive as fees of the Chairman were increased by 8% effective 1st shown in the Single Total Figure of Remuneration Table April 2013.
The fees for the Non-Executive directors and all of JLT UK employees between the year ending were not increased.
The current fee levels are set out in 31st December 2012 and the year ending 31st December the table below.
Fees are not generally reviewed on an 2013. annual basis.
2014 Chief All JLT UK Executive employees Non-Executive Chairman 270,000 Salary 2.3% 3.4% Basic fee for Non-Executive Director 55,000 Benefits 0.0% 9.6% Supplementary fees for: Annual bonus 3.1% 2.6% Chairman of Audit & Risk Committee 20,000 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 15,000 Senior Independent Director 5,000 Performance graph Total shareholder return from 2008 to 2013 The chart shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR of JLT in the five year 200 period to 31st December 2013 against the TSR of the FTSE 100, 250 and All 150 Share Indices.
TSR refers to share price growth and assumes dividends are 100 reinvested over the relevant period.
The Committee believes the FTSE 100, 250 50 and All Share Indices are the most appropriate indices against which the 0 TSR of JLT should be measured, as there is no directly comparable quoted -50 peer group for the Company in the UK.
Over the past five years, JLT was ranked -100 114 out of the remaining 261 FTSE 350 31-Dec-08 31-Dec-09 31-Dec-10 31-Dec-11 31-Dec-12 31-Dec-13 companies which were still listed at 31st December 2013 with a TSR of 178%.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc FTSE 100 Index This compared to a TSR of 83% for the FTSE 250 Index FTSE All Share Index FTSE 100, 188% for the FTSE 250 and 95% for the All Share Indices.
Source: Datastream The table below provides remuneration data for the Chief Executive for each of the five financial years over the equivalent period.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Single Total Figure of Remuneration 2,836k 3,728k 3,831k 3,821k 3,884k Bonus % of Maximum 75% 75% 73% 75% 75% LTIP vesting % of Maximum 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Relative importance of spend on pay The chart below shows total employee remuneration and distributions to shareholders, in respect of the years ending 31st December 2013 and 2012 and the difference between the two.
2013 2012 Change % Total employee remuneration 581.0m 519.1m 11.9% Distributions to shareholders 59.7m 55.8m 7.0% Total employee remuneration represents amounts included in note 6 to the accounts in respect of wages, social security, pension and incentive costs for all Group employees.
Distributions to shareholders includes the total dividend in respect of each financial year see note 10 to the accounts.
66 Shareholder Return % Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 External non-executive directorships held by Executive regarding or affecting their own remuneration.
Directors In addition to several ad hoc meetings throughout the Mr Burke is Non-Executive Chairman of Newbury year, the Committee met formally three times in 2013 and Racecourse plc.
He retained the fee of 20,000 paid by the attendance of the Committee members at those Newbury Racecourse in respect of 2013.
No other formal meetings is shown in the table on page 72.
Executive Directors hold outside posts.
Deloitte LLP provided independent advice to the Committee during the year.
Deloitte LLP was originally Dilution appointed by the Committee in 2011 following a selection The Company continues to operate its share schemes in process undertaken by the Committee.
Deloitte LLP is a line with the ABI guidelines on dilution.
The Company member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as follows a conservative approach to hedging for share such voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in awards made under LTIP, DBSP and other share-based relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
incentives, whereby shares to satisfy such awards are The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte LLP normally purchased in the market and held in an engagement partner and team that provide remuneration employee trust.
The Company seeks to be fully hedged advice to the Committee, do not have connections with against awards made as far as possible.
At 31st Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc that may impair their December 2013 the total awards outstanding in respect of objectivity and independence.
The fees charged by the LTIP, DBSP and SESS totalled 7,746,542 shares Deloitte LLP for the provision of independent advice to the representing 3.5% of the Companys issued share capital.
Deloitte LLP also This comprised 0.5% in respect of Awards which were provides services to the Group in respect of corporate tax fully vested and 3.0% in respect of awards which have not advice, internal audit assistance, regulatory reporting and yet vested.
in relation to the winding up of dormant companies within Consideration of directors remuneration the Group.
Remuneration Committee and advisors Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting The principal purpose of the Committee is to determine The Committee is directly accountable to shareholders the Companys policy on the remuneration of the and, in this context, is committed to an open and Chairman, Executive Directors and other members of the transparent dialogue with shareholders on the issue of Group Executive Committee and to approve specific executive remuneration.
During 2013, the Committee remuneration packages for each of them.
The full terms of actively engaged widely with key shareholders and reference of the Committee are available on the Groups shareholder representative bodies on the overall website.
remuneration framework and the renewed LTIP, and the The Remuneration Committee is comprised of Nonviews expressed in consultation were taken into account Executive Directors, a majority of whom are independent.
by the Committee in shaping the final proposals.
The The membership of the committee during the year Remuneration Committee Chairman is available to answer comprised: Richard Harvey Chairman, Annette Court, questions from shareholders regarding remuneration at the Jonathan Dawson, Lord Leach, Simon Keswick to 30th AGM.
April 2013, Nick MacAndrew and Lord Sassoon from At the Annual General Meeting held on 30th April 2013, 30th April 2013. votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of Geoffrey Howe, Dominic Burke and Robert Potter Group directors remuneration are shown in the table below.
HR Strategy Director attended by invitation of the Committee but did not participate in any discussions Votes For Votes Against Total votes Votes cast withheld No.
of shares % Approval of remuneration report for year 177,960,394 94.85% 9,662,313 5.15% 187,622,707 447,407 ending 31st December 2012 Adopt the Long Term Incentive Plan 2013 152,041,427 81.39% 34,774,793 18.61% 186,816,220 1,253,894 Votes For include votes registered as Discretion For and on behalf of the Board Richard Harvey Chairman, Remuneration Committee 14th March 2014 67
