DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT STATEMENT FROM PETER JOHNSON, CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE During late 2012 and 2013 we have, together with Deloitte LLP Deloitte, reviewed our long term incentive arrangements in the context of the overall remuneration package.
Bunzls current Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is due to expire in May 2014 and so the review included the development of appropriate replacement arrangements which would continue to align executive reward with returns to shareholders and support our strategy going forward.
Since the introduction of the current LTIP, the business has performed consistently well and grown significantly with operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related and corporate costs growing in the 10 year period to 2013 from 183 million to 433 million 10% compound growth per annum over this period without raising any new equity.
When conducting Peter Johnson the review, the Committee considered a number of key principles Chairman of the Remuneration Committee which are set out below: Our remuneration arrangements should be simple and transparent for both employees and shareholders.
OUR REMUNERATION POLICIES One of Bunzls main objectives is to build shareholder value.
Our AND PRACTICES ARE DESIGNED strategic focus places great importance on continuing to grow organically and by acquisition.
The remuneration framework TO REWARD MANAGEMENT should be designed to reinforce the link between pay and performance and reward senior executives for delivering superior FOR DELIVERING THE shareholder returns.
CONTINUAL STRATEGIC Performance should be assessed against measures and targets that are relevant to Bunzls business and are stretching, whilst GROWTH OF OUR BUSINESS.
A significant amount of Bunzls success can be attributed to the This report has been prepared on behalf strong leadership of the management team.
It is important that key individuals are retained and that we can attract new talent into of and has been approved by the Board.
the business by recruitment or acquisition.
The competitiveness It complies with Schedule 8 to the Large of the remuneration package we offer is key.
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Bunzl is an international business providing outsourcing solutions and value-added distribution across the Americas, Europe and Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Australasia.
The remuneration framework should be structured as amended the Regulations, the UK in a way which will allow us to compete for talent across multiple geographies whilst also complying with UK corporate governance Corporate Governance Code and the good practice.
Financial Conduct Authority Listing Rules The conclusion of our review was that whilst the current and takes into account the accompanying remuneration structure has served the business well, there were a number of changes that needed to be made to ensure the Directors Remuneration Reporting Guidance remuneration framework continues to support the strategic and the relevant policies of shareholder direction of the business and further comply with good practice whilst addressing various matters previously raised by shareholder representative bodies.
As required this representative bodies.
The principal change relates to the proposed report is presented in three main sections: introduction of a revised LTIP to be known as the 2014 LTIP.
an annual statement from the Chairman of Overview of the 2014 LTIP the Committee: the Directors remuneration Grants of executive share option part A and performance share part B awards will continue to be made on a biannual basis and policy report: and the Annual report on performance will be measured over a three year performance remuneration for 2013.
The Committee considered whether a holding period post vesting would be appropriate but felt that the current three year contains information relating to the performance period with no additional holding period was more directors remuneration for 2014 and suitable to Bunzls business cycle.
For awards made after the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2014, we are introducing clawback terms additional information on directors on both executive share option and performance share awards share interests.
We have set out below the main design features of the proposed 2014 LTIP.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 47 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Executive share options Part A share performance against the target for the year but that the annual The maximum value of annual share option awards which can bonus outcome will be modified based on the return on average be granted under the 2014 LTIP rules to be reduced from 300% operating capital performance for the year relative to a target level to 250% of base salary.
Under the 2014 LTIP, executive share option awards for the Consultation directors will vest subject to a performance condition linked to the As part of the process to develop the new remuneration growth of the Companys earnings per share over the performance arrangements we wrote to 19 of the Companys principal period, with the introduction of scaled vesting as referred to on shareholders representing around 60% of the shareholder base, pages 50 and 64.
The intrinsic value of an option will reduce as well as two major shareholder representative bodies, seeking compared with the current plan.
their views with regard to our proposals.
Subsequently I, the To maintain the current expected value of the option element of Secretary of the Remuneration Committee and the General Counsel the 2014 LTIP, the annual grant level will be increased from 150% and Company Secretary took part in a number of meetings and to 200% of annual salary for the Chief Executive and by a similar telephone conferences to gain feedback and answer questions.
percentage for the other executive directors.
The vast majority of those consulted indicated that they were supportive of the Companys directors remuneration policy.
It is no longer considered appropriate to measure performance against the Retail Prices Index RPI in the UK given that only Reporting and disclosure 17% of revenue and 25% of operating profit now relates to Bunzls We have restructured our reporting in line with the revised UK & Ireland operations and these percentages are expected to regulations and associated guidance relating to remuneration decline further as the Groups business continues to grow matters and have tried to make it as clear as possible and explain internationally.
The Committee will review the growth targets the rationale for the decisions that we have made during the year.
annually to ensure that the performance conditions remain sufficiently challenging.
I look forward to receiving your support for both the annual report on remuneration and our directors remuneration policy Performance shares Part B for future years.
The maximum value of annual performance share awards which can be granted under the 2014 LTIP rules will be reduced from Peter Johnson 200% to 150% of base salary.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee There will be no change in the actual award levels for directors.
24 February 2014 The Chief Executive will continue to receive annual awards with a face value of 112.5% of base salary.
50% of an award will continue to be subject to earnings per share growth performance over the performance period, but not relative to UK RPI as mentioned above, with scaled vesting as referred to DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT on pages 50 and 64.
Bunzl continues to pursue its well defined strategy of developing 50% of an award will be subject to relative Total Shareholder the business through organic growth, consolidating the markets in Return TSR performance over the performance period.
TSR which we compete through focused acquisitions in both existing and performance will be measured against the constituents of the new geographies and continuously improving the efficiency of our FTSE 50 150 with significant international operations, excluding operations.
Bunzls business model relies on excellent customer companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural and supplier relationships and the skills, knowledge and experience resources sectors.
The vesting schedule will be unchanged of its directors and employees.
The Companys remuneration policy from the 2004 LTIP as referred to on pages 50 and 64. supports this strategy by ensuring that the overall remuneration package is set at a competitive level whilst ensuring that additional The earnings per share performance targets are determined, reward is paid for high performance over a sustained period.
This based on both historic and consensus forecast performance for the policy is designed to ensure the recruitment, retention and business, to be stretching yet achievable.
In setting the proposed motivation of the executive directors and other senior executives targets for 2014 the Committee has taken into consideration that the over the long term.
intrinsic value of a performance share is much higher than that of an executive share option and therefore that it is appropriate that The performance related elements of the remuneration package a more challenging target be set.
are designed to incentivise executives to meet key performance metrics which align their interests and remuneration with those of Changes to other elements of the remuneration framework shareholders, for example targets relating to earnings per share and When reviewing the proposed structure of the 2014 LTIP, we TSR.
In setting such targets the Committee takes due account of the also conducted a review of other elements of the remuneration potential effect such targets could have on the attitude and behaviour framework.
In light of this we have doubled the shareholding of executives to risk within the business.
In addition the Committee guideline to 200% of annual salary for all executive directors has the discretion to take into account performance on to align further their interests with shareholders.
environmental, social and governance matters.
As mentioned above the Committee also reviewed and discussed the The following table summarises the proposed policy for the appropriateness of the performance measures for the 2014 LTIP and remuneration of executive directors effective from the 2014 AGM whether the addition of other measures would be more appropriate.
which, if approved by shareholders, will become binding until the After full discussion the Committee decided that the use of earnings AGM to be held in 2017.
To aid shareholders understanding, per share and TSR remained appropriate for a company such as explanations are included where appropriate on how this policy Bunzl.
It was felt that the principal measure of performance for the differs from the policy in operation for the 2013 financial year.
annual bonus should remain constant exchange rate earnings per 48 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Salary Purpose recognise knowledge, skills and experience as well as reflect the scope and size of the role reward individual performance without encouraging undue risk promote the importance of environmental, social and governance issues Operation paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year reviewed annually, normally in December with any changes usually effective from January taking into consideration individual and Group performance, salary increases across the Group are benchmarked for appropriate salary levels using a comparator group of similarly sized companies with a large international presence pensionable Maximum salary increases are normally considered in relation to the salary increases of other employees in the Group and potential performance of the individual unless there has been a major change in role or responsibility or major market movement.
value The annual salaries for the executive directors for 2013 and 2014 are on pages 58 and 64 respectively Performance individual performance in the role, as well as the performance of the Group and achievements related to environmental, metrics social and governance issues, are all taken into consideration Annual bonus Purpose incentivise the attainment of annual corporate targets retain high performing employees align with shareholders interests Operation annual award based on financial targets set by the Committee at the beginning of the year at the end of the performance period, which is the Groups financial year from 1 January until 31 December, the Committee assesses the extent to which the performance measures have been achieved.
The level of bonus for each measure is determined by reference to the actual performance relative to that measures performance targets, on a pro rata basis any bonus is paid as 50% in cash and 50% in shares with the shares normally deferred for three years under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme DASBS a clawback facility is in operation by which part or the full deferred bonus award may be reduced or cancelled to the extent that the value of the bonus originally awarded is subsequently found to have been overstated as a result of a material misstatement of the financial accounts by which the bonus was originally determined non-pensionable Maximum the annual on target bonus opportunity for Michael Roney and Brian May is 70% of salary with a threshold award of 49% potential of salary and a maximum award of 115% of salary and for Patrick Larmon is 65% of salary with a threshold award of 31% value of salary and a maximum award of 110% of salary Performance the principal measure for performance is the growth at constant exchange rates in the Companys earnings per share metrics adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance eps against the relevant target the bonus derived from constant exchange rate eps performance will be increased or decreased according to the Companys performance against the target return on average operating capital RAOC, referred to as the RAOC modifier the use of eps and RAOC measures are seen as appropriate as they are two of Bunzls key performance indicators KPIs.
The use of eps growth aligns the executive directors interests with those of the shareholders and the RAOC modifier ensures the continued focus on working capital management together with profit growth bonus awards are at the Committees discretion and may take into account performance on environmental, social and governance matters as appropriate Patrick Larmon has additional measures based on the profit before interest and tax pbit and working capital employed in the business area for which he has direct responsibility North America.
The additional measures relating to pbit and working capital are relevant for Patrick Larmon as these are both KPIs of the business area he is responsible for running and these measures, together with other performance measures, are used to incentivise the management group in North America the Group RAOC modifier has been introduced as a performance metric to the executive directors bonus plan from 1 January 2014 the performance metrics and targets are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate.
The Committee retains the discretion to set alternative metrics as appropriate the current relevant performance metrics are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus : target: and maximum amount the level at which the bonus is capped.
These performance metrics are determined at the start of the year by reference to the Groups annual budget.
No elements of the bonus are guaranteed.
As in previous years, the specific targets will not be disclosed while still commercially sensitive BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 49 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Long term incentives Purpose incentivise growth in longer term eps and TSR align with shareholders interests recruit and retain senior employees Operation discretionary biannual grants of executive share option awards and performance share awards which vest subject to performance conditions measured over three years and subject to continuous Company service.
There is no opportunity to retest a clawback facility is in operation under which part or the full amount of a vested award may be recovered, by reduction in the amount of any future bonus, subsisting award, the vesting of any subsisting award or future share awards and or a requirement to make a cash payment, to the extent that the value of a vested award is subsequently found to have been overstated as a result of a material misstatement of the financial accounts by which the vesting was determined all awards are subject to the discretions contained in the relevant plan rules Maximum Executive share options potential maximum annual award of 250% of salary value normal grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 167% and 200% of salary and the Committee would not grant above this level to incumbent executive directors without further consultation with shareholders Performance shares maximum annual award of 150% of salary normal grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 94% and 112.5% of salary and the Committee would not grant above this level to incumbent executive directors without further consultation with shareholders Performance Performance and service conditions must be met over a three year performance period metrics Executive share options eps performance measure relates to the absolute growth in the Companys eps against the targets set for the performance period the vesting is scaled as follows: no vesting for performance below the threshold target 25% of an award will vest for achieving the threshold target 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding the maximum target for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale the Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 LTIP, reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment the targets set out in the Remuneration report on page 61 relate to the previously approved 2004 LTIP.
The targets set for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 64 Performance shares TSR performance measure 50% of the total award compares a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the performance period against a comparator group of the constituents of the FTSE 50 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors the other 50% of the award is subject to an eps performance measure which relates to the absolute growth in the Companys eps against the targets set for the performance period the vesting for both performance measures is scaled as follows: no vesting for performance below median performance TSR or the threshold target eps 25% of an award will vest for achieving median performance TSR or the threshold target eps 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding upper quartile performance TSR or the maximum target eps for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale the Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 LTIP, reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment the targets set out in the Remuneration report on page 61 relate to the previously approved 2004 LTIP.
The targets set for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 64 50 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 All employee share plans Purpose encourage employees including the executive directors to build a shareholding through the operation of all employee share plans such as the HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved Sharesave Scheme in the UK and the Internal Revenue Service IRS approved Employee Stock Purchase Plan US the ESPP in the US Operation the Sharesave Scheme has standard terms under which participants can normally enter a savings contract, over a period of either three or five years, in return for which they are granted options to acquire shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply for the option.
Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted the ESPP provides an opportunity for employees in the US to purchase the Companys shares in the market at a 15% discount to the market price.
The purchase of the shares is funded by after tax payroll deductions from the employee with the employing company contributing the 15% discount rules of both of the above plans were approved by shareholders at the 2011 AGM Maximum in the UK, the Sharesave Scheme is linked to a contract for monthly savings within the HMRC limits over a period of potential either three or five years currently 250 per month value in the US, the ESPP allows the purchase in the market of shares within IRS limits currently up to an annual maximum of 10% of remuneration or US$25,000 worth of shares, whichever is lower Performance service conditions apply metrics Retirement benefits Purpose provision of competitive retirement benefits retain executive directors Operation all defined benefit pension plans in the Group have been closed to new entrants since 2003 with any new recruits being offered defined contribution retirement arrangements and or a pension allowance legacy arrangements exist for one UK based executive director and the US based executive director as disclosed previously pension contributions and allowances are normally paid monthly Maximum company pension contributions to defined contribution retirement arrangements or cash allowances are capped at 30% potential of annual salary value benefits under the legacy UK defined benefit pension plan accrue at a rate of 2.4% on salary up to the notional pensionable salary cap from 6 April 2014 145,800 per annum Performance Not applicable metrics Other benefits Purpose provision of competitive benefits which helps to recruit and retain executive directors Operation benefits may include a car allowance or a car which may be fully expensed, various insurances such as life, disability and medical and in some jurisdictions club expenses and other benefits provided from time to time some benefits may only be provided in the case of relocation, such as removal expenses, and in the case of an international relocation might also include fees for childrens schooling, home leave, tax equalisation and professional advice etc Maximum the value of benefits is based on the cost to the Company and varies according to individual circumstances.
For example potential the cost of medical insurance varies according to family circumstances and the jurisdiction in which the family is based value Performance Not applicable metrics BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 51 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Shareholding requirement Purpose strengthen the alignment between the interests of the executive directors and those of shareholders Operation Executives will be normally expected to retain shares through the exercise of awards under the DASBS and the LTIP until they attain the required holding.
Three years is allowed for executives who are promoted from within the Company to achieve the required shareholding.
It is recognised that a longer time period may be required for externally recruited executives to achieve the required shareholding Maximum retain shareholdings worth equal to at least 200% of annual salary.
This does not include any holdings of deferred potential value shares or vested but unexercised share options or performance shares Performance Not applicable metrics Performance measures and targets The key measures used by the Committee for incentivising the executive directors are: eps modified by RAOC for the annual bonus and eps and relative TSR for the 2014 LTIP.
The Committee considers that all of these measures are appropriate for incentive purposes: Eps is one of Bunzls KPIs.
The use of eps aligns the executive directors interests with those of shareholders.
In addition, one of the executive directors, Patrick Larmon, President and Chief Executive Officer of North America, also has part of his annual bonus determined by additional measures relating to pbit and working capital which are relevant as these are two of the KPIs of the business area he is responsible for running RAOC is another of Bunzls KPIs.
The RAOC modifier ensures continued focus on working capital and profit growth by rewarding efficient profit generation, taking into account acquisitions once they are established, and uses average capital employed rather than only capital at the end of the period Relative TSR provides an external assessment of the Companys performance against similar sized companies listed in the UK.
It also aligns the rewards received by executives with the returns received by shareholders This combination of performance measures provides an important balance relevant to the Groups business and market conditions as well as providing a common goal for the executive directors, senior management and shareholders.
The Committee does not feel that the introduction of non-financial measures for the executive directors is appropriate at this time.
The Committee reviews performance targets on an annual basis taking into account the Companys annual budgeting process, the economic environment in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates and external expectations.
Changes to the remuneration policy from that operating in 2013 and 2012 As described above in the Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, during late 2012 and 2013 a review of the executive directors remuneration arrangements took place, particularly with regard to the proposed replacement of the 2004 LTIP.
A number of changes have been made for implementation following the 2014 AGM to bring the arrangements in line with best practice.
Element Operation Maximum potential value Performance metric Salary No change No change No change Annual bonus No change No change Introduction of RAOC modifier Long term incentives Executive share options: Executive share options: Executive share options and performance shares: Increase of normal annual Reduction of maximum UK RPI removed and absolute eps measure grants to: grant from 300% to 250% introduced of salary Chief Executive: Executive share options: from 150% to 200% Performance shares: Eps performance measure retained but vesting Reduction of maximum will vary on a straight line sliding scale Finance Director: grant from 200% to 150% from 140% to 187% Performance shares: of salary No change to TSR measure Other executive director: from 125% to 167% Comparator group changed to FTSE 50 150 with significant international operations, excluding Performance shares: companies in financial, oil & gas and natural No change to normal resources sectors annual grant levels Clawback introduced All employee share No change No change No change stock purchase plans Retirement benefits No change No change No change Other benefits No change No change No change Shareholding No change Increased to 200% of No change guidelines annual salary 52 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Differences in remuneration policy for executive directors and employees in general The main difference in remuneration policy between the executive directors and employees in general is the split of fixed and performance related pay such as bonus and long term incentives.
Overall the percentage of performance related pay, in particular longer term incentive pay, is greater for the executive directors.
This reflects that executive directors have more freedom to act and the consequences of their decisions are likely to have a broader and more far reaching time span of effect than those decisions made by employees with more limited responsibility.
As a consequence only executive directors, Executive Committee members and other key employees currently 22 people are granted both executive share option and performance share awards.
Approximately 300 senior managers are granted executive share option awards on an annual basis, which helps to provide a common focus for the management in the Companys decentralised organisation structure, whereas the annual bonuses are related to the performance of individual operating units.
Bonus arrangements vary throughout the Group and are related to the specific role and the country in which the employee operates.
The majority of bonus plans have quantitative targets but the performance measures and targets vary according to each specific role.
Sales representatives often have high levels of annual bonus payments which may be commission based.
When there is a critical mass of employees within a country to make it cost effective to do so, to encourage wider employee share ownership an all employee share plan is offered.
Currently plans are offered to all employees based in Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, US and UK.
In France employees take part in profit sharing arrangements in accordance with local regulations.
Retirement and other benefits offered to employees across the Group differ according to the country in which the job is based, as social provision and market norms differ, and the function and seniority of the relevant role.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee is provided annually with information on the salaries and proposed increases for the Executive Committee members and other senior direct reports of the Chief Executive, as well as data on the average salary increases within each geographical region within the Group.
In addition the Committee reviews and agrees all grants of executive share option and performance share awards.
In 2014 employees across the Group have received, on average, salary increases in the range of 2% 3%, dependent on geographical location with the exception being those employees based in Latin America and China where, due to inflation, current market salary increases are much higher.
The actual increases received by employees have been based on each individuals contribution and performance as well as the market competitiveness of the salary.
The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the directors remuneration policy set out in this part of the report.
Recruitment of executive directors approach to remuneration For the ongoing stability and growth of the Group, it is important to secure, as necessary, the appointment of high calibre executives to the Board by either external recruitment or internal promotion.
The overarching principles applied by the Committee in developing the remuneration package will be to set an appropriate base salary together with benefits and short and long term incentives taking into consideration the skills and experience of the individual, the complexity and breadth of the role, the particular needs and situation of the Group, internal relativities, the marketplace in which the executive will operate and an individuals current remuneration package and location.
In addition, the Committee recognises that it may need to meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
To ensure consistency across the Board, the expected components of the package would be in line with the remuneration policy as set out on pages 49 to 52.
In order to provide the Company with sufficient flexibility on the recruitment of an executive director, the Committee has set the maximum level of variable remuneration on recruitment at 427.5% of annual salary.
This covers the maximum annual bonus, including the deferred annual share bonus award, and the maximum face value of any long term incentive awards.
For an external appointment, the Committee may consider offering additional cash and or share based elements to the remuneration package when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Such elements, as appropriate, would be made under Section 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules and take account of any remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element or benefit awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to remain in place according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the new appointment.
Executive directors service contracts It is the Companys policy that executive directors are normally employed on contracts that provide for 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the executive.
For Michael Roney and Brian May there is no predetermined compensation for termination of these contracts.
Patrick Larmons contract provides that on termination by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment of 12 months base salary plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any interim earnings.
The date of each service contract is noted in the table below.
Date of service contract Michael Roney 1 September 2005 Brian May 9 December 2005 Patrick Larmon 1 January 2005 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 53 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Policy on payment for departure from office On termination of an executive directors service contract, the Committee will take into account the departing directors duty to mitigate his loss when determining the amount of compensation.
The Committees policy in respect of the treatment of executive directors leaving the Group is described below and is designed to support a smooth transition from the Company taking into account the interests of shareholders: Component Voluntary resignation Death, ill health, disability Departure on of pay or termination for cause excluding redundancy agreed terms Base salary, Paid for the proportion of the Paid up to the date of death or leaving, including any untaken pension and notice period worked and any holidays pro rated to such date.
In the case of ill health, a benefits untaken holidays pro rated to payment in lieu of notice may be made and, according to the leaving date the circumstances, may be subject to mitigation.
In such circumstances some benefits such as company car or medical insurance may be retained until the end of the notice period Annual bonus Cessation of employment Cessation of employment during a bonus year or after the cash during a bonus year will year end but prior to the normal bonus payment date will normally result in no cash result in cash and deferred bonus being paid and pro rated bonus being paid for the relevant portion of the financial year worked and performance achieved Annual bonus Unvested deferred shares In the case of the death of an executive, all deferred shares deferred will lapse will be transferred to the estate as soon as possible after shares death.
In all other cases, subject to the discretion of the Treatment will normally Committee, unvested deferred shares will be transferred fall between the two to the individual on a date determined by the Committee treatments described in the previous columns, Executive Unvested executive share Approved options will vest in full on the cessation of subject to the discretion share options options will lapse employment and be exercisable for the following 12 months of the Committee and after which any unexercised options will lapse the terms of any termination agreement Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested unapproved share options will normally be retained by the individual for the remainder of the vesting period and remain subject to the relevant performance conditions.
However in the case of the death of an executive, the Committee will determine the extent of vesting within 12 months of the date of death Performance Unvested performance Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested shares shares will lapse performance shares will normally be retained by the individual for the remainder of the vesting period and remain subject to the relevant performance conditions.
However in the case of the death of an executive, the Committee will determine the extent of vesting within 12 months of the date of death Options under As per HMRC regulations As per HMRC regulations Sharesave Other None Disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement fees Notes a For share options granted under Part A of the 2004 LTIP, any unvested executive share options which are subject to the discretion of the Committee may vest in full on the termination date and be exercisable for the following 12 months following which any unexercised options will lapse.
b The Committee will have the authority to settle any legal claims against the Company, e. g. for unfair dismissal etc, that might arise on termination.
Discretions retained by the Committee in operating the incentive plans The Committee operates the Groups various incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC and IRS rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the Committee may apply certain operational discretions.
These include the following: selecting the participants in the plans: determining the timing of grants and or payments: determining the quantum of grants and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table above : adjusting the constituents of the TSR comparator group: determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: 54 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 determining good leaver status and the extent of vesting in the case of the share based plans: determining the extent of vesting of awards under share based plans in the event of a change of control: making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation of capital and special dividends : and under the annual review of weighting of performance measures, setting targets for the annual bonus plan and 2014 LTIP from year to year.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions applying to share based awards if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
Remuneration overview The remuneration package comprises both core fixed elements base salary, pension and other benefits and performance based variable elements cash bonus, the DASBS and the LTIP.
The Committee has set a guideline that for on target performance approximately half of the remuneration package should be performance related.
The structure of the remuneration packages for on target and stretch performance for each of the executive directors is illustrated in the bar charts below.
Michael Roney 78% 22% Threshold performance Total 1,172,667 37% 11% 26% 26% Target performance Total 2,436,855 24% 7% 28% 41% Stretch performance Total 3,745,792 Brian May 76% 24% Threshold performance Total 678,015 38% 12% 26% 24% Target performance Total 1,360,265 25% 8% 28% 39% Stretch performance Total 2,057,015 77% 23% Patrick Larmon Threshold performance Total 867,912 39% 12% 26% 23% Target performance Total 1,709,337 27% 8% 28% 37% Stretch performance Total 2,517,612 SALARY AND BENEFITS PENSION BONUS CASH DASBS LTIP Notes a S alary represents annual salary for 2014.
Patrick Larmons salary is paid in US dollars but has been translated at the exchange rate of 1: US$1.56.
Benefits such as a car or car allowance and private medical insurance are as shown on page 58. b P ension represents the cost of pension accrued in 2013 in the Defined Benefit Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Brian May, the value of the annual pension allowance for Michael Roney and Brian May, the contributions to the Defined Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Michael Roney and the total of Company contributions to Patrick Larmons 401K Plan, Retirement Savings Benefit the RSB and through the Defined Contribution Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA, further details of which are shown on page 60. c B elow threshold performance comprises salary, benefits and pension only with no bonus awarded and no LTIP awards vested.
d Target performance comprises annual bonus awarded at target level i. e. 70% of base salary comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 50% of performance shares will vest and that 50% of the share options will vest and deliver 30% of their face value in gain to the executives.
e S tretch performance comprises annual bonus awarded at maximum level i. e. 115% of base salary for Michael Roney and Brian May and 110% of base salary for Patrick Larmon comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 100% of performance shares will vest delivering 100% of their face value in gain to the executive directors and 100% of share options will vest which will deliver 30% of their face value in gain to the executives.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 55 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Remuneration policy report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports or internally promoted future directors in each case, such as the payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share plans.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Remuneration report as they arise.
Policy of executive directors external appointments With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them.
Non-executive directors terms of appointment On appointment of a new Chairman of the Board or non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual and the prevailing fee rates of the other non-executive directors at that time.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
The date of appointment and the most recent re-appointment and the length of service for each non-executive director are shown in the table below.
Date of last Length of Date of re-appointment service as appointment at AGM at 2014 AGM Philip Rogerson 1 January 2010 17 April 2013 4 years 3 months Ulrich Wolters 1 July 2004 n a n a Peter Johnson 1 January 2006 17 April 2013 8 years 3 months David Sleath 1 September 2007 17 April 2013 6 years 7 months Eugenia Ulasewicz 1 April 2011 17 April 2013 3 years Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 17 April 2013 1 year 3 months Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 17 April 2013 1 year Ulrich Wolters retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
On termination, at any time, a non-executive director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid directors fees but not to any other compensation.
Fees policy for Chairman and non-executive directors the NEDs Purpose provision of a competitive fee to attract NEDs who have a broad range of experience and skills to oversee the implementation of the Companys strategy Operation determined in light of market practice and with reference to time commitment and responsibilities associated with the roles annual fees are paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year the senior independent director and Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are paid an extra fee to reflect their additional responsibilities the NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible to receive benefits and do not participate in pension or incentive plans.
Expenses incurred in respect of their duties as directors of the Company are reimbursed the NEDs fees are reviewed annually in January each year and the Chairmans fee is reviewed biennially, the last date being February 2014 the Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the NEDs fees on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The NEDs do not participate in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration: the Chairmans fees are set by the Committee Maximum determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of 1,000,000 authorised by shareholders with reference to the potential Companys Articles of Association value Performance Not eligible to participate in any performance related elements of remuneration metrics Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
In addition the Committee consults proactively with its major shareholders prior to making significant changes to its policy.
56 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION FOR 2013 Committee remit and membership The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee during 2013: Date of Meetings appointment to eligible Meetings the Committee to attend attendance Ulrich Wolters 21 July 2004 1 1 Peter Johnson 18 January 2006 5 5 David Sleath 5 December 2007 5 5 Eugenia Ulasewicz 20 April 2011 5 5 Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 5 5 Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 4 4 Ulrich Wolters retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
The Secretary to the Committee is Celia Baxter, Director of Group Human Resources.
No director plays any part in determining his or her remuneration.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman were consulted and invited to attend meetings of the Committee, but were not present during any part of the meeting when their own remuneration was under consideration.
The terms of reference of the Committee have been formally adopted by the Board and are available for inspection in the Investor Centre section of the Companys website, www.
The key responsibilities of the Committee include: ensuring that executive directors and senior executives are properly incentivised to attract, retain and fairly reward them for their individual contribution to the Company and having due regard to the policies and practices applied to the rest of the employees within the Group: determining the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive directors of the Board including setting their individual remuneration packages as well as their level of remuneration and overseeing all the Companys long term incentive plans: ensuring that remuneration is aligned with and supports the Companys strategy and performance, having due regard to the shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the Company, while at the same time not encouraging undue risk taking: and communicating and discussing any remuneration issues with the Companys stakeholders as and when appropriate.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee In carrying out these responsibilities, the Committee seeks external remuneration advice as necessary.
During the year the Committee received advice from Deloitte, PwC and New Bridge Street.
Deloitte undertook a review of the long term incentive arrangements and made recommendations to the Committee on changes to the LTIP and other elements of remuneration as described in the Committee Chairmans statement.
PwC provided external survey data on directors remuneration and benefit levels.
New Bridge Street drafted the rules of the 2014 LTIP and provided information to determine whether, and if so to what extent, the performance conditions attached to existing share option and performance share awards under the 2004 LTIP had been satisfied.
The fees payable to each adviser, based on hourly rates, were: 48,000 Deloitte, 19,065 PwC and 14,150 New Bridge Street for such work undertaken in 2013.
In addition to the work undertaken on behalf of the Committee, Deloitte also provides the Company with some tax related services, PwC also provides the Company with some tax related and pre-acquisition due diligence services and New Bridge Street may from time to time also provide services to the Company on remuneration and benefit related matters that are not subject to review by the Committee.
The Committee remains satisfied that the provision of these other services does not in any way compromise the independence of their advisers.
Statement of voting at the 2013 AGM Last year the remuneration report received a 98.37% shareholder vote in favour as set out below: Votes cast Votes For % of shares voted Votes Against % of shares voted Votes Withheld 261,017,954 256,760,966 98.37 4,256,988 1.63 1,837,707 Notes a T he votes For include votes given at the Company Chairmans discretion.
b A v ote Withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For or Against the resolution.
Votes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of the votes cast.
The other 50% of the bonus shown above is deferred and conditionally awarded as shares under the rules of the DASBS.
Shares relating to the 2012 deferred bonus were awarded in 2013 as shown in the table on page 65 and the shares relating to the 2013 deferred bonus will be awarded in 2014. b T he remuneration for Patrick Larmon is determined and paid in US dollars and has been translated at the average exchange rates for the year of 1: US$1.56 in respect of 2013 and 1: US$1.59 in respect of 2012. c T he long term incentives are in the form of awards under the 2004 LTIP which were granted in 2010 and 2011.
See page 59 for details of the performance conditions applicable and for the valuation method applied to such awards.
Long term incentive figures exclude any gain from the purchase of shares by Patrick Larmon through the ESPP described on page 51. d Benefits provided for all executive directors are a car or car allowance and medical insurance coverage for them and their families.
In addition to these benefits Patrick Larmons club fees are paid by the Company.
e Ulrich Wolters retired from the Board on 17 April 2013. f Meinie Oldersma was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2013. g There were no payments made to former directors during the year and no payments were, or are due to be, made in respect of loss of office.
Executive directors annual salary audited information Executive directors salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2013 in accordance with normal policy and were increased taking into account the average salary increases for employees across the Group.
Salary from Salary from Increase in salary 1 January 1 January 2012 to 2013 2013 2012 % Michael Roney 870,000 845,000 3.0 Brian May 480,000 468,000 2.6 Patrick Larmon US$989,000 US$960,000 3.0 Executive directors salaries were also reviewed with effect from 1 January 2014 and the increases awarded are shown on page 64.
58 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Executive directors external appointments Michael Roney served as a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc throughout 2013 and retained fees of 68,000.
Brian May served as a non-executive director of United Utilities Group PLC throughout 2013 and retained fees of 60,468.
Patrick Larmon does not hold any such appointments.
Non-executive directors fees audited information The Chairmans fee is reviewed every two years and, as a result, no review of the fee took place in 2013.
The fees for the non-executive directors were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2013 in accordance with normal policy.
With effect from Fees paid Increase in fees January 2013 in 2012 2012 to 2013 % Chairmans fee 310,000 310,000 Non-executive director fee 63,000 61,500 2.4 Supplements: Senior independent director 16,000 16,000 Audit Committee Chairman 13,000 12,000 8.3 Remuneration Committee Chairman 13,000 12,000 8.3 The Chairmans and non-executive directors fees were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2014 and the increases awarded are shown on page 65.
Performance against annual bonus targets audited information The annual bonus plan and DASBS operate as set out in the policy section on page 49.
100% of Michael Roneys and Brian Mays and 25% of Patrick Larmons bonus potential in 2013 related to the growth in the Companys constant exchange rate eps relative to budget.
This resulted in a bonus payment between the target and maximum bonus opportunity.
For Patrick Larmon, a further 75% of his bonus potential related to the pbit performance of North America which was modified by the achievement of North Americas return on average operating capital relative to the target set.
Pbit performance for North America resulted in a bonus payment 1.2% above target and the return on average operating capital slightly exceeded target as a result of which the bonus related to North Americas performance was increased by a further 0.8%.
Accordingly the total payments under the annual bonus plan were: Total bonus payment cash and deferred shares as a % of salary 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 % % % % % Michael Roney 104.2 77.0 114.0 81.6 52.2 Brian May 104.2 77.0 114.0 81.6 52.2 Patrick Larmon 85.3 85.9 110.0 76.7 54.2 The monetary values of the bonus payments for 2013 and 2012 are included in the table on page 58.
LTIP grants awards with performance periods ending in 2013 audited information Executive share options LTIP Part A Executive share option awards, granted three years previously, are due to vest on 3 March 2014 and 2 September 2014.
The Committee assessed the relevant performance of the Company against the performance conditions.
Eps restated on adoption of IAS 19 revised 2011 growth was 38.02% for the three years ended 31 December 2013 which compared to an increase in RPI of 10.95% over the same period.
Since the performance condition would have been satisfied if eps had grown by at least 20.22% over the period, all of the options will vest.
Included in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 58 is the estimated value of these awards based on the difference between the grant price and the average of the Companys closing mid-market share price for the three month period ended 31 December 2013 1,372p.
Performance shares LTIP Part B Awards of performance shares were made to the executive directors on 1 April 2010 and 8 October 2010 with the three year performance periods being completed on 31 March 2013 and 30 September 2013 respectively.
The Committee subsequently assessed the performance of the Company against the relevant performance conditions.
The extent to which half of the awards would vest was subject to a performance condition based on eps growth relative to RPI.
Eps growth was 28.4% for the three years ended 31 December 2012 compared to an increase in RPI of 13.2% over the same period.
A quarter of the award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 25.7% over the period and the whole award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 46.3%.
As a result of the Companys actual growth in eps over the period, 35.0% of this part of the awards vested 17.5% of the full awards.
The extent to which the other half of the awards vested was based on the Companys TSR performance against the relevant comparator group.
For the April 2010 award, the Company ranked 12th out of the remaining 38 companies in the comparator group of companies, as a result of which 86.5% of this part of the award vested 43.3% of the full award for performance between median and upper quartile.
For the October 2010 award, the Company ranked 11th out of the remaining 37 companies in the comparator group of companies, as a result of which 89.9% of this part of the award vested 44.9% of the full award for performance between median and upper quartile.
Accordingly 60.7% of the total performance shares awarded in April 2010 and 62.4% of the total performance shares awarded in October 2010 vested in April and October 2013 respectively.
Included in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 58 is the value of these vested awards at the closing mid-market share price on the dates of vesting, 8 April 2013 and 8 October 2013, which were 1,290p and 1,305p respectively.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 59 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Total pension entitlements audited information Defined benefit pension DB entitlements Change in Value of cash Accrued transfer value Transfer value Pension Additional allowance including benefits at of accrued of accrued plans value Pension value any company DC 31.12.13 per benefits during benefits at normal of pension on in the year and or 401k Total annum the year 31.12.13 retirement early from DB contributions pension age retirement scheme in 2013 2013 Michael Roney 261,000 261,000 Brian May 58,479 159,428 957,860 60 59,378 101,970 161,348 Patrick Larmon 15,738 11,257 153,923 65 199,663 199,663 Notes a The changes in the transfer values of accrued benefits have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with any relevant actuarial legislation and, in the case of Brian May, are net of his contributions of 12,609.
The changes in the transfer values of accrued benefits for Brian May and Patrick Larmon include the effect of fluctuations in the transfer values due to factors such as changes in the assumptions used to value pension assets and, in particular, the higher assumed discount rates as a result of an increase in long dated gilt yields.
b M ichael Roney receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary.
He has chosen to join the Defined Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan BPP and his contribution of 5% of base salary, up to the pensionable salary cap notionally 141,000 for tax year 2013 2014 and 137,400 for tax year 2012 2013 is matched by the Company.
During 2013 such contributions amounted to 7,005 2012: 6,773 and this amount was deducted from his pension allowance.
c B rian May, who joined the Group in the UK prior to the closure of the defined benefit sections of the BPP, is a member of the Bunzl Senior Pension Section of the BPP.
His pension accrues at the rate of 2.4% per annum up to two thirds of the pensionable salary cap, as described above.
The employee contribution rate is currently 9% of pensionable salary.
In addition to benefits from the BPP, Brian May receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary above the pensionable salary cap which permits him to make provision, of his own choice, in respect of that part of his salary which exceeds the cap.
d Patrick Larmon originally joined the US Plan, subject to IRS limits, which accrued at a rate of 1.67% per annum up to 50% of the five year average pensionable salary less the primary social security benefit, with a normal retirement age of 65 years.
Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped at US$140,000.
On closure of the US Plan, Patrick Larmon chose to freeze his benefit and no further benefits have accrued.
The decrease in transfer value shown in the table above is principally due to foreign exchange translation.
Patrick Larmon is currently a member of a defined contribution plan, the Retirement Saving Benefit RSB.
Contributions to the RSB are fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related.
The contributions are a percentage of base salary maximum 5% which is capped at US$200,000 per annum.
The Company made contributions in respect of Patrick Larmon in 2013 of 6,410 2012: 6,289. e I n addition, Patrick Larmon receives a supplementary pension through a defined benefit Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA.
Patrick Larmons SERA, which became fully accrued in 2012, provides for a lifetime pension of US$100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement.
In 2013 the Company paid all necessary expenses, due to changes in assumptions and other factors outside of the Companys control such as change in market conditions, on actuarial advice, to the SERA which amounted to 47,490 2012: 74,030.
In 2007, this SERA arrangement was closed to new entrants and existing members benefits were frozen.
A new defined contribution SERA DC SERA was put in place for Patrick Larmon.
During 2013 the contribution to the DC SERA amounted to 185,897 2012: 182,390. f Patrick Larmon also participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings 401k Plan.
The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan.
During 2013 contributions for Patrick Larmon amounted to 7,356 2012: 6,934.
LTIP grant policy Conditional awards of executive share options and performance shares are granted twice a year to executive directors and other senior executives.
Executive share option awards are normally granted in February or March and August or September dependent on the date of announcement of the Companys results.
Performance share awards are normally granted in April and October each year.
In 2013 executive share options were granted in February and August and for performance shares in April and October in accordance with the existing grant policy and performance conditions as detailed on pages 52 and 61 respectively.
Options were awarded under LTIP Part A on 28 February and 30 August 2013 at a value of 1,240p and 1,375p per share respectively.
Performance shares were awarded under LTIP Part B on 5 April and 7 October 2013 at a value of 1,277p and 1,325p per share respectively.
60 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Performance conditions for 2013 awards Executive share options Executive share option awards may vest based solely on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance relative to UK inflation RPI over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Face value of annual executive share options granted as a proportion of salary Total margin over UK inflation RPI after three years First 150% of salary 9.3% Next 75% of salary 12.5% Next 75% of salary 19.1% Performance shares The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance relative to UK inflation RPI over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Total margin over UK inflation RPI after three years Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below 12.5% Nil 12.5% 25% Between 12.5% and 33.1% Pro rata between 25%100% 33.1% or above 100% The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Companys TSR performance, a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period, relative to the TSR performance of a specified group of companies of similarly sized companies with large international presence.
The comparator group consists of at least 40 UK based companies excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors that have substantial operations overseas and have at 30 September prior to the grant of the awards similar levels of revenue, profit and market capitalisation as Bunzl.
The applicable comparator group for the LTIP Part B awards in October 2013 are shown below and will form the basis of the comparator group for the LTIP Part B awards in April 2014.
Aggreko Hays Reckitt Benckiser Group Ashstead Group IMI Rexam ARM Holdings Inchcape SABMiller Burberry Group Informa SIG Carnival Corporation Inmarsat Smith & Nephew Cobham Intercontinental Hotels Group Smiths Group Computacenter International Consolidated Airlines Group Spectris Croda International Intertek Group Tate & Lyle Diageo Johnson Matthey Thomas Cook Group Dixons Retail Meggitt Vesuvius Easyjet Melrose Weir Group Experian Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Wolseley G4S Mondi WPP GKN Pearson These performance share awards vest in line with the following vesting schedule: TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below median Nil Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25%100% Upper quartile or above 100% Awards granted in 2011 and 2012 were subject to the same performance conditions as described above.
Shareholder consultation In 2012, the Chairman of the Committee met with one of the shareholder representative bodies to discuss the introduction of a performance condition on a sliding scale for the vesting of the share options.
These views were taken into account in developing the proposals for the amendments to the remuneration arrangements outlined in the Committee Chairmans statement on pages 47 and 48.
In 2013, 19 major shareholders and two shareholder representative bodies were consulted on the proposed changes to the remuneration policy.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Shareholder dilution In accordance with the Principles of Remuneration issued by the Association of British Insurers, the Company can satisfy awards to employees under all its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital adjusted for share issuance and cancellation in a rolling 10 year period.
Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury, 5% of its issued share capital adjusted for share issuance and cancellation to satisfy awards under executive discretionary plans.
As well as the LTIP, the Company operates various all employee share schemes as described on page 51.
Newly issued shares are currently used to satisfy the exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Scheme.
Awards under the LTIP of executive options and performance shares are principally satisfied by shares delivered from the Employee Benefit Trust which buys shares on the market, unless security laws in relevant jurisdictions prevent this.
Cumulative options and performance shares granted as a percentage of issued share capital as at 31 December 2013 Limit on awards including those held in treasury 10% in any rolling 10 year period 3.0% 5% in any rolling 10 year period executive discretionary plans 1.6% Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited information As at 31 December 2013, all executive directors and their connected persons owned shares outright at a level exceeding their required shareholding.
In 2013 executive directors were required to hold 100% of their annual salary in the Companys shares.
The shareholding requirement is increasing in 2014 to 200% of their annual salary in the Companys shares as described on page 52.
Actual share ownership as a percentage of salary at 31 December 2013 at the closing mid-market price 1,450p Michael Roney 520% Brian May 318% Patrick Larmon 270% Interests in shares and share options The interests of the directors, and their connected persons, in the Companys ordinary shares and share options at 31 December 2013 were: Total Shares Options LTIP Part A and Sharesave interests held Unvested Unvested and subject and subject to Unvested Unvested and to holding performance and subject to subject to Vested Owned period conditions performance continued but not outright DASBS LTIP Part B conditions employment exercised Michael Roney 312,263 117,672 289,000 385,500 1,948 270,000 1,376,383 Brian May 105,240 64,911 150,500 200,000 3,462 524,113 Patrick Larmon 117,838 82,766 163,500 218,000 203,500 785,604 Philip Rogerson 10,000 10,000 Peter Johnson 6,630 6,630 David Sleath 4,000 4,000 Eugenia Ulasewicz 4,000 4,000 Jean-Charles Pauze 2,500 2,500 Meinie Oldersma 2,500 2,500 62 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Performance graph and table 300 BUNZL Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 280 FTSE 350 SUPPORT SERVICES Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 requires that the Company 260 must provide a graph comparing the TSR performance of a 240 hypothetical holding of shares in the Company with a broad equity 220 200 market index over a five year period.
The Companys TSR 180 performance against the FTSE 350 Support Services Sector over a 160 five year period commencing on 1 January 2009 is shown to the right.
140 120 100 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Source: Thomson Reuters datastream Chief Executives pay in last five years audited information The table below summarises the Chief Executives single figure for total remuneration, as shown on page 58, annual bonus and long term incentive payout as a percentage of maximum opportunity for 2013 and the previous four years.
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Single figure of remuneration 000 1,943.2 2,314.2 3,394.1 3,502.9 4,018.7 Annual variable element award rates against maximum opportunity 45% 71% 99% 67% 91% Long term incentive vesting rates LTIP Part A options 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% against maximum opportunity LTIP Part B performance shares 84% 65% 29% 45% 62% Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration The table below sets out the increase in the salary, benefits and bonus of the Chief Executive and that of a Bunzl UK and US management population.
This population has been selected for this comparison because it is considered to be the most relevant as these countries have the Groups largest concentration of employees with a similarly structured remuneration package.
Employees from businesses acquired by Bunzl in 2013 and leavers and joiners in either year have been removed from the data to prevent distortion.
UK and US Chief Executive management population Percentage change Percentage change 2013 vs 2012 2013 vs 2012 Salary 3% 5% Benefits 1% 0% Bonus 39% 3% Notes a US and UK management population includes any promotional increases that occurred during either year b Bonus relates to the performance targets of the companies for which the relevant individuals work Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows a comparison between the overall expenditure on pay and dividends paid to shareholders for 2013 and 2012 as stated in Note 21 and Note 17 to the financial statements on pages 103 and 98 respectively.
million unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 Percentage change Overall expenditure on pay 509.4 442.0 15.2% Dividend paid in the year 91.8 85.7 7.1% Note a Overall expenditure on pay excludes employers social security costs.
b Dividends paid in the year relate to the previous financial years interim and final dividends.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2014 REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION The remuneration policy will be implemented with effect from the 2014 AGM as follows: Salary The salary increases for the executive directors for 2014, which are in line with increases that have been implemented for other employees in the Group as discussed on pages 53, are as follows: Increase in salary Salary from Salary from 2013 to 2014 1 January 2014 1 January 2013 % Michael Roney 895,000 870,000 2.9 Brian May 500,000 480,000 4.2 Patrick Larmon $1,014,000 US$989,000 2.5 2014 bonus targets The structure for Michael Roneys, Brian Mays and 25% of Patrick Larmons annual bonus for 2014 is described on page 49.
The threshold for bonus payments on growth in constant exchange rate eps has been set above the actual result achieved in 2013 on a constant exchange rate basis.
For Patrick Larmon the other 75% of his bonus will relate to the attainment of pbit performance of North America relative to budget which will be modified, positively or negatively, by the achievement of North Americas return on average operating capital relative to the target set.
The relevant performance points are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus : target: and maximum amount the level at which the bonus for that measure is capped.
These performance points are determined at the start of the year by reference to the Groups annual budget.
As in previous years, the specific performance points will not be disclosed while still commercially sensitive.
Performance measures for long-term incentives to be awarded in 2014 Grants of executive share options and performance shares awarded in February and April 2014 respectively will have the same performance conditions as those awarded in 2013 as shown on page 61.
However, assuming that the proposed 2014 LTIP is approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, grants of executive share options and performance shares awarded to executive directors and senior executives in August and October 2014 will be subject to the following performance measures: Executive options LTIP Part A Executive share options may vest based solely on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Absolute annual growth in the Companys eps over a three year period Proportion of share option awards exercisable Below 5% Nil 5% 25% Between 5% and 8% Pro rata between 25%100% 8% or above 100% Performance shares LTIP Part B The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Absolute annual growth in the Companys eps over a three year period Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below 6% Nil 6% 25% Between 6% and 12% Pro rata between 25%100% 12% or above 100% The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Companys TSR performance, a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period, relative to the TSR performance of a specified comparator group of similarly sized companies with large international presence.
These performance share awards may vest based on the following sliding scale: TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below median Nil Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25%100% Upper quartile or above 100% The comparator group for the April 2014 award will be the same as that used for the October 2013 award being a minimum of 40 companies of similar revenue, profit and market capitalisation to Bunzl, with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors, as shown on page 61.
For the October 2014 award the comparator group will be those companies in the FTSE 50 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors.
64 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Non-executive directors fees for 2014 audited information The current fee structure for the non-executive directors is shown below: With effect from Fees paid Increase in fees 1 January 2014 in 2013 2013 to 2014 % Chairmans fee 325,000 310,000 4.8 Non-executive director basic fee 64,500 63,000 2.4 Supplements: Senior independent director 16,000 16,000 Audit Committee Chairman 14,000 13,000 7.7 Remuneration Committee Chairman 14,000 13,000 7.7 Note Prior to 2014 the Chairmans fee was last increased in January 2012.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON DIRECTORS INTERESTS Details of the executive directors interests in outstanding share awards under the DASBS, LTIP and all employee share plans are set out below.
Deferred share awards as at 31 December 2013 The outstanding awards granted to each director of the Company under the DASBS are set out in the table below.
Further information relating to the deferred bonus is provided on page 49.
No shares lapsed during the year.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP The tables below show the number of executive share options and performance shares held by the executive directors under the LTIP.
Details of the relevant performance conditions of the LTIP are set out on page 61.
In addition Patrick Larmon exercised share options on 3 April 2013 in respect of 45,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 684.5p at a market price of 1,313p resulting in a gain of 282,825.
Patrick Larmon also exercised share options on 11 November 2013 in respect of 44,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 721.5p at a market price of 1,409p resulting in a gain of 305,938 and on 14 November 2013 in respect of 45,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 700.5p at a market price of 1,397p resulting in a gain of 316,908. b The mid-market price of a share on 31 December 2013 was 1,450p and the range during 2013 was 1,014p to 1,450p.
c The performance conditions have been satisfied in relation to options granted prior to 2012 under the LTIP Part A.
All employees share scheme Sharesave Scheme The table below shows the number of share options granted to the executive directors under the Sharesave Scheme.
Details of the Sharesave Scheme are set out on page 51.
Options at Exercise Options at 1 January Grant price Options 31 December 2013 date p exercisable between 2013 Michael Roney 1,948 27.03.12 770 01.05.1731.10.17 1,948 Brian May 3,462 24.03.09 452 01.05.1431.10.14 3,462 Peter Johnson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 February 2014 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 67
