GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN.
KEY STRATEGIC CHANGES IN 2013 During 2013, the Group chief executive led a change in the strategic direction of Legal & General to take into account some key global macro themes affecting the companys markets, including ageing populations and welfare reforms.
Legal & General has taken some targeted actions in response to these themes, including selective acquisitions.
However, it has also made some more general changes, including the reorganisation and simplication of business structures and processes RUDY MARKHAM, CHAIRMAN including a smaller Board and the hiring of new talent, During 2013 Legal & Generals strategy has all of which will help to provide a stronger capability evolved and accelerated and the Committee base for future performance.
has reviewed the executive remuneration framework to ensure that it continues to be PROPOSED REMUNERATION CHANGES FOR 2014 aligned with our strategic direction.
Following Against the backdrop of these changes, and the expiry careful consideration by the Committee, we are of our existing Performance Share Plan PSP in Spring proposing a re-shaped package with a greater 2014, the Committee decided it would be appropriate emphasis on the longer term and on delivery of to undertake a comprehensive review of our forward performance within Legal & Generals agreed looking executive remuneration policy to ensure level of ambition and risk appetite.
continued alignment with our strategy.
The overarching objective of this review was to ensure that, going forward, directors remuneration is clearly linked to long-term I am pleased to introduce the directors report on strategy and performance and is simple and transparent.
Over the past year, there has been much debate regarding the level and structure During the entire review process, we have consulted of executive remuneration.
This report reects how the extensively with shareholders and have amended our Committee proposes to balance the various interests in proposals in response to their feedback.
away which is in the long term interests of the company, its customers and shareholders.
The report, which seeks The proposed changes result in an increase in the focus to demonstrate the Committees commitment to greater on longer-term pay so that at maximum performance transparency, is in two parts: 81% up from 76% of the annual variable pay AVP and the Performance Share Plan PSP will be paid out over The directors policy report which will be subject a longer period of three or more years.
We are also to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
It proposing targets that are more closely aligned to our is intended that this will apply for the next three strategy and level of ambition within our risk appetite.
years from the receipt of shareholder approval.
The annual report on remuneration which provides The Committee was particularly mindful that there should details of directors pay in 2013 and how we intend be no payment for failure and so we have focused on our to implement the remuneration policy in 2014.
This clawback and malus provisions to reect this.
section will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
The key outcomes of the review are set out below: PERFORMANCE OF LEGAL & GENERAL IN 2013 AVP As outlined at the beginning of this annual report, Legal & General delivered strong performance during 2013.
Increase in maximum opportunity from 125% of salary to 150% Our focus is on achieving steady and sustainable growth of salary for Group chief executive, CFO, CEO LGAS over the long term.
No change to maximum opportunity for CEO LGIM The outcomes against our key performance indicators Increase in proportion of AVP based on financial performance that reinforce this strategy can be found on pages 2 and up to 80% of total AVP, with remaining 20% based on key strategic objectives 3, and particular highlights include: profit Before Tax 10% up on 2012, a 16.1% Return On Equity, a 10% increase in EPS and a full year dividend of 9.30p.
indd 70 14 03 2014 21:00 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS therefore we increased the salaries of our CFO, CEO Increased level of deferral with 50% of any award deferred into LGIM and CEO LGAS to 560,000 pa with effect from shares for three years: and 1 July 2013.
There will be no further increase for 2014 and their next review will be in March 2015.
Deferred share awards will be subject to malus and clawback Executive directors AVP awards are assessed based on PSP a combination of financial results against key Group and Divisional performance indicators and the achievement Increase in maximum opportunity from 200% of salary to 250% of salary for all executive directors of personal and strategic objectives.
To reect the strong performance of Legal & General during 2013, and 15% of award will vest at threshold performance, reduced from the directors contributions to this, the Committee the current level of 25% determined that bonuses of between 86% and 93.1% of the maximum potential should be paid.
Performance period remains at 3 years, but life of award extended with vesting in equal tranches over years three to five The PSP awards granted in 2010 measured Legal & PSP awards will be subject to malus and clawback: and Generals relative TSR performance to 2013 against two comparator groups.
Over the period Legal & General Awards will vest as to 50% based on relative TSR and 50% based was ranked within the top decile against the FTSE 100 on financial metrics EPS and DPS with an ROE underpin rather than the current 100% vesting based on relative TSR and was top of the bespoke comparator group.
Based on this strong performance, the awards vested in full.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES CONCLUSION The Committee has been particularly mindful of Increase in guidelines from 200% of salary to 300% of salary concerns raised amongst both the investor community for the Group chief executive and from 100% of salary to 200% and wider public audience about the relative rate of of salary for other executive directors growth in executive remuneration.
As such, when determining remuneration outcomes and designing The broad principles of the remuneration framework forward looking policy, we have sought to balance the set out above will be cascaded and applied as need to maintain a competitive and motivated workforce appropriate throughout the organisation, and we will with market concerns around the level and structure of seek to continue to ensure that our wider employee pay.
population has a stake in the business and is rewarded fairly based on performance that is achieved in line with The Remuneration Committee will continue to monitor company values, risk appetite and customer outcomes.
the financial services regulatory environment and shareholder views on remuneration and will incorporate We increased the Group chief executives salary from these as appropriate.
In addition, we will continue to take 750,000 to 820,000, with effect from 1 March 2014. very seriously our duty to actively exercise judgement This reects our policy of progression in the role, is the and ensure outcomes are reective of underlying first review following his appointment 20 months ago, performance and the shareholder experience.
and is in line both with market disclosures made at that time and with what the Group chief executive I trust that you will nd this report, in its new form, has achieved to date in terms of the headline financial helpful.
It forms part of our commitment to greater results, increased strategic clarity and customer focus, transparency and reects how we propose to balance simplication of business structures and processes, various considerations and interests in a way which selective acquisitions and, more generally, the energy, we hope demonstrates that we take our duty to focus and drive he has brought to the organisation.
KEY PAY OUTCOMES IN RESPECT OF 2013 As a result of the strategic changes in 2013, we also undertook a re-organisation and simplication of the Board, as we believe that a smaller, closely aligned executive team creates the right dynamic, optimising Board efficiency and effectiveness to deliver Legal RUDY MARKHAM & Generals strategy.
This resulted in increased CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE responsibilities for the executive directors and ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 71 80038 L&G p070-085.
indd 71 19 03 2014 22:26 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION INTRODUCTION.
OUR REMUNERATION REPORT IS ORGANISED INTO THE FOLLOWING SECTIONS: Directors remuneration policy 73 Annual report on remuneration 86 Single gure of remuneration 86 Governance and approach 100 Other information 102 REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES Our overall remuneration principles align to our strategy.
The strategic objectives are to grow the business in several key areas: LGIM international expansion, retirement solutions, protection, digital technology and direct investments.
To deliver the growth requires astrong performance culture and our remuneration principles take this into consideration.
We also want to ensure we operate within the appropriate culture and therefore the principles supportand reinforce customer outcomes, our values, behaviours and risk appetite.
Our remuneration principles aim to be clear and simple and strengthen thelink of reward for exceptional performance, as well as emphasise the importance of teamwork.
The principles of our remuneration policy are summarised below: Remuneration principles 1.
The structure should be fair, simple and transparent, with targets objectively set and independently reviewed by the CRO.
It should be reective of external best practice.
Weshould never be laggards and where appropriate we should take a leadership position.
Overall remuneration should be competitively positioned and consistent with executives experience.
It should be sufficient to ensure that wecan recruit and retain the best talent to support our strategy.
Strong performance will be rewarded, but only ifconsistent with living and respecting Legal & Generals values and behaviours, ensuring that we deliver results within our risk parameters and that wehave desired customer outcomes.
Malus and clawback will apply as appropriate.
Remuneration should have a balance of reward for short term one year or less delivery as well as long term three plus years delivery.
Executives interests should be aligned to those ofshareholders.
Both at Board level and below, the reward structure should recognise teamwork and the proportion of anindividuals reward that is linked to overall Legal&General performance as opposed to business unit performance should increase with seniority.
Atexecutive level this reinforces the collective responsibility across divisions including LGIM.
indd 72 14 03 2014 21:00 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY.
The following sections set out our directors remuneration policy the policy which will be subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM in accordance with section 439a of the Companies Act 2006.
This policy will be applicable from receipt of shareholder approval.
The Committee remains mindful that regulation of remuneration in the financial services sector continues to evolve and although its intention is that this policy will apply for three years, the Committee may review the policy more frequently, for example where there is a material change to the business, or to the regulatory, market or economic environment.
It also sets out any legacy policy or contractual elements that will continue.
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors Remuneration Report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments with current or former Directors entered into prior to the date of this policy being approved and any legacy arrangements.
POLICY TABLE BASE SALARY ELEMENT POLICY PURPOSE To help recruit and retain executive directors of the calibre required to develop, lead and deliver the business strategy.
AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION The Committee sets base salary taking into consideration: The individuals skills, experience and performance: The scope of the role: Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group: Overall business performance: and External market benchmark data in other FTSE 100 companies and other relevant bespoke groupings of financial and non-financial institutions.
For 2014, the key bespoke group of other financial institutions includes Admiral, Aviva, Old Mutual, Prudential, Resolution, RSA Insurance, Direct Line and Standard Life.
Base salaries are normally reviewed annually, with increases effective 1 March.
However, the Committee may review them more frequently, for example where there is a material change to a role or its scope.
OPPORTUNITY Whilst there is no maximum base salary, any increases for executive directors will normally be in line with the range of increases for other UK employees in the wider Group.
In specic circumstances, the Committee may award increases above this level such as: where the Committee has set the base salary for a newly appointed executive director with a view to allow the individual to progress into the role over time: or where, in the Committees opinion, there has been a significant increase in the size or scope of an executive directors role or responsibilities: or where there is a significant change in the regulatory environment.
PERFORMANCE Personal performance would be taken into consideration in determining any salary increase.
CONDITIONS Note: Details of base salary decisions for 2014 can be found on page 97 of the annual report on remuneration.
indd 73 14 03 2014 21:00 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY.
BENEFITS ELEMENT POLICY PURPOSE Benets are provided to executive directors to attract and retain the best talent for the business and to ensure that the total package is competitive in the market.
AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION The Committees policy is to provide executive directors with a market competitive level of benets, taking into consideration benets offered to other senior employees in the UK, the individuals circumstances and market practice at similar companies.
Benets provided to executive directors are in line with benets provided to other senior employees in the UK.
Benets currently provided to executive directors include: a car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance, Group Income Protection, and insured death in service arrangements.
These are all in line with our general policy for other UK employees.
In line with other Legal & General employees, executive directors can choose to acquire Legal & General products, and are eligible to participate in the companys voluntary benets which they fund themselves, sometimes through salary sacrifice.
They are eligible to participate in the UK all-employee share plans on the same terms as other employees.
The two current all-employee share plans are: The savings-related share option scheme SAYE : and The employee share plan.
Where an executive new or current is required to re-locate from, or perform duties outside, their home country in order to take up their position, in line with our mobility policy and practice, additional benets may be provided, for example: home country benets such as health care and additional support in relocating such as assistance for housing, school fees, travel home, relocation costs and tax advice.
OPPORTUNITY In line with other UK employees, there is no maximum level for the benets as this is dependent on the individuals circumstances and the cost to the company.
The maximum opportunity for participation in the current all-employee share plans is in line with other employees and takes into account the prevailing HMRC rules.
Relocation international assignment benets the level of such benets would be set taking into account the circumstances of the individual and typical market practice.
PERFORMANCE There are no performance conditions.
Note: Details on the value of benets received for 2013 can be found in the annual report on remuneration page 87 under the single gure.
indd 74 14 03 2014 21:00 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS PENSION ELEMENT CURRENT POLICY PURPOSE The policy aims to provide competitive post-retirement benets and therefore recognise sustained contribution.
AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION Pension contributions are set at an appropriate level to attract and retain high performing people.
In line with other employees in the UK, executive directors currently participate in either a dened contribution pension plan, a dened benefit pension plan or receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, or have some combination thereof.
The dened benefit pension plan was closed to new joiners in 2001.
From 2009, increases in pensionable salary for the dened benefit pension plan for remaining active members have been limited to a maximum of 2.5% each year.
For executive directors who took enhanced protection in 2006, a cash allowance was provided in lieu which may be reviewed or amended by the employer.
Non-UK national executives may be permitted to participate in home-country pension plans where relevant.
Base salary is the only element of pensionable remuneration.
At the discretion of the Committee, executive directors may elect to sacrifice all or part of their cash AVP into pension.
OPPORTUNITY New executive directors receive 15% of base salary into the dened contribution pension plan they contribute 5%.
This contribution level for executive directors is the same as that operated for senior managers in the rest of the UK organisation in the dened contribution pension plan.
As for other employees, there is a cash alternative in line with the dened contribution levels for executive directors who have opted out since 2006, or who opt out in the future, for enhanced or xed protection above the lifetime allowance as amended from time to time or for executive directors who exceed the annual allowance limits as amended from time to time.
A cash allowance may also be given in lieu of pension if it is felt appropriate for an executive director from overseas to continue to participate in the local pension plan or for other valid reasons for example but not limited to religion or other private pension arrangements.
All cash allowances are subject to normal payroll deductions.
Pension arrangements for current executives: On retirement from Legal & General at age 60 or 65 and subject to statutory limits, executive directors have pension entitlement as follows: Mark Gregory: while in the dened benefit plan, one-sixtieth of his eligible pensionable base salary which is lower than actual base salary as only the lower of actual base salary increases and 2.5% has been credited since January 2009 for each year of eligible service subject to him continuing his 5% of pensionable base salary contribution.
Mark left these dened benefit arrangements at the end of April 2011 and joined the dened contribution scheme.
He is entitled to a company contribution of 15% of his base salary if he also contributes 5%.
Any balance over and above the Annual Allowance limit is paid in cash.
John Pollock: while in the dened benefit plan, one-sixtieth of eligible pensionable base salary for each year of service through to the date he opted for enhanced protection in 2006.
He receives a cash allowance in lieu of pension equivalent to 22% of base salary.
Nigel Wilson: Nigel was a member of the Groups dened contribution arrangements.
During his participation, he was entitled to a company contribution of 15% of his pensionable base salary if he also contributed 5%.
Any balance over and above the annual allowance limit was paid in cash.
During 2012, he took xed protection.
Since this time he has received a cash contribution of 15% of base salary.
Mark Zinkula: He is entitled to a cash allowance of 15% of his base salary.
Part of this allowance may be used to contribute into a US 401K pension plan.
He is also a member of a cash balance plan in the US.
PERFORMANCE There are no performance conditions Note: Details on pension for 2013 can be found in the annual report on remuneration page 88.
indd 75 14 03 2014 21:00 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY.
ANNUAL VARIABLE PAY AVP ELEMENT POLICY PURPOSE Incentivise executive directors to achieve specic Group and or divisional, financial, strategic and personal predetermined goals, within the Groups risk appetite and taking into consideration the companys culture and values, on an annual basis.
AND LINK TO STRATEGY The deferred proportion of AVP into shares reinforces retention and enhances alignment with shareholders by encouraging a longer term focus and risk alignment.
OPERATION Performance targets and weightings are set annually by the Committee to ensure they are appropriately stretching.
Performance is normally assessed over a one year period.
AVP out-turns are determined by the Committee after the year end, taking into consideration performance against targets, the underlying performance of the business and individual performance.
The Committee may exceptionally adjust the outcome of the AVP calculation if it believes there are underlying circumstances that justify such a change.
50% of any AVP awarded is deferred.
Deferred awards are normally awarded in the form of restricted shares or nil-cost options or phantom equivalent if appropriate.
However awards may be deferred in other forms dependent upon business or regulatory requirements.
Deferred awards will vest after a period set by the Committee.
This period will normally be three years.
Dividends on future deferred awards made in the form of shares accrue during the deferral period and normally are paid in the form of shares to the executive directors upon vesting.
Dividend equivalents may accrue on awards made in other forms.
Deferred awards are subject to Malus.
Clawback provisions also apply further details are set out later in this report on page 80.
The Committee may adjust and amend the awards in accordance with the rules, for example where there is a variation in the share capital or to settle the awards in cash in the event this is warranted.
OPPORTUNITY The maximum award opportunity in respect of any financial year is based on role as follows: For the Group chief executive, CFO and CEO LGAS the maximum potential is 150% of base salary.
For the CEO LGIM the maximum potential is 175% of base salary.
The award opportunity at threshold performance is 0%, with up to 75% of base salary normally payable for target performance for the Group chief executive, CFO and CEO LGAS and up to 105% of base salary payable for target performance for the CEO LGIM.
PERFORMANCE Performance measures are selected by the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis to ensure that they are aligned with the Groups strategic priorities and the delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
Performance is measured based on an appropriate mix of Group and or Divisional financial performance targets as well as strategic including customer and employee measures and personal measures.
Performance measures are weighted with normally up to 80% based on financial targets.
The split between financial, strategic and personal performance measures and the relative weighting of Group and Divisional performance targets will be kept under review by the Committee on an annual basis.
Note: Details on AVP decisions for performance in relation to 2013 can be found on page 89 of the annual report on remuneration and in the single gure on page 86.
indd 76 14 03 2014 21:00 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP ELEMENT POLICY PURPOSE Awards under the PSP are reective of the Committees desire that the remuneration of executives should be weighted towards the delivery of sustainable returns to shareholders over the longer term.
AND LINK TO STRATEGY In addition to deferred awards under the AVP, awards under the PSP enhance alignment with shareholders by focusing executives on the longer-term performance of the business.
OPERATION Award of shares or options which are subject to a performance period of normally no less than three years.
Performance is measured post the Group results announcement after the end of the three year performance period.
Subject to performance, awards are normally released in three equal tranches following the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the start of the performance period.
The Committee retains discretion to lengthen the performance period and holding period for future awards.
The Remuneration Committee may also amend the final level of vesting dependent on the underlying performance of the Group.
The Committee may only exercise downwards discretion and may not increase the level of vesting.
The parameters which the Committee uses in making this assessment will include, but are not limited to, market share, partnerships entered into and maintained, cost constraint, capital management, risk and shareholder perception.
Financial performance targets are set annually by the Committee to ensure they are relevant and sufciently stretching.
PSP awards are normally awarded in the form of nil cost options or conditional shares or phantom equivalent where appropriate.
However they may be awarded in other forms if the Committee considers it appropriate.
Dividends or dividend equivalents accrue in the period following the end of the performance period until vesting and release.
These will normally be paid in shares on a reinvested basis.
PSP awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions further details set out later in this report page 80.
The Committee may adjust and amend the awards in accordance with the PSP rules, for example where there is a variation in the share capital or to settle the awards in cash in the event that this is warranted.
OPPORTUNITY The maximum award opportunity under the PSP is 300% of salary.
The Remuneration Committees current intention is that the normal annual award opportunity will be 250% of base salary for all executive directors.
15% of the award normally vests for threshold performance increasing to 100% of the award for maximum performance.
PERFORMANCE Performance measures for the PSP are selected by the Remuneration Committee to be aligned with the Groups long-term strategic priority of delivering sustainable returns to shareholders.
The Committee therefore intends to grant awards based on an appropriate mix of earnings, capital efficiency and shareholder return measures.
The split between these measures, for each grant, is set annually by the Committee.
For awards to be made in 2014, the performance measures will be as follows: A performance matrix of earnings per share and dividends per share growth, subject to a return on equity underpin 50% of the award Relative total shareholder return against the FTSE 100 and a bespoke group of insurance companies 50% of the award.
Note: Further details on the PSP metrics and decisions for 2014, subject to shareholder approval, can be found in the annual report on remuneration pages 98 and 99.
indd 77 14 03 2014 21:00 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY.
ILLUSTRATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY The charts below illustrate the executive directors xed remuneration dened below and how much they could earn for target and maximum performance for 2014.
Nigel Wilson Mark Gregory Group chief executive Chief financial officer 000 000 Fixed Fixed 100% 999 100% 693 Remuneration Remuneration On-target 37% 22% 41% 2,742 On-target 37% 22% 41% 1,883 Maximum 23% 29% 48% 4,279 Maximum 23% 29% 48% 2,933 Fixed Annual Variable Element Long-term objectives Fixed Annual Variable Element Long-term objectives John Pollock Mark Zinkula Chief executive officer LGAS Chief executive officer LGIM 000 000 Fixed Fixed 100% 731 100% 1,424 Remuneration Remuneration On-target 38% 22% 40% 1,921 On-target 51% 21% 28% 2,782 Maximum 25% 28% 47% 2,971 Maximum 37% 26% 37% 3,804 Fixed Annual Variable Element Long-term objectives Fixed Annual Variable Element Long-term objectives In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: FIXED Consists of 2014 base salary, benets and pension based on the value included in the single gure for 2013.
REMUNERATION ON-TARGET In addition to xed remuneration, includes the potential value that each executive director could receive for target performance: Annual variable element pays out at up to 75% of base salary for an on-target performance for the Group chief executive, CFO and CEO LGAS and up to 105% of base salary for an on-target performance for the CEO LGIM.
PSP is shown at 55% of face value at grant using a grant of 250% of 2014 base salary.
MAXIMUM In addition to xed remuneration, includes the potential value that each executive director could receive for maximum performance under the annual variable element and the PSP.
OTHER There is no adjustment made for share price or dividends.
indd 78 14 03 2014 21:00 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE AREA COMMENTARY SHARETo create alignment with shareholders, the Remuneration Committee also operates a shareholding guideline for executive directors.
For 2014 this is 300% of base salary for the Group chief executive and 200% of base salary for other executive HOLDING directors.
Further details of this are set out in the annual report on remuneration page 93.
GUIDELINES DEFERRED The deferred share element of the annual variable pay plan and the performance share plan shall be operated in accordance with the rules of the respective plans.
The rules for the performance share plan have been set out SHARE for approval at the 2014 AGM.
ELEMENT LOSS OF The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of ofce notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the policy OFFICE came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the company and the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the company this includes, but is not limited to, awards made to the CEO LGIM under the LGIM long term incentive plan, which are subject to the achievement of LGIM cumulative profit before tax targets measured over a three-year performance period.
MINOR The Remuneration Committee will follow any statutory requirements when operating the policy.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor amendments to the policy for regulatory or statutory requirements, exchange control AMENDMENTS or administrative purposes.
CHANGES TO The key changes to the policy operated during 2013 and that intended to be operated going forward are detailed in the letter from the chairman of the Remuneration Committee on page 70.
THE POLICY OPERATED IN 2013 LEGACY Deferred bonus Existing deferrals will continue to operate in line with the previous policy, where 37.5% of any bonus earned was deferred, and cliff vests after three years.
Dividends are paid during the holding period.
ARRANGEMENTS PSP Awards granted to executive directors under the previous PSP which are currently outstanding are subject to the achievement of relative total shareholder return performance conditions over separate three-year performance periods.
The Remuneration Committee only has discretion to adjust downwards the final level of vesting of these awards if it does not consider it to be reective of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Awards under this plan were made as nil cost options and remain exercisable for a period of two years following vesting.
Awards made under the share bonus plan SBP Awards granted to executive directors under the SBP which are currently outstanding will continue to vest in line with the arrangements made.
These include the award made to Mark Zinkula upon his appointment to CEO LGIM and prior to him joining the Board.
LGIM LTIP In March 2007 the Committee approved the introduction of a specic long-term incentive plan for LGIM senior executives.
In March 2011 and March 2012 Mark Zinkula was granted LGIM LTIP awards as part of his remuneration as CEO LGIMA and CEO LGIM.
Under the LGIM LTIP annual awards of notional shares in LGIM are granted to participants.
The vesting of these notional shares is subject to the satisfaction of the cumulative growth in PBT over the three year performance period.
The value of the notional LGIM shares is delivered in cash after the end of the three-year performance period.
These awards will continue to vest after their respective three year performance periods and to the extent that the performance conditions are met.
No further awards under this plan have been made to Mark since he was appointed as an executive director.
In line with our mobility policy and the commitments made to Mark Zinkula on relocation from the US prior to his appointment to the Board he remains in certain US benets and has relocation assistance.
He would also receive repatriation assistance in the event of him returning to the US.
indd 79 14 03 2014 21:00 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY.
AREA COMMENTARY PERFORMANCE The performance conditions for the AVP and the PSP have been chosen by the Committee to align with the Groups strategic priorities and are the key performance indicators in relation to the operation of the business.
MEASURES AND TARGETS The following table sets out why the performance measures that are used for the incentive arrangements were chosen: Plan Measure Rationale AVP Financial measures To ensure company growth and return to shareholders Strategic and To safeguard the future of the company by, for instance, personal measure focusing on the development of future income streams and to ensure, for example, positive customer outcomes and employee engagement PSP Earnings measures To incentivise growth in earnings Capital efficiency To ensure capital is used in a disciplined way measures and to steadily progress dividends Shareholder return To deliver a good return on equity for shareholders measures The performance measures for the AVP and the PSP are reviewed and set annually to ensure they remain appropriately stretching and aligned to the business and its strategy.
Targets for the AVP are set taking into account internal forecasts of performance, market expectations and prior year performance.
The targets for the AVP are set such that on-target normally equates to the levels forecast in the strategic plan for the year in question and maximum is set above that, at a level that is still within the companys risk appetite.
The PSP targets are set by the Committee taking into account a number of considerations including: what is felt to be achievable over a sustained period of time: internal forecasts of performance: any guidance provided to the market: market expectations: prior year performance: and the companys agreed risk appetite.
MALUS For future awards, the Committee has an agreed policy which applies to deferred annual variable pay awards and long-term incentive awards made to executive directors.
CLAWBACK The Committee may apply Malus i. e. reduce the number of shares in respect of which an award vests, or delay such vesting, or impose additional vesting conditions in the event of financial mis-statement, personal misconduct, failure of risk management, reputational damage or other exceptional circumstances identied by the Committee.
The Committee may also, in exceptional circumstances, claw back share awards which have already been released to individuals, if it considers it appropriate to do so having regard to such factors as it deems relevant such as the likelihood of recovery, any loss suffered, and the link between the award and the event.
Clawback will normally only apply within 4 years of the end of the relevant performance period.
indd 80 14 03 2014 21:00 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT AND TERMINATION RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION STANDARD POLICY AND OTHER PROVISIONS PROVISION GENERAL The Committee aims to attract, motivate and retain an executive director with the required expertise to develop and deliver the business strategy, while at the same time ensuring that the remuneration arrangements offered are in the APPROACH best interests of both the company and its shareholders and paying no more than considered necessary to attract the right calibre of candidate to the role.
In determining the appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new executive director, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors including, but not limited to: the individuals skills and relevant experience internal relativities local market practice in the jurisdiction from which candidate was recruited logistics and support if a relocation is required appropriate market data: and the individuals existing remuneration package.
Where possible the Committee endeavours to align the remuneration arrangements of new executive directors with the remuneration outlined in the policy for other executive directors.
Any such awards will be within the maximum level of variable remuneration limit set out below.
Where an existing internal candidate is made an executive director, the Committee may continue to honour prior commitments made before joining the Board.
MAXIMUM The maximum level of annual variable pay and long-term incentives which may be awarded to a new executive director will be in line with the policy table i. e. 475% of base salary.
This limit excludes buyout awards.
VARIABLE PAY LEVELS BUY-OUT OF The Committee recognises that, as a consequence of regulatory changes around the globe in the financial services sector, long serving executives in the sector are likely to have accrued significant levels of deferred remuneration which may be ANY EXISTING lost on a transfer of employment.
Accordingly, to aid the recruitment of a new executive director, the Committee may REMUNERmake awards to buy-out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, taking into consideration ATION COMPrelevant factors including, but not limited to: ONENTS OR form of the award: OTHER any performance conditions attached to those awards: ARRANGEthe vesting prole of the awards and likelihood of vesting: relevant regulatory requirements and guidance in place in relation to buy-out awards.
MENTS Buy-out awards will typically reect the terms and the value of the arrangements forgone.
Where possible the Committee will use existing share based plans to effect a buy-out.
However, in the event these are not an appropriate vehicle, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to use the Listing Rules exemption LR 9.4.
2 for the purpose of making an award to buy-out remuneration terms forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
RELOCATION Where a new executive director has to relocate to take up the appointment, either within the UK or from overseas, practical and or financial support may be given in relation to relocation or mobility in line with our internal policies.
This may include AND MOBILITY the cost of any tax that is incurred.
For appointments from overseas, home country benets may continue to apply.
Note that relocation and mobility support may also apply to the recruitment of a non-executive director NED.
SHAREHOLDER The Committee believes that remuneration arrangements should be as transparent as possible.
Therefore the Committee will make every effort to explain the rationale for the recruitment arrangements in the Directors remuneration report TRANSPARENCY following the recruitment of a new executive director.
RECRUITMENT The Committee will normally align the remuneration arrangements for new non-executive directors with those outlined within the policy table on page 84.
OF NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 81 80038 L&G p070-085.
indd 81 14 03 2014 21:00 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND TERMINATION AND PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE When determining leaving arrangements for an executive director, the Committee takes into account any pre-established agreements, including the provisions of any incentive plans, typical market practice, statutory and contractual obligations, the performance and conduct of the individual and the commercial justication for any payments.
The following summarises our policy in relation to executive directors service contracts and payments in the event of loss of ofce: STANDARD POLICY AND OTHER PROVISIONS PROVISION NOTICE Standard notice policy is: 12 months notice from the company: and PERIOD AND 12 months notice from the executive director.
TERMINATION PAYMENTS Executive directors may be required to work during the notice period or take a period of garden leave or may be provided with pay in lieu of notice if not required to work the full notice period.
Payments in lieu of notice: Our policy for new appointments is that termination payments in lieu of notice would consist solely of base salary and the cost of providing benets for the outstanding notice period and will be subject to deductions for income tax and National Insurance as appropriate.
Any statutory requirements will be observed.
Our standard practice is to include within executive directors contractual terms mitigation provisions as regards payments in lieu of notice.
Current executive directors: John Pollock has a notice period of six months on either side and would be entitled to an additional six months base salary, pension and car allowance entitlement if his employment was terminated by the company except where termination is for gross misconduct.
Mark Gregory and Nigel Wilson have notice periods of 12 months.
However, they have no entitlement to any additional contractual payment on termination of employment.
Any payment in lieu of notice will consist solely of base salary and the cost of providing benets for the outstanding notice period.
Mark Zinkula has a notice period of six months on either side.
Any payment in lieu of notice will consist solely of base salary.
CONTRACT The dates of the executive directors service contracts are shown in the table below: COMMENCEExecutive Contract Continuous MENT DATE director commencement date service date Nigel Wilson September 2009 September 2009 John Pollock November 2003 September 1980 Mark Gregory January 2009 August 1998 Mark Zinkula September 2012 June 2008 Copies of the executive directors service contracts are available for inspection at the companys registered ofce.
EXPIRY DATE All executive directors are subject to annual re-election.
The contracts for our executive directors are rolling service contracts with no expiry date.
indd 82 14 03 2014 21:00 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS STANDARD POLICY AND OTHER PROVISIONS PROVISION TREATMENT Rights to annual variable pay, deferred annual variable pay awards and performance share awards are governed by their respective plan rules.
OF OUTSTANDING Annual variable pay INCENTIVE There is no automatic entitlement to an annual bonus in the year of cessation of employment.
However, for a good leaver, the Committee may determine that an executive director will receive a pro-rata bonus in respect of the period AWARD of employment during the year of cessation based on an assessment of Group and personal performance.
Deferred annual variable pay awards awards made in relation to 2014 onwards In the event that a participant is a good leaver any outstanding unvested deferred annual variable pay award will normally be released at the normal time.
Where it considers it appropriate, for example in the circumstances of terminal illness, the Committee reserves the right to accelerate any payment due.
Good leaver circumstances are leaving due to circumstances such as death, disability, ill-health or injury, redundancy, retirement with company agreement, employing company business ceasing to be part of the Group, a transfer of the undertaking in which the participants employment transfers to a company which is not a member of the Group, or other circumstances at the Committees discretion.
For all other leavers outstanding unvested awards lapse.
Awards will generally vest early on a takeover of the company, merger or other corporate reorganisation.
Alternatively participants may be allowed or required to exchange their awards for new awards.
Where an award vests early in these circumstances, the Committee will determine the level of vesting, having regard to the extent to which the performance condition has been satisfied to the date of vesting subject to downwards discretion based on underlying performance and to the fact that the award is vesting early.
Awards made prior to 2015 Subject to the leaver conditions set out above, where a participant is a good leaver any outstanding unvested deferred annual variable pay award made prior to 2015 will normally be released at the date of cessation of employment.
In the event of a change of control, the Committee may allow awards to vest or will determine that awards are exchanged for new awards.
PSP awards made from 2014 onwards In the event that a participant is a good leaver any outstanding unvested PSP award will normally be pro-rated for service from the start of the performance period to cessation and will vest based on performance to the end of the performance period.
Awards will usually be released at the normal time.
Where it considers it appropriate, for example in the case of terminal illness, the Committee reserves the right to accelerate any payment due.
Good leaver circumstances are leaving due to death, disability, ill-health or injury, redundancy, retirement with company agreement, employing company business ceasing to be part of the Group, a transfer of the undertaking in which the participants employment transfers to a company which is not a member of the Group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
Legacy PSP awards For good leavers, in line with the plan rules, awards made prior to 2014 will be performance tested at the date of leaving and, to the extent that performance conditions are met, the award will vest on a pro-rata basis, based on service within the performance period.
Good leaver circumstances are leaving due to death, disability, ill-health, redundancy, retirement with company agreement, employing company business ceasing to be part of the Group, a transfer of the undertaking in which the participants employment transfers to a company which is not a member of the Group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
In the event of a change of control, PSP awards will vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied over the shortened performance period and will be time pro-rated in the same way as awards held by good leavers.
Legacy LGIM LTIP Award In the event of being a good leaver, the legacy LGIM LTIP awards made to Mark Zinkula prior to him becoming a Board member would be tested at the end of their normal performance periods and, to the extent that performance conditions are met, the awards will vest on a pro-rata basis, based on service within the performance period.
Good leaver circumstances are leaving due to death, disability, ill-health, redundancy, retirement with company agreement, employing company business ceasing to be part of the Group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
For all other leavers outstanding awards lapse.
indd 83 14 03 2014 21:00 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY.
STANDARD POLICY AND OTHER PROVISIONS PROVISION TREATMENT In the event of a change of control, awards will vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied over the shortened performance period and will be time pro-rated.
OF OUTSTANDING Other awards INCENTIVE Other one-time share awards would vest in line with any commitments made and taking into consideration the reasons for leaving.
All employee share plans will vest in line with the plan rules.
AWARDS CONTINUED Legal fees, outplacement costs or other similar costs at the discretion of the Committee may be offered.
OTHER INFORMATION NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NEDS APPOINTMENT LETTERS Appointment letters are currently for three years but all directors are subject to annual re-election.
Appointments may be terminated by either party without notice.
Date of Current letter Current letter initial of appointment of appointment NED appointment start date end date John Stewart January 2010 May 2013 May 2016 Henry Staunton May 2004 May 2010 Retired AGM 2013 Rudy Markham October 2006 May 2013 May 2015 Stepped down from the Nick Prettejohn November 2010 November 2010 Board on 6 June 2013 Mike Fairey May 2011 May 2011 May 2014 Stepped down from the Dame Clara Furse June 2009 June 2012 Board 1 May 2013 Stuart Popham July 2011 July 2011 July 2014 Julia Wilson November 2011 November 2011 November 2014 Lindsay Tomlinson March 2013 March 2013 March 2016 Lizabeth Zlatkus December 2013 December 2013 December 2016 Copies of the non-executive directors appointment letters are available for inspection at the companys registered ofce.
The following table sets out the key elements of remuneration and policy for NEDS.
APPROACH TO FEES OPERATION OTHER ITEMS Fees for the chairman and non-executive Our NED fees policy is to pay: The chairman and NEDs are not eligible to directors are set at an appropriate level participate in any benefit plans or the AVP to reect: A base fee for membership of the Board.
A committee attendance fee if the The time commitment required non-executive sits on two or more Expenses incurred in the performance of to full the role Board committees currently not non-executive duties for the company may be The responsibilities and duties including the Nominations committee.
reimbursed or paid for directly by the company.
of the positions: and Additional committee chairmanship Typical practice in the FTSE 100 and and SID fees to reect the additional Additional support may be provided if the amongst other financial institutions.
responsibilities and time commitments Board feels this is justied such as tax advice of the role.
if recruited from overseas, work permits Fees for non-executive directors are reviewed or similar.
at regular intervals by the executive directors.
The chairman receives an inclusive fee for Fees for the chairman are reviewed at regular the role.
NEDs are expected to hold the equivalent of intervals by the Remuneration Committee.
one years base fee in Legal & General shares No-one is involved in the discussion of their Additional fees for membership of a committee to be retained until the end of ofce.
or chairmanship or membership of subsidiary generally have a proportion of their fees boards or other xed fees may be introduced normally 50% paid in Legal & General shares Fees are subject to the aggregate limit in the if justied by time or commitment.
until this level is reached.
Once this level is companys Articles of Association.
Any changes in reached, they may take all their fee in cash.
this limit would be subject to shareholder approval.
Further details of NED fees for 2013 can be found in the annual report on remuneration page 96.
indd 84 14 03 2014 21:00 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS OTHER CONSIDERATIONS STATEMENT OF THE CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY The general principles of the Groups remuneration policy are broadly applied throughout the Group and are designed to support recruitment, motivation and retention as well as to reward high performance in a framework of approved risk management.
We define core remuneration as base salary, annual bonus which is closely aligned to performance and other benets e. g. pension.
There is also the possibility to participate in the Performance Share Plan PSP for certain key employees.
In determining the remuneration arrangements for the executive directors, the Committee is presented with information for UK employees as this is the location of the Groups head ofce and where the executive directors are normally based regarding base salary increases and anticipated spend under the Groups annual variable pay plans.
This includes relevant background information that allows the Committee to work with the management to ensure a consistency of approach throughout the company.
The Committee also has oversight over the grant of all PSP and LGIM LTIP awards across the company.
Note - Further details on the above can be found on page 102 of the annual report on remuneration.
The company does not specically invite employees to comment on the directors remuneration policy.
However, the annual employee survey includes general questions around pay and benets.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS As set out in the Remuneration Committee chairmans statement, over the course of 2013 and early 2014 the Committee sought the views of the Groups major shareholders on the proposed changes to executive arrangements for 2014 onwards.
The Committee would like to thank shareholders for the time they have given and appreciates the constructive debate.
It was clear from the discussions that there are a number of emerging models and differing views on executive remuneration structure from commentators and industry groups as well as shareholders.
However, the Committee also acknowledges the general consensus around: providing greater clarity on the links between reward, strategy and performance this includes the ability to both positively recognise performance while being mindful of quantum, as well as the ability to exercise malus or clawback in the event that this is warranted : ensuring structures are focused on the long term: that they are simple and clear: and that they include provisions to bind executives further to the business by increasing shareholding requirements.
The Committee has carefully considered all the comments received.
As a result of shareholder views we have simplied the proposed structure and revised the quantum.
We have also been mindful that we wished our final policy not only to align with shareholders but to complement our remuneration principles and be right for our business.
We believe the final proposals put forward are reective of the consensus feedback received.
The new performance share plan includes financial metrics that link to strategy, we have tightened our leaver terms, strengthened our ability to exercise malus and clawback and increased shareholding guidelines.
We believe the proposed remuneration policy aligns to our strategy and will help drive the company to the next stage in its development.
indd 85 19 03 2014 22:38 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION.
SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The following table shows a single total gure of remuneration for each executive director in respect of qualifying services for the 2013 financial year together with a comparative gure for 2012.
Details of NEDs fees are set out in a separate table on page 96.
Single gure 000s Annual variable Total Benets Pension pay AVP remuneration PSP LTIPs Total Executive director Salary note 1 note 2 note 3 exc.
2012 notes a. Nigel Wilson was CFO from 1 January 2012 to 30 June 2012 and Group chief executive from 30 June 2012 31 December 2012. b.
Mark Zinkula joined the Board on 18 September 2012.
His remuneration for 2012, including bonus, reects the period 18 September 2012 to 31 December 2012.
The increase in the total remuneration for Nigel Wilson in 2013 over 2012 is reective of 2013 being the first full year in which he was Group chief executive and the significant increase in the share price, in the three year period ending in May 2013 which is reected in the value of the PSP.
Mark Zinkulas benets for 2013 include the vesting of shares relating to a legacy award from when he became CEO LGIM and prior to him joining the Board.
This accounts for 357,000 of the benefit gure shown above.
indd 86 14 03 2014 21:03 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS COMPONENTS OF THE SINGLE FIGURE AND HOW THE CALCULATIONS ARE WORKED FOOTNOTE EXPLANATION Benets note 1 Benets include the elements shown in the table below.
For Mark Zinkula, benets also include allowances for schooling, housing and ights and associated tax resulting from his relocation package to the UK and the vesting of shares amounting to 357,000 awarded to him on appointment to CEO LGIM and prior to him joining the Board.
Benets 000s Car and PMI plus relocation Matching Total benets assistance for Dividends Gain on SAYE shares shown in the Executive director Mark Zinkula note i note ii note iii table above 2013 Nigel Wilson 20 45 0 1 66 John Pollock 20 41 12 1 74 Mark Gregory 20 35 0 1 56 Mark Zinkula 741 43 0 0 784 2012 Nigel Wilson 20 25 0 1 46 John Pollock 20 21 0 1 42 Mark Gregory 20 22 0 1 43 1 Mark Zinkula 141 9 0 0 150 1.
For 2012, his gures represent the period 18 September 2012 to 31 December 2012 when he was appointed to the Board.
Components of Benets and how calculated Footnote Explanation Dividend note i Value of all dividends received in 2013 or 2012 in respect of outstanding AVP awards made under the Share Bonus Plan SBP, unvested matching shares under the employee share plan ESP and Group performance shares under the ESP.
Gain on SAYE note ii Any gain on SAYE vesting in the year nothing vested in 2012 for the directors.
Matching shares note iii Value of matching shares under the ESP at date of purchase and Group performance shares awarded in the year valued at the date of award does not include the amounts that vested.
indd 87 14 03 2014 21:03 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION.
FOOTNOTE EXPLANATION Pension note 2 The value of any registered pension using the HMRC formula for assessing the annual and lifetime allowance limits i. e. 20 times the post ination benefit for dened benefit provisions or for the dened contribution pensions the employer dened contributions as set out below.
It does not necessarily represent the economic value of the pension accrual and is not money immediately available to the person.
The negative gure is not due to a change in policy or underlying benefit but due to the volatility in the assumptions we are required to use.
For the dened contribution arrangements applicable to Mark Gregory, any balance over and above the Annual Allowance limit is paid in cash.
During 2012, Nigel Wilson took xed protection and takes a cash allowance of 15% of base salary.
Following enhanced protection in 2006 and changes to the pension plans in 2008, John Pollock receives a cash allowance of 22% of base salary in lieu of pension contributions.
Mark Zinkula receives a cash contribution of 15% of base salary in lieu of joining the UK pension plan.
He participates in the Legal & General America 401K plan and cash savings plan.
All cash allowances are subject to normal payroll deductions of income tax and National Insurance.
Dened Other Cash Dened contribution Overseas Total Executive director in lieu 000 benefit 000 000 Pension pension 000 2013 Nigel Wilson 113 0 0 0 113 John Pollock 112 -15 0 0 97 Mark Gregory 56 -3 24 0 77 1 Mark Zinkula 76 0 0 4 80 2012 Nigel Wilson 97 0 2 0 99 John Pollock 93 120 0 0 213 Mark Gregory 37 26 29 0 92 1 Mark Zinkula 19 0 1 4 24 This table has been audited by PwC.
Mark Zinkula contributes to a 401K plan and participates in a non contributory US cash balance plan the values of which are included in the Other Overseas Pension value gure shown in the table above.
Further pension information Age at Accrued DB Additional value of 31 December pension at Normal pension on early Name 2013 31 Dec 2013 000 retirement date retirement Nigel Wilson 57 0 Age 65 0 John Pollock 55 191 Age 60 0 Age 60 in DB plan and age Mark Gregory 50 39 65 in DC plan 0 1 Mark Zinkula 46 0 Age 65 0 This table has been audited by PwC.
Bonus sacrifice into pension Executive directors, like all managers, may elect, before its award, to sacrifice all or part of their cash bonus into pension.
The opportunity for bonus sacrifice is at the discretion of the company and is reviewed each year.
None of the executive directors elected for bonus sacrifice.
Annual variable pay AVP note 3 The total bonus awarded in relation to performance in the year including the portion that is deferred.
For bonus awarded in relation to 2013, 37.5% of this gure was deferred into shares for three years.
There are no further performance conditions but leaver terms apply.
See table on page 89 for information on performance against targets.
PSP LTIPs note 4 Value of PSP or LGIM LTIP awards that vested as of the date of vest during the year.
The vesting of awards is dependent on the performance conditions as set out on pages 90 and 91.
Note: For the PSP that vested in 2013, John Pollock exercised immediately, Nigel Wilson exercised in June 2013 and Mark Gregory during May 2013.
The performance period ran from 4 May 2010 to 3 May 2013.
The LGIM LTIP award was a legacy award made to Mark Zinkula prior to him joining the Board and the performance period ran from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2012 with vesting as soon as practicable three years from date of grant in March 2010.
indd 88 14 03 2014 21:03 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS 2013 ANNUAL VARIABLE PAY AVP AWARDS The executive directors AVP awards in relation to performance during 2013 were measured against a basket of metrics and objectives.
These were weighted between Group KPIs 50%, Divisional, Strategic or other financial KPIs 30% and other strategic and personal objectives 20%.
Threshold levels were set, below which no award would be given.
Target levels were set broadly in line with those envisaged in the strategic plan for 2013 with maximum being at a level above this but still within the companys risk appetite.
The Committee carefully assessed the performance against the Group KPIs, and the other financial and strategic targets to determine the associated AVP award.
The Committee also took into consideration its view of the executives overall performance, regulatory compliance and approach to risk including environmental, social or governance ESG risks.
The Committee reviewed a comprehensive report from the Chief Risk officer to ascertain that the executive directors objectives had been fullled within the risk appetite of the company.
In addition, the Committee received feedback from the Group Regulatory Risk and Compliance function and from the Group Legal Counsel that there were no material issues to consider around regulatory breaches, customer outcomes or litigation that would prevent payment of any AVP award or trigger any malus.
The Committee was satisfied that the AVP awards should be paid.
The table below shows the overall outcome.
AVP results 2013 Achievement % Award Divisional Strategic or Other Strategic Other Financial Personal Total AVP as % Maximum Group KPIs KPIs objectives Total AVP as % of pro-rated potential as % Executive director weighting 50% weighting 30% weighting 20% of maximum base salary of base salary Nigel Wilson 49.10% 27.00% 17.00% 93.10% 116.37% 125% John Pollock 49.10% 28.02% 15.84% 93.00% 116.20% 125% Mark Gregory Note 1 49.10% 11.59% 29.02% 89.70% 112.14% 125% Mark Zinkula 49.10% 23.53% 13.33% 86.00% 150.42% 175% Operating PBT operating Customer profit, operating profit, net cash, outcomes, cash, net cash, APE, Gross net employee RoE, EPS and new business engagement, risk EEV per share and GWP.
management Note 1 The weighting of Mark Gregorys objectives changed when he was appointed CFO on 1 July 2013 from 50%, 30%, 20% to 50% Group KPIs and 50% other Strategic Personal.
Actual targets have not been disclosed due to commercial sensitivity but pages 2 and 3 show key Group results compared to 2012.
In recognition of base salary adjustments made during 2013 for the executive directors excluding Nigel Wilson, AVP awards were calculated using pro-rated salaries to reect these.
Nigel Wilson had no adjustment to his base salary for 2013 and therefore his full base salary for the year was used.
AVP awarded for 2013 performance: Of the AVP awarded in relation to 2013, a proportion was deferred for three years into shares or nil cost options under the share bonus plan SBP, and is subject to malus and leaver terms.
37.5% of the 2013 award for each executive director was deferred for three years.
In line with previous awards, dividends will be paid during the holding period.
indd 89 19 03 2014 22:45 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION.
The table below shows the actual amount of deferral and AVP for each executive director: Total AVP awarded Amount Amount for 2013 paid in cash deferred Name 000 000 000 Nigel Wilson 873 546 327 John Pollock 593 371 222 Mark Gregory 573 358 215 Mark Zinkula 768 480 288 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP LGIM LTIP AWARDS Details of how the 2010 PSP award vested The 2010 PSP award vested in full in May 2013 as Legal and Generals TSR exceeded the 80th percentile of the FTSE 100 and the bespoke comparator group over the three year performance period.
In line with policy, the Committee carefully reviewed the companys underlying performance over the performance period.
The review included considerations of partnerships entered into and maintained, cost management, capital management and risk.
The Committee felt the company performance had been strong over the period and saw no reason not to allow the PSP to vest in accordance with the TSR out-turn.
The performance conditions were in line with those of the 2013 grant set out on page 91.
The results are shown below: 2010 PSP vesting % of award vesting against % of award Bespoke Percentage of Legal & vesting against comparator total award Grant date Performance period General's TSR FTSE 100 group vesting 4 May 2010 4 May 2010 3 May 2013 117.3 50% 50% 100% Value at date of vest gure shown in single Max gure of % of 2010 salary Face value at Share price at number of No of shares Share price at remuneration 2010 PSP vesting awarded award 000 award shares that vested Vesting date vest 000 Nigel Wilson 200% 1,072 0.8535 1,256,004 1,256,004 10 May 2013 1.8075 2,270 John Pollock 200% 800 0.8535 937,316 937,316 10 May 2013 1.8075 1,694 Mark Gregory 200% 720 0.8535 843,585 843,585 10 May 2013 1.8075 1,525 Mark Zinkula n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a This table has been audited by PwC.
LGIM long term incentive plan LGIM LTIP awards Between March 2010 and March 2012 Mark Zinkula was granted LGIM LTIP awards as part of his remuneration as CEO LGIMA and CEO LGIM.
Following his appointment as an executive director, Mark receives no further awards under this plan.
The vesting of these notional shares is subject to the satisfaction of the cumulative growth in PBT condition over the three-year performance period.
Actual targets have not been disclosed due to commercial sensitivity.
The table below shows the outcome of his 2010 award that vested in full in 2013.
of Notional date of vest share price notional Face value share price gure shown in at time shares at at award at award single gure of of vest Grant date % of base salary award 000 remuneration 15 March 2010 140% 135,798 338 2.49 643 4.73 This table has been audited by PwC.
indd 90 14 03 2014 21:03 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR The following table shows the PSP awarded in 2013 and current performance to 31 December 2013.
% of award % of award vesting vesting against Percentage % of against Bespoke of total March 2013 Face Value Share price at Max no.
The grants were made under the legacy 2004 PSP plan see policy section page 79.
The metrics are TSR, chosen to align outcomes with shareholder interests.
The number of shares that vest is dependent on Legal & Generals relative TSR performance over a three-year period as follows: Legal & Generals TSR relative to the comparator group % of award which vests Below median 0% Median threshold 25% Between median and 80th percentile 25%100% 80th percentile or above 100% Vesting condition for half of the award measures the Groups TSR versus the FTSE 100.
Vesting condition for the other half measures TSR versus the insurance constituents in the FTSEurorst 300 plus any FTSE 350 Life Insurance companies not in the FTSEurorst 300.
The constituents for this group are determined at the date of grant.
The two conditions are measured independently.
Performance against TSR conditions is independently reviewed by Kepler Associates.
The Remuneration Committee will also assess whether the TSR out-turn is reective of the underlying financial performance of the company and may scale back vesting if deemed appropriate.
The Committee has discretion only to reduce the level of award and may not increase it.
The parameters which the Committee uses in making this assessment include, but are not limited to, market share, partnerships entered into and maintained, cost constraint, capital management, risk and shareholder perception.
The award was made in nil cost options.
Any award vesting may be exercised at the end of the three-year performance period or at any time excepting close periods during the two-year period following vesting.
The share price used to calculate the award is the average of the three days preceding grant.
indd 91 14 03 2014 21:03 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION.
OTHER OUTSTANDING AWARDS For information, other outstanding PSP awards are shown below.
These were granted in 2011 and 2012 in line with the legacy plan and have the same performance conditions and vesting ability as above.
% of award % of award vesting vesting against Percentage % of Face against Bespoke of total % of base Face Value Share price at Max no.
Mark Zinkulas award, prior to his board appointment, was 200% of base salary split between the PSP and LGIM LTIP see table below for LGIM LTIP details.
% of award % of award vesting vesting against Percentage against Bespoke of total Max no.
L&G TSR FTSE 100 Group award vesting of shares as at 31.12.13 as at 31.12.13 as at 31.12.13 as at 31.12.13 Additional grant to Nigel Wilson on appointment as Group chief executive follows 2012 performance period but vests on 14 August 2015 291,765 85.20 50% 50% 100% LGIM LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LGIM LTIP AWARDS The table below shows the current outstanding awards for Mark Zinkula.
As stated on page 79, these awards were made prior to his Board appointment.
Mark Zinkulas award was 200% of base salary split between the LGIM LTIP and PSP.
OUTSTANDING SHARE BONUS PLAN SBP AWARDS The table below shows the shares held under the SBP and those that were awarded or vested during 2013.
The shares that vested relate to deferred AVP and, in the case of Mark Zinkula, include shares awarded when he was appointed as CEO LGIM and prior to him joining the Board.
Part of these shares vested during 2013 and are shown in his single gure of remuneration.
The shares awarded in 2013 relate to deferred AVP in relation to 2012 performance.
The share price used to calculate the awards is the average of the three days preceding grant.
indd 92 14 03 2014 21:03 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTERESTS SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES In line with our remuneration policy page 79 which will be effective from shareholder approval, the Group chief executive will be expected to build a shareholding of 300% of base salary and the other executive directors 200% of base salary.
The table below shows shareholding levels as at 31 December 2013.
Actual share New Guidelines ownership on share as % of ownership Share price at base salary: as a % of Guideline Salary at 1 31 December vested shares base salary met March 2014 2013 Nigel Wilson 747% 300% Yes 820,000 2.227 John Pollock 668% 200% Yes 560,000 2.227 Mark Gregory 573% 200% Yes 560,000 2.227 Mark Zinkula Note 1 40% 200% No 560,000 2.227 This table has been audited by PwC.
Note 1: Mark Zinkula joined the Board on 1 September 2012 Shares used for the above calculation exclude those with performance conditions, i. e. those awarded under the PSP which are still within their performance period, any unexercised options, those shares subject to a holding period or period of deferral and any shares held in a private Trust where the executive director is not a Trustee.
They include vested shares where the executive director has beneficial ownership, shares independently acquired in the market and those held by a spouse or civil partner or dependent child under the age of 18 years.
The executive directors shareholdings are shown below.
The share price used is that at 31 December 2013.
Although share ownership guidelines are not contractually binding, executive directors are normally expected to retain any after tax vested share awards until the guideline is met.
The Committee retains the discretion to withhold future grants under the PSP if executives are not making satisfactory progress against the guidelines.
Once shareholding requirements have been met, executive directors may sell surplus shares if they wish.
The Committee has discretion to allow executive directors to sell shares prior to the shareholding requirements being met if there are extenuating circumstances for example, changes to personal circumstances such as divorce.
Executive directors are not expected to purchase more shares if the share price was to fall substantially but they would then be expected to retain further post tax vested awards to regain their position against the guideline.
ESP Employee share plan ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 93 80038 L&G p086-103.
indd 93 14 03 2014 21:03 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION.
OTHER INFORMATION PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF DIRECTOR UNDERTAKING THE ROLE OF TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE The chart shows the value, as at 31 December 2013, 2013 over 2012 of 100 investment in Legal & General shares on 31 December 2008, compared to 100 invested in the Change to base Change to Change in FTSE 100 on the same date.
The other points plotted salary % benets % AVP % are the values at the intervening financial year-ends.
Group chief executive -4.21% 1.54% -1.36% The FTSE 100 Index was chosen as the Company is Comparator 2.44% 2.44% 15.12% a member of this index.
Notes The UK senior management employees ex LGIM have been chosen as the comparator group as it provided the most closely aligned population.
For 2012, gures for the Group chief executive reect the fact that Tim Breedon Total shareholder return at 31 December 2013 held the position from 1 January 2012 to 30 June 2012 and Nigel Wilson held the position from 30 June 2012 to 31 December 2012.
450 Benets: The Group chief executive participates in the same benets as other senior management employees.
Increase in benets for the employee comparators group relate to increases in salaries.
300 EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS The company considers that certain external 150 appointments can help to broaden the experience and contribution to the Board of the executive directors.
Any such appointments are subject to annual agreement 0 by the company and must not be with competing 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 companies.
Subject to the companys agreement, any L&G FTSE 100 fees may be retained by the individual.
However, they received no fees for the below appointments.
HISTORIC CHIEF EXECUTIVE INFORMATION During 2013: The table below shows the remuneration of the Group chief executive in place at the time over the Nigel Wilson sat on the ABI committee.
Mark Gregory was an unpaid Director of Westdown Park Group chief Annual executive variable Management Company Limited.
single gure element PSP vesting of total against rates against John Pollock was on the Financial Services Practitioner remuneration maximum maximum Year Name 000 opportunity opportunity Panel and sat on the ABI Long Term Savings and 2013 Nigel Wilson 4,072 93.10% 100% Life Insurance Committee.
Tim Breedon retired as Group chief executive on 30 June 2012 and Nigel Wilson TO 28 FEBRUARY 2014 took over from that date having been the Chief Financial officer.
However, no PSP is shown in the gure for Nigel Wilson as, while he received the PSP, it vested during the time he was CFO.
The PSP gure that vested for Tim Breedon Name No.
of shares is shown in his gure as it vested during the time he was Group chief executive.
Nigel Wilson 178 John Pollock 178 Mark Gregory 178 Mark Zinkula 0 This table has been audited by PwC.
The executive directors share purchases were made pursuant to their participation in the Employee Share Plan.
indd 94 14 03 2014 21:03 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table shows the relative importance of spend on pay compared to shareholder dividends and share buy-backs.
We also consider our corporate tax liabilities of importance and details of these are shown on page 31.
Distribution profit to shareholders % retained in % Overall % % by way of change 2013 the company change 2013 expenditure on change 2013 Share change 2013 Year dividend m over 2012 m over 2012 pay m note 1 over 2012 buy back over 2012 2013 550 21.41 896 12.28 630 18.42 0 0 2012 453 798 532 0 Note 1 Pay includes salaries, social security costs, share based incentive awards, dened benefit pension costs and dened contribution pension costs.
It covers 11,163 employees for 2013 and 9,864 employees for 2012.
These numbers include the executive directors and consolidated private equity investment vehicles.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS The information below has been audited by PwC.
There have been no payments to past directors during 2013 other than those made to Tim Breedon, former Group chief executive, who stood down from the Board on 30 June 2012 and retired as at 31 December 2012 and whose remuneration upon leaving the company was fully disclosed in the 2012 directors remuneration report.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE The information below has been audited by PwC.
There have been no payments for loss of ofce to executive directors during 2013.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM 2013.
The table below shows the voting outcomes on the directors remuneration report at the last AGM in May 2013.
YEAR FOR AGAINST ABSTAIN REASON FOR VOTES ACTION TAKEN BY COMMITTEE % NUMBER % NUMBER NUMBER AGAINST IF KNOWN 2012 99.14% 0.86% Not known The committee has had positive and constructive discussions and dialogue REMUNERATION with shareholders during 2013 regarding 4,009,276,082 34,764,807 139,185,561 REPORT the proposals for the 2014 executive director remuneration structure and encourages an open approach.
indd 95 14 03 2014 21:03 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NEDS FEES The table below shows the current fee structure and actual fees paid in 2013.
The current aggregate limit for fees paid to NEDs is 1,500,000 pa. John Henry Rudy Nick Mike Dame Stuart Julia Lindsay Stewart Staunton Markham Prettejohn Fairey ClaraFurse Popham Wilson Tomlinson Liz Zlatkus Chairman A R Ri Ri 000s N Ri N A R N A R N N Ri N R Ri A N Ri R N N Ri N Base 65 65 65 65 65 65 65 65 65 340 Committee fee 10 10 10 10 10 10 Committee Chairman 30 30 30 30 30 SID 20 20 Total fee 125 115 105 75 65 75 105 105 65 340 Actual fee 2013 52 106 46 75 27 75 85 61 5 340 Actual fee 2012 125 95 106 75 66 75 65 340 Note 1 Note 2 Note 3 Note 4 Note 5 Note 6 Note 7 Note 8 Note 9 Key: NED committee membership: A Audit N Nominations R Remuneration Ri Risk Chairman if sitting on two ormore committees, excluding Nominations committee SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENTS In line with the remuneration policy on page 84, NEDs are required to build up a shareholding equivalent to one times base fee.
The table below shows their shareholding as at 2 January 2014, taking into account share purchases in relation to December 2013 fees, purchased on 2 January 2014.
The table includes shares purchased with December fees on 2 January 2014.
Note 1 Henry Staunton stepped down from Board at AGM 2013 Note 2 Rudy Markham assumed role of SID from AGM 2013 Note 3 Nick Prettejohn stood down from the Board on 6 June 2013 Note 4 Mike Fairey sits on two committees, excluding Nominations Note 5 Dame Clara Furse stood down from the Board on 1 May 2013 Note 6 Stuart Popham sits on two committees, excluding Nominations Note 7 Julia Wilson assumed role of chairman of Audit Committee from AGM 2013 and sits on two committees, excluding Nominations Note 8 Lindsay Tomlinson joined the Board on 1 May 2013 and became chairman of the Risk Committee from 24 July 2013 Note 9 Liz Zlatkus joined the Board on 1 December 2013 Note 10 These were regular monthly purchases of shares as part of their remuneration 96 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p086-103.
indd 96 14 03 2014 21:03 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FOLLOWING FINANCIAL YEAR SALARY INCREASES FOR 2014 As outlined in the Chairman of the Remuneration Committees letter, the executive directors excluding Nigel Wilson received an interim salary adjustment during 2013 to recognise their increased responsibilities.
Mark Gregorys, John Pollocks and Mark Zinkulas base salaries were increased to 560,000 pa with effect from 1 July 2013 when they ofcially took on their expanded roles.
As a result of this, there are no further increases to their salaries for 2014 and their next review will be in March 2015.
Nigel Wilson In line with our policy of setting base salary at a level to allow a newly appointed executive director to progress into the role, Nigels salary was set at 750,000 pa when he was appointed to Group chief executive on 1 July 2012.
This was some 70,000 below the salary of the departing incumbent.
It was agreed that Nigels next salary review would be March 2014, 20 months after he assumed the position.
In line with our policy therefore, the Committee has decided to increase Nigels salary to 820,000 pa with effect from 1 March 2014.
It is felt that this level reects what he has achieved to date in terms of financial results see pages 2 and 3, increased strategic clarity and the energy, focus and drive within the organisation.
His next review will be in March 2015.
BENEFITS FOR 2014 Benets for 2014 will continue to be in line with our policy.
The table below summarises these changes.
Salary with effect from % increase from December Name Salary at 31 December 2013 1 March 2014 2013 Next intended review date Nigel Wilson 750,000 effective 30 June 2012 820,000 pa 9.3% March 2015 John Pollock 560,000 effective 1 July 2013 560,000 pa 0% March 2015 Mark Gregory 560,000 effective 1 July 2013 560,000 pa 0% March 2015 Mark Zinkula 560,000 effective 1 July 2013 560,000 pa 0% March 2015 ANNUAL VARIABLE PAY POTENTIAL AVP 2014 For 2014, in line with our proposed remuneration policy page 76, the AVP potential for executive directors will be as follows: 000 value maximum New AVP New AVP on Position Maximum potential potential on target target 000 Group chief executive 150% of base salary as at 1 March 2014 1,230 75% of salary as at 1 March 2014 615 CFO, CEO LGAS 150% of base salary as at 1 March 2014 840 75% of salary as at 1 March 2014 420 CEO LGIM 175% of base salary as at 1 March 2014 980 105% of salary as at 1 March 2014 588 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 97 80038 L&G p086-103.
indd 97 14 03 2014 21:03 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION.
Performance Targets and Weightings The performance targets and weightings for 2014 are shown in the table below Name Group KPIs Divisional Financial KPIs Strategic objectives Nigel Wilson 80% 20% John Pollock 50% 30% 20% Mark Gregory 80% 20% Mark Zinkula 50% 30% 20% E. g. Operating profit, Operating Cash, E. g. PBT, Operating Cash, Net Cash, E. g. Building a diversied and sustainable Net Cash, ROE, EPS GWP, Gross Net New Business, business, Customer outcomes, risk Revenues and Expenses management, improving products and services, CSR, employee engagement.
The actual performance targets for 2014 are considered commercially sensitive and therefore will be considered for disclosure retrospectively.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP 2014 Subject to shareholder approval, it is the Committees intention to award a PSP potential of 250% of 2014 base salaries to the executive directors after the 2014 AGM.
Performance period The performance period will be three financial years from 1 January 2014.
Release To the extent that the award vests, it will be available for exercise as soon as practicable in equal tranches of one third at the end of the 3rd, 4th and 5th years from the commencement date of the performance period as described in the policy on page 77.
Due to the change in how the performance period is measured i. e. it is moving from April to April to a performance period of January to December to coincide with the financial year and release timing of the new PSP, there is the possibility that two PSPs may vest in the same year in 2016 that granted under the legacy plan in 2013 and that granted in 2014 under the new plan.
Quantum The details of the award are shown below: The awards will be made as nil cost options.
Face Value of threshold level of award Name 2014 award as % of March 2014 base salary Face value of maximum potential award 000 15% of total award or 37.5% of base salary 000 Nigel Wilson 250% 2,050 308 John Pollock 250% 1,400 210 Mark Gregory 250% 1,400 210 Mark Zinkula 250% 1,400 210 The above represents the maximum award that may vest.
However, some, all or no awards may vest, dependent on performance conditions being met.
Approach to performance measures for 2014 The Committee gave careful consideration to the selection of the combination of measures for our 2014 PSP awards.
The Committee has chosen measures which it believes directly support the companys strategy of achieving growth which is steady, sustainable and rewarding for shareholders, within our agreed risk appetite.
These are: Relative TSR Ensures participants are aligned with the shareholder experience.
Provides direct line of sight for executive directors, and will incentivise them to steadily grow earnings over time.
The dividend is set by the Board as a whole on which the majority of members are non-executives, so this measure reects: the competing demands of capital retention versus distribution to shareholders, the sustainability of dividend policy, and provides an absolute rather than a relative measure of the dividend progression experienced by shareholders.
In addition, the EPS DPS growth metrics are supported by a capital efficiency measure in the form of an ROE underpin.
indd 98 14 03 2014 21:03 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS Performance measures In line with our remuneration policy page 77, we set out below the metrics that will be used for the 2014 award: 25% on TSR relative to the FTSE 100 25% on TSR relative to a bespoke group of insurers for the 2014 award this group comprises the insurance constituents in the FTSEurorst 300 plus any FTSE 350 Life Insurance companies not in the FTSEurorst 300 and the five US rms Metlife, Prudential Financial, Ameriprise Financial, Principal Financial and Lincoln National.
50% on a financial matrix of Earnings Per Share and Dividends Per Share growth % p. a.
A Return on Equity underpin also applies to this element.
Vesting Relative TSR For the relative TSR element 50% of the award for 2014, the awards will vest following a three-year performance period as follows: Legal & Generals TSR performance relative to the comparator groups % of award that vests Below median 0% Median threshold 15% Between median and 80th percentile 15% 100% 80th percentile or above 100% Financial measures The remainder of the award will be based on Legal & Generals performance against an EPS and DPS matrix.
Threshold vesting begins at 5% growth p. a. for both EPS and DPS.
In addition, there is an ROE underpin such that mean ROE must be at least 12% over the three year performance period for 2014 awards.
We will disclose the performance target ranges at the time of grant which will occur after our new PSP is approved at the AGM.
Assessment of performance At the end of the three-year performance period the Committee will critically assess whether the formulaic vesting outcome produced by the matrix is justied.
To do this the Committee will look at a number of factors including: whether the result is reective of underlying performance and has been achieved within the companys agreed risk appetite: the quality of earnings: and the nature of any changes in leverage, key assumptions, dividend cover and behaviours etc.
If such considerations mean that the formulaic outcome of the vesting schedule is not felt to be justied, then the Committee can exercise downwards discretion.
The Committee will continue to responsibly exercise any scope for discretion judgement, and is happy to be judged on its performance in this respect through the annual advisory vote.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NED FEES FOR 2014 There is no change to our NED fee structure as set out in the policy for 2014.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The table below shows the members and attendees of the Remuneration Committee during 2013.
Committee Members, Attendees and Advice Remuneration committee members Position Comments Rudy Markham Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Independent Nick Prettejohn Member from 2 November 2010 until Independent 6 June 2013 Mike Fairey Member from 1 May 2011 Independent Stuart Popham Member from 1 July 2011 Independent Lindsay Tomlinson Member from 1 May 2013 Independent Remuneration Committee attendees Position Comments John Stewart Standing attendee by invitation Independent upon appointment on 1 March 2010 Nigel Wilson Group chief executive Attends by invitation ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 99 80038 L&G p086-103.
indd 99 14 03 2014 21:03 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION GOVERNANCE AND APPROACH.
Remuneration Committee attendees Position Comments The Group HR director and Group Head of Reward attend by invitation as executives responsible for advising on the remuneration policy.
A member of Group Board Support acts as secretary to the Committee Kepler Associates Partnership LLP Attended by invitation as the Committees independent adviser until October 2013 Deloitte LLP Attended by invitation from October 2013 as the independent adviser to the Committee No person is present during any discussion relating to his or her own remuneration.
TERMS OF REFERENCE The Committees Terms of Reference are available on our website or on request.
The remit of the Committee embraces the framework of the remuneration strategy and policy for the whole company as well as the executive directors.
The Committee particularly focuses on: determining the individual remuneration for executive directors and for other designated individuals or for those who are discharging a Head of Control function: undertaking direct oversight on the remuneration ofother high earners in the Group: undertaking oversight on an exceptions basis on theremuneration of Code staff and employees in theControl and oversight functions: and determining the framework of the remuneration policy for all other employees in the Group.
The Committee retains the ability to exercise powers under the share plans to claw back or reduce awards where it determines there has been fraud or malice or abreach of Group risk appetite.
MEETINGS IN 2013 ADVISERS TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committee normally meets at least three times per Kepler Associates Partnership LLP continued to be the year.
During 2013 it formally met eight times as well independent advisers to the Remuneration Committee as having ongoing dialogue via email or telephone until October 2013.
Kepler is also engaged to provide discussion.
The additional meetings were principally updated forecasts of the PSP vesting.
This work has not held to discuss the following key issues: been felt to be in conict with the independence and objectivity of the work carried out for the Committee.
The appointment of Mark Gregory to Chief Financial officer with effect from 1 July 2013 and the In October 2013, the Committee appointed Deloitte LLP re-organisation of the business resulting in wider to replace Kepler Associates as their independent responsibilities for John Pollock and Mark Zinkula: advisers.
As a full RFP had been carried out within the see Chairman of the Remuneration Committees last 18 months, it was felt unnecessary to re-tender in letter page 71. the market place.
The Committee principally moved to The review of the executive directors remuneration ensure continuity of advice and approach regarding structure see chairman of the Remuneration their lead adviser and to benefit from the wider reach Committees letter on page 70. and resources that Deloitte could provide.
Deloitte also provide the company with international tax advice and Regular meetings were held to review and discuss bonus other advisory services.
In addition, Deloitte provided awards in relation to performance in 2012, base salary specialist assistance with one-time projects involving adjustments for 2013 and budgets for the company 2014 claims handling and systems development.
was commissioned prior to Deloitte becoming advisers to the committee.
This work is carried out by an entirely Details of the Remuneration Committee members can be separate group within Deloitte and has not been felt to found on page 99.
Details of the independent advisers to be in conict with the independence, and objectivity of the committee can be found in the next section.
the work carried out for the Committee.
indd 100 14 03 2014 21:03 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS Both Kepler Associates and Deloitte are signatories to the GROUP REGULATORY RISK AND COMPLIANCE Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in FUNCTION relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK.
The Remuneration Committee also works closely with the Group Regulatory Risk and Compliance Function During 2013, Kepler Associates and Deloitte have with respect to remuneration proposals.
principally assisted the Committee with the review of the overall executive directors remuneration structure.
In particular the Function reports to the Committee on an annual basis on whether any risks have been taken The total fees from the independent advisers for 2013 outside of pre-agreed parameters, there have been in relation to Remuneration Committee work were 287K regulatory breaches, or they are aware of any other 198k for Kepler and 89k for Deloitte including VAT.
considerations that may lead the Committee to consider While fee estimates are required for bespoke pieces of whether it should impact the payment of bonuses to work, fees are generally charged based on time with staff including in particular the executive directors and hourly rates in line with the level of expertise and Code Staff.
seniority of the adviser concerned.
The CRO also specically looks at the overall risk prole ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS of the company and whether executive directors have The Committee seeks to maintain an active and achieved objectives within the companys accepted risk productive dialogue with investors on developments appetite.
The CRO also reviews the executive directors in the remuneration aspects of corporate governance objectives for the forthcoming year to ensure they are generally and any changes to the companys executive in line with the risk parameters.
More details can be found in the policy report under the Statement of GENERAL GOVERNANCE consideration of shareholder views on page 85.
The directors report on remuneration has been prepared in accordance with the requirements CONSIDERING RISK of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the The Bonus Steering Committee BSC and the Group Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulatory Risk and Compliance Function make a Accounts and Reports Regulations 2013.
It also key contribution to the process of designing reward describes the Groups compliance with the UK structures and evaluating whether achievement of Corporate Governance Code in relation to remuneration.
objectives and any payment from plans have taken The company is an active member of the ABI and the into account the overall risk prole of the company.
Committee, consistent with its approach of operating within the highest standards of corporate governance, BONUS STEERING COMMITTEE takes account of guidelines issued by the ABI and Reporting to the Remuneration Committee, the BSC shareholder bodies such as the NAPF when setting helps set the framework within which our incentive the remuneration strategy for the company.
arrangements are normally reviewed and implemented, with a view to supporting business strategy, whilst acting within risk appetite.
The members of the BSC include the Group HR director and Group head of reward as well as the Group remuneration team, business heads of HR, the Chief Risk officer CRO and the Group director of regulatory risk and compliance.
Where a business unit tables a proposal for consideration, the relevant business manager is required to attend the BSC meeting to explain the background and to answer all questions and challenges from the BSC.
In response to the strong regulatory focus in 2013 on structured incentive arrangements for direct sales teams in particular, the BSC commissioned an external review of structured incentives.
The findings were broadly positive with some areas for improvement highlighted, which have been, or are being, addressed.
indd 101 14 03 2014 21:03 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION OTHER INFORMATION.
REMUNERATION FOR EMPLOYEES BELOW BOARD GENERAL REMUNERATION POLICY The Groups remuneration policy is applied broadly consistently for all employees and, in line with our remuneration principles, is designed to support recruitment, motivation and retention as well as to reward high performance in a framework of approved risk management.
Remuneration is considered within the overall context of the Groups sector and the markets in which the divisions operate.
The policy for the majority of employees continues to be to pay around the relevant mid-market range with a competitive package designed to align the interests of employees with those of shareholders, and with an appropriate proportion of total remuneration dependent upon performance.
We define core remuneration as base salary, annual bonus that is closely aligned to performance and other benets such as pension.
There is also the ability to participate in the performance share plan PSP for key employees.
SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION STRUCTURE FOR EMPLOYEES BELOW BOARD ELEMENT POLICY BASE SALARY We aim to attract and retain key employees by paying salaries which deliver competitive total remuneration, taking into account market pay levels at companies of similar size, scale and scope as well as overall business performance.
A key factor is also the ability, experience and performance of the individual.
For 2014, base salary budgets have been set at 2.5% for all management and staff employees below Board, including LGIM.
However, this does not mean a at increase for everyone.
Increases to base salary are in line with position in base salary band and other criteria.
ANNUAL BONUS The majority of employees have a discretionary bonus scheme based on individual performance against objectives.
Normally deferral increases with the level of the bonus and is normally held in shares for three years.
The company reserves the right to adjust deferral levels for Code staff as deemed appropriate.
There are some bespoke bonus schemes, where business appropriate, but the Remuneration Committee has ultimate discretion over all bonus plans.
Separate plans operate within LGIM consistent with industry practice.
PERFORMANCE Participation in the PSP generally is extended to the Leadership Group but may include other employees in key roles.
This includes employees in LGIM whose roles cross business divisions and whose participation encourages synergy SHARE PLAN and teamwork across the company.
Typically less than 100 employees participate in total in the PSP.
PSP Participation in the plan for one year does not guarantee participation in future years.
Subject to shareholder approval the PSP will be awarded to under 100 employees for 2014.
Where appropriate, grants under the PSP may also be made for new employees who join the company during the year in key roles.
PENSION All employees are given opportunity to participate in a Group pension scheme.
SHAREHOLDING The Leadership Group is asked to build up a voluntary shareholding of 50% of base salary.
REQUIREMENTS 102 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p086-103.
indd 102 14 03 2014 21:03 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS ANNUAL EQUAL PAY AUDIT Dilution limits Management seeks to ensure that our pay policies and The companys all-employee plans and the now-closed practices are free from unfair bias.
Part of the pay review ESOS operate within the ABIs dilution limit of 5% of process is an annual equal pay audit that reviews pay and issued capital in 10 years for executive schemes and bonus decisions by gender, ethnicity, age and full-time all its plans will operate within the 10% of issued capital versus part-time working.
In addition, it considers the pay in ten years limit for all schemes.
of the Control Function departments Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit as well as the oversight departments As at 31 December 2013, the company had 4.88% of of Finance and Human Resources and looks at decisions share capital available under the 5% in 10 years limit, for employees who report directly to the business versus and 9.17% of share capital under the 10% in 10 years limit.
those who report to the function head.
The review extends to all employees, including those in LGIM.
As at 31 December 2013, 27,465,738 shares were held by the Employee benefit Trust to hedge outstanding awards ALL EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES of 46,521,095 shares for the PSP and SBP.
This means There are share schemes for all UK employees.
that the Trust holds shares sufficient to cover 59.4% of Executive directors are entitled to participate on the outstanding awards.
same terms as all UK employees in the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme SAYE and the Employee Share Plan ESP, both of which are approved by HMRC.
Each year the Committee considers a grant of Group performance shares Freeshares after the annual results are known to tie any award more closely to company performance.
For performance in relation to 2013, the Committee has agreed a grant of 280 shares to each RUDY MARKHAM CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE employee for 2012 performance this was 372 shares.
The SAYE allows employees to enter into a regular savings contract over either three or five years, coupled with a corresponding option over shares of the Group.
The grant price is equal to 80% of the quoted market price of the Group shares on the invitation date.
Under the ESP, approved by HMRC, permanent UK employees may elect to purchase Group shares from the market at the prevailing market price on a monthly basis.
The Group supplements the number of shares, purchased by matching the first 20 of each employees contribution.
From February 2013 the company also matched employee contributions between 20 and 125 on a one matching share for every two purchased.
From time to time, the Group may make a grant of Freeshares see above.
Both the free and matching shares must be held in trust for three years before they may vest to the employee.
indd 103 14 03 2014 21:03 IN THIS SECTION Financial Statements 106 Directors report 262 Shareholder information 266 Glossary 268 If Europe today accounts for just over 7% of the worlds population, produces around 25% of global GDP and has to finance 50% of global social spending, then its obvious that it will have to work very hard to maintain its prosperity and way of life.
ANGELA MERKEL, GERMAN CHANCELLOR FINANCIAL TIMES INTERVIEW, DECEMBER 2012 104 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p104-105.
indd 104 14 03 2014 21:06 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 105 80038 L&G p104-105.
indd 105 14 03 2014 21:06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHANGES TO OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING In last years annual report we had adopted a different approach to presenting our financial information.
We believe that organising the information in this way enables greater understanding of the financial position and performance of our business.
The Group Consolidated financial statements have been divided into 3 sections.
The Primary Statements and Performance section includes the Group primary statements and other notes which we believe are integral to understanding our financial performance.
The Balance Sheet Management section provides further details on our financial position and approach to risk management.
The Additional Financial Information section includes disclosures required to be compliant with accounting standards or the Companies Act.
We view this information as important, but less significant in understanding our business and performance.
CONTENTS GROUP CONSOLIDATED Additional Financial Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.
Segmental analysis 204 Independent auditors report 107 32.
Investment return 208 Primary Statements and Performance 33.
Net claims and change in insurance liabilities 209 Consolidated Income Statement 112 34.
Tax 210 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 113 35.
Auditors remuneration 215 Consolidated Balance Sheet 114 36.
Employee information 216 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 116 37.
Share-based payments 217 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 118 38.
Share capital, share premium and employee 1.
Basis of preparation 119 scheme treasury shares 219 2.
Other operational income and expense 127 40.
Contingent liabilities, guarantees and indemnities 222 6.
Assets analysis 137 Supplementary Financial Statements 10.
Purchased interest in long term businesses European Embedded Value PILTB and other intangible assets 139 Group embedded value summary 228 11.
Deferred acquisition costs 140 Notes to the supplementary financial statements 230 12.
Financial investments and Investment property 140 Independent auditors report 248 13.
Cash and cash equivalents 155 Company Financial Statements 15.
Other assets 156 Independent auditors report 249 16.
Market risk 157 Company Balance Sheet 251 17. Credit risk 160 Company Statement of Total Recognised Gains 18.
Long term insurance valuation assumptions 167 Company reconciliation of movements in total 20.
IFRS sensitivity analysis 173 shareholders funds 252 21.
Insurance contract liabilities 175 Notes to the Company financial statements 253 22.
Value of in-force non-participating contracts 183 25.
Payables and other financial liabilities 193 28.
Acquisitions 202 106 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p106-142.
