Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 100 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board and as Chairman of the Groups Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013, which, in accordance with the new reporting regulations, is split into two parts: The Directors Remuneration Policy, setting out the framework within which we operate and which will be subject to a binding vote.
The Directors Remuneration Implementation Report, which outlines how policy was implemented in 2013 and how the Directors Remuneration Policy is intended to apply in 2014, and which will be subject to an advisory vote.
Linking remuneration to business strategy The Committee continues to place great importance on ensuring that remuneration supports the business strategy.
This is achieved principally through the variable pay plans: Annual bonus plan, which rewards for the delivery of financial targets economic Profit and underlying Profit and balanced scorecard objectives.
These objectives are reviewed by the Committee annually to ensure alignment with the longer-term strategy.
In determining awards, the Committee applies its judgement to adjust for any current or legacy issues.
All awards for executive Directors under the bonus plan are subject to deferral and may be adjusted prior to release if the Committee deems it appropriate.
long-term incentive plan, which is designed to support value creation for shareholders by measuring financial targets currently economic Profit and Total Shareholder Return and strategic targets, which ensure a focus on strategic objectives, in particular those related to our customers.
Performance is measured over three years and executive Directors are required to hold the shares which vest for a further two years, thereby maintaining a link with shareholder experience after the award has vested.
Changes in our pay structure in 2014 Recent european regulatory changes have introduced a cap on the variable element of remuneration at 100 per cent of fixed remuneration which may be increased to 200 per cent, but only with shareholder approval.
The Committee strongly believes in pay for performance, in providing a competitive package that allows us to attract and retain the key talent necessary to deliver the strategy set by the Board, and in ensuring that fixed costs are properly managed.
We are, therefore, seeking separate approval to allow us to award variable remuneration up to a maximum of 200 per cent of fixed remuneration.
These changes have also led the Committee to review the remuneration package for directors and for staff under the scope of the regulation.
We are proposing to introduce an additional fixed element in the remuneration package.
This will take the form of a fixed share award, made annually, which will deliver shares over a period of five years.
This will enable us to comply with the regulations and maintain the competitiveness of the package and, in particular, the alignment with shareholders.
Therefore, whilst we have increased the fixed element of the package for executive Directors, over 75 per cent will remain aligned with shareholders interests.
Key changes for Executive Directors for 2014: Base salary for the Chief Risk Officer has been increased to reflect his additional responsibilities as a member of the Board: salaries for other executive Directors are unchanged.
Fixed share awards will be introduced for 2014 to ensure an appropriate balance of fixed and variable pay.
These shares will be delivered over five years to support the alignment of executive and shareholder interests.
The level of award will be set initially at 85 per cent of base salary for the Group Chief executive and 70 per cent for other executive Directors, but will be kept under review and may be amended in future years.
Bonus opportunities have been reduced to reflect the increase in fixed pay.
The maximum bonus opportunity will be 140 per cent of salary for the Group Chief executive and 100 per cent of salary for other executive Directors compared with 225 per cent and 200 per cent of salary last year.
In addition, the expected value of the bonus is reduced to 30 per cent of the maximum opportunity.
long-term incentive will remain at up to 300 per cent of base salary and will follow a similar approach to 2013, but with some changes in performance measures and weighting to reflect the strategy: for example, cost:income ratio and new customer measures replace previous cost and non-core asset reduction measures.
Shareholding requirement: the existing requirements 200 per cent of salary for the Group Chief executive, 150 per cent for other executive Directors and 100 per cent for other members of the Group executive Committee will remain, but will also be applied to the fixed share award so the total requirement will increase.
In addition, deferred bonus awards will no longer be included in the calculation so individuals will need to hold more than before.
The overall impact is to encourage an appropriate balance of risk and reward, where the latter is competitive, compliant and aligned to the interests of shareholders, within what is prescribed by the new european requirements.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 100 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Board changes The appointment of Juan Colombs to the Board on 29 november 2013 highlights the importance of risk management in the Group.
Juan previously attended at least two meetings of the Remuneration Committee annually, but will now attend all meetings to support the consideration of risk in the Committees decision making, other than any part of a meeting which discusses his own remuneration.
Performance of the Group in 2013 In 2013, we accelerated the delivery of our strategy and made substantial progress in creating a simple, customer-focused, low risk retail and commercial bank.
The Groups underlying profit more than doubled to 6.2 billion and a modest statutory profit was returned at the pre-tax level.
The capital position was further strengthened.
Remuneration outcomes for 2013 The key challenges for the Remuneration Committee have been to determine how to remunerate appropriately for the strong underlying performance in 2013, whilst ensuring that adjustments are made for legacy issues, most notably the additional financial provision for PPI.
The Committee sought to achieve an appropriate balance by applying collective adjustments to the bonus pool and individual adjustments to bonus awards where necessary.
A number of legacy issues were taken into account for example, the additional provision for PPI and the substantial fine levied by the Financial Conduct Authority in respect of past controls around incentives.
The Committee considered other factors, such as affordability in the context of our overall financial results.
The impact of these considerations was to apply a significant reduction to what the overall bonus pool would have been.
The Committee determined that a bonus pool of 395 million was appropriate and represents 6 per cent of pre-bonus underlying Profit compared to 12 per cent in the prior year.
The average value of bonus per employee is approximately 4,500.
We are committed to managing executive reward through the strict application of challenging performance targets.
Performance against the financial measures of the annual bonus plan for executive Directors exceeded the maximum targets, and performance against balanced scorecard objectives was also strong.
Taking into account the legacy issues noted above, the Committee determined that bonus awards of between 63 per cent and 72 per cent of maximum opportunity should be made to executive Directors.
For long-term incentive plan lTIP awards made in 2011, the performance to the end of 2013 was creditable, but targets have not been fully met and therefore these awards will vest at a rate of 54 per cent for members of the Group executive Committee, including executive Directors.
These are the first lTIP awards to vest for some years and reflect the Groups return to profitability under the current management.
Considerations of stakeholders views We are committed to maintaining regular dialogue with our stakeholders and take careful consideration of their views when making our decisions.
During the year, we consulted with our main regulators, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
We also consulted extensively with uK Financial Investments uKFI and a number of our other major shareholders to gather their views and feedback on all significant aspects of remuneration, including our approach for addressing the regulatory changes.
We are grateful for the generally supportive feedback we have received for the changes proposed from our shareholders.
We continue to believe that the remuneration policies and practices fairly reward our directors, support the delivery of the Groups strategy and the delivery of shareholder value.
I therefore hope you will support the resolutions relating to remuneration at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Anthony Watson, CBE Chairman, Remuneration Committee Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 102 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT Directors Remuneration Policy Our policy is intended to ensure that our remuneration proposition is both cost effective and enables us to attract and retain executives of the highest calibre.
Our objective is to align individual reward with the Groups performance, the interests of its shareholders and a prudent approach to risk management.
In this way, we balance the requirements of our major stakeholders: our customers, shareholders, employees, and regulators.
The policy is based on principles which are applicable to all employees within the Group and in particular the principle that the reward package should support the delivery of our strategic goal to be the Best Bank for Customers.
It embeds a performance-driven and meritocratic culture, encourages effective risk disciplines and is in line with relevant regulations and codes of best practice.
There is no significant difference between the policy for executive Directors and that for other senior employees.
If a significant difference for any individual were proposed, this would be subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee within regulatory requirements.
The policy set out below will formally apply, subject to shareholder approval, from the date of the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
It is currently intended that approval of the remuneration policy will be sought at three year intervals unless amendments to the policy are required in which case further shareholder approval will be required.
Consideration of shareholders and employees views We are committed to regular dialogue with stakeholders.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee has consulted extensively with uK Financial Investments uKFI and a number of other shareholders and key stakeholders, such as the Groups main regulators, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
Formal consultation on the remuneration of executive Directors is not undertaken with employees.
However, surveys are undertaken semiannually on employee engagement and discussion on the Groups remuneration approach takes place with union representatives during the annual pay review cycle and on relevant employee reward matters.
Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors Base salary Purpose and link Base salary reflects the role of the individual taking account of responsibilities and experience, and pay in the to strategy Group as a whole.
It helps to recruit and retain Directors and forms the basis of a competitive remuneration package.
Operation Base salaries are typically reviewed annually with any increases normally taking effect from 1 January.
When determining and reviewing base salary levels, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective job-sizing methodologies.
Pay for comparable roles in comparable publicly listed financial services groups, of a similar size.
The Committee also takes into account base salary increases for employees throughout the Group.
Base salaries as at January 2014 are detailed below in the Implementation Report on page 111.
As disclosed in previous reports, since his appointment, the Group Chief executive GCe has a reference salary of 1.22 million which is used to calculate certain elements of long-term remuneration and the pension allowance.
Maximum potential The Committee will make no increase which it believes is inconsistent with the two parameters above.
Increases will normally be in line with the increase awarded to the overall employee population.
However, a greater salary increase may be appropriate in certain circumstances, such as a new appointment made on a salary below a market competitive level, where phased increases are planned, or where there has been an increase in the responsibilities of an individual.
Performance measures n A Fixed Share Award Purpose and link To ensure that total fixed remuneration is commensurate with role and to provide a competitive reward to strategy package for executive Directors with an appropriate balance of fixed and variable remuneration, in line with regulatory requirements.
Operation The Fixed Share Award will be delivered in lloyds Banking Group shares, released over five years with 20 per cent being released each year following the year of award.
Maximum potential The maximum award is 100 per cent of base salary.
The actual awards for the year are stated in the Implementation Report.
Performance measures n A Pension Purpose and link Our pension policy aims to support executive Directors in building long-term retirement savings.
to strategy Operation executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Groups defined contribution scheme with company contributions set as a percentage of salary.
An individual may elect to receive some or all of their pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 102 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Maximum potential The maximum allowance for the GCe is 50 per cent of reference salary less any flexible benefit allowance.
The maximum allowance for other executive Directors is 25 per cent of base salary.
Performance measures n A Benefits Purpose and link To provide suitable benefits as part of a competitive package.
to strategy Operation Benefits may include those currently provided and disclosed in the Implementation Report.
Core benefits include a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance and other benefits that may be selected through the Groups flexible benefits plan.
Additional benefits may be provided to individuals in certain circumstances such as relocation.
This may include benefits such as accommodation, relocation, and travel.
The Committee retains the right to provide additional benefits depending on individual circumstances.
When determining and reviewing the level of benefits provided, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective job-sizing methodologies.
Benefits for comparable roles in comparable publicly listed financial services groups of a similar size.
Maximum potential The Committee will make no increase in the benefits currently provided which it believes is inconsistent with the two parameters above.
The Groups flexible benefits allowance is capped at 4 per cent of base salary.
Performance measures n A All-employee plans Purpose and link executive Directors are eligible to participate in HMRC approved all-employee schemes which encourage share to strategy ownership.
Operation executive Directors may participate in these plans in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Maximum potential Participation levels may be increased up to HMRC limits as amended from time to time.
With effect from April 2014, the monthly savings limits for SAYe is 500.
The maximum value of shares that may be purchased under SIP in any year is 1,800 with a two for one match although currently a one for one match is operated and the maximum value of free shares that may be awarded in any year is 3,600.
Performance measures n A, following HMRC rules.
Annual bonus Purpose and link Incentivise and reward the achievement of the Groups annual financial and strategic targets.
to strategy Operation Measures and targets are set annually and awards are determined by the Committee after the year end based on performance against the targets set.
The annual bonus may be delivered partly in cash and partly deferred into cash, shares, notes or other debt instruments including contingent convertible bonds.
Deferral levels are set at the time of award and in compliance with regulatory requirements which currently require that at least 60 per cent of variable pay is deferred and at least 50 per cent of variable pay is paid in shares or other instruments.
Deferred awards normally vest after three years and the Committee may adjust awards in the event of any variation of share capital, demerger, special dividend or distribution or amend the terms of the plan in accordance with the plan rules.
At the time of the release, executive Directors receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the interest that would have accrued on the deferred component, if deferral is made in notes or debt instruments, or dividends paid or payable if deferred in shares, between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number of shares which have vested.
The Committee applies its judgement to determine the payout level commensurate with business and or individual performance.
The Committee may reduce the level of deferred award including to zero, apply additional conditions to the vesting, or delay the vesting of deferred awards to a specified date or until conditions set by the Committee are satisfied, where it considers it appropriate as a result of an event occurring before vesting.
Maximum potential The maximum annual bonus opportunities are 140 per cent of base salary for the GCe and 100 per cent of base salary for other executive Directors.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 104 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT Performance measures Measures and targets are set annually by the Committee in line with the Groups strategic business plan and further details are set out in the Implementation Report for the relevant year.
At least 50 per cent of the awards are weighted towards financial measures, with the balance on strategic objectives.
For example, for 2014, the measures will include economic Profit and underlying Profit as well as specific strategic objectives including risk, customer and employee measures.
All assessments of performance are ultimately subject to the Committees judgement, but no award will be made if threshold performance is not met for financial measures and the individual is rated Developing performer or below.
The expected value of the bonus is 30 per cent of maximum opportunity.
The Committee retains the right to change the measures and weighting of those measures, including following feedback from regulators, shareholders and or other stakeholders.
The Committee is, however, committed to providing transparency in its decision making in respect of bonus awards and will disclose historic target and measure information together with information relating to how the Group has performed against those targets in the Implementation Report for the relevant year unless this information is deemed to be commercially sensitive.
Long-term incentive plan Purpose and link Incentivise and reward the achievement of the Groups longer-term objectives, to align executive interests with to strategy those of shareholders and to retain key individuals.
Operation Awards are made in the form of conditional shares or nil cost options.
Award levels are set at the time of grant, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and may be subject to a discount in determining total variable remuneration under the rules set by the european Banking Authority eBA.
Vesting will be subject to the achievement of performance conditions measured over a period of three years, or such longer period, as determined by the Committee.
On vesting, executive Directors receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends which would have been paid during the vesting period on shares vesting.
The Committee retains full discretion to amend the payout levels should the award not reflect business and or individual performance.
The Committee may reduce including to zero the level of the award, apply additional conditions to the vesting, or delay the vesting of awards to a specified date or until conditions set by the Committee are satisfied, where it considers it appropriate as a result of an event occurring before vesting.
executive Directors are required to hold the shares which vest for a further two years.
Maximum potential The maximum annual award for executive Directors will normally be 300 per cent of salary excluding dividend equivalents this being the reference salary in the case of the GCe.
under the plan rules, awards can be made up to 400 per cent of salary in exceptional circumstances excluding dividend equivalents.
Performance measures Measures and targets are set by the Committee annually and are set out in the Implementation Report each year.
At least 60 per cent of awards are weighted towards typical market e. g. Total Shareholder Return TSR and or financial measures e. g. economic Profit, with the balance on strategic measures.
For example, for 2014, the measures and respective weighting will be economic Profit 30 per cent : absolute TSR 30 per cent : strategic measures 40 per cent split into: cost:income ratio 10 per cent, customer satisfaction 10 per cent, net promoter score 10 per cent, SMe lending 5 per cent, and share of first-time buyer market 5 per cent.
25 per cent will vest for threshold performance and 50 per cent for on-target performance.
The measures are chosen to support the Best Bank for Customers strategy and to align management and shareholder interests.
Targets are set by the Committee to be stretching within the context of the strategic business plan.
Measures are selected to balance profitability, achievement of strategic goals and to ensure the incentive does not encourage inappropriate risk taking.
Measures and targets are set annually by the Committee and limited details can therefore be provided in the remuneration policy.
Further details on the metrics in place for the awards made in 2013, and those on which the 2014 awards will be based, are provided in the Implementation Report.
For future awards, the Committee will disclose in the Implementation Report for the relevant year historic measure and target information, together with how the Group has performed against those targets, unless this information is deemed to be commercially sensitive.
Shareholding guidelines executive Directors are required to build up a holding of a value of 200 per cent of base salary and fixed share award for the GCe and 150 per cent for other executive Directors.
Details of holding are shown in the Implementation Report.
Discretion in relation to annual bonus and long-term incentive plans The Committee retains discretion with regards to the operation and administration of these plans, including : the timing and size of awards, subject to policy maximums: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : adjustment of targets if events occur which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate: amending the plan rules in accordance with their terms.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 104 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Legacy awards and restrictions on payments The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments awards and any payments awards for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment award were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Group and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment award was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Group.
Such payments awards are set out in the Implementation Report for the relevant year.
They include payments in relation to deferred bonus awards and long-term incentive awards granted in 2012 and 2013.
Illustration of application of remuneration policy The charts below illustrate possible remuneration outcomes under the following three scenarios: 1.
The maximum that may be paid, assuming full bonus payout and full vesting under the long-term plan.
The expected value of remuneration for performance midway between threshold and maximum, assuming 30 per cent of maximum annual bonus opportunity and 50 per cent vesting under the long-term incentive plan.
The minimum that may be paid, where only the fixed element is paid salary, benefits, pension and the fixed share award.
no share price growth has been assumed and dividends have not been included.
The amounts are based on salaries as at 1 January 2014 and assume fixed share awards and bonuses which reflect the implementation of the policy in 2014 as set out below.
They also assume long-term incentive grants of 300 per cent of salary, which is normally the maximum award.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Value of package 000 Maximum 14% 9% 11% 19% 47% 7,787 Mid-Performance 14% 18% 9% 37% 4,917 22% Minimum 40% 26% 34% 2,642 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 Salary Benefits and pension Share award Annual bonus LTIP George Culmer Value of package 000 Maximum 17% 5% 11% 17% 50% 4,321 Mid-Performance 26% 8% 18% 8% 40% 2,737 Minimum 50% 15% 35% 1,441 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 Salary Benefits and pension Share award Annual bonus LTIP Juan Colombs Value of package 000 Maximum 16% 8% 16% 49% 4,388 11% Mid-Performance 25% 12% 17% 8% 38% 2,826 Minimum 46% 22% 32% 1,548 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 Salary Benefits and pension Share award Annual bonus LTIP Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 106 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT Approach to recruitment and appointment to the Board In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new executive Director, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors.
This may include the experience and calibre of the individual, local market practice, the existing remuneration arrangements for other executives and the business circumstances.
The Committee will seek to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both the Group and its shareholders and will seek not to pay more than is necessary.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the timeframe of awards.
Any such award made will be made in accordance with the PRAs Remuneration Code and made on a comparable basis to those forfeited.
The package will normally be aligned with the remuneration policy as described in the table above.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to facilitate the recruitment of an individual of the calibre required and in exceptional cases.
This may, for example, include the following circumstances: An interim recruit, appointed to fill an executive Director role on a short-term basis.
exceptional circumstances requiring the Chairman to take on an executive function on a short-term basis.
An executive Director recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or lTIP award for that year, for example, where there may be insufficient time to assess performance.
In this situation the Committee may feel it appropriate to transfer the quantum in respect of the months employed during the year to the subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair basis.
An executive Director recruited from a business or location where benefits are provided that do not fall into the definition of variable remuneration forfeited but where the Committee considers it reasonable to buy-out these benefits.
Transitional arrangements for overseas hires, which might include relocation expenses and accommodation.
Any discretion is however limited to the maximum level of variable remuneration excluding buy-out awards that may be awarded to new executive Directors which is equal to 200 per cent of fixed remuneration, including any discount permitted by the european Banking Authority for long-term incentive awards.
In making any such remuneration decisions, the Committee will apply appropriate performance measures in line with those applied to other executive Directors.
Service agreements The service contracts of all current executive Directors are terminable on 12 months notice from the Group and six months notice from the individual.
The Chairman also has a service agreement.
His engagement may be terminated on six months notice by either the Group or the individual.
Notice to be given by the Group Date of service agreement Sir Winfried Bischoff 6 months 27 July 2009 Antnio Horta-Osrio 12 months 3 november 2010 George Culmer 12 months 16 May 2012 Juan Colombs 12 months 30 november 2010 under his contract dated 3 november 2010, the GCe is entitled to an amount equivalent to base salary and pension allowance as a payment in lieu of notice if notice to terminate is given by the Group.
If notice to terminate is given by the GCe, he is entitled to an amount equivalent to base salary if the Group chooses to make a payment in lieu of notice.
Such payments in lieu will be made in monthly instalments subject to mitigation.
He is also entitled to six months notice from the Group in the event of his long-term incapacity.
As part of a buyout of a pension forfeited on joining from Santander, the GCe is also entitled to the provision of an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme uuRBS, subject to performance conditions as described further in the Implementation Report.
In all other respects, the terms of the GCes contract in relation to payments for loss of office match those set out below for new directors.
under terms agreed when joining the Group, Juan Colombs is entitled to a conditional lump sum benefit, payable either i on reaching normal retirement age unless he voluntarily resigns or is dismissed for cause, or ii on leaving due to long-term sickness or death, as described further in the Implementation Report.
The service contracts and letters of appointments are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Notice periods newly-appointed executive Directors will be employed on contracts that include the following provisions: The individual will be required to give six months notice if they wish to leave and the Group will give 12 months notice other than for material misconduct or neglect or other circumstances where the individual may be summarily dismissed by written notice.
In exceptional circumstances, new joiners will be offered a longer notice period typically reducing to 12 months within two years of joining.
In the event of long-term incapacity, if the executive Director does not perform their duties for a period of at least 26 weeks in aggregate over a 12 month period, the Group shall be entitled to terminate the executives employment by giving three months notice.
At any time after notice to terminate is given by either the Group or the executive Director, the Group may require the executive Director to take leave for some or all of the notice period.
At any time, at its absolute discretion, the Group may elect to terminate the individuals employment by paying to the executive Director, in lieu of the notice period, an amount equivalent to base salary, subject to mitigation as described more fully in the termination payments section of this report, below.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 106 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Termination payments It is the Groups policy that where compensation on termination is due, it should be paid on a phased basis, mitigated in the event that alternative employment is secured.
Where it is appropriate to make a bonus payment to the individual, this should relate to the period of actual service, rather than the full notice period.
Any bonus will be determined on the basis of performance as for all continuing employees and will remain subject to performance adjustment malus.
Generally, on termination of employment, bonus awards, long-term incentive awards and other rights to payments will lapse except where termination falls within one of the reasons set out below.
In the event of redundancy, the individual may receive a payment in line with statutory entitlements at that time.
If an executive Director is dismissed for gross misconduct, the executive Director will receive normal contractual entitlements until the date of termination and all deferred bonus awards and long-term incentive awards will lapse.
Pension, benefits and Base salary Fixed Share Award other fixed remuneration Resignation In the case of resignation to take up Awards continue and are released Paid until date of termination new employment, paid until date of at the normal time and the number including any period of termination including any period of of shares subject to the award in leave required by the Group leave required by the Group.
In the the current year will be reduced to subject to individual benefit case of resignation for other reasons, reflect the fact that the executive scheme rules.
base salary will be paid in monthly Director has left early.
instalments for the notice period or any balance of it, offset by earnings from new employment during this period.
Redundancy or Paid until date of termination including Awards will normally continue and be Paid until date of termination termination by any period of leave required by the released at the normal time and the including any period of mutual agreement Group.
In respect of the balance of number of shares subject to the award leave required by the Group any notice period, base salary will be in the current year will be reduced subject to individual benefit paid in monthly instalments, offset by to reflect the fact that the executive scheme rules.
earnings from new employment during Director has left early unless, in this period.
the case of mutual agreement, the Committee determines that exceptional circumstances apply in which case shares may be released on termination.
Retirement ill health, Paid until date of retirement death.
For Awards will normally continue and Paid until date of death injury, permanent ill health, injury, permanent disability, be released at the normal time and retirement subject to individual disability death paid for the applicable notice period the number of shares subject to benefit scheme rules.
For including any period of leave required the award in the current year will be ill health, injury, permanent by the Group.
reduced to reflect the fact that the disability, paid for the notice executive Director has left early except period including any period of for death where shares are released on leave required by the Group termination, or unless, in the case of subject to individual benefit permanent disability, the Committee scheme rules.
determines that exceptional circumstances apply in which case shares may be released on termination.
Change of control n A unless the Committee decides n A or merger otherwise, awards will be released on the date of the corporate event and the number of shares subject to the award in the current year will be reduced to reflect the fact that the executive Director has left early unless the Committee determines that awards will be exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring company or such other company as the Committee determines.
Other reason where the Paid until date of termination including Awards continue and are released Paid until date of termination Committee determines any period of leave required by the at the normal time and the number including any period of that the executive should Group.
In respect of the balance of any of shares subject to the award in the leave required by the Group be treated as a good notice period, base salary will be paid in current year will be reduced to reflect subject to individual benefit leaver monthly instalments, offset by earnings the fact that the executive Director scheme rules.
from new employment during this period.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 108 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT Chairman and Non-Executive 1 2 3 Annual bonus Long-term incentive Director fees Resignation Forfeited, including unvested deferred unvested award lapses on Paid until date of leaving Board.
elements 2010 deferred bonus not date of leaving or on notice of subject to forfeiture but continues to leaving unless the Committee be subject to performance adjustment determines otherwise in exceptional unless the Committee determines circumstances.
Redundancy or Accrued up until date of termination Pro-rated award for months Paid until date of leaving Board.
Deferred bonus paid worked in performance period by mutual agreement in line with normal timeframes and released at end of period, subject subject to performance adjustment.
to performance objectives being The Committee may allow awards to met.
The Committee may allow vest early if it considers it appropriate.
awards to vest early if it considers it appropriate.
Retirement ill health, Accrued up until date of termination Pro-rated award for months Paid until date of leaving Board.
injury, permanent disability current year.
Deferred bonus paid worked in performance period in line with normal timeframes and released at end of period, subject subject to performance adjustment.
Death Accrued up until date of termination Pro-rated award for months Paid until date of leaving Board.
Deferred bonus paid on worked released to estate as soon death in cash, unless the Committee as practicable after date of death.
Performance conditions will not apply.
Change in control or Accrued up until date of termination Pro-rated award for months worked Paid until date of leaving Board.
Deferred bonus vests in performance period released on to the extent determined by the date of change in control, subject Committee.
to performance objectives being met at the time of the transaction.
Instead of vesting, awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards over the shares or acquiring company or another company.
Other reason where the Accrued up until date of termination Pro-rated award for months Paid until date of leaving Board.
Deferred bonus paid worked in performance period that the executive in line with normal timeframes and released at end of period, subject should be treated as a subject to performance adjustment.
to performance objectives being good leaver The Committee may allow awards to met.
1 If any annual bonus is to be paid to the executive Director for the current year, this will be determined on the basis of performance for the period of actual service, rather than the full notice period and so excluding any period of leave required by the Group.
2 Reference to change of control or merger includes a compromise or arrangement under section 899 of the Companies Act 2006 or equivalent.
Fixed share awards may also be released exchanged in the event of a resolution for the voluntary winding up of the Company: a demerger, delisting, distribution other than an ordinary dividend or other transaction, which, in the opinion of the Committee, might affect the current or future value of any award: or a reverse takeover, merger by way of a dual listed company or other significant corporate event, as determined by the Committee.
In the event of a demerger, special dividend or other transaction which would in the Committees opinion affect the value of awards, the Committee may allow a long-term incentive award to vest to the extent relevant performance conditions are met to that date and if the Committee so determined, on a time pro-rated basis to reflect the number of months of the performance period worked.
3 The Chairman is entitled to six months notice.
On termination, the executive Director will be entitled to payment for any accrued but untaken holiday calculated by reference to base salary and fixed share award.
The cost of legal, tax or other advice incurred by an executive Director in connection with the termination of their employment and or the cost of support in seeking alternative employment may be met up to a maximum of 100,000.
Additional payments may be made where required to settle legal disputes, or as consideration for new or amended post-employment restrictions.
Where an executive Director is in receipt of expatriate or relocation expenses at the time of termination as at the date of the AGM no current executive Directors are in receipt of such expenses, the cost of actual expenses incurred may continue to be reimbursed for up to 12 months after termination or, at the Groups discretion, a one-off payment may be made to cover the costs of premature cancellation.
The cost of repatriation may also be covered.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 108 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out the remuneration policy that will apply, subject to shareholder approval, to non-executive Directors neDs from the date of the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Purpose and link to strategy To provide an appropriate reward to attract and retain a high-calibre individual with the relevant skills, knowledge and experience.
Operation The Committee is responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board with regards to the Chairmans fees.
The Chairman does not participate in these discussions.
The GCe and the Chairman are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the fees of the neDs.
When determining fee levels, the following are considered: The individuals skills and experience.
Comparable fees at FTSe companies of a similar size to lloyds Banking Group, including the major uK banks.
The Chairman receives an all inclusive fee, which is reviewed periodically plus benefits including life assurance, car allowance, medical insurance and transportation.
neDs are paid a basic fee plus additional fees for the chairmanship membership of committees and for membership of Group companies boards non-board level committees.
Additional fees are also paid to the senior independent director and to the deputy chairman to reflect additional responsibilities.
2014 fee levels are stated in the Implementation Report.
Any increases normally take effect from 1 January of a given year.
When determining and reviewing fee and benefit levels, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective sizing methodologies.
Fees and benefits as at January 2014 are detailed below in the Implementation Report on page 112.
The Chairman and the neDs are not entitled to receive any payment for loss of office other than in the case of the Chairmans fees for the six month notice period and are not entitled to participate in the Groups bonus, share plan or pension arrangements.
neDs are reimbursed for expenses and any tax arising from these expenses.
Where appropriate, the Group will also meet the costs and any tax arising from travel for business purposes.
Maximum potential The Committee will make no increase in fees or benefits currently provided which it believes is inconsistent with the two parameters above.
Performance metrics none Letters of appointment The Groups policy is for independent neDs to have letters of appointment, not service agreements.
non-executive appointments may be terminated, in accordance with the Articles of Association, at any time.
Date of letter of appointment David Roberts February 2010 lord Blackwell May 2012 Carolyn Fairbairn February 2012 Anita Frew november 2010 Dyfrig John October 2013 nick luff February 2013 Anthony Watson February 2009 Sara Weller January 2012 The service contracts and letters of appointments are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 110 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT Directors Remuneration Implementation Report Consideration of matters relating to directors remuneration The members of the Committee during 2013 were: Anthony Watson chairman Sir Winfried Bischoff Carolyn Fairbairn David Roberts also chairman of the Board Risk Committee Timothy Ryan until 18 04 13 Sara Weller During 2013, the Committee met 10 times and considered the following principal matters: Review of remuneration arrangements for senior executives Determination of the appropriate remuneration packages for a number of senior new hires Determination of bonus pools based on Group performance and adjustment for risk Performance conditions for the long-Term Incentive Plan Bonus and salary awards for executive Directors and key senior managers Approval of remuneration and terms of service that fall within the Committees terms of reference, including new hires Feedback from the Committee Chairman on his meetings with the PRA and shareholders Committee members are thanked for their commitment during the last year and attendance at meetings.
The Committee appoints independent consultants to provide advice on specific matters according to their particular expertise.
During the year, Deloitte llP advised the Committee.
Deloitte was appointed following a competitive tendering process.
Deloitte has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct.
The Committee has evaluated Deloitte during 2013 and has judged its advice as objective and independent.
During 2013, Deloitte provided information on behalf of the Committee for the testing of Total Shareholder Return TSR performance conditions for the Groups long-term incentive plans calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price.
In addition, Deloitte llP provided the Group with advice on taxation and other consulting services, and assurance services.
Deloittes fees for 2013 amounted to 324,300.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief executive, Rupert Mcneil Group HR Director and Paul Hucknall HR Director, Performance & Reward provided guidance to the Committee other than for their own remuneration.
Juan Colombs Chief Risk Officer and George Culmer Chief Financial Officer also attended the Committee to advise as and when necessary on risk and financial matters.
Statement of voting at general meeting The proposals on the remuneration offered to our executive Directors in 2013 were detailed within the Directors Remuneration Report for 2012 and were voted on at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
The shareholder votes submitted at the meeting, either directly, by mail or by proxy, were as follows: Votes cast number of shares Percentage of millions votes cast Votes in favour 46,949 95.91% Votes against 2,003 4.09% Abstentions 4,052 As mentioned in the Chairmans statement, we are committed to an ongoing dialogue with our shareholders.
Shareholders have different views, notably on incentive scheme design and whilst we do take all comments into consideration, there will inevitably be some diverging views, notably on the structure of such schemes and on the choice of performance measures.
The Committee believes that the proposed structure of the Groups remuneration is appropriate, given the regulatory requirements.
We have consulted extensively with our major shareholders but we also welcome feedback from all of our shareholders on our remuneration arrangements and on this report.
One particular element of feedback from proxy voting agencies was that they were looking for more information on the determination of the bonus payments.
We have provided greater detail in this years report.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 110 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Implementation of the policy in 2014 As mentioned in the Chairmans statement and remuneration policy above, the Group is required to comply with the Prudential Regulation Authoritys PRA Remuneration Code the Code, as amended on 1 January 2014 to implement the fourth amendment of the Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV.
under the Code, the Group and certain employees who have a material impact on the Groups risk profile Code Staff including executive Directors, are subject to certain rules regarding the provision of remuneration.
This has led the Committee to carry out a fundamental review of the remuneration structure for Directors and other Code Staff.
It is proposed to operate our policy in the following way in 2014: Base salary Salaries for executive Directors effective from 1 January 2014 are as follows: Group Chief executive GCe : 1,061,000 Chief Financial Officer CFO : 720,000 Chief Risk Officer CRO : 710,000 The salary for the CRO has been increased to 710,000 with effect from 1 January 2014 to reflect his additional responsibilities as a member of the Board.
Fixed Share Award As stated in the Chairmans letter, we have introduced an additional element in the package in order to ensure that total fixed remuneration is commensurate with role and to provide a competitive reward package for executive Directors, with an appropriate balance of fixed and variable remuneration, in line with regulatory requirements.
The actual levels of award set for 2014 are as follows which will be released in shares over a five year period : GCe: 900,000 CFO: 504,000 CRO: 497,000 Pension In line with the remuneration policy, executive Directors are entitled to a cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
The level of allowances has not been increased for 2014.
GCe: 50 per cent of reference salary less flexible benefit allowance CFO: 25 per cent of base salary CRO: 25 per cent of base salary The GCe is also entitled to the provision of an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme uuRBS, subject to performance conditions, as described further in the Implementation Report.
Benefits For 2014, the benefits provided to executive Directors include a car allowance, transportation, private medical insurance, life assurance and other benefits selected through the flexible benefit allowance which is capped at 4 per cent of base salary.
The CROs benefits in respect of relocation end in January 2014.
All employee plans executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Sharesave and Sharematch scheme on the same basis as other employees.
Annual bonus Opportunity The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 140 per cent of base salary for the GCe and 100 per cent of base salary for other executive Directors.
All assessments of performance are ultimately subject to the Committees judgement, but no award will be made if threshold performance for the financial measure is not met and the individual is rated Developing performer or below.
The expected value of the bonus is 30 per cent of the maximum opportunity.
Performance measures and For 2014 the annual bonus will be based on: targets Financial measures underlying profit and economic profit 50 per cent Balanced scorecard BSC objectives comprising five categories finance, building the business, customer, risk and people 50 per cent The Committee considers the targets that apply to these measures to be commercially sensitive but will provide information on the level of payout relative to the performance achieved in next years Implementation Report.
The Committee applies its judgement to determine the payout level commensurate with business and or individual performance in determining the final BSC rating.
Long-term incentive plan Opportunity The maximum annual long-term incentive award for executive Directors is 300 per cent of salary.
Awards in 2014 will be made as follows: GCe: 300 per cent of reference salary CFO: 275 per cent of base salary CRO: 275 per cent of base salary Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 112 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT Performance measures and During 2013, the Committee consulted widely with various shareholders on appropriate performance targets measures and, in particular, on how management can be incentivised through the long-term incentive plan to successfully deliver the Groups overall strategic objective of delivering long-term sustainable returns to shareholders.
Based on the feedback, the awards made in 2014 will vest based on lloyds Banking Groups performance against the following key measures: economic Profit 30 per cent Absolute Total Shareholder Return 30 per cent Strategic Measures 40 per cent We believe these measures capture risk management and profit growth and appropriately align management and shareholder interests.
The following table provides a breakdown of these measures and the targets applicable.
Category Measure Basis of payout range Metric Weighting Financial economic Profit Set relative to 2016 targets Threshold: 2,154m 30% Maximum: 3,231m Absolute TSR Growth in share price including dividends Threshold: 8% pa 30% over 3 year period Maximum: 16% pa Cost:income ratio Set relative to 2016 targets Threshold: 48.9% 10% Maximum: 46.5% Customer Customer satisfaction Set relative to 2016 targets Threshold: 1.15 10% Total FCA reportable Maximum: 1.05 complaints per a 1,000 accounts net promoter score Major Group average ranking over 2016 Threshold: 3rd 10% Maximum: 1st Helping Britain SMe lending Set relative to targets for SMe lending growth Threshold: 14% 5% Prosper over 3 year period Maximum: 18% Share of first-time Set relative to targets for market share over Threshold: 20% 5% buyer market 3 year period Maximum: 25% a Measure excludes PPI complaints, but includes Banking, Home Finance, General Insurance, life, Pensions and Investment complaints.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees in 2014 The annual fee for the Chairman is unchanged at 700,000.
The annual non-executive Director fees were reviewed in 2013 and increased as listed below with effect from 1 July 2013: 2013 2014 Basic fee 65,000 65,000 Deputy Chairman 100,000 100,000 Senior Independent Director 60,000 60,000 Audit Committee Chairmanship 50,000 50,000 Remuneration Committee Chairmanship 30,000 50,000 Board Risk Committee Chairmanship 40,000 50,000 Audit Committee membership 20,000 20,000 Remuneration Committee membership 15,000 20,000 Board Risk Committee membership 15,000 20,000 nomination & Governance Committee membership 5,000 5,000 Where individual is not already Chairman of another Committee.
non-executive Directors may receive more than one of the above fees.
For 2014, the benefits provided to the Chairman include a car allowance, medical insurance, life assurance and transportation.
The following pages contain information that is required to be audited in compliance with the Directors Remuneration requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
All narrative and quantitative tables are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 112 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Remuneration outcome for 2013 Executive Directors audited The following table summarises the total remuneration delivered during 2013 in relation to service as an executive Director.
The breakdown of payments made in cash and contributions into the pension scheme are shown below.
note that the amount for 2012 in respect of Antnio Horta-Osrio has been restated from 549,000 to include 18,170 of employer contributions to pension scheme.
note that the amount for 2013 in respect of George Culmer includes 106,000 carried over from 2012 and delivered in 2013. b Other remuneration payments comprise contractual cash payments to Antnio Horta-Osrio, George Culmer and Juan Colombs as part of the buyout of their benefits from their previous employers in addition to income from all employee share plans of 960. c In addition to deferral and performance adjustment, the GCes bonus will only vest if the Groups share price remains above 73.6 pence on average for any 126 consecutive trading days in the five years following grant or the uK government sells at least 50 per cent of its shareholding as at February 2014 in the Group at any time during the three years following grant.
If either condition is met earlier than the third anniversary of grant, vesting will still only occur on the third anniversary.
In this event, the award will be subject to a further two year holding period following vesting up to a maximum of five years in total.
d The long-term incentive vesting was confirmed by the Remuneration Committee at its meeting on 20 February 2014.
The closing share price on that date of 81.13 pence has been used to calculate the value.
e The GCe has a conditional unfunded pension commitment, subject to share price performance.
This was a partial buyout of a pension forfeited on joining from Santander.
It is an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme uuRBS.
The uuRBS provides benefits on a defined benefit basis at a normal retirement date of 65.
The uuRBS applies for a maximum of six years following the commencement of employment and the maximum allowance over that period is 26.5 per cent of the higher of the GCes base salary and reference salary in the 12 months before retirement or leaving, subject to performance conditions.
no additional benefit is due in the event of early retirement.
The rate of pension accrual in each year depends on share price conditions being met.
An annual pension entitlement of 36,600 was accrued in 2013. f George Culmer joined the Group as an executive Director on 16 May 2012.
The 2012 figures therefore reflect a part-year.
g Amounts shown reflect the period from 29 november 2013 when Juan Colombs was appointed as an executive Director.
Total remuneration for 2013 was 3,193,000. under terms agreed when joining the Group, the CRO is entitled to a conditional lump sum benefit of 718,996 either i on reaching normal retirement age unless the CRO voluntarily resigns or is dismissed for cause, or ii on leaving due to long-term sickness or death.
Pension and benefits audited Antnio George Juan Pension Benefit Horta-Osrio Culmer Colombs Contribution to pension scheme 18,170 52,345 3,799 Cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution 549,390 233,318 10,689 Car or car allowance 12,000 7,704 1,085 Flexible benefits payments 42,440 28,800 2,318 Private medical insurance 23,841 592 1,039 Transportation 35,200 299 Relocation 9,794 Annual bonus For each executive Director, the 2013 bonus was based on performance against: Profit measures 50 per cent : underlying Profit and economic Profit Balanced scorecard objectives 50 per cent : reflecting the strategic priorities specific to the executive Director, but based on consistent categories: Financial Building the business Customer service Risk People development Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 114 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT Balanced scorecard outcomes are recorded through a rating, based on a rating scale ranging from under performer at the lowest level, through Developing, Good, Strong and up to Top which is the highest rating.
each of these ratings may be further differentiated by the addition of minus or plus.
Detailed performance assessments are prepared annually in respect of the Group and each of the divisions and presented for review by the Committee.
The assessments are also reviewed by the Risk Committee.
For the Groups senior Code Staff, including the executive Directors, a further review is undertaken to ensure that adequate consideration has been given to risk factors.
Based on the financial and balanced scorecard assessment, the Committee applies its judgement in determining the bonus outcomes.
It takes into consideration any other factors, particularly in relation to legacy issues, such as the additional provision for PPI and the substantial fine levied by the Financial Conduct Authority in respect of controls around Bancassurance incentives arrangements.
Annual bonus for 2013 The Groups performance against 2013 targets for the two financial measures is shown below.
Threshold On-Target Maximum 3,193m 3,991m 4,789m Underlying profit Actual outcome : 6,166 million 192 m 606m 1,404m Actual outcome : 1,737 million Economic profit Antnio Horta-Osrio The maximum annual bonus opportunity of the Group Chief executive GCe was 225 per cent of basic salary.
For 2013, the Group outperformed the financial targets as shown above.
The balanced scorecard used to inform the decisions of the Committee is the overall Groups scorecard.
The GCes balanced scorecard assessment for 2013, as confirmed by the Committee on 23 January 2014, reflected a number of considerations in 2013, including: Successful implementation of the Groups strategy of becoming the best bank for customers.
Substantially improved financial performance: underlying profit increased by 140 per cent to 6,166 million in 2013.
A return to statutory profitability at the pre-tax level.
Strengthening the balance sheet and reducing risk: pro forma fully loaded common equity tier 1 ratio increasing by 2.2 percentage points to 10.3 per cent.
non-core assets reduced by 35 per cent from 98.4 billion to 63.5 billion: reductions continue to be capital accretive overall, contributing to the release of approximately 2.6 billion of capital in the year.
The Groups share price in 2013 increased by 65 per cent, making it the second best performing among the worlds top 50 banks and well above the FTSe100 increase of 14 per cent.
Further progress in the simplification programme: cost savings of approximately 0.6 billion realised in 2013.
The first phase of the european Commission mandated business disposal, Project Verde, was successfully completed in September 2013, with TSB Bank launched onto the uK high streets.
An Initial Public Offering IPO of TSB Bank in 2014 remains a target.
Successful relaunch of the lloyds Bank brand in the second half of the year.
Further reductions in the number of customer complaints, now down to 1.0 per 1,000 accounts excluding PPI, the lowest of any major uK bank.
The Group has so far committed over 37 billion of gross new lending to British customers under the Funding for lending Scheme FlS with drawings under the scheme amounting to 8 billion as at the end of 2013.
SMe lending grew 6 per cent in 2013 in a market that contracted, while our target of lending 1 billion to uK manufacturing companies was exceeded three months ahead of schedule.
The sale by the uK government of 6 per cent of its stake in the Group in September 2013, thereby reducing its holding to 32.7 per cent.
A major milestone in our recovery, and marks the start of the journey to full re-privatisation, which is a key priority for the Group.
The Committee agreed a balanced scorecard rating for 2013 of Strong plus for the GCe.
This is one of the highest ratings on the Groups performance scale, surpassed only by a Top minus or Top rating.
George Culmer The maximum bonus opportunity of the Chief Financial Officer CFO was 200 per cent of basic salary.
The balanced scorecard used to inform the decisions of the Committee is the overall scorecard for the Finance function.
The CFOs balanced scorecard assessment for 2013, as confirmed by the Committee on 23 January 2014, reflected a number of considerations in 2013, including: excellent management of Group Capital, Funding and liquidity in a challenging environment.
The underlying impairment charge improved by 47 per cent to 3,004 million, driven by the reduction in non-core assets and the sustained improvement in Group asset quality.
Core impairment charge decreased 21 per cent to 1,521 million with the reduction primarily attributable to Commercial Banking impairments, which reduced by 40 per cent year-on-year reflecting better quality new business and lower defaults due to the low interest rate environment.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 114 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Good progress in delivering the Finance transformation, including changes to core accounting systems.
Return on risk-weighted assets improved to 2.14 per cent from 0.77 per cent, driven by increased earnings and by risk-weighted asset reductions, predominantly in the non-core business.
Core underlying profit before tax grew 24 per cent to 7,574 million, primarily reflecting reduced impairment charges and stronger net interest income.
Maintained focus on cost control and efficiency, resulted in total costs falling by 5 per cent to 9,635 million.
Substantially completed work to transform the balance sheet, by strengthening our funding, liquidity and capital position, and reducing non-core assets.
The Groups wholesale funding requirement has reduced given the reduction in non-core assets and continued growth in customer deposits in the year.
These have, together, enabled us to reduce wholesale funding by 32 billion and repay the full amount of the long Term Refinancing Operation funding from the european Central Bank of 13.5 billion ahead of schedule.
The Committee agreed a balanced scorecard rating for 2013 of Strong plus for the CFO.
Juan Colombs The maximum bonus opportunity of the Chief Risk Officer CRO was 200 per cent of basic salary.
The balanced scorecard used to inform the decisions of the Committee is the overall scorecard for the Risk Division.
The CROs balanced scorecard assessment for 2013, as confirmed by the Committee on 23 January 2014, reflected a number of considerations in 2013, including: excellent progress across a range of Risk metrics non-core reductions, impairments, capital and liquidity management.
Strong management of the Groups conduct strategy programme, which addresses every area of the organisation and is driving improvements in the customer experience.
Good progress in delivering the Risk transformation, which is ahead of plan.
Close control over the management of the Risk Appetite and the understanding of the control environment.
Maintaining high level of responsiveness to our regulators with whom we strive for a strong working relationship.
Overseeing delivery of remediation plans for legacy issues.
ensuring 100 per cent of product reviews were completed on time.
Improvements in mitigating operational risks and regulatory breaches.
The Committee agreed a balanced scorecard rating for 2013 of Strong plus for the CRO.
Application of the Committees judgement using a purely mechanical assessment of the financial and BSC performance measures for the GCe, CFO and CRO would have resulted in bonuses close to maximum levels.
As with the bonus pool determination for the wider Group, the Committee has applied its judgement to adjust for other considerations in determining individual awards, such as affordability, market positioning, year on year performance and the impact of one-off items on the statutory financial out-turn.
The Committee considered that using a purely mechanical approach to determining the 2013 bonus pool and individual awards was not appropriate and therefore applied its judgement to reduce awards for the executive Directors, Group executive Committee and for the Group pool overall.
Accordingly, the Committee determined that a bonus of 1,700,000 71 per cent of maximum was appropriate for the GCe, 910,000 63 per cent of maximum for the CFO and 860,000 67 per cent of maximum for the CRO taking into consideration affordability, the need for consistency with the members of the Group executive Committee and overall Group performance during 2013.
This judgement-based reduction was also in line with the reduction applied to the overall pool for discretionary awards across the Group.
The bonuses awarded are summarised in the table below: Antnio George Juan Name Horta-Osrio Culmer Colombs Maximum opportunity % of base salary 225% 200% 200% % awarded for 2013 160.2% 126.4% 134.2% Bonus awarded for 2013 1,700,000 910,000 860,000 Deferral Bonus awards for executive Directors are deferred into shares and subject to performance adjustment until at least March 2016.
The GCes award is subject to deferral for five years and to performance adjustment and forfeiture provisions during the first three years.
The GCes award is subject to an additional condition that the share price must remain above 73.6 pence on average for any 126 consecutive trading days in the five years following grant or the uK government sells at least 50 per cent of its shareholding during the three years following grant.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 116 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT If either condition is met earlier than the third anniversary of grant, vesting will still only occur on the third anniversary.
Consistent with the aim of ensuring that short-term financial results are only rewarded if they promote sustainable growth, the 2013 annual bonus is subject to deferral in shares until at least 2015.
This deferred amount is subject to performance adjustment malus.
The Committee reserves the right to exercise its discretion in reducing any payment that otherwise would have been earned, if they deem appropriate.
In this respect, the Committee has recommended to the Board that it should exercise its discretion to adjust the value of certain 2010 and 2011 bonus awards, on a basis equivalent to that applied in the previous year.
Long-term awards made in March 2011 vesting for the period ended on December 2013 At the end of the performance period, it has been assessed that awards will vest at 54 per cent of maximum.
Vesting at Vesting at Actual Vesting % of Threshold Maximum threshold maximum performance maximum ePS 33.33% of award 6.4p 7.8p 25% 100% 6.6p 36.5% economic profit 33.33% of the award 567m 1,534m 25% 100% 1,737m 100.0% Annualised absolute total shareholder return 33.33% of award 8% 14% 25% 100% 8% 25.3% Percentage change in remuneration of GCE versus the wider employee population Figures for All employees are calculated using figures for uK-based colleagues subject to the Group Annual Bonus Plan, which is considered to be the most appropriate group of employees for these purposes.
% change in base % change in % change in salary bonus benefits 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Group Chief executive 0% 14.5% 0% All employees 2.3% 14.1% 2.3% Adjusted for movements in staff numbers and other impacts to ensure a like for like comparison.
Relative spend on pay m 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 0 Underlying Profit Dividend Salaries performance based compensation underlying Profit has been used for comparison on the basis that it reflects performance, excluding legacy issues and one-off events.
Payments within the reporting year to past directors audited As part of arrangements on leaving the Group, contractual payments of monthly salary and benefits were made in respect of January 2013 totalling 76,746 to Mr T Tate.
Loss of office payments audited There were no payments for the loss of office made to former Directors during 2013.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 116 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors audited Fees Taxable benefits Total 000 000 000 Current Non-Executive Directors 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 1 Sir Winfried Bischoff 700 700 17 15 717 715 lord Blackwell 233 101 233 101 Carolyn Fairbairn 103 58 103 58 Anita Frew 105 100 105 100 nick luff from 05 03 13 108 108 David Roberts 248 202 248 202 Anthony Watson 204 152 204 152 Sara Weller 103 87 103 87 Former Non-Executive Directors Timothy Ryan until 18 04 13 29 115 29 115 Martin Scicluna until 31 03 13 33 130 33 130 Totals 1,866 1,645 17 15 1,883 1,660 1 Taxable benefits are made up of car allowance of 12,000, private medical benefit of 566, and transportation of 4,864.
Breakdown of Non-Executive Directors fees 000s Senior Deputy Independent Audit Remuneration Board Risk SWG board Other 2013 1 2,3 Board fee Chairman Director committee committee committee fees Fees Total lord Blackwell 65 20 18 130 233 Carolyn Fairbairn 65 20 18 103 Anita Frew 65 20 17 3 105 nick luff 54 39 15 108 David Roberts 65 100 20 18 45 248 Timothy Ryan 20 4 5 29 Martin Scicluna 16 13 4 33 Anthony Watson 65 60 20 40 19 204 Sara Weller 65 18 17 3 103 1 Scottish Widows Group ltd. 2 Fees for chairing the Responsible Business Steering Group a non-Board level committee.
3 Fees for chairing the Finance Inclusion Committee a non-Board level committee.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 118 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT Historical TSR performance The chart below shows the historical TSR of lloyds Banking Group plc compared with the FTSe 100 as requested by the regulations, rebased as at 1 January 2008.
The FTSe 100 index has been chosen as it is a widely recognised equity index of which lloyds Banking Group plc has been a constituent throughout this period.
Total shareholder return indices Lloyds Banking Group and FTSE 100 Lloyds return index FTSE 100 return index Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 Rebased to 100 on 31 December 2008.
Source: Deloitte To provide further context, we have also shown below lloyds Banking Groups annual TSR change compared with the FTSe 100 and against a european Banking index calculated for each period since 1 January 2008.
We believe this highlights more clearly the positive impact of the current management team which was formed in 2011.
1 year total shareholder return Lloyds Banking Group plc FTSE 100 index FTSE Eurobanks index 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% -20% -40% -60% Source: Deloitte -80% Historical GCE remuneration outcomes GCE 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 GCe single figure of remuneration J e Daniels 1,121 2,572 855 000 Antnio Horta-Osrio 1,765 3,398 7,475 Annual bonus payout J e Daniels Waived 62% 0% % of maximum opportunity Antnio Horta-Osrio Waived 62% 71% long-term incentive vesting J e Daniels 0% 0% 0% % of maximum opportunity Antnio Horta-Osrio 0% 0% 54% notes: J e Daniels served as Group Chief executive until 28 February 2011: Antnio Horta-Osrio was appointed Group Chief executive from 1 March 2011.
J e Daniels declined to take a bonus in 2008 and 2009 and Antnio Horta-Osrio declined to take a bonus in 2011.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 118 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Outstanding share awards Directors interests audited Shareholding guidelines executive Directors are required to build up a holding in lloyds Banking Group plc shares of value equal to 150 per cent of gross salary 200 per cent of gross salary for the Group Chief executive and are expected to achieve these targets within three years from the later of 1 January 2012 and their date of joining the Board.
They are required to retain any shares vesting from lTIP awards granted from 2012 onwards for a further two years post vesting although vested shares would count towards the shareholding requirement.
Members of the executive Committee are required to build up a shareholding of 100 per cent of their gross salary.
As at 31 December 2013, all executive Directors significantly exceeded the requirements.
Number of Shares Number of Options Total Shareholding Value expected Unvested Unvested value at subject to Unvested subject to Total at 31 December Owned continued subject to continued Vested 27 February 2013 2 outright employment performance employment unexercised Totals 2014 000s Executive Directors 1 3 Antnio Horta-Osrio 1,411,685 3,012,781 24,224,312 22,156 4,005,764 32,676,698 32,677,068 12,400 3 George Culmer 877,951 1,420,166 8,674,086 2,265,972 2,216,187 15,454,362 15,454,732 7,401 Juan Colombs 1,409,048 1,989,077 10,809,619 535,231 14,742,975 14,742,975 5,661 Non-Executive Directors Sir Winfried Bischoff 1,300,000 1,300,000 n a n a lord Blackwell 50,000 50,000 n a n a Carolyn Fairbairn n a n a Anita Frew 300,000 300,000 n a n a David Roberts 968,641 968,641 n a n a nick luff 80,000 80,000 n a n a Anthony Watson 476,357 476,357 n a n a Sara Weller 150,000 150,000 n a n a 1 Shareholdings held by Antnio Horta-Osrio are either wholly or partially in the form of ADRs.
2 Awards subject to performance under the long-Term Incentive Plan had an expected value of 30 per cent of face value at grant using current accounting assumptions.
Values are based on the 31 December 2013 closing price of 78.88 pence.
Full face value of awards are 25,775,379 for Antnio Horta-Osrio, 12,190,401 for George Culmer and 11,629,259 for Juan Colombs.
3 The changes in beneficial interests for Antnio Horta-Osrio and George Culmer relate to partnership and matching shares acquired under the lloyds Banking Group Share Incentive Plan between 31 December 2013 and 27 February 2014.
A summary of transactions undertaken in the year, including share plan awards vested plus open market purchases and sales made by Directors, is shown on page 122.
As a result of the above shareholdings, the position for each executive Director is as follows: Requirement Shareholding requirement Current shareholding met Number of shares at 31 12 13 Number of Base salary % of closing price of % of shares 1 2 000s base salary 0.7888 base salary as at 31 12 13 Executive Directors Antnio Horta-Osrio 1,061 200% 2,690,162 402% 5,417,449 Yes George Culmer 720 150% 1,369,168 338% 3,094,138 Yes Juan Colombs 710 150% 1,350,152 216% 1,944,279 Yes 1 Current shareholding percentage of base salary shareholding figure is calculated using the 31 12 13 closing price of 78.88 pence.
2 Shares owned outright plus vested but unexercised options have been used to calculate current shareholding figures.
none of those who were Directors at the end of the year had any other interest in the capital of lloyds Banking Group plc or its subsidiaries.
The register of Directors interests, which is open to inspection, contains full particulars of Directors shareholdings and options to acquire shares in lloyds Banking Group plc.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 120 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT Breakdown of shares interests audited long-term incentive plan awarded in 2013 Awards in 2013 were made over shares with a value of 300 per cent of reference salary for the GCe 7,425,441 shares with a face value of 3,660,000, 275 per cent for the CFO 4,017,041 shares with a face value of 1,980,000 and 275 per cent for the CRO 3,576,283 shares with a face value of 1,762,750.
The share price used to calculate face value is the average price over the five days prior to grant 18 March to 22 March 2013, which was 49.29 pence.
The performance conditions attached to these awards are set out in the table below.
The performance period ends on 31 December 2015.
Measure Basis of payout range Metric Weighting economic Profit Payout range set relative to 2015 targets Threshold: 1,254m 35% Maximum: 1,881m Absolute TSR Growth in share price including dividends Threshold: 8% pa 30% Maximum: 16% pa Customer satisfaction FCA reportable Payout range set relative to targets over Threshold: 1.05 10% banking complaints per 1,000 customers 3 year period Maximum: 0.95 excluding PPI Total costs adjusted Payout range set relative to 2015 targets Threshold: 9,323m 10% Maximum: 8,973m non-core assets at end of 2015 excluding Payout range set relative to 2015 targets Threshold: 37bn 10% uK Retail Maximum: 28bn SMe lending Payout range set relative to performance against Threshold: at market 5% market in lending to SMes over 3 year period Maximum: 4% For each measure, 25 per cent will vest for threshold performance, 50 per cent for on-target performance and 100 per cent for maximum performance.
SAYe interests awarded in 2013 The executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Groups sharesave and sharematch plans.
In 2013, the GCe and CFO were each granted SAYe options over 22,156 shares with an exercise price of 40.62 pence per share and a face value of 11,250.
The share price used to calculate the face value is the price on grant 12 April 2013, which was 50.78 pence.
Deferred bonus awarded in 2013 Bonus is deferred into shares normally released at the end of a three year period.
The face value of the share awards in respect of bonuses granted in March 2013 was 1,485,000 3,012,781 shares for the GCe and 700,000 1,420,166 shares for the CFO.
Awards are consistent with those forfeited and have a nil option price.
b not exercisable as the option has not been held for the period required by the relevant scheme.
c executive share award granted on 6 August 2012 for the loss of deferred share awards forfeited on leaving RSA Insurance Group plc.
d Share buy-out awards lapsed as the performance conditions were not met.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 120 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 none of the other directors at 31 December 2013 had options to acquire shares in lloyds Banking Group plc or its subsidiaries.
The market price for a share in the Group at 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 was 47.92 pence and 78.88 pence, respectively.
The range of prices between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 was 46.305 pence to 80.37 pence.
nil cost options granted in March 2011 lapsed as the performance conditions relative TSR against a bespoke comparator group were not met.
Lloyds Banking Group long-term incentive plan audited The following table shows conditional shares awarded under the plan.
Further information regarding this plan can be found on pages 111 and 120.
Additional disclosures emoluments of the eight highest paid senior executives The following table sets out the emoluments of the eight highest paid senior executives excluding executive Directors in respect of the 2013 performance year.
Pension costs based on a percentage of salary according to level.
Includes members of the Group executive Committee and Senior executive level colleagues.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT Directors interests summary of awards vested, purchases and sales made by directors in 2013 unaudited Holding at 1 January 2013 Holding at or appointment Transactions Number of 31 December date during the year Shares Notes 2013 Executive Directors Antnio Horta-Osrio Purchase 230 ADRs for 1,407,780 29 10 13 920 connected person Share Incentive Plan purchase Monthly 2,985 1,411,685 and matching shares George Culmer Share Incentive Plan purchase 874,966 Monthly 2,985 877,951 and matching shares Juan Colombs 1,409,048 none 1,409,048 Non-Executive Directors Sir Winfried Bischoff 1,300,000 none 1,300,000 lord Blackwell 50,000 none 50,000 Carolyn Fairbairn none Anita Frew 300,000 none 300,000 nick luff 80,000 none 80,000 David Roberts 968,641 none 968,641 Anthony Watson 476,357 none 476,357 Sara Weller 150,000 none 150,000 On behalf of the Board Anthony Watson, CBE Chairman, Remuneration Committee The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Risk management All narrative and quantitative tables are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
The audited information is required to comply with the requirements of relevant International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Emerging risks 126 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 Credit risk 133 Conduct risk 163 Market risk 164 Operational risk 169 Funding and liquidity risk 171 Capital risk 178 Regulatory risk 192 Insurance risk 193 People risk 194 Financial reporting risk 195 Governance risk 196 Further information on Risk Management can be found: Risk overview 40 Note 54: Financial risk management 327 Other information: for an analysis of where Enhanced Disclosure Task Force EDTF recommendations are disclosed 391 Pillar III Disclosures: www.
com Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
