Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Remuneration Report The outlined approach to pay is reflected in the detailed Directors Part 1 Annual Statement from Remuneration Policy that is set out on pages 82 to 89.
There are no significant the Chair of the Committee differences between this policy and the one that applied in 2013.
Dear Shareholder Summary of 2013 business context and key remuneration decisions The work of the Committee in 2013 was conducted against a backdrop of As the Chair of Cairns Remuneration Committee a year in which the Company fulfilled its objective of operating with a focus on safety, building a business with appropriate exposure to material frontier the Remuneration Committee or the and mature basin exploration whilst maintaining a strong balance sheet with Committee, I am pleased to present our financial flexibility.
Its key decisions relating to remuneration in 2013 are described in more detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration contained on pages 90 to 98 and can This is the first year that the report is subject to the new regime contained in be summarised as follows: the amended Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
As such, it has been separated Base salary into the following parts: Simon Thomson received an increase to base salary of 6.3% with effect from 1 January 2013 and Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts received increases of This Annual Statement which identifies the key messages on remuneration 2.6% and 2.7% respectively.
The increases for Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts for the year under review and explains the business context in which the were consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase awarded to Committees major decisions during the period were taken: other employees on 1 January 2013.
As explained in last years Directors A forward-looking Directors Remuneration Policy which proposes Remuneration Report, Simon Thomsons rise in 2013 salary reflected the an overall executive remuneration framework that will be adopted and Committees view of his progress in his new role as Chief Executive.
operated by the Company in 2014 and the following two financial years if approved by shareholders the policy set out in this part of the report will Annual bonus become binding with effect from the AGM to be held on 15 May 2014: and Based on an assessment of the extent to which the applicable measures and An Annual Report on Remuneration which provides shareholders with targets were achieved during 2013, awards made to the Executive Directors details of the remuneration that was actually delivered to the Companys under the Companys annual bonus scheme for the period as a percentage of directors during 2013 and explains how the new policy referred to above salary were 63% in the case of Simon Thomson, 62% for Jann Brown and will be applied in 2014 this final part of the report will be subject to an 61.5% for Dr Mike Watts.
Further details of the way in which these awards advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
were determined are set out on pages 93 and 94 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Overview of Cairns remuneration policy Although the form of this years Directors Remuneration Report is somewhat Long Term Incentive Plan different from those of previous periods, the Committees overall philosophy The performance period applicable to the Long Term Incentive Plan or LTIP for rewarding our executives and senior managers remains largely unchanged.
awards granted in 2010 came to an end during 2013.
However, the performance Our aim is to ensure that pay arrangements appropriately and responsibly conditions that required to be satisfied in order for vesting to occur under this incentivise these individuals to achieve the Groups strategic objectives which arrangement were not achieved with the result that no shares were released to should, in turn, create, realise and add value for the Companys shareholders.
participants and the awards lapsed.
The total potential remuneration for Executive Directors is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, within that element, the greatest opportunity Applying the policy for 2014 for reward lies in the delivery of sustained levels of long-term performance.
The ways in which the Companys remuneration policy will be applied in This reflects the nature of Cairns business and ensures a high degree of 2014 are set out in detail on page 98 in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
alignment with the Companys shareholders.
In particular, salaries for the Executive Directors were increased by 2.5% on 1 January 2014 in line with the standard annual increase awarded to other employees in the Group.
The Group KPI measures used for the annual bonus scheme and their respective weightings have been reformulated for 2014 in order to appropriately reflect the Companys strategic goals for the period.
In addition, the proportion of the Chief Executives bonus opportunity for the year that will be determined by reference to these corporate measures has been increased to 100% from the 90% level that applied in 2013.
No material changes have been made to the manner in which the LTIP will operate in 2014.
Shareholder support and feedback on Directors Remuneration Report We welcome questions and feedback from all parties on both the content and style of this report and hope that shareholders are supportive of the remuneration-related resolutions that are to be proposed at the AGM on 15 May 2014.
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Remuneration Committee Chair 17 March 2014 M. Jackie Sheppard QC Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Cairns Remuneration Committee operates within written terms of reference Part 2 Directors Remuneration Policy agreed by the Board.
These are reviewed periodically to ensure that the Committee remains up-to-date with best practices appropriate to Cairn, Introduction its strategy and the business environment in which it operates.
The terms This Directors Remuneration Policy provides an overview of the Companys policy of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the on directors pay that will be applied in 2014 and later years.
It sets out the various Companys website.
pay structures that the Company will operate and summarises the approach that the Committee will adopt in certain circumstances such as the recruitment of new Consultation with relevant stakeholders directors and or the making of any payments for loss of office.
The Committee is always keen to ensure that, in carrying out its functions, it takes into account the views and opinions of all the relevant stakeholders As highlighted in the Annual Statement from the Chair of the Committee, the in the business.
policy contained in this part will be subject to a binding vote at the AGM to be held on 15 May 2014 and will take effect immediately upon receipt of such During the early part of 2012, the Committee undertook a comprehensive approval from shareholders.
programme of engagement with a selection of the Companys larger institutional investors and their representative bodies in order to: Purpose and role of the Remuneration Committee understand shareholder concerns which led to a substantial vote against The Remuneration Committee determines and agrees with the Board the overall the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report: and remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and the Groups PDMRs persons highlight a number of proposed changes to the Executive Directors discharging managerial responsibilities.
Within the terms of this agreed policy, the remuneration arrangements intended to address these issues and give Committee is also responsible for: shareholders an early opportunity to raise any questions that they might have.
determining the total individual remuneration package for each Executive Director and PDMR: The Committee believes that undertaking this process of constructive dialogue determining the level of awards made under the Companys LTIPs and share helped to deliver the strong endorsement of the 2012 Directors Remuneration option plans and the performance conditions which are to apply: Report at the 2013 AGM, full details of which are set out on page 91. determining bonuses payable under the Companys annual cash bonus scheme: determining the vesting levels of awards under the Companys LTIPs and In April 2013, the Chairman and the Company Secretary met a selection of share option arrangements: and larger investors and shareholder voting agencies to discuss governance and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and remuneration matters.
termination payments for Executive Directors and PDMRs.
Finally, although the Committee does not undertake a formal consultation The Committee also reviews and approves the overall remuneration levels exercise with employees in relation to the Groups policy on senior management of employees below senior management level, but does not set individual remuneration, members of staff are given the opportunity to raise issues on remuneration amounts for such individuals.
This oversight role allows the a variety of matters, including executive pay, via the annual employee Committee to take into account pay policies and employment conditions within engagement survey.
the Group as a whole when designing the reward structures of the Executive Directors and PDMRs.
For example, the Committee considers the standard increase applied to basic pay across the Group when setting Executive Directors base salaries for the same period.
82 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Remuneration Report Continued Overview of remuneration policy and package for 2014 Cairns policy on Executive Directors remuneration for 2014 and subsequent financial years is to ensure that it appropriately incentivises individuals to achieve the Groups strategic objectives to create, realise and add value for its shareholders, whilst offering a competitive package against the market.
A description of each of the elements to be comprised in the pay packages for Cairns directors under its remuneration policy is as follows: Future Policy Table Elements of directors remuneration package Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Helps recruit and Normally reviewed annually with Annual increases will not exceed the None Base salary retain employees.
changes taking effect on 1 January level of standard increase awarded Reflects individual and or when an individual changes to other employees except that more experience and role.
significant increases may be awarded at the discretion of the Committee Aim is to provide a competitive base in connection with: salary relative to the market although an increase in the scope and the Committee does not place undue responsibility of the individuals emphasis on benchmarking data and role: or exercises its own judgement in the individuals development and determining pay levels.
performance in the role following appointment: or Decision influenced by: a re-alignment with market rates.
role and experience: average change in broader workforce salaries: individual performance: and remuneration practices in companies of a broadly similar size and value and relevant oil and gas exploration and production companies.
Benefits Helps recruit and Directors are entitled to a competitive Company cars up to a value of None retain employees.
For UK 70,000 or, as an alternative, an executives, the major elements annual car allowance of up to 8,771 include a company car, permanent may be provided.
Other benefits will health insurance, private health be in line with the market.
insurance, death-in-service benefit and a gym and fitness allowance.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Annual bonus Rewards the Bonuses are awarded by reference to Maximum % of salary: 100%.
The measures and targets applicable to the annual bonus scheme and the achievement of annual performance against specific targets KPIs and or other measured over a single financial year.
different weightings ascribed to each of them are set annually by the objectives linked to the Companys Any amounts awarded to an individual Committee in order to ensure they are relevant to participants and take strategic goals.
under this arrangement are paid out in full shortly after the assessment of account of the most up-to-date business plan and strategy.
the performance targets has been completed.
However, annual bonuses may be subject to clawback where, All, or a significant majority, of the in the period of three years from the bonus opportunity will normally end of the relevant financial year, be determined by reference to the Committee becomes aware performance against demanding of a material misstatement of the Group KPIs such as: Companys financial results or exploration and new venture an error in the calculation of objectives: performance targets.
development and production targets: and HSE.
Any remaining part of a directors bonus will normally be based on the achievement of personal objectives relevant to that individuals role within the business.
A payment scale for different levels of achievement against each KPI and or other objective is specified by the Committee at the outset of each year these range from 0% for below-threshold performance up to 100% for full satisfaction of the relevant condition.
The Committee has discretion to vary the measures and weightings during the year if events arise which mean that it would be inappropriate to continue with the originally prescribed structure.
The Committee expects that this discretion will only be exercised in exceptional circumstances and not to make the bonus scheme for that year less demanding than when it was originally set.
In addition, the Committee has discretion to ensure that the ultimate bonus payment for a financial year is fair and reasonable and properly reflects performance over that period.
84 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Remuneration Report Continued Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Long Term Incentivises Executive Cairn currently operates one LTIP Normal maximum % of salary: 300%.
Vesting of all awards granted under that was approved by shareholders Exceptional circumstances maximum the LTIP to date is determined by Incentive Plan Directors to deliver or LTIP superior levels of in 2009.
comparing the growth in Total Shareholder Return TSR of Cairn long-term performance for the benefit of Awards of conditional shares over a performance period of three and or nil-cost options are made years from grant with the TSR of a shareholders, thereby aligning the interests annually with vesting dependent comparator group of international oil on achievement of performance and gas companies that is selected by of the directors with those of the Companys conditions chosen by the Committee.
the Committee prior to each grant, investors.
Performance is measured over a with 20% vesting at median, 100% three-year period.
at upper decile and on a straight line sliding scale in between.
On vesting of an award, only 50% of the shares to which the holder In order to encourage exceptional has become entitled are released performance, the above condition become exercisable immediately, provides that, at upper decile levels, with the remaining 50% normally a multiplier of up to 1.33 is applied being released becoming exercisable if absolute TSR growth is between after a further period of one year.
The Committee reviews the quantum It also states that no part of any award of awards annually, taking into account will vest unless the Remuneration factors such as market rates and Committee is satisfied that there overall remuneration.
has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the Awards may be subject to clawback performance of the Company as a where, in the period of three years whole over the performance period.
from the end of the relevant performance period, the Committee Although the Committees intention becomes aware of a material is that the above condition will be misstatement of the Companys applied to LTIP awards granted financial results or an error in the in 2014, it may decide to impose calculation of performance conditions.
different but equally challenging conditions in future years.
The Committee will consult with major shareholders prior to making any such decision and will ensure that the vesting of at least 50% of all awards granted under the LTIP continues to be determined by reference to the Companys TSR performance.
Share Incentive Encourages a broad The Company established an HM Participation limits are those set None Plan or SIP range of employees Revenue and Customs approved by the UK tax authorities from time to become long-term share incentive plan in April 2010. to time.
With effect from 6 April 2014, shareholders.
It allows the Company to provide these limits are expected to be eligible employees, including the as follows: Executive Directors, with some Partnership shares: up to 1,800 or all of the following benefits: per tax year can be deducted partnership shares acquired from salary.
using deductions from salary: Matching shares: up to two matching shares awarded to matching shares for every one those employees who purchase partnership share purchased.
partnership shares on the basis Free shares: up to 3,600 of a ratio specified by the worth in each tax year.
Matching and free shares awarded under the SIP must normally be held in the plan for a specified period.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Pension Rewards sustained The Company operates a defined Company contributes 15% of None basic salary on behalf of Executive contribution.
contribution group personal pension plan in the UK.
The Directors or pays them an equivalent amount of additional salary.
scheme is non-contributory and all UK permanent employees, including the Executive Directors, are eligible to participate.
The Company contributes a specified percentage of basic annual salary for senior employees, including Executive Directors.
Where an Executive Director has an individual personal pension plan or overseas equivalent, the Company pays its contribution to that arrangement.
If an Executive Directors pension arrangements are fully funded or applicable statutory limits are reached, an amount equal to the Companys contribution or the balance thereof is paid in the form of additional salary.
Helps recruit and Non-Executive Directors fees are Companys Articles of Association None Non-Executive Directors fees retain high-quality, considered annually and are set place a limit on the aggregate annual experienced by the executive members of the level of Non-Executive Directors individuals.
Board and the Chairman taking and Chairmans fees currently Reflects time into account a range of relevant 900,000. commitment factors including: and role.
market practice: time commitment: and responsibilities associated with the roles.
Additional fees are payable to the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Chairman's fees Helps recruit and retain The Chairmans fee is considered Companys Articles of Association None the relevant individual.
annually and is determined in place a limit on the aggregate annual Reflects time light of market practice, the time level of Non-Executive Directors commitment.
commitment and responsibilities and Chairmans fees currently associated with the role and other 900,000. relevant factors.
Notes: 1 A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table during the financial year to 31 December 2014 is provided on page 98.
2 The following differences exist between the Companys aforementioned policy for the remuneration of directors and its approach to the payment of employees generally: Participation in the LTIP is limited to the Executive Directors and certain selected senior managers.
Other employees are eligible to participate in the Companys share option schemes, details of which are provided on pages 129 and 130.
Under the Companys defined contribution pension scheme, the Company contribution for less senior employees is 10% of basic annual salary.
A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity applies to employees other than the Executive Directors and certain PDMRs.
Benefits offered to other employees generally comprise permanent health insurance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and gym and fitness allowance.
In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals.
They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the Executive Directors and PDMRs, a greater emphasis is placed on variable pay.
3 The TSR performance conditions applicable to the LTIP further details of which are provided on page 94 were selected by the Remuneration Committee on the basis that they improve shareholder alignment and are consistent with the Companys objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders.
Under the terms of these performance conditions, the Committee can specify the basis on which TSR for any company is calculated and has the discretion to make adjustments to this methodology to take account of exceptional circumstances, including share capital variations.
Where any company becomes unsuitable as a member of the comparator group as a result of, for example, a change of control or delisting, the Committee has the discretion to treat that company in such manner as it deems appropriate including replacing it with another organisation.
4 Where a nil-cost option award under the LTIP becomes exercisable, it will generally remain so until the tenth anniversary of the date on which it was granted.
5 The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be tied to appropriately challenging measures of both the overall performance of the Company against its strategic KPIs and where appropriate those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
6 The legislation applicable to the SIP does not allow performance conditions to be applied in relation to partnership or matching shares and, given that the SIP is an , the Company has decided that it is not appropriate to apply performance conditions to free shares awarded under it.
7 As highlighted on page 97, the Company has a share ownership policy which requires the Executive Directors to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 100% of base salary.
Until such a holding is achieved, an Executive Director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Companys share incentive plans.
Details of the extent to which the Executive Directors had complied with this policy as at 31 December 2013 are set out on page 97.
86 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Remuneration Report Continued Committee discretions The Committee will operate the annual bonus scheme, LTIP and Share Incentive Plan according to their respective rules and the policy set out in this report.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these arrangements.
These include but are not limited to the following: who participates in the plans: the timing of grant of award and or payment: the size of an award and or a payment: discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction: the weightings, metrics and targets for the annual bonus plan: the determination of the annual bonus payment: determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: discretion to disapply time pro-rating in the event of a change of control or good leaver circumstances: adjustments or variations required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, change of control, special dividends and other major corporate events : and the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events.
Legacy awards Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested unexercised as detailed on page 95 of the Annual Report on Remuneration remain eligible to vest be exercised based on their original award terms.
Remuneration scenarios relating to the above policy Cairns pay policy seeks to ensure that the overall package of the Executive Directors is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, within such variable pay element, that greater emphasis is placed on the delivery of long-term performance through the award of long-term incentives.
In the chart below, we show the make-up of remuneration of the Executive Directors in 2014 under minimum, on-target and maximum scenarios.
3,326,357 3.5m 2,931,681 3.0m 2,710,013 2.5m 100% 1,986,426 65% 65% 1,747,437 2.0m 1,620,202 65% 49% 1.5m 49% 49% 16% 1.0m 19% 16% 641,113 16% 19% 19% 558,437 526,014 0.5m 100% 32% 19% 100% 32% 19% 100% 32% 19% 0 Minimum On-Target Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum Chief Executive Managing Director & CFO Deputy Chief Executive Fixed Elements Annual Variable Long-term Incentives In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: The minimum columns are intended to show the fixed level of remuneration to which an Executive Director is entitled in 2014 irrespective of performance levels, namely base salary at current rates, benefits using the details set out in the 2013 single-figure table provided on page 91 and pension calculated by applying the percentage entitlement set out in the policy table against latest confirmed salary.
The on-target scenario seeks to illustrate the remuneration the Executive Directors would receive if performance was in line with expectation.
In addition to the fixed elements summarised above, it assumes a specified level of payout vesting under the annual bonus scheme and LTIP.
Given that neither of these incentive arrangements explicitly stipulate an on-target amount, the assumed levels for this scenario have been calculated by reference to the approximate average annual payouts vestings for all Executive Directors over the five years up to and including 2013, being a payout of 70% of salary under the annual bonus scheme and a 60% vesting of LTIP awards originally granted over shares worth 300% of salary.
The maximum columns demonstrate total remuneration levels in circumstances where the variable elements pay out in full i. e. annual bonus payment of 100% of salary and 133% vesting of LTIP awards originally granted over shares worth 300% of salary.
For the purposes of valuing the LTIP awards, any post-grant share price movements have been ignored.
The Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the SIP on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under this arrangement is subject to legislative limits and, for simplicity, has been excluded from the above chart.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Recruitment policy Base salaries Salaries for any new director hires including internal promotions will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market rate for the role.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below-market salary initially, the Committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases over time for newly appointed directors, even though this may involve increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation.
Benefits Benefits and pensions for new appointees to the Board will normally be provided in line with those offered to other Executive Directors and employees taking account of local market practice, with relocation expenses arrangements provided for if necessary.
Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment with Cairn.
Legal fees and other relevant costs and expenses incurred by the individual may also be paid by the Company.
Variable pay For external appointments, the Committee will ensure that their variable remuneration arrangements are framed in accordance with the terms of, and are subject to the limits contained in, the Companys existing policy.
The Committee may however, in connection with an external recruitment, offer additional cash and or share-based elements intended to compensate the individual for the forfeiture of any awards under variable remuneration schemes with a former employer.
The design of these payments would appropriately reflect the value, nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the remuneration foregone.
Shareholders will be informed of any such arrangements at the time of appointment.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different performance measures may be set for the year of joining the Board for the annual bonus, taking into account the individuals role and responsibilities and the point in the year the executive joined.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
Non-Executive Directors On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual.
Where specific cash or share arrangements are delivered to Non-Executive Directors, these will not include share options or other performance-related elements.
Executive Directors service contracts The current Executive Directors service contracts contain the key terms shown in the table below: Provision Detailed terms Remuneration Salary, pension and benefits.
Company car or cash allowance.
Private health insurance for director and dependents.
Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules.
Participation in LTIP and SIP, subject to plan rules.
1 Notice period 12 months notice by the director or by the Company.
Termination payment See separate disclosure below.
Restrictive covenants During employment and for 12 months after leaving.
Note: 1 The Committee believes that this policy on notice periods provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals who will benefit the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
The Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection, on request, at the Companys registered office.
88 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Remuneration Report Continued Exit payment policy for Executive Directors As explained in last years report, the Companys policies and practices relating to the termination provisions contained in the service contracts of current and future Executive Directors was reviewed and significantly amended during the year ending 31 December 2012.
Executive Directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, at the Companys discretion.
The contracts also allow for phased payments to be made on termination with an obligation on the individual to mitigate loss.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination and the contractual obligations of both parties as well as the relevant share plan and pension scheme rules.
In the event of termination by the Company, an Executive Director would be entitled to receive an amount representing base salary and the value of benefits and pension contributions due under the individuals service contract for the notice period.
Directors are not entitled to participate in any additional redundancy scheme.
On termination of employment, the Committee has discretion as to the amount of bonus payable in respect of the current year.
The bonus paid would reflect the Companys and the individuals performance during that period.
However, any bonus payable on termination would not exceed a pro-rated amount to reflect the period for which the individual had worked in the relevant year.
As a general rule, if an Executive Director ceases employment, all unvested awards granted pursuant to the Companys long-term incentive arrangements will lapse immediately.
However, if such cessation occurs by reason of death, injury, permanent disability or redundancy, or because the individuals employing company or part of the business in which he she is employed is transferred out of the Group, or in any other exceptional circumstances determined by the Committee in each case, a good leaver, those awards will not lapse and will continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance conditions are satisfied.
It is the Remuneration Committees normal policy to time pro-rate any awards held by such a good leaver, although it retains the discretion to refrain from doing so in exceptional circumstances.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of a directors employment, each of the existing Executive Directors is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to his her annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment.
As noted and explained in last years report, the Committee recognises that this provision is no longer in accordance with best practice, and it will not be included in the contracts of future appointees to the Board: however, it continues to apply to the existing Executive Directors.
Executive Director board appointments with other companies The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of Executive Directors accepting positions as non-executive directors of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments involved are not unduly onerous.
The Executive Directors are permitted to retain any fees paid for such appointments.
The appointment of any Executive Director to a non-executive position with another company must be approved by the Nomination Committee.
In the case of a proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only normally be given if the two companies do not compete in the same geographical area.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment None of the Non-Executive Directors nor the Chairman has a service contract but all have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities, the time commitment expected by the Company and the basis on which their fees will be paid.
These letters of appointment can be terminated with immediate effect by either the director concerned or the Company and are subject to the Companys Articles of Association, which provide for the annual election or re-election by shareholders of all of the Companys directors.
There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of appointment.
None of the Non-Executive Directors nor the Chairman participates in any of the Companys share schemes and they are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection, on request, at the Companys registered office.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction This Annual Report on Remuneration provides details of the way in which the Committee operated during the financial year to 31 December 2013 and explains how Cairns remuneration policy applicable to that period was implemented.
It also summarises how the Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 82 to 89 will be applied in 2014.
In accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM on 15 May 2014.
The Companys auditors are required to report to Cairns shareholders on the auditable parts of this Annual Report on Remuneration which have been highlighted as such below and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations and the Companies Act 2006.
Operation of the Remuneration Committee during 2013 Members of the Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors were as follows: Jackie Sheppard Chair of the Committee : Dr James Buckee: Todd Hunt: Iain McLaren: and Ian Tyler joined the Committee on 28 June 2013.
The Non-Executive Directors who served on the Committee had no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in the matters decided, no potential conflicts of interest from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Biographical information on the Committee members is shown on pages 62 and 63 and details of attendance at the Committees meetings during 2013 are shown on page 71.
Internal assistance provided to the Committee The Chief Executive is not a member of the Remuneration Committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and is consulted in respect of certain of its proposals.
Similarly, the Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer is not a member of the Committee but may occasionally be invited to attend parts of its meetings to address specific matters.
Neither the Chief Executive nor the Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer is consulted or involved in any discussions in respect of their own remuneration.
During the year, the Committee also received material assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Groups Reward & Benefits Specialist.
External assistance provided to the Committee As and when the Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from a number of sources.
During the year, it received the following assistance: 1 Adviser Assistance provided to the Committee during 2013 Fees for Committee assistance in 2013 Other services provided to the Company during 2013 2 New Bridge Street Appointed by the Committee to provide 121,451 None periodic advice on various aspects of the directors remuneration packages.
Slaughter and May Appointed by the Committee to provide advice 41,676 None in relation to the Executive Directors service contracts and other matters relating to their remuneration arrangements.
Ernst & Young LLP In their capacity as Group auditors in the N A Audit services in the period period to 12 April 2013, Ernst & Young to 12 April 2013. carried out an independent verification of the Companys achievement against performance conditions applicable to the Companys LTIP and share option schemes.
However, they provided no advice to the Committee.
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP Appointed by the Company to carry out regular 34,700 General legal services to the Group calculations in relation to the LTIP performance throughout the year.
Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Notes: 1 The bases for charging the fees set out in the above table were agreed by the Committee at or around the time the particular services were provided and, in general, reflected the time spent by the adviser in question on the relevant matter.
2 New Bridge Street is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc they are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and their work is governed by the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
3 The Committee reviews the performance and independence of all its advisers on an annual basis.
90 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Remuneration Report Continued Statement of shareholder voting on 2012 Directors Remuneration Report The table below shows the voting outcome at the 16 May 2013 AGM for the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report.
Number of Total number Number of votes 1 Number of votes For & Discretionary % of votes cast votes Against % of votes cast of votes cast Withheld 394,387,230 99.51% 1,942,770 0.49% 396,330,000 26,051,362 Notes: 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law.
99.51% of the votes cast were for the approval of the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report, with 0.49% against.
The Committee welcomed the endorsement of the report shown by the vast majority of shareholders and took steps, wherever practicable, to understand the concerns of investors whose support was withheld.
Single total figure table for 2013 audited The tables below set out the remuneration received by the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors during the year in the following categories.
This package of taxable benefits was unchanged from 2012.
2 Additional disclosures relating to the pension provision for the Executive Directors during 2013 are set out on page 86.
3 This column shows the face value at date of award of matching and free shares provided to the Executive Directors under the SIP during the relevant period.
Further details on the way in which the SIP was operated during 2013 are set out on page 85.
4 This column shows the amount of bonus paid or payable in respect of the year in question.
Further information in relation to the annual bonus for 2013 is provided on page 84.
5 This column shows the value of shares that vested in respect of LTIP awards with performance conditions that ended during the period in question.
Further details of the LTIPs operation during 2013 are provided on page 85.
6 Following the end of the year to 31 December 2013, the Committee considered whether there were any circumstances that could or should result in the recovery or withholding of any sums pursuant to the clawback arrangements contained within the Companys remuneration policy.
The conclusion reached by the Committee was that it was unaware of any such circumstances.
In addition, a further annual fee of 10,000 was payable to both Iain McLaren and M. Jackie Sheppard QC for their roles as chair of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee respectively.
2 The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys long-term incentive arrangements and are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
3 Ian Tyler was appointed a director on 28 June 2013 and his fees for 2013 reflect the period from that date to the year end.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91 Directors Remuneration Report Continued TSR performance graph and further information on Chief Executive pay Introduction The following chart demonstrates the growth in value of a 100 investment in the Company and an investment of the same amount in both the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 100 Index over the last five years.
These comparisons have been chosen on the basis that Cairn was a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index for the whole of 2013 but has also previously been a constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index.
The table beneath the graph illustrates the movements in the total remuneration of the Companys Chief Executive during the same five-year period.
Performance Graph Comparison of five-year cumulative TSR on an investment of 100 300 FTSE 250 250 FTSE 100 200 Cairn Energy 150 100 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Cairn Energy FTSE100 FTSE250 Total remuneration of Chief Executive during the same five-year period Annual variable Long-term incentive element award rates vesting rates for for Chief Executive Chief Executive Total remuneration as % of max.
1 Financial year Chief Executive of Chief Executive opportunity opportunity 2013 Simon Thomson 962,765 63% 0% 2012 Simon Thomson 1,018,570 86% 0% 2011 Simon Thomson 3,405,719 82% 121% 2 2011 Sir Bill Gammell 4,053,822 N A 106% 2010 Sir Bill Gammell 7,302,533 58% 113% 2009 Sir Bill Gammell 962,757 54% 0% Notes: 1 The amounts shown in this column have been calculated using the same methodology prescribed by the Regulations for the purposes of preparing the single total figure table shown on page 91.
2 Sir Bill Gammell stood down as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011 and was replaced by Simon Thomson who had previously been Legal and Commercial Director with effect from that date.
Sir Bill Gammells total remuneration for 2011 shown in the above table reflects the amount of salary, benefits and pension paid to him in respect of the period to 30 June 2011.
However, during the year to 31 December 2011, Sir Bill Gammell also received, in connection with the termination of his employment and in settlement of his contractual entitlements, a payment of salary and benefits in lieu of his contractual notice period of one year 770,000 and a cash bonus under the Companys annual cash bonus scheme 625,000.
Percentage annual change in Chief Executives remuneration elements compared to all Group employees The table below illustrates, for various elements of the Chief Executives 2013 remuneration package, the percentage change from 2012 and compares it to the average percentage change for all the Groups employees in respect of that same period.
% change in % change in % change in 1 base salary taxable benefits annual bonus Chief Executive 6.3% 24% 22% reduction All Group employees 4.4% 38% 16% reduction Note: 1 The increase in the Chief Executives taxable benefits arose as a result of changes made to his company car provision following his appointment.
In the case of the figure for All Group employees, the increase was largely attributable to higher levels of international relocations during the period.
Executive Directors base salaries during 2013 Based on a review carried out in December 2012, the following salary increases for Executive Directors became effective on 1 January 2013: 2013 Salary details Executive Directors % increase with Salary as at Salary as at effect from Executive Director Job title 31 December 2012 1 January 2013 1 January 2013 Simon Thomson Chief Executive 494,000 525,000 6.3% Jann Brown Managing Director & CFO 416,000 427,000 2.6% Dr Mike Watts Deputy Chief Executive 452,000 464,000 2.7% The above increases for Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts were consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase awarded to other employees on 1 January 2013.
As explained in last years Directors Remuneration Report, Simon Thomsons rise in 2013 salary reflected the Committees view of his progress in his new role of Chief Executive.
92 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Remuneration Report Continued Executive Directors pension provision during 2013 audited As highlighted in the Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 82 to 89, the Company operates a defined contribution, non-contributory group personal pension plan which is open to all UK permanent employees.
The Company contributes 10% of basic annual salary 15% in respect of senior executives on behalf of all qualifying employees.
The Company also has a pension committee which meets on a regular basis to assess the performance and suitability of the Companys pension arrangements.
For the majority of the year, Jann Brown was a member of the Company scheme, but subsequently she established her own individual personal pension plan.
The aggregate Company contributions to these arrangements during 2013 amounted to 15% of her annual basic salary.
During the year, Dr Mike Watts received an amount equivalent to 15% of his annual basic salary in the form of additional salary, as his pension arrangements are fully funded.
Simon Thomson has an individual personal pension plan and, during 2013, received a contribution from the Company equal to 15% of his annual basic salary.
Details of the actual amounts of pension contributions additional salary that were paid to the Executive Directors during 2013 are set out in the pension column of the single total figure table on page 91.
Finally, the Company is also the principal employer for a Small Self-Administered Scheme.
Sir Bill Gammell is the sole member of this scheme.
The Company is not contractually obliged to make any contributions into this arrangement on behalf of Sir Bill Gammell and did not do so during the year.
Annual bonus 2013 structure and outcome audited During 2013, Cairn operated annual cash bonus schemes for all employees and Executive Directors.
For all participants, as in prior years, bonus awards were based on individual and Company performance measures.
Individual performance was measured through the Companys performance management system and Company performance conditions were based on annually defined KPIs.
Taking into account commercial sensitivities around disclosure, a summary of the relevant targets and ascribed weightings is set out below.
The maximum level of bonus award for the Executive Directors and certain PDMRs for 2013 was 100% of annual salary as at date of award.
As highlighted below, 90% of each Executive Directors bonus opportunity for 2013 was based on performance against certain Group KPIs, with the remaining 10% dependent on the satisfaction of personal performance objectives.
2013 Annual Cash Bonus Scheme Group KPI performance conditions and achievement levels max.
90% of total bonus Measures and weightings Performance achieved in 2013 Weighting Bonus awarded as % of maximum as % of maximum Performance measures Performance targets opportunity opportunity Summary of achievement Four high impact prospects matured Finding costs efficiency and for drilling in 2014.
E&A drilling was Delivery of exploration and appraisal performance targeted risked resources.
2P reserves booked for Kraken Conversion of 2C resources to 2P development: Catcher still progressing towards sanction at year end.
Resource maturity reserves through developments.
13.5% 6.75% Reduce Group capex exposure Mariner divestment Capital Expenditure in non-core projects.
Retain balance sheet strength Gross controllable office costs Balance Sheet Office Costs and control office costs.
Maintain licence to operate by Good performance against almost achieving targets for several leading all the leading targets: lagging HSE Licence to Operate HSE performance indicators.
Drilling operations and seismic and environmental baseline surveys Delivery of approved 2013 conducted safely and on budget Work Programme work programme.
Totals 90% 54% Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93 Directors Remuneration Report Continued 2013 Annual Cash Bonus Scheme Individual performance conditions and achievement levels max.
10% of total bonus Each Executive Director was given a number of different personal objectives tailored to their role and the needs of the business for the year.
The precise objectives are considered commercially sensitive, but in summary they included the creation and execution of our strategy and its communication to stakeholders, risk management, financial planning, internal controls, people management, health & safety and governance.
The achievements against the above objectives were carefully considered by the Committee following which it awarded each Executive Director between 7.5% and 9% of salary out of a maximum of 10%, as set out below.
2013 Annual Cash Bonus Scheme Actual payments awarded Executive Directors Award as % of salary based on achievement against performance measures relating to: Individual Actual amount of Executive Director Group KPIs performance bonus Simon Thomson 54% 9% 330,750 Jann Brown 54% 8% 264,740 Dr Mike Watts 54% 7.5% 285,360 Notes: 1 The above bonuses were paid in cash to the directors in question shortly after determination by the Remuneration Committee.
No part of the awards was deferred.
2 As explained in the Directors Remuneration Policy, these bonuses may be subject to clawback where, in the period of three years from the end of the 2013 financial year, the Committee becomes aware of a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or an error in the calculation of performance targets.
The Remuneration Committee considered that the above award levels were appropriately reflective of overall performance during the year.
Long-term incentives during 2013 Introduction During the year to 31 December 2013, the Executive Directors participated in the Cairn Energy PLC Long Term Incentive Plan 2009 the LTIP, which was originally approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 19 May 2009.
The LTIP enables selected senior individuals to be granted conditional awards or nil-cost options over ordinary shares, the vesting of which is normally dependent on both continued employment with the Group and the extent to which pre-determined performance conditions are met over a specified period of three years.
In the case of all awards under the LTIP including those granted during 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, the performance conditions involve a comparison of the TSR of the Company over a three-year performance period commencing on the date of grant of the relevant award with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group.
At the end of this period, each company in the comparator group is listed in order of TSR performance to produce a ranking table.
The vesting of awards then takes place as follows: Percentage of ordinary shares comprised in award Ranking of Company against the comparator group that vest Below median 0% Median 20% Upper decile i. e. top 10% 100% 20%100% on a Between median and upper decile straight line basis A list of the companies comprised in the comparator groups applicable to all LTIP awards that were outstanding during 2013 is set out on page 96.
In order to ensure that the LTIP encourages and rewards exceptional performance in terms of delivering increased growth and shareholder value, the performance conditions attaching to awards also provide that, where the TSR of the Company produces a ranking at or above the upper decile level in the appropriate comparator group, a participant will then be given the opportunity to increase the percentage of his her award that vests through the application of a multiplier that is linked to the TSR actually achieved over the performance period.
The way in which this multiplier operates is as follows: Multiplier applied to determine the number of ordinary shares that actually vest TSR of the Company over the performance period 1 50% or less 1.33 100% or more 11.33 on a straight line basis Between 50% and 100% However, notwithstanding the performance of the Company against the above targets, no part of any award will vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period.
In addition, and as noted in the Directors Remuneration Policy, awards granted in 2012 and later years are subject to clawback provisions which may be operated by the Committee where, in the period of three years from the end of the applicable performance period, it becomes aware of either a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or an error in the calculation of performance metrics.
On any vesting of an award under the LTIP, only 50% of the ordinary shares to which the holder has become entitled are released become exercisable immediately, with the remaining 50% normally being released becoming exercisable after a further period of one year.
94 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Remuneration Report Continued LTIP Awards granted during 2013 audited On 20 March 2013, the following awards under the LTIP were granted to Executive Directors: Face value, 000 of.
of shares which award Vesting determined No.
of shares over originally granted shares over which to vest if all Share price at which award that vest at award originally performance by performance 3 4 Executive Director Type of award Basis of award granted date of grant originally granted threshhold granted measures met over 3 times salary Simon Thomson Nil-cost option of 525,000 2.784 565,732 20% 1,575 2,095 3 times salary of 3 years until Jann Brown Nil-cost option 427,000 2.784 460,129 20% 1,281 1,704 19 March 2016 3 times salary of Dr Mike Watts Nil-cost option 464,000 2.784 500,000 20% 1,392 1,851 Notes: 1 Details of the performance conditions applicable to the awards granted in 2013 are provided on page 94.
2 No price is payable by participants for their shares on the exercise of a nil-cost option granted under the LTIP.
3 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares over which the award was originally granted by the share price at date of grant being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant.
4 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares over which the award was originally granted by 133% being the vesting percentage that would apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject see page 94 and multiplying the result by the share price at date of grant being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant.
LTIP Awards vesting during the year audited On 25 March 2013, the three-year performance period applicable to the awards granted under the LTIP on 26 March 2010 to various participants including the Executive Directors came to an end.
Thereafter, the Remuneration Committee assessed the relevant performance conditions.
The results of this assessment can be summarised as follows: % of award subject Performance measure to measure Performance achieved 20102013 % of award vested Relative TSR performance against a comparator group of 18 Cairns TSR over the period ranked below the companies with the opportunity for additional multiplier of 100% median company in the comparator group.
0% up to 1.33 to be applied for upper decile performance.
Notes: 1 Further details of the performance conditions that applied to the above awards are set out on page 94.
2 At various points in the period 26 March 2010 to 25 March 2013, the Committee was required to determine the treatment of those comparator group companies that were the subject of takeover transactions.
No other discretions were exercised by the Remuneration Committee during or after the relevant performance period.
3 The calculations used to inform the Committees determinations in relation to the above awards were independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP.
LTIP Other awards held by the Executive Directors during the year For the sake of completeness, and in order to allow comparisons to be made with the awards granted under the LTIP during 2013, set out below are details of the other entitlements under the Plan that were held by the Executive Directors during the year: Face value, 000 of.
% of shares over which award max.
of shares Vesting determined No.
of shares over originally granted shares over which to vest if all by performance Executive Basis of Share price which award that vest at award originally performance over three years 2 3 4 Director Date of grant Type of award award granted at date of grant originally granted threshhold granted measures met until 3.5 times salary 17 June 2011 Nil-cost option of 375,000 4.033 325,440 20% 1,312 1,746 16 June 2014 Simon Thomson 3 times salary of 14 June 2012 Nil-cost option 494,000 2.887 513,335 20% 1,482 1,971 13 June 2015 3.5 times salary 17 June 2011 Nil-cost option of 375,000 4.033 325,440 20% 1,312 1,746 16 June 2014 Jann Brown 3 times salary of 14 June 2012 Nil-cost option 416,000 2.887 432,282 20% 1,248 1,660 13 June 2015 3.5 times salary 17 June 2011 Nil-cost option of 435,000 4.033 377,510 20% 1,522 2,025 16 June 2014 Dr Mike Watts 3 times salary of 14 June 2012 Nil-cost option 452,000 2.887 469,691 20% 1,356 1,803 13 June 2015 Notes: 1 Further details of the performance conditions that apply to these awards are set out on page 94.
2 The awards shown in the above table were originally made in the form of conditional shares.
However, to provide flexibility to participants, they have been converted into nil-cost options.
3 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant number of shares over which the award was originally granted by the appropriate share price at date of grant being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant.
4 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant number of shares over which the award was originally granted by 133% being the vesting percentage that would apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject see page 94 and multiplying the result by the appropriate share price at date of grant being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Comparator group companies applicable to LTIP awards The table below provides details of the comparator groups applicable to each tranche of awards granted under the LTIP that were outstanding during 2013.
Comparator group applicable to LTIP awards granted on.
Participation of Executive Directors in all-employee share schemes during 2013 Introduction In order to encourage increased levels of long-term share ownership amongst its general employee population, the Company launched an HM Revenue and Customs approved share incentive plan SIP in April 2010.
The SIP provides eligible employees, including the Executive Directors, with the following benefits: Partnership shares employees can authorise deductions of up to 1,500 1,800 with effect from 6 April 2014 per tax year from pre-tax salary, which are then used to acquire ordinary shares on their behalf.
Matching shares the Company can award further free shares to all participants who acquire partnership shares on the basis of up to two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased.
For the tax year 2013 2014, the Company awarded two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased and intends to continue using this award ratio for the tax year 2014 2015.
Free shares employees can be given up to 3,000 3,600 with effect from 6 April 2014 worth of ordinary shares free in each tax year.
On 9 June 2013, an award of free shares was made to employees, including the Executive Directors.
As the SIP is an all-employee arrangement, no performance conditions are imposed in relation to any matching or free shares awarded pursuant to its terms.
96 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Remuneration Report Continued Details of Executive Directors SIP participation in 2013 Details of the shares purchased by and awarded to the Executive Directors under the SIP during the course of the year are as follows: Free shares Partnership shares Matching shares awarded on 9 April awarded on 7 May awarded on 7 May Total SIP shares held Total SIP shares held 2013 at a price of 2013 at a price of 2013 at a price of at 31 December Executive Director at 1 January 2013 2.82 per share 2.845 per share 2.845 per share 2013 Simon Thomson 4,117 1,063 527 1,054 6,761 Jann Brown 4,117 1,063 527 1,054 6,761 Dr Mike Watts 4,117 1,063 527 1,054 6,761 The total number of shares held by each of the current Executive Directors under the SIP is included in their beneficial shareholdings disclosed in the directors report on page 64.
Shareholding guidelines for Directors audited The Committee believes that a significant level of shareholding by the Executive Directors strengthens the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders.
Accordingly, a formal share ownership policy is in place under which the Executive Directors are required to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 100% of base salary.
The policy also provides that, until such a holding is achieved, an Executive Director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Companys share incentive plans.
The following table discloses the beneficial interest of each director in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2013 and, in the case of the Executive Directors, highlights the extent to which the above shareholding guidelines were satisfied as at that date.
Ordinary shares subject to Value of holding outstanding Ordinary shares Total holding of as a % of salary on unvested awards Total interest in 2 3 4 Ordinary shares held in the SIP ordinary shares 1 January 2014 under the LTIP ordinary shares Executive Simon Thomson 380,622 6,761 387,383 195% 1,404,507 1,791,890 Jann Brown 288,789 6,761 295,550 183% 1,217,851 1,513,401 Dr Mike Watts 1,158,171 6,761 1,164,932 665% 1,347,201 2,512,133 Non-Executive Sir Bill Gammell 596,331 596,331 596,331 Todd Hunt 72,012 72,012 72,012 Iain McLaren 7,878 7,878 7,878 Dr James Buckee 37,788 37,788 37,788 Alexander Berger 10,979 10,979 10,979 Jackie Sheppard 0 0 0 Ian Tyler 0 0 0 2,552,570 20,283 2,572,853 3,969,559 6,542,412 Notes: 1 Details of the Companys share ownership policy for Executive Directors are set out above.
2 Under the rules of the SIP, certain shares awarded to participants must be retained in the plan for a specified holding period of up to five years.
The receipt of these shares is not subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
3 Share price used is the average share price over the period of 90 days ending on 1 January 2014.
4 This column shows all unvested and outstanding awards under the LTIP that were held by the Executive Director concerned as at 31 December 2013 i. e. including those granted during the year.
Details of these entitlements, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, are set out on page 94.
Dilution of share capital pursuant to share plans during 2013 In any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with the Companys discretionary share plans cannot exceed 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
In addition, in any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with all of the Companys employee share schemes whether discretionary or otherwise cannot exceed 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
For the purposes of operating both the above limits, the number of shares issued prior to 6 February 2012 in connection with options and awards is adjusted to reflect the share capital consolidation which became effective on that date.
It should also be noted that all shares acquired by or awarded to participants under the SIP are existing ordinary shares purchased in the market.
As a result, the SIP does not involve the issue of new shares or the transfer of treasury shares.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Board appointments with other companies during 2013 Certain of the Companys Executive Directors serve as Non-Executive Directors on the boards of other companies and are permitted to retain any associated fees.
Details of the positions held during 2013 and the fees that were payable are as follows: Executive Director Position held Fees 2013 Simon Thomson Non-Executive Director, Grahams The Family Dairy Limited 30,417 Dr Mike Watts Non-Executive Director, SOCO International plc 45,000 Jann Brown Non-Executive Director, Troy Income & Growth Trust plc 17,162 Relative importance of spend on pay Set out below are details of the amounts of, and percentage change in, remuneration paid to or receivable by all Group employees and distributions to shareholders in the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2013.
Financial Financial Year 2012 Year 2013 % change Employee costs $m $40.5 $41.5 2.5% 1 Distributions $m $3,575.8 $36.6 99% reduction Notes: 1 For the purposes of the above table, Distributions include amounts distributed to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback.
The figure for 2012 represents the return of cash that took place in February of that year whereas the 2013 amount is comprised of share-buybacks that took place throughout the period.
2 Employee costs exclude employers tax and social security costs and share-based payments.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 The following table provides details of how the Company intends to implement the key elements of the Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 82 to 89 during the year to 31 December 2014.
Remuneration element Implementation during 2014 Base salary Each of the Executive Directors received a 2.5% increase in base salary on 1 January 2014 this was in line with the standard annual increase awarded to other employees on that date.
After applying this increase, details of the base salaries payable to each of the current Executive Directors for the year to 31 December 2014 are as follows: Simon Thomson, Chief Executive 538,125: Jann Brown, Managing Director & CFO 437,675: and Dr Mike Watts, Deputy Chief Executive 475,600.
Benefits Executive Directors will continue to receive the same benefits as in 2013.
Annual bonus In accordance with the requirements of the policy, Executive Directors will be eligible to receive a bonus of up to 100% of base salary depending on the extent to which specified measures are satisfied over the year.
All of the Chief Executives 2014 bonus opportunity will be based on the demanding Group KPIs described below with details of the weighting specified in brackets : exploration and new ventures 45% : active portfolio optimisation 15% : retain balance sheet strength 5% : maintain licence to operate 15% : and operational excellence 20%.
In the case of the Deputy Chief Executive and of the Managing Director & CFO, 90% of their 2014 bonus opportunity will be based on the same Group KPIs and weightings set out above.
The remaining 10% will be determined by reference to the achievement of personal objectives.
The specific targets to be used for the purposes of the 2014 bonus scheme are commercially sensitive and have not, therefore, been set out in detail above.
However, appropriate disclosures in relation to the 2014 bonus scheme will be included in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Long Term Incentive Plan It is intended that, during 2014, the Executive Directors will be granted LTIP awards over shares worth 300% of salary being the same level as was awarded in 2013.
The performance conditions that will determine the vesting of these grants will be unchanged from those that applied to last years awards full details of which are set out on page 94 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Share Incentive Plan Executive Directors will be given the opportunity to participate in the SIP on the same terms as apply to all other eligible employees in the arrangement.
Pension The Company will continue to contribute 15% of basic salary on behalf of Executive Directors or pay them an equivalent amount of additional salary.
Non-Executive Directors fees The annual Non-Executive Director fee for 2014 has been increased from 72,000 to 73,800.
The additional annual fee for chairing the Audit and or Remuneration Committees is unchanged at 10,000.
Chairmans fees At the start of 2014, the annual Chairmans fee for the year was set at 241,900 compared to 236,000 for 2013.
However, this fee was subsequently reassessed in light of the succession of Ian Tyler to the role and will be 160,000 per annum, commencing at the end of the 2014 AGM.
By Order of the Board M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Chair of the Remuneration Committee 17 March 2014 98 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
