Directors Remuneration Report This report is on the activities of the Remuneration Committee for the year ended 30 September 2013 and sets out the remuneration policy and remuneration details for the executive and non-executive directors of the Company.
It has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2008, as amended in August 2013, and the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This is the first time that the Company has reported under these new regulations, and we would welcome any feedback on the format and content of this report in order to assist us in determining what, if any, revisions should be made to it in future years.
The report is split into three main areas: the Statement by the Chairman of the Committee B3.1, the Policy Report B3.2 and the Annual Report on Remuneration B3.3.
The Policy Report will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 February 2014 and the policy will take effect on approval.
The Annual Report on Remuneration provides details on remuneration in the period and some other information required by the Regulations.
It will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the shareholders on certain parts of the report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
The parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration that are subject to audit are indicated in that report.
The Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Policy Report are not subject to audit.
B3.1 Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The information provided in this part of the Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Dear Shareholder The philosophy underpinning the Groups remuneration policy seeks to produce an outcome which is fair and appropriate to the Company, its shareholders and its senior executives.
Company performance is central, with the focus being on short and long term qualitative and quantitative objectives.
The Group has made excellent progress against the objectives set at the beginning of the financial year: Operating pro t has increased by 10.4% to 105.4 million, 359.8 million of first mortgage loans were advanced, whilst maintaining high credit standards, 92.8 million was invested in loan portfolios, two securitisations were completed on improving terms, warehouse funding facilities were increased and extended, and the Groups preparations to recommence consumer lending, which is likely to be through a bank subsidiary, were signi cantly progressed.
The Committee has re ected this performance in applying the remuneration policy.
Performance bonuses of 85.0% of maximum for Mr N S Terrington and Mr N Keen, 76.0% of maximum for Mr J A Heron and 92.5% of maximum for Mr R J Woodman have been awarded.
In reaching this determination, the Committee has reviewed performance against a number of financial and risk based targets, taking into account individual performance.
Long term incentives LTIs which were granted in January 2010 matured in January 2013.
These awards were subject to a Total Shareholder Return TSR performance condition, measured against the FTSE-250 Index over the three year period from the date of grant.
The Companys performance over the period ranked in the upper quartile and therefore the awards vested in full.
It is the judgement of the Committee that these rewards to executives are a fair re ection of performance over the period.
During the year the Committee considered all aspects of its policy on executive director remuneration.
This concluded that, following the alterations reported last year to the performance metrics used for awards of LTIs, the current policy remained appropriate and would apply during the year and in future years.
As a result of these alterations awards granted have a reduced weighting on relative TSR, whilst an Earnings Per Share EPS performance condition has been introduced.
Otherwise, there have been no further changes to remuneration policy and none are currently proposed.
The other key decisions made by the Committee during the year are as follows: Salaries for 2014 have been increased by 2%, broadly in line with increases to other employees.
The previous Performance Share Plan expired in 2013 and a replacement plan was approved at the Annual General Meeting held on 7 February 2013, with awards of performance shares being granted under the replacement plan during the year.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 38 B Corporate governance
