1 Application of policy The information provided in this part of the Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to audit Consideration by directors of matters relating to directors remuneration Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee consisted of Alan Fletcher who chaired the Committee, Fiona Clutterbuck, Peter Hartill and Edward Tilly, all of whom were independent non-executive directors, and the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
None of the non-executive directors who sit on the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as a shareholder, con ict of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Chairman of the Company does not participate in discussions on his own remuneration.
The Committee determines the Companys policy on executive remuneration and speci c compensation packages for each of the executive directors and the Chairman.
No director contributes to any discussion about his own remuneration.
The Committee also reviews the level and structure of remuneration of senior management.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary.
In determining the directors remuneration for the year, the Committee consulted Mr N S Terrington Chief Executive about its proposals.
The Committee has appointed New Bridge Street NBS, a brand of AON plc, as its independent advisor on remuneration matters and retained their services throughout the year.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up to its Code of Conduct.
NBS also advised the Company on various sundry remuneration matters during the year, which did not con ict with its advice to the Committee.
In evaluating the independence of NBS the Committee considered the following: other services provided to the Company and the fees paid by it to the advisors wider group, Aon Hewitt: fees paid to NBS as a percentage of their wider groups total revenues in the year: the policy of NBS to prevent con icts of interest: whether there were any relationships between NBS and any member of the Committee: whether there were any shares in the Company owned by the NBS or their wider group: and any business or personal relationships between the NBS or their wider group and any senior executive of the Company.
Aon Hewitt provided administration services to the corporate Trustee of the Group Retirement Bene ts Plan during the year but given the independence of the Trustee this is not considered to be advice to the Board.
NBS have written to the Committee Chairman to con rm their position on these matters.
Its total fees for the year ended 30 September 2013 were 109,000 2012: 98,000, which were charged on the basis of the work carried out by them.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 51 B Corporate governance
