The Company has made arrangements for investors Statement of Compliance through the Alliance Savings Scheme to receive all The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board Company communications and have the ability to direct consider for the year under review the Directors, Board the casting of their votes.
The Company has also made and Company has complied with the recommendations arrangements with its registrar for shareholders, who of the AIC Code in so far as they apply to the Companys own their shares direct rather than through a nominee or business and with the relevant provisions of the UK share scheme, to view their account over the Internet at Code except as noted below: www.
Other services are also available via this service.
as all Directors are non-executive and day to day management has been contracted to third parties the The Board monitors the share register of the Company: it Company does not have a separate role for a Chief also reviews correspondence from shareholders at each Executive from that of Chairman of the Board: meeting and maintains regular contact with major shareholders.
Shareholders who wish to raise matters as there are no executive Directors it does not comply with a Director may do so by writing to them at the with the UK Code in respect of executive directors registered office of the Company.
remuneration: and Corporate Responsibility and voting the Company does not have an internal audit function Socially responsible investing and exercise as it relies on the systems of control operated by of voting powers third party suppliers in particular those of the The Board has instructed the Investment Manager to take Investment Manager.
The Board monitors into account the published corporate governance policy these systems of internal control to provide and the environmental practices and policies of the assurance that they operate as intended.
companies in which they invest on behalf of the Company.
The Company has delegated responsibility for voting to the Investment Manager.
By order of the Board In the year under review, the Manager has voted at N P Taylor FCIS 134 Company meetings in each case following the Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited recommendations of the management of that company Company Secretary on the casting of votes.
15 July 2013 The Board has considered the Investment Managers Stewardship Code and Proxy Voting Policy and the Investment Manager reports to the Board, on the application of the Stewardship Code and Voting Policy.
The Investment Managers Stewardship Code and Voting Policy can be found on the Investment Mangers website in the corporate information section.
Environment The Companys core activities are undertaken by its Investment Manager which seeks to limit the use of non-renewable resources and reducing waste where possible.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 63 Directors Report 3 Directors Remuneration Report As the Company is an investment trust and all the Introduction Directors are non-executive, it is considered This report is submitted in accordance with section inappropriate to have any long-term incentive schemes 420422 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules and the fees are not specifically related to the Directors of the Financial Conduct Authority in respect of the year performance, either individually or collectively.
It has been audited where indicated as such.
An ordinary resolution to approve the report will Remuneration Arrangements be put to the AGM on 2 September 2013.
In the year under review the Directors fees were paid at the following annual rates, the Chairman 35,000 2012: Consideration of Matters Relating to 35,000 : other Directors 23,000 2012: 23,000.
Directors Remuneration The Remuneration Committee sits under the Brian Ashford-Russell waived his fee for 2012 2013 and chairmanship of Peter Dicks as the Senior Independent has indicated that he will do so for the forthcoming year.
Director with two independent Directors, Sarah Bates and Rupert Montagu.
The Committee considers and makes The Report from BoardAlpha Limited considered the recommendations on the remuneration of the Directors.
market rate for fees paid to investment trust directors, The Company has no employees other than the nonand other matters such as the peer group, size of assets, executive Directors.
frequency of meetings and time required for the fulfilment of the directors duties.
Statement of the Companys Policy BoardAlpha Limited made a number of observations on Directors Remuneration on the current level of the fees which were discussed The Board consists entirely of non-executive Directors, by the Committee at their meeting on 20 April 2013. who meet regularly throughout the year to deal with the Companys affairs.
The total fees payable The Committee decided not to implement the recommended to all the Directors is limited by the Articles of increases in full and made the following changes with Association to 200,000 per annum.
The Company effect from 1 May 2013: has no other employees.
Directors fees to increase from 23,000 to 25,000: The principles of the Companys remuneration policy have been, and will continue to be for the forthcoming financial the fees paid to the Chairman of the Board to increase year, that fees payable to Directors should: from 35,000 to 38,000: reflect the time spent by them individually no change to the supplement paid to the Chairman and collectively as part of the Board on the of the Audit Committee for additional responsibilities Companys affairs: of 3,000pa: and be of a level appropriate to the responsibilities borne no change to the supplement paid to the Senior by the Directors: and Independent Director of 3,000 for the additional responsibilities.
be in line with market practice and sufficient to enable candidates of high calibre to be recruited and retained.
The policy also recognises: that the form of remuneration be in cash, payable monthly in arrears, to the Director personally or to a third party specified: and the rates are reviewed annually: such review will not necessarily result in any change to the rates.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 64 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 Performance Audited A five year performance comparison is required to be presented in this report.
The Dow Jones World Technology Index is shown because, as a market capitalisation weighted index based on the entire global technology sector, it is the most appropriate single market index.
225 Dow Jones World Technology Index 200 PCTT Ordinary Share Price 175 150 125 100 75 50 April 2008 April 2009 April 2010 April 2011 April 2012 April 2013 Service Contracts Remuneration Audited None of the Directors has a contract of service or a The fees payable in respect of each of the Directors, who contract for services and a Director may resign by giving served during the year, and during 2012, were as follows: one months notice in writing to the Board at any time.
Year ended Year ended In accordance with recommended practice, each 30 April 2013 30 April 2012 Director has received a letter setting out the terms of his appointment.
Michael Moule 35,000 32,750 New Directors are appointed and elected or re-elected Sarah Bates 23,000 19,167 with the expectation that they will serve for a period of # Brian Ashford-Russell at least three years.
Each Directors appointment is Peter Dicks Senior reviewed formally each time a Director retires by rotation Independent Director 26,000 26,000 under the Articles of Association.
David Gamble Chairman of the Audit Committee 26,000 24,500 Directors and officers liability insurance cover is held by the Company in respect of the Directors.
The Company Peter Hames 23,000 19,167 has, as permitted by the Articles of Association, entered Rupert Montagu 23,000 23,000 into a Deed of Indemnity with and in favour of each Richard Wakeling 9,506 Director, indemnifying the Directors in respect of costs TOTAL 156,000 154,090 and liabilities which they may incur in connection with proceedings against them arising out of their position as a The Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of Director excluding criminal or regulatory penalties.
The the Audit Committee each receive a payment of 3,000pa indemnities granted to the Directors are subject to certain to cover their additional duties and responsibilities.
exclusions and limitations, including that such indemnities shall not apply to the extent prohibited by law.
No pension contributions or other remuneration or Directors legal costs may in certain circumstances be compensation was paid or payable by the Company funded up-front, provided that such costs are reimbursed during the year to any of the current or former Directors.
to the Company where required, including if the individual is convicted or, in an action brought by the Company, Approved by the Board on 15 July 2013 judgment is given against him.
These provisions were in force during the year and remain in force.
By order of the Board N P Taylor FCIS Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 65
