94 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy This remuneration policy will apply following the AGM on 15 May 2014 subject to shareholder approval.
Total remuneration for our executive directors is made up of a number of elements.
The purpose of each element is set out below: Component Purpose Fixed pay Base salary Paying salaries at a competitive level enables the Company to recruit and retain key executives.
Benefits The benefits provided to executives are items and allowances that assist them in carrying out their duties efficiently.
Expatriate and relocation benefits allow Prudential to attract high calibre executives in the international talent market and deploy them appropriately within the Group.
Provision for an income in retirement Pension benefits provide executives with opportunities to save for an income in retirement.
Variable pay Annual cash bonus Payments under the Annual Incentive Plan AIP incentivise the delivery of stretching financial and personal objectives which are drawn from the annual business plan.
Annual deferred bonus The Company mandates that a proportion of each executive directors annual bonus is not paid in cash and must be deferred.
The deferred bonus is subject to malus provisions designed to ensure that performance is sustained.
Deferral into shares aligns the interests of our executive directors with our shareholders and helps to ensure a focus on the longer-term sustainable success of the Company.
Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan PLTIP The Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan is designed to incentivise the delivery of: Longerterm business plans: sustainable long-term returns for shareholders: and adherence to the Groups risk appetite.
Awards are made in Prudential shares, aligning the experience of executives and shareholders.
M&G Executive LTIP The M&G Executive LTIP is designed to incentivise the delivery of: Longer-term sustainable growth: and adherence to the Groups and M&Gs risk appetite.
Legacy long-term Group Performance Share Plan GPSP The GPSP was designed to incentivise the achievement incentives of sustainable long-term returns for shareholders.
Awards were made in Prudential shares, aligning the absolute shareholder experience of executives and shareholders.
Business Unit Performance Plan BUPP The BUPP was designed to incentivise the delivery of business unit performance for executives who have regional responsibilities.
These directors received awards under both the GPSP and the BUPP to ensure a dual focus on business unit and Group performance.
Awards were made in Prudential shares aligning the absolute shareholder experience of executives and shareholders.
Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 95 Fixed pay policy for executive directors Component Operation Opportunity Base salary Prudentials policy is to offer all executive directors base salaries Annual salary increases for executive which are competitive within their local market.
directors will normally be in line with the increases for other employees across our The Committee reviews salaries annually with changes effective business units.
However, there is no from 1 January.
In determining base salaries for each executive, prescribed maximum annual increase.
the Committee considers factors such as: Salary increases for all employees: The performance and experience of the executive: Group or business unit financial performance: and Internal relativities.
Additionally, economic factors such as inflation are considered.
Having taken a view on the appropriate levels of increase based on these criteria, market data is reviewed with the intention that any resultant salary remains within a competitive range.
As the Company has executive directors based in multiple geographies, and within insurance and asset management businesses, the Remuneration Committee reviews data from a number of different markets which it believes to be the most relevant benchmarks.
The benchmarks used are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
Salaries are typically paid in the local currency of the country where the executive is based.
This means that the reported salary in the single figure table may fluctuate due to currency movements.
The Committee may also determine that the salary of an executive is set in an alternative currency for example US dollars.
Benefits Prudentials policy is for the Committee to have the discretion The maximum paid will be the cost to the to offer executive directors benefits which reflect their company of providing these benefits.
The individual circumstances and are competitive within their local cost of these benefits may vary from year market, including: to year but the Committee is mindful of achieving the best value from providers.
Health and wellness benefits: Protection and security benefits: Transport benefits: Family and education benefits: All employee share plans and savings plans: and Relocation and expatriate benefits.
Provision for Prudentials policy is to offer all executive directors a pension Executive directors are entitled to receive an income in provision which is competitive within their local market.
pension contributions or a cash supplement retirement or combination of the two up to a total The pension provision for executive directors depends on the of 25 per cent of base salary or, retain arrangements in place for other employees in their business unit membership of a defined benefit scheme.
when they joined the Group.
In addition, the Chief Executive, PCA Those executives who joined the Group before June 2003 were receives statutory contributions into the entitled to join the defined benefit plans available at that time.
At the end of 2013, no executive director was an active member of a Group defined benefit scheme.
Executives who are not an active member of a defined benefit scheme have the option to: Receive payments into a defined contribution scheme: or Take a cash supplement in lieu of contributions.
Jacksons Defined Contribution Retirement Plan has a guaranteed element 6 per cent of pensionable salary and additional contributions up to a further 6 per cent of pensionable salary based on the profitability of JNL.
96 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Annual bonus policy for executive directors Annual bonus Operation Currently all executive directors participate in the Annual Incentive Plan AIP.
The AIP awards for all executive directors are subject to the achievement of financial and personal objectives.
Business unit chief executives either have measures of their business units financial performance in the AIP or they may participate in a business unit specific bonus plan.
For example, the President and CEO, JNL currently participates in the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool, as well as in the AIP.
Determining No bonus is payable under the AIP for performance at or below the threshold level, increasing to 100 per cent annual bonus for achieving or exceeding the maximum level.
payments The Committee determines the annual incentive payment for each executive director with reference to the performance achieved against performance ranges.
The Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool is calculated based on JNLs financial performance and distributed to Jacksons leadership team.
In assessing performance, the Committee will take into account the personal performance of the director and the Group and or business units adherence to the risk appetite and framework, as well as other relevant factors.
To assist them in their assessment the Committee considers a report from the Group Chief Risk Officer on adherence to the Groups risk appetite and framework.
Unusual See page 104 for details of the Committees powers in respect of AIP participants joining or leaving the Group.
circumstances Opportunity The Chief Executive, M&G has a bonus opportunity of 0.75 per cent of M&Gs IFRS profit, capped at six times salary.
For other executive directors the maximum AIP opportunity is up to 200 per cent of salary.
Annual awards are disclosed in the relevant annual report on remuneration.
In addition to the AIP, the President & CEO, JNL receives a 10 per cent share of the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool.
Performance The Committee has the discretion to determine the specific performance conditions attached to each AIP cycle measures and to set annual targets for these measures with reference to the business plans approved by the Board.
The financial measures used for the AIP will typically include profit, cash and capital adequacy.
For the measures used in 2013 and 2014, please refer to our annual report on remuneration.
Jacksons profitability and other key financial measures determine the value of the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool.
The current weighting of the performance measures are: Financial Personal 1 Group Investment Director 50% 50% Chief Executive, UK & Europe 80% 20% Chief Executive, M&G 80% 20% Chief Financial Officer 80% 20% Chief Executive, PCA 80% 20% Group Chief Executive 80% 20% 2 President & CEO, JNL 80% 20% Notes 1 The Group Investment Director is responsible for oversight of Prudentials investment activities, with particular emphasis on ensuring alignment to the Groups risk appetite.
The weighting of his bonus objectives reflect this role.
2 The President & CEO, JNL also participates in the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool.
The whole of the pool is determined by financial performance.
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust and or set different performance measures if events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing market conditions which cause the Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose.
Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 97 Annual bonus policy for executive directors continued Deferred bonus shares Operation All executive directors are required to defer a percentage of their total annual bonus into Prudential shares.
Currently all directors defer 40 per cent of bonus for three years.
Determining the When awards are released they are increased to reflect the number of shares which could have been purchased release of the with the dividends paid on the released shares, during the deferral period.
award The Committee has the authority to apply a malus adjustment to all, or a portion of, an outstanding deferred award.
This power could be invoked in specific circumstances, for example, if a business decision taken during the performance period led to a material breach of a law or regulation, or if there is a material adverse restatement of the accounts for that period.
Unusual In the event of a corporate transaction eg takeover, merger, winding up, rights issue etc, the Remuneration circumstances Committee will determine whether awards will: including change Vest in part or in full: and or of control Continue in accordance with the rules of the Plan: and or Lapse and, in exchange, the Participant will be granted an award under any other share or cash incentive plan which the Remuneration Committee considers to be broadly equivalent to the award.
See page 104 for details of the Committees powers in respect of AIP participants joining or leaving the Group.
Opportunity The maximum vesting under this arrangement is 100 per cent of the original deferral, plus accrued dividend shares.
Performance The level of the initial deferred bonus awards are determined by the value of the bonus in respect of performance measures in the previous year as described in the table above.
The release of awards is not subject to any further performance conditions.
98 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Long-term incentive policy for executive directors Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan PLTIP Operation Prudentials policy is that executive directors receive long-term incentive awards with full vesting only achieved if the Company meets stretching performance targets.
The Rules of the PLTIP were approved by shareholders in 2013.
The Committee will operate this Plan in line with these Rules.
Granting awards The PLTIP is a conditional share plan: the shares which are awarded will ordinarily be released to directors after three years to the extent that performance conditions have been met.
If performance conditions are not achieved in full, the unvested portion of any award lapses and performance cannot be retested.
The levels of award made under the PLTIP in 2014 as a percentage of salary are: Group Investment Director 250% CEO, UK 225% CEO, M&G 150% Chief Financial Officer 250% CEO, PCA 225% Group Chief Executive 400% CEO, JNL 460% The PLTIP has a three-year performance period although the Committee has the discretion to apply shorter or longer performance periods when the PLTIP is used for buy-out awards on recruitment.
Determining The Committee has the authority to apply a malus adjustment to all, or a portion of, an outstanding PLTIP award.
the release of This power could be invoked, for example, if a business decision taken during the performance period led to a the award material breach of a law or regulation, or if there is a material adverse restatement of the accounts for that period.
The Committee also has the discretion to postpone the vesting date of the award.
When awards are released they are increased to reflect the number of shares which could have been purchased with the dividends paid on the released shares, between the awards being granted and released.
However, the Committee has the discretion to determine that the number of dividend shares should be reduced or forfeited.
Unusual In the case of a corporate transaction eg takeover, merger, winding up, rights issue etc the Committee may circumstances determine that awards will be exchanged for replacement awards either in cash or shares of equal value or be including change released.
Where awards are released the Remuneration Committee will have regard to the performance of the of control Company, the time elapsed between the date of grant and the relevant event and any other matter which the Remuneration Committee considers relevant or appropriate.
The Committee may make amendments to the Rules of the Plan which are minor and to benefit the administration of the Plan, which take account of any changes in legislation, and or which obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment.
No amendments may be made to the advantage of participants without prior shareholder approval.
See page 104 for details of the Committees powers in respect of PLTIP participants joining or leaving the Group.
Opportunity The value of shares awarded under the PLTIP in any given financial year may not exceed 550 per cent of the executives annual basic salary.
Awards made in a particular year are usually significantly below this limit.
The levels of award in 2014 are shown above.
The Committee do not envisage increasing these over the life of the policy and would consult with major shareholders before doing so.
In addition, these would be disclosed in the relevant annual report on remuneration and be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
The maximum vesting under the PLTIP is 100 per cent of the original share award plus accrued dividend shares.
Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 99 Long-term incentive policy for executive directors continued Performance The performance conditions attached to PLTIP awards are: measures Relative TSR 50 per cent of award : and Group IFRS profit 50 per cent of award : or Business unit IFRS profit 50 per cent of award.
The performance conditions attached to each award is dependent on the role of the executive and will be disclosed in the relevant annual report on remuneration.
The awards made under the PLTIP to the Chief Executive, M&G are subject only to the TSR performance condition as the IFRS profit of M&G is a performance condition under the M&G Executive LTIP.
Relative TSR Relative TSR is measured over three years.
25 per cent of this portion of each award will vest for achieving the threshold level of median increasing to full vesting for meeting the stretch level of upper quartile.
TSR is measured against a peer group of international insurers currently 18 which are similar to Prudential in size, geographic footprint and products.
The peer group for each award is disclosed in the relevant annual report on remuneration.
IFRS profit Three year cumulative IFRS operating profit is assessed at Group or business unit level.
Threshold and maximum achievement levels will be set at the beginning of the performance periods in line with the three year business plan.
25 per cent of this portion of the award will vest for achieving threshold performance increasing to full vesting for meeting stretch targets.
The target for Group IFRS operating profit will be disclosed when the performance period ends.
Committee For any award made under the PLTIP to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the quality of the Companys discretions underlying financial performance justifies the level of reward delivered at the end of the performance period.
For current awards The Committee may revise the peer group used to measure relative TSR to reflect events such as mergers, demergers, listings and delistings.
As set out in the Rules of the PLTIP, which were approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM, the Committee has the discretion to amend the performance conditions attached to an award if circumstances relevant to the performance condition have changed, and the Committee is satisfied that the amended measure will be a fairer measure of performance and no more or less demanding than the original condition.
The Committee will consult with major shareholders before revising performance conditions on outstanding awards under the PLTIP.
In addition, these would be disclosed in the relevant annual report on remuneration and would be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
For future For new awards, organisations may be included in the peer group if their size, geographic footprint and products awards become similar to those of the Company.
Organisations which no longer meet such criteria may be excluded from the peer group.
The Committee retains the ability to adjust and or set different performance measures or the weighting of performance conditions which apply to future long-term incentive awards if events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing market conditions which cause the Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose.
The Committee will consult with major shareholders before revising performance conditions on future awards under the PLTIP.
100 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Long-term incentive policy for executive directors continued M&G Executive LTIP Operation The Chief Executive, M&G currently receives awards under the M&G Executive LTIP.
Under this plan an annual Granting awards award of phantom shares is made with a notional starting share price of 1.
The phantom share price at vesting is determined by the performance of M&G over the three year performance period.
Determining the Awards are settled in cash.
release of the The Committee has the authority to apply a malus adjustment to all, or a portion of, an outstanding M&G award Executive LTIP award.
This power could be invoked, for example, if a business decision taken during the performance period led to a material breach of a law or regulation, or if there is a material adverse restatement of the accounts for that period.
Unusual In the event of a change of control, the Committee may determine that the award will vest immediately or continue circumstances until the original vest date.
including change See page 104 for details of the Committees powers in respect of M&G Executive LTIP participants joining or of control leaving the Group.
Opportunity The Chief Executive, M&G receives an award with an initial value of 300 per cent of salary under the M&G Executive LTIP.
The maximum vesting under the M&G Executive LTIP is 100 per cent of the number of phantom shares originally awarded.
Performance The phantom share price at vesting is currently determined by the increase or decrease in M&Gs profitability measures with profit and investment performance adjustments also applied.
Where the investment performance of M&Gs funds is in the top two quartiles during the three-year performance period, the value of phantom shares vesting will be enhanced.
The value of phantom shares may be doubled if performance is in the top quartile.
Investment performance in the bottom quartile will result in awards being forfeited, irrespective of any profit growth.
If profits in the third year of the performance period are less than the average annual profit generated over the performance period the award will be reduced, potentially down to zero.
Share ownership guidelines for executive directors Operation The share ownership guidelines for the executive directors were increased as part of the review of remuneration architecture approved by shareholders in 2013.
The revised guidelines, effective from 1 January 2013, are: 350 per cent of salary for the Group Chief Executive: and 200 per cent of salary for other executive directors.
Executives have five years from the implementation of this policy or the date of their appointment, if later to build this level of ownership.
Shares earned and deferred under the Annual Incentive Plan are included in calculating the executive directors shareholding for these purposes.
Unvested share awards under long-term incentive plans are not included.
Progress against the share ownership guidelines is detailed in the Statement of directors shareholdings section of the annual report on remuneration.
Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 101 Variable pay policy for executive directors legacy plans Group Performance Share Plan GPSP and Business Unit Performance Plan BUPP Operation Prior to the approval of the PLTIP, the Group Performance Share Plan and the Business Unit Performance Plan were the principal long-term incentive plans operated for executive directors.
All executive directors were eligible to participate in the GPSP.
The Chief Executive, UK & Europe, Chief Executive, PCA and President & CEO, JNL also received awards under the Business Unit Performance Plan.
The GPSP and BUPP are conditional share plans: the shares which were awarded will be released to directors to the extent that performance conditions have been met, over the three-year performance period.
Determining the The Committee has the discretion to reduce the proportion of an award that will vest or determine that an award release of the will be forfeited or to postpone the vesting date of the award to allow the Committee to consider whether any award part of the award should vest.
When awards are released they are increased to reflect the number of shares which could have been purchased with the dividends paid on the released shares, during the performance period.
Unusual If an award vests early as a result of a corporate transaction eg takeover, merger, winding up, rights issue etc circumstances awards may be exchanged for replacement award either in cash or shares of equal value or released.
Where including the awards are released, the Remuneration Committee will have regard to the performance of the Company, change of the time elapsed between the date of grant and the relevant event and any other matter which the Remuneration control Committee considers relevant or appropriate.
See page 104 for details of the Committees powers in respect of GPSP and BUPP participants joining or leaving the Group.
Opportunity The maximum award which could be made to a participant under the GPSP and BUPP in total in any year was 550 per cent of salary.
The maximum vesting under the GPSP and BUPP is 100 per cent of the original award, plus accrued dividends.
Performance GPSP awards normally vest on the basis of the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
TSR measures is the combination of the share price growth and the dividends paid.
Awards made prior to 2013 are subject GPSP to Prudentials TSR achievement over the performance period compared with the TSR of an index composed of international insurers.
For threshold performance of meeting the index, 25 per cent of the award vests.
This increases on a straight-line basis to 75 per cent vesting for performance of 110 per cent of the index and full vesting for 120 per cent of the index.
The same performance condition also applies to the UK BUPP.
The peer group for outstanding awards is disclosed in the relevant annual report on remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee may revise this peer group to reflect events such as mergers, demergers and delistings.
Some awards were granted using alternative performance conditions, eg UK IFRS operating profit and TSR on a ranked basis where the Committee considered it appropriate.
Asia BUPP Asia BUPP awards are dependent on the achievement of PCAs new business profit, IFRS profit and cash remittance measured over a cumulative three-year period.
Each of these measures will determine vesting of one third of each award.
Threshold performance results in 30 per cent of the award vesting increasing to 100 per cent for stretch performance.
Jackson BUPP Vesting of awards made under the Jackson BUPP are dependent on Shareholder Capital Value SCV growth over the performance period.
At threshold performance of 8 per cent compound annual growth in SCV, 30 per cent of the award vests.
This increases on a straight-line basis to 75 per cent vesting for 10 per cent growth, and full vesting for 12 per cent compound annual growth in SCV.
Committee In addition, for any award made under the GPSP or the BUPP to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the discretions quality of the Companys underlying financial performance justifies the level of reward delivered at the end of the performance period.
If performance measures are not achieved in full, the unvested portion of any award lapses and performance cannot be retested.
As set out in the rules of the GPSP and BUPP, the Committee has the discretion to amend the performance conditions attached to an award if circumstances relevant to the performance condition have changed and the Committee is satisfied that the amended measure will be a fairer measure of performance and no more or less demanding than the original condition.
102 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Notes to the remuneration policy table for executive directors Determining the performance measures The Committee selected the performance measures which currently apply to variable pay plans on the following basis: AIP The performance measures are selected to incentivise the delivery of the Groups business plan, specifically to ensure that financial objectives are delivered while maintaining adequate levels of capital.
Executives are also rewarded for the achievement of personal objectives.
These personal objectives include the executives contribution to Group strategy as a member of the Board and specific goals related to their functional and or business unit role.
PLTIP Awards made under the PLTIP are currently subject to the achievement of IFRS profit targets and relative TSR.
IFRS profit was selected as a performance measure because it is central to the management of the business and a key driver of shareholder value.
Relative TSR was selected as a performance measure because it focuses on the value delivered to shareholders aligning the long-term interests of shareholders with those of executives.
There is one exception: awards made under the PLTIP to the CEO, M&G are subject only to the TSR performance condition.
His annual awards under the M&G Executive LTIP see below are subject to an IFRS profit target, thereby ensuring that he has the same combination of performance targets as other executives.
M&G Executive LTIP The performance measures under the M&G Executive LTIP are currently M&Gs IFRS operating profit and investment performance.
IFRS profit was selected as a performance measure as it is central to the management of the business and a key driver of shareholder value.
Investment performance was selected as a performance measure as it is the principal measure of the relative return which M&G provides to its investors and is crucial in ensuring the long-term success of M&G.
GPSP The performance measure under the GPSP is relative TSR.
Asia BUPP The performance measures under the PCA BUPP are PCA IFRS operating profit, PCA new business profit and PCA cash remittances.
These measures were selected as performance measures because they reflected the growth and cash strategy of PCA.
Jackson BUPP The performance measure under the Jackson BUPP is shareholder capital value growth.
This was selected as a performance measure because it is an estimation of the shareholder value created by the Jackson business over the performance period.
UK BUPP The performance measure under the UK BUPP is relative TSR.
Relative TSR was selected as a performance measures for the UK BUPP because this aligned the UK business with the Group performance measure in order to reflect the cash generative priorities of the UK business.
Setting the performance ranges Where variable pay has performance conditions based on business plan measures for example the AIP and the IFRS profit element of the PLTIP the performance ranges are set by the Remuneration Committee prior to, or at the beginning of, the performance period.
Performance is based on annual and longer-term plans approved by the Board.
These reflect the long-term ambitions of the Group and business units, in the context of anticipated market conditions.
For market-based performance conditions eg relative TSR and M&G investment performance the Committee requires that performance is in the upper quartile, relative to Prudentials peer group, for awards to vest in full.
Key differences between directors remuneration and the remuneration of other employees Across the Group, remuneration is reviewed regularly with the intention that all employees are paid appropriately in the context of their local market and given their individual skills, experience and performance.
Each business units salary increase budget is set with reference to local market conditions.
The Remuneration Committee considers salary increase budgets in each business unit when determining the salaries of executive directors.
The principles that apply to executive directors are cascaded to other employees in their business unit.
All senior leaders in the Group participate in annual bonus schemes which have performance conditions which mirror the CEO for their business unit.
In addition, they are eligible to receive awards under the Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan or the M&G Executive LTIP with performance conditions aligned to those which apply to executive directors.
Legacy payments Any commitment made before either i 27 June 2012 or ii an individual becoming a director, will be honoured even where it is not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
References to shares In this report, references to shares include American Depository Receipts ADRs.
Directors may receive awards denominated in ADRs rather than shares, depending on their location.
Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 103 Scenarios of total remuneration The chart below provides an illustration of the future total remuneration for each executive director in respect of remuneration opportunity for 2014.
Three scenarios of potential outcome are provided based on underlying assumptions shown in the notes to the chart.
Estimated value of benefits based on amounts paid in 2013.
Barry Stowe and Mike Wells are paid in HK$ and US$ respectively and have been converted to GBP for the purposes of this chart.
Annual bonus No bonus paid.
JNL bonus pool at the average JNL bonus pool at highest of the of the last three years.
Long-term incentives No long-term incentive vesting.
62.5% of award under Prudential 100% of award under Prudential LTIP.
excludes share LTIP midway between threshold 200% of face value price growth and maximum.
and dividends 100% of face value of M&G Executive LTIP.
Service contracts Executive directors service contracts provide details of the broad types of remuneration to which they are entitled, and about the kinds of plans in which they may be invited to participate.
The service contracts offer no certainty as to the value of performance-related reward and confirm that any variable payment will be at the discretion of the Company.
All of the remuneration obligations placed on the Company by service contracts and letters of engagement are set out elsewhere in this directors remuneration policy.
Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group Across the Group, remuneration is reviewed regularly with the intention that all employees are paid appropriately in the context of their local market and given their individual skills, experience and performance.
Prudential does not consult with employees when setting the directors remuneration policy: Prudential is a global organisation with employees and agents in multiple business units and geographies.
As such, there are practical challenges associated with consulting with employees directly on this matter.
As many employees are also shareholders, they will be able to participate in the binding vote on the directors remuneration policy.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee and the Company undertake regular consultation with key institutional investors on the remuneration policy and implementation.
This engagement is led by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and is an integral part of the Companys investor relations programme.
The Committee is grateful to shareholders for the feedback which is provided, and takes this into account when determining executive remuneration.
Minimum In line with expectations Maximum Minimum In line with expectations Maximum Minimum In line with expectations Maximum Minimum In line with expectations Maximum Minimum In line with expectations Maximum Minimum In line with expectations Maximum Minimum In line with expectations Maximum 104 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Approach to recruitment remuneration The table below outlines the approach that Prudential will take when recruiting a new executive director.
This approach would also apply to internal promotions.
The approach to recruiting a non-executive director or a non-executive chairman is outlined in the remuneration policy for nonexecutive directors and the non-executive Chairman on page 106.
Element Approach Base salary, benefits The salary, benefits and pension for a new executive director will be set using the approach set out in the table and pension Fixed pay policy for Executive Directors.
Variable The variable remuneration opportunities for a new executive director would be consistent with the limits and remuneration structures outlined in the variable pay policy table.
Awards and On joining the Board from within the Group the Committee may allow an executive to retain any outstanding contractual rights deferred bonus and or long-term incentive awards and or other contractual arrangements which they held on their forfeited when appointment.
These awards which may have been made under plans not listed in this policy would remain subject leaving previous to the original Rules, performance conditions and vesting schedule applied to them when they were awarded.
employer If a newly appointed executive director forfeits one or more bonuses including outstanding deferred bonuses on leaving a previous employer, these payments or awards may be replaced in either cash or Prudential shares with an award of an equivalent value.
Replacement awards will be released on the same schedule as the foregone awards.
If a newly appointed executive director forfeits one or more long-term incentive awards on leaving a previous employer, these may be replaced with Prudential awards with an equivalent value.
Replacement awards will generally be made under the terms of a long-term incentive plan approved by shareholders, and vest on the same schedule as the foregone awards.
Performance conditions will be applied to awards replacing foregone long-term incentive awards: these will be the same as those applied to the long-term incentive awards made to Prudential executives in the year in which the forfeited award was made.
Potential variations The Committee may consider compensating a newly appointed executive for other relevant contractual rights forfeited when leaving their previous employer.
2 to facilitate the recruitment of an executive director is now only relevant in unusual circumstances.
The Committee does not anticipate using this Rule but reserves the right to do so in an exceptional circumstance.
For example, this rule may be required if, for any reason, like-for-like replacement awards on recruitment could not be made under existing plans.
This provision would only be used to compensate for remuneration forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Any arrangement established to replace foregone long-term incentive awards would reflect, as far as possible, the terms of the original award including, if applicable, any performance conditions.
The value of this would be capped to be no higher, on recruitment, than the awards which the individual had to surrender to be recruited.
Policy on payment on loss of office Element Approach Notice periods Principles The Companys policy is that executive directors service contracts will not require the Company to give an executive more than 12 months notice without prior shareholder approval.
A shorter notice period may be offered where this is in line with market practice in an executives location.
The Company is required to give to, and to receive from, each of the current executive directors 12 months notice of termination, unless indicated in this table.
An executive director whose contract is terminated would be entitled to 12 months salary and benefits in respect of their notice period.
Payments are phased over the notice period, although a payment in lieu of notice may be made.
Any executive leaving the Group other than by way of their death or disablement would have a duty to mitigate their loss.
Potential variations If an executive director is dismissed for cause, their contract would be terminated with immediate effect and they would not receive any payments in relation to their notice period.
Should an executive die while serving as an employee their estate would not be entitled to receive payments and benefits in respect of their notice period provisions are made under the Companys life assurance scheme to provide for this circumstance see Benefits in the Fixed pay policy for executive directors.
Should an executive director step down from the Board but remain employed by the Group, they would not receive any payment in lieu of notice in respect of their service as a director.
The contract for Mike Wells is a renewable one-year fixed-term contract, renewable automatically on the same terms and conditions, unless the Company or the director gives at least 90 days notice prior to the end of the relevant term.
The contract for Michael McLintock requires that he gives the Company six months notice of termination.
Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 105 Policy on payment on loss of office continued Element Approach Outstanding Principles deferred bonus The treatment of outstanding deferred bonuses will be decided by the Committee, taking into account the awards circumstances of the departure, including the performance of the director.
Deferred bonus awards are normally retained by participants leaving the Company.
Awards made in respect of performance in, or before, 2012 will be released shortly after the end of employment.
Awards made in respect of performance in 2013, and subsequent years, will vest on the original timetable.
Prior to release, awards remain subject to the malus terms originally applied to them.
Potential variations Any executive director dismissed for cause would forfeit all outstanding deferred bonus awards.
Should an executive die while serving as an employee, outstanding deferred bonus awards will be released as soon as possible after the date of death.
Should an executive director step down from the Board but remain employed by the Group, they would retain any outstanding deferred bonus awards.
These awards would remain subject to the original Rules, performance conditions and vesting schedule applied to them when they were awarded.
Outstanding Principles long-term incentive The treatment of outstanding long-term incentives will be decided by the Committee, taking into account the awards circumstances of the departure, including the performance of the director.
Executives will normally retain their outstanding long-term incentive awards.
These awards will ordinarily be pro-rated based on time employed, will vest on the original timescale and will remain subject to the original performance conditions assessed over the entire performance period.
Potential variations Any executive director dismissed for cause would forfeit all outstanding long-term incentive awards.
The release of awards may be expedited in the case of the death of a participant.
Awards made under the M&G Executive LTIP will be released immediately should the director leave due to disablement or death and would be pro-rated based on time employed.
Should an executive director step down from the Board but remain employed by the Group, they would retain any outstanding long-term incentive awards which they held on their change of role.
These awards would remain subject to the original Rules, performance conditions and vesting schedule.
Bonus for final Principles year of service The payment of a bonus for the final year of service will be decided by the Committee giving full consideration to the circumstances of the departure including the performance of the director.
The Committee may award a departing executive a bonus which will usually be pro-rated to reflect the portion of the final financial year in which they served which had elapsed on the last day of their employment.
Any such bonus would be calculated with reference to individual and financial performance measures in the usual way.
The Committee may determine that a portion of such a bonus must be deferred.
Potential variations Any executive director dismissed for cause would not be eligible for any outstanding bonus payments.
The Committee may decide to award an executive stepping down from the Board, but remaining with the Group, a bonus pro-rated to reflect the portion of the financial year which had elapsed on the date of their change of role.
This would be calculated with reference to individual and financial performance measures in the usual way.
Other payments Principles Consistent with other employees in their business unit, executive directors may receive payments to compensate them for the loss of employment rights on termination.
Payments may include: A nominal amount for agreeing to non-solicitation and confidentiality clauses: Directors and Officers insurance cover for a specified period following the executives termination date: Payment for outplacement services: and Reimbursement of legal fees.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: In discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or By way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a directors office or employment.
106 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Remuneration policy for non-executive directors and the non-executive Chairman Fees Benefits Share ownership guidelines Non-executive All non-executive directors receive a basic Non-executive directors are In July 2011, a share ownership directors fee for their duties as a Board member.
not eligible to receive benefits, guideline for non-executive Additional fees are paid for added a pension allowance or to directors was introduced.
It is responsibilities such as chairmanship and participate in the Groups expected that non-executive membership of committees, or acting as employee pension schemes.
directors will hold shares with the Senior Independent Director.
Fees are a value equivalent to one times Travel and expenses for nonpaid to non-executives in cash, subject to the annual basic fee excluding executive directors including the the appropriate deductions.
additional fees for chairmanship Chairman are incurred in the and membership of any The basic and additional fees are reviewed normal course of business, for committees.
annually by the Board, with any changes example in relation to attendance effective from 1 July.
In determining the at Board and committee meetings.
Non-executive directors will be level of fees the Board considers: The costs associated with these expected to attain this level of are all met by the Company.
share ownership within three The time commitment and other years of the implementation requirements of the role: Group financial of this requirement or within performance: salary increases for all three years of their date of employees: and benchmark information appointment, if later.
If, in a particular year, the number of meetings is materially greater than usual, the Company may determine that the provision of additional fees is fair and reasonable.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in annual bonus plans or long-term incentive plans.
Non-executive The Chairman receives an annual fee for the The Chairman may be offered The Chairman has a share Chairman performance of their role.
This fee is agreed benefits including: ownership guideline of one by the Remuneration Committee and is paid times his annual fee and is Health and wellness benefits: to the Chairman in cash, subject to the expected to attain this level protection and security appropriate deductions.
On appointment, of share ownership within benefits: transport benefits: the fee may be fixed for a specified period five years of the date of and relocation and expatriate of time.
Following the fixed period if his appointment.
benefits where appropriate applicable this fee will be reviewed annually.
The maximum paid will be the Changes in the fee are effective from 1 July.
cost to the Company of providing In determining the level of the fee for the these benefits.
Chairman the Committee considers: The Chairman is not eligible The time commitment and other to receive a pension allowance requirements of the role: the or to participate in the Groups performance and experience of the employee pension schemes.
Chairman: internal relativities: Company financial performance: salary increases for all employees: and benchmark information from appropriate markets.
The Chairman is not eligible to participate in annual bonus plans or long-term incentive plans.
Recruitment of a new non-executive chairman or non-executive director The fees for a new non-executive director will be consistent with the current basic fee paid to other non-executive directors as set out in the annual report on remuneration for that year and will be reflective of their additional responsibilities as Chair and or members of Board committees.
The fee for a new non-executive Chairman will be set with reference to the time commitment and other requirements of the role, the experience of the candidate, as well as internal relativities among the other executive and non-executive directors.
To provide context for this decision, data would be sought for suitable market reference point s. Notice periods non-executive directors and non-executive Chairman Non-executive directors are appointed pursuant to letters of appointment with notice periods of six months without liability for compensation.
A contractual notice period of 12 months by either party applies for the non-executive Chairman.
The Chairman would not be entitled to any payments for loss of office.
For information on the terms of appointment for non-executive directors please see the corporate governance report.
Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 107 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration The operation of the Committee The members of the Committee during 2013, and the number of Remuneration Committee meetings they attended, are listed below.
All are independent non-executive directors: Director Meetings attended Lord Turnbull KCB CVO Chairman 5 5 Keki Dadiseth until 1 May 2013 0 2 Michael Garrett until 31 August 2013 3 3 Kai Nargolwala 5 5 Anthony Nightingale CMG SBS JB from 1 June 2013 3 3 Philip Remnant CBE ACA from 1 January 2013 5 5 In 2013, the Committee met five times.
Key activities at each meeting are shown in the table below: Meeting Key activities Early March 2013 Approve the 2012 directors remuneration report: consider 2012 bonus awards for executive directors: consider vesting of the long-term incentive awards with a performance period ending on 31 December 2012: and approve 2013 long-term incentive awards, performance measures and Plan documentation.
Mid-March 2013 Confirm 2012 annual bonuses and the vesting of long-term incentive awards with a performance period ending on 31 December 2012, in light of audited financial results.
June 2013 Review the remuneration of the Group Leadership Team, senior risk staff and of employees with a remuneration opportunity over 1 million per annum: consider the cascade of the remuneration architecture to the senior management team: and review progress towards share ownership guidelines by the Chairman, executive directors and Group Executive Committee members.
September 2013 Monitor performance against long-term incentive targets, based on the half year results: review the dilution levels resulting from the Companys share plans: consider the latest version of the external measures report: review total 2014 remuneration of executive directors for consultation with shareholders: and review draft remuneration policy report for consultation with shareholders.
December 2013 Review the level of participation in the Companys all-employee share plans: approve executive directors 2014 salaries and incentive opportunities: consider the annual bonus and long-term incentive measures and targets to be used in 2014: review an initial draft of the 2013 directors remuneration report: review the Committees terms of reference: and approve the Committees 2014 work plan.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive attend meetings by invitation.
The Committee also had the benefit of advice from: Group Chief Risk Officer: Chief Financial Officer: Group Human Resources Director: and Director of Group Reward and Employee Relations.
Individuals are never present when their own remuneration is discussed.
During 2013, Deloitte LLP were the independent advisor to the Committee.
Deloitte were appointed by the Committee in 2011 following a competitive tender process.
As part of this process, the Committee considered the services that Deloitte provided to Prudential and its competitors as well as other potential conflicts of interests.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operate under their code of conduct when providing advice on executive remuneration in the UK.
Deloitte regularly meet with the Chairman of the Committee without management present.
The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte engagement partner and team, that provide remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections with Prudential that may impair their independence and objectivity.
The total fees paid to Deloitte for the provision of independent advice to the Committee in 2013 were 72,000, charged on a time and materials basis.
During 2013, Deloitte also gave Prudential management advice on remuneration, as well as providing guidance on Solvency II, taxation and other financial matters.
In addition, management received external advice and data from a number of providers.
This included market data and legal counsel.
This is not considered to be material advice or services.
During the year, the Company has complied with the appropriate provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code which are in force regarding directors remuneration.
108 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Remuneration in respect of performance in 2013 Base salary Executive directors salaries were reviewed in 2012, with changes effective from 1 January 2013.
When the Committee took these decisions it considered the salary increases awarded to other employees, the performance and experience of each executive, and the relative size of each directors role, as well as the performance of the Group.
Salary increases for the wider workforce vary across our business units, varying with local market conditions: in 2013 salary budgets increased between 3 per cent and 6 per cent for the wider workforce.
To provide context for this review, information was also drawn from the following market reference points: Director Role Benchmark s used to assess remuneration Rob Devey Chief Executive, UK & Europe FTSE 40 International Insurance Companies John Foley Chief Risk Officer FTSE 40 Michael McLintock Chief Executive, M&G McLagan UK Investment Management Survey Nic Nicandrou Chief Financial Officer FTSE 40 International Insurance Companies Barry Stowe Chief Executive, PCA Towers Watson Asian Insurance Survey Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive FTSE 40 International Insurance Companies Mike Wells President & CEO, JNL Towers Watson US Financial Services Survey LOMA US Insurance Survey After careful consideration the Committee decided to increase salaries by 3 per cent as set out below.
Her salary on joining was 625,000.
Annual bonus The directors remuneration policy section provides further details of the design of Prudentials annual bonus plans.
2013 annual bonus opportunities Executive directors bonus opportunities, the weighting of performance measures for 2013 and the proportion of annual bonuses deferred are set out below: Weighting of measures Financial measures Maximum AIP Deferral Personal opportunity requirement Group Business unit objectives % of salary 1 Rob Devey 160% 40% of total bonus 20% 60% 20% John Foley 160% 40% of total bonus 50% 50% Jackie Hunt 160% 40% of total bonus 20% 60% 20% 2 Michael McLintock 600% 40% of total bonus 20% 60% 20% Nic Nicandrou 175% 40% of total bonus 80% 20% Barry Stowe 160% 40% of total bonus 20% 60% 20% Tidjane Thiam 200% 40% of total bonus 80% 20% 3 Mike Wells 160% 40% of total bonus 80% 20% Notes 1 The maximum bonus opportunity shown for Rob Devey was his annual opportunity this was pro-rated for the portion of 2013 for which he was employed by the Company to 31 October.
Please see the section on Payment to past directors for details.
2 Michael McLintocks annual bonus opportunity in 2013 was the lower of 0.75 per cent of M&Gs IFRS profit and six times annual salary.
M&Gs IFRS profit in 2013 was 395 million.
3 In addition to the AIP, Mike Wells receives a 10 per cent share of the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool.
This is determined by the financial performance of Jackson.
Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 109 2013 AIP performance measures and achievement Financial performance The financial performance measures set for 2013 are shown below.
Prior to the start of the year the Committee set stretching performance ranges for each of these measures.
The Committee reviewed the Groups performance against these ranges at its meeting in February 2014: in all of our key performance metrics the Groups 2013 results exceed those achieved in 2012.
The Committee also reviewed a report from the Group Chief Risk Officer which assessed the achievement of these results in the context of adherence to the Groups risk appetite and framework.
The performance measures, and the relative achievement compared to the performance range, is illustrated below.
The Board believe that, due to the commercial sensitivity of these targets, disclosing them may damage the competitive position of the Group.
Threshold Midpoint Maximum Above maximum 1 MeasureWeighting 0% vesting 50% vesting 100% vesting 100% vesting IFRS operating prot 30% IGD surplus 20% Cash ow 15% Net free surplus generated 15% NBP EEV prot 10% In-force EEV prot 10% Group PCA UKIO M&G Notes 1 The weighting of each measure within the Group financial element of the bonus for all executives excluding the Chief Executive, M&G.
Weightings for the business unit bonus element vary based on the strategy of each business.
2 In addition, investment performance measured over a one and three-year basis forms 30 per cent of the Chief Executive, M&Gs annual bonus.
Personal performance As set out in our remuneration policy, a proportion of the annual bonus for each executive director is based on the achievement of personal objectives.
These objectives include the executives contribution to Group strategy as a member of the Board and specific goals related to their functional and or business unit role.
2013 objectives were set for each executive prior to the start of the financial year, and performance against these objectives was assessed by the Committee at its meeting in February 2014.
2013 annual incentive plan payments On the basis of the outstanding performance of the Group and business units, and the Committees assessment of each executives personal performance, the Committee determined the following 2013 AIP payments: Maximum 2013 AIP 2013 AIP Executive Role 2013 salary 2013 AIP payment payment as a percentage of maximum 1 Rob Devey Chief Executive, UK & Europe 618,000 160% 77.4% 637,776 John Foley Group Investment Director 628,300 160% 99.9% 1,004,023 Jackie Hunt Chief Executive, UK & Europe 625,000 160% 93.4% 934,375 2 Michael McLintock Chief Executive, M&G 370,800 600% 100.0% 2,224,800 Nic Nicandrou Chief Financial Officer 648,900 175% 99.0% 1,123,895 Barry Stowe Chief Executive, PCA HK$8,240,000 160% 95.4% HK$12,579,184 Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive 1,030,000 200% 99.8% 2,055,880 3 Mike Wells President & CEO, JNL US$1,081,500 160% 99.2% US$1,716,773 Notes 1 Rob Devey received a bonus pro-rated for the portion of 2013 he was employed by the Company to 31 October 2013.
Please see the section on Payments to past directors for details.
3 In addition to the AIP Mike Wells also received 10 per cent of the JNL Senior Management Bonus Pool.
His total bonus including his AIP and JNL Senior Management award is US$5,342,373.
2013 Jackson bonus pool In 2013 the Jackson bonus pool was determined by Jacksons profitability, capital adequacy, remittances to Group, in-force experience and credit rating.
Across all of these measures, Jackson delivered excellent performance and exceeded prior year performance.
As a result of this performance, the Committee determined that Mike Wells share of the bonus pool would be US$3,625,600.
110 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Long-term incentive plans with performance periods ending on 31 December 2013 Our long-term incentive plans have performance conditions which are based on the Groups business priorities.
When the Committee decided the proportion of these awards which should be released, actual financial results were reviewed against the performance targets set.
The Committee also reviewed the underlying Company performance to ensure that these vesting levels were appropriate.
The vesting levels are set out below.
The remuneration policy report contains further details of the design of Prudentials long-term incentive plans.
Information on long-term incentives awarded in 2013 is shown on page 115.
Group Performance Share Plan GPSP and UK BUPP awards In 2011, all executive directors were made awards under the GPSP.
The line chart below compares Prudentials TSR during the performance period 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013 with that of the peer group index TSR.
As a result of Prudentials excellent TSR performance, which was in excess of 140 per cent of the index, these awards will be released in full: Group Performance Share Plan GPSP and UK BUPP awards 220% 219.5 200% 188.0 180% 172.3 160% 156.7 140% 120% 100% 80% Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Prudential TSR performance vesting level 100% Index x 120% performance level required for awards to vest at 100% Index x 110% performance level required for awards to vest at 75% Index performance required for awards to vest at 25% Note 1 Companies in the peer group for the 2011 GPSP and UK BUPP awards are: Aegon, Allianz, Aviva, Axa, Generali, ING, Legal & General, Manulife, Old Mutual and Standard Life.
Asia BUPP In 2011, Barry Stowe received an award under the Asia BUPP.
This award vests based on the new business profit, IFRS profit and cash remittances of the Asia business.
The chart below illustrates the achievement against performance ranges for the 2011 Asia award: Measure Threshold MidMaximum Overall 2013 vesting 1 3 cumulative new business pro t 1 3 cumulative IFRS pro t 98.09% 1 3 cumulative cash remittances M&G Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan The phantom share price at vesting for the 2011 M&G Executive Long-Term Incentive award is determined by the increase or decrease in M&Gs profitability over the three-year performance period, with adjustments for the investment performance of its funds.
M&G performance and the resulting phantom share price for Michael McLintock is shown below: Award Three-year profit growth of M&G Three-year investment performance 2013 phantom share price 2011 M&G Executive LTIP 61% Second quartile 2.30 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 111 Jackson awards In 2010, Mike Wells was granted awards under two legacy long-term incentive plans offered to senior staff in Jackson: these awards had a four-year performance period.
In 2011, following his appointment to the Prudential Board, he received awards under the GPSP and Jackson BUPP.
These awards had a three-year performance period.
Mike Wells 2010 JNL awards the JNL Long-Term Incentive Plan and 2010 JNL US Performance Share Plan will be released in 2014, alongside his 2011 GPSP and BUPP awards.
The vesting of these awards are set out below: Jackson BUPP Mike Wells 2011 Jackson BUPP award vests subject to Shareholder Capital Value SCV growth over the performance period.
As a result of excellent SCV growth of 17.7 per cent per annum over the performance period this award will vest in full: Percentage of award that vests: 30%75% 100% Actual performance 17.7% Compound annual growth in SCV over three years: 0% 5% 8% 10% 12% 15% Legacy below Board long-term incentive plans On 31 December 2013, the performance periods for the 2010 awards under the JNL long-term incentive plans which began on 1 January 2010 came to an end.
Over the four-year period the shareholder value of the US business grew by 14.33 per cent per annum on a compound basis and by 70.848 per cent over the performance period.
This resulted in vesting of 121.16 per cent of Mike Wells 2010 JNL US Performance Share Plan award and of 70.848 per cent of his 2010 cash-settled JNL Long-Term Incentive Plan award.
These were the last awards which Mike Wells received under these plans.
Pension entitlements Pension provisions in 2013 were: Executive 2013 pension arrangement Life assurance provision Barry Stowe Pension supplement in lieu of pension of Four times salary.
25 per cent of salary and a HK$30,000 payment to the Hong Kong Mandatory Provident Fund.
Mike Wells Matching contributions of 6 per cent of base Two times salary.
An annual profit sharing contribution equivalent to 6 per cent of pensionable salary was made in 2013.
John Foley Contributions into the defined contribution Up to four times salary plus a dependants pension.
pension scheme and a cash supplement with a total value of 25 per cent of salary.
All other UK-based executives Pension supplement in lieu of pension of Up to four times salary plus a dependants pension.
Michael McLintock previously participated in a contributory defined benefit scheme which was open at the time he joined the Company.
The scheme provided a target pension of two-thirds of final pensionable earnings on retirement for an employee with 30 years or more potential service who remains in service to normal retirement date.
Mr McLintock is now a deferred member of the scheme.
Mr McLintocks normal retirement date under the scheme is age 60.
Should Mr McLintock claim his deferred pension before this age it will be subject to an actuarial reduction.
There are no additional benefits payable should Mr McLintock retire early.
At the end of 2013 the transfer value of this entitlement was 1,089,263.
This equates to an annual pension of 57,378, which will increase broadly in line with inflation in the period before becoming due for payment on Mr McLintocks retirement.
Prior to joining the Board, John Foley participated in a defined benefit scheme.
There are no entitlements under this scheme in respect of his service as an executive director.
112 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Table of 2013 executive director total remuneration The Single Figure Of which: Amount Total 2013 2013 2013 deferred into 2013 remuneration 2013 taxable pension 2013 Amount Prudential LTIP Other The Single 000 salary benefits benefits total bonus paid in cash shares releases payments Figure 1 Rob Devey 515 77 129 638 383 255 1,996 129 3,484 John Foley 628 118 157 1,004 602 402 2,114 4,021 2 Jackie Hunt 199 224 50 935 561 374 1,343 801 3,552 Michael McLintock 371 92 93 2,225 1,335 890 3,704 6,485 Nic Nicandrou 649 92 162 1,124 674 450 2,114 4,141 3 Barry Stowe 679 624 172 1,037 622 415 2,425 4,937 Tidjane Thiam 1,030 123 258 2,056 1,234 822 5,189 8,656 4 Mike Wells 691 58 20 3,415 2,049 1,366 7,549 11,733 Total 4,762 1,408 1,041 12,434 7,460 4,974 26,434 930 47,009 Benefits include where provided the cost of providing the use of a car and driver, medical insurance, security arrangements and relocation expatriate benefits.
2013 pension benefits include cash supplements for pension purposes, and contributions into DC schemes as outlined on page 111.
In line with the regulations, the estimated value of LTIP releases has been calculated based on the average share price over the last three months of 2013.
The actual value of LTIPs, based on the share price on the date awards are released, will be shown in the 2014 report.
Other payments comprises of pay in lieu of salary and pension supplement for Rob Devey over the period 1 November 2013 to 31 December 2013 and a cash payment to Jackie Hunt in respect of shares forfeited when leaving Standard Life, the net value of which was used to purchase Prudential shares.
Further information is outlined on page 118.
There were no malus adjustments in 2013.
Each remuneration element is rounded to the nearest 1,000 and totals are the sum of these rounded figures.
Total remuneration is calculated using the methodology prescribed by Schedule 8 of the Companies Act.
Notes 1 Rob Devey left the Company on 31 October 2013.
2 Jackie Hunt joined the Company on 5 September 2013.
Her benefits included a one-off relocation payment of 188,679 to cover additional expenses such as stamp duty and estate agent fees.
3 Barry Stowes benefits relate primarily to his expatriate status, including costs of 224,612 for housing, 35,230 for childrens education, 70,452 for home leave and a 252,142 Executive Director Location Allowance.
4 Mike Wells bonus figure excludes a contribution of 9,779 from a profit sharing plan which has been made into a 401 k retirement plan.
This is included under 2013 pension benefits.
The value of some benefits included in the 2012 benefits calculation for example life assurance have not been included in 2013 taxable benefits information as they are not subject to UK tax.
The 2012 number has not been restated from the 2012 report as the differences are not considered significant.
2012 pension benefits includes amounts paid as cash supplements, employers contributions into DC schemes and the 2012 increase in transfer value in Michael McLintocks DB pension, as set out in the 2012 directors remuneration report.
In the 2012 report these amounts were shown in two columns: Cash supplements for pension purposes and 2012 employers pension contributions.
The long-term incentive values shown above are higher than those reported in the 2012 Annual Report.
This is because there was significant share price growth between the final three months of 2012 used to estimate the value of the awards, in line with the regulations and the price on 15 March 2013 and 2 April 2013, when long-term awards were released.
The estimated share price was 8.67 but the actual price on release was 11.54 15 March 2013 and 10.83 2 April 2013. Dividend equivalent shares were also added to GPSP and BUPP awards on release.
Notes 1 The Single Figure for Michael McLintock for 2012 includes the increase in transfer value of his defined benefit pension.
This is outlined in the 2012 directors remuneration report.
2 Barry Stowes benefits relate primarily to his expatriate status, including costs of 217,567 for housing, 32,104 for childrens education, 69,289 for home leave and a 248,894 Executive Director Location Allowance.
3 Mike Wells bonus figure excludes a contribution of US$15,000 from a profit sharing plan which has been made into a 401 k retirement plan.
This is included under employers pension contribution.
Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 113 Performance graph and table The chart below illustrates the TSR performance of Prudential, the FTSE 100 and International Insurers over the past five years.
The information in the table below shows the total remuneration for the Group Chief Executive over the period: Prudential TSR v FTSE 100 and International Insurers total return over five years to December 2013 450 434 400 350 300 250 200 201 187 150 100 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Prudential FTSE 100 International Insurers 000 2009 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Group Chief Executive Mark Tucker Tidjane Thiam Tidjane Thiam Tidjane Thiam Tidjane Thiam Tidjane Thiam Salary, pension and benefits 1,013 286 1,189 1,241 1,373 1,411 Annual bonus payment 841 354 1,570 1,570 2,000 2,056 As % of maximum 92% 90% 97% 97% 100% 99.8% Long-term incentive vesting 1,575 2,534 2,528 6,160 5,189 As % of maximum 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Other payments 308 Group Chief Executive Single Figure of total remuneration 3,737 640 5,293 5,339 9,533 8,656 Note 1 Mark Tucker left the Company on 30 September 2009.
Tidjane Thiam became Group Chief Executive on 1 October 2009.
The figures shown for Tidjane Thiams remuneration in 2009 relate only to his service as Group Chief Executive.
Percentage change in remuneration The table below sets out how the change in remuneration for the Group Chief Executive between 2012 and 2013 compares to a wider employee comparator group: Salary Benefits Bonus Group Chief Executive 3% 0% 2.8% All UK employees 4.8% 5.3% 20.3% The employee comparator group used for the purpose of this analysis is all UK employees.
This includes employees in the UK Insurance Operations business, M&G and Group Head Office, and reflects the average change in pay for employees employed in both 2012 and 2013.
The salary increase includes uplifts made through the annual salary review, as well as any additional changes in the year, for example promotions or role changes.
The UK work force has been chosen as the most appropriate comparator group as it reflects the economic environment for the location in which the Group Chief Executive is employed.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the amounts paid in respect of 2012 and 2013 on all employee pay and dividends: Percentage 2012 2013 change 1 All employee pay m 1,141 1,562 36.9% Dividends m 747 859 15.0% Note 1 All employee pay as taken from note B3.1 to the financial statements.
The figure for 2012 includes an adjustment in respect of pension actuarial gains.
Underlying employee pay excluding social security and pension costs increased by 13.6 per cent.
Further information is set out in the financial statements.
114 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Non-executive remuneration in 2013 Chairmans fees The annual fee paid to the Chairman, Paul Manduca, remained unchanged at 600,000.
Non-executive director fees An increase of just under 3 per cent was made to the basic non-executive fee with effect from 1 July 2013.
Increases were made to the additional fees paid to chairmen of the Remuneration Committee and Risk Committee, and a fee for membership of the Nomination Committee of 10,000 per annum was introduced.
These changes reflect the increased time commitment involved in these roles.
The revised fees are shown below: From From 1 July 2012 1 July 2013 Annual Fees Basic fee 87,500 90,000 Additional fees: Audit Committee Chairman 70,000 70,000 Audit Committee member 25,000 25,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman 50,000 60,000 Remuneration Committee member 25,000 25,000 Risk Committee Chairman 60,000 65,000 Risk Committee member 25,000 25,000 Nomination Committee member 10,000 Senior Independent Director 50,000 50,000 Note 1 If, in a particular year, the number of meetings is materially greater than usual, the Company may determine that the provision of additional fees is fair and reasonable.
The resulting fees paid to non-executives are: Total 2013 Total 2012 2013 remuneration: remuneration: 2013 2012 taxable 2012 The Single The Single 000s fees fees benefits benefits Figure Figure Chairman 1 Paul Manduca 600 393 129 71 729 464 Non-executive directors 2 Keki Dadiseth 40 120 40 120 Howard Davies 181 171 181 171 3 Michael Garrett 75 111 75 111 Ann Godbehere 189 181 189 181 Alistair Johnston 114 111 114 111 Kai Nargolwala 139 136 139 136 4 Anthony Nightingale 67 n a 67 n a 4 Philip Remnant 194 n a 194 n a 4 Alice Schroeder 64 n a 64 n a Lord Turnbull 174 161 174 161 Total 1,837 1,384 129 71 1,966 1,455 Benefits include the cost of providing the use of a car and driver, medical insurance and security arrangements.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in annual bonus plans or long-term incentive plans.
Notes 1 Paul Manduca was appointed as Chairman on 2 July 2012.
The figures for 2012 above include the fees he received as the Senior Independent Director prior to his appointment as Chairman.
2 Keki Dadiseth retired from the Board on 1 May 2013.
In 2013, he was paid an allowance of 2,999 in respect of his accommodation expenses in London while on Company business during the period he served as a non-executive director.
This is included in the fees shown above.
3 Michael Garrett retired from the Board on 31 August 2013.
4 Anthony Nightingale, Philip Remnant and Alice Schroeder did not serve as non-executive directors during 2012.
Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 115 Long-term incentives awarded in 2013 2013 share-based long-term incentive awards The table below shows the awards made to executive directors in 2013 under share-based long-term incentive plans and the performance conditions attached to these awards: Weighting of performance conditions Percentage of award Face value released for IFRS Profit of award Face value achieving End of % of of award threshold performance Group Executive Role salary s targets period TSR Group Asia US UK John Foley Group Investment Director 250% 1,570,745 25% 31 Dec 15 50% 50% 1 Jackie Hunt Chief Executive, UK & Europe 225% 1,406,282 25% 31 Dec 15 50% 50% 2 Michael McLintock Chief Executive, M&G 150% 556,196 25% 31 Dec 15 100% Nic Nicandrou Chief Financial Officer 225% 1,460,023 25% 31 Dec 15 50% 50% Barry Stowe Chief Executive, PCA 225% 1,563,811 25% 31 Dec 15 50% 50% Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive 400% 4,119,988 25% 31 Dec 15 50% 50% Mike Wells President & CEO, JNL 460% 3,257,930 25% 31 Dec 15 50% 50% Awards for executive directors are calculated based on the average share price over the three dealing days prior to the awards being granted 22 May 2013.
The percentage of award released for achieving maximum targets is 100 per cent.
Notes 1 Jackie Hunts award was granted on 7 October 2013.
The number of shares awarded was calculated using the same share price as used for the other executive directors.
Jackie Hunt was also made awards to replace long-term incentives forfeited when she left Standard Life.
These are outlined under Recruitment arrangements.
2 The awards made under the PLTIP to the Chief Executive, M&G are subject only to the TSR performance condition.
The IFRS profit of M&G is a performance condition under the M&G Executive LTIP.
3 Rob Devey also received a long-term incentive award in 2013.
Please see the section on Payments to past directors for details of the award and the performance conditions attached to it.
Group TSR performance will be measured on a ranked basis.
25 per cent of the award will vest for TSR at the median of the peer group increasing to full vesting for performance at the upper quartile.
The peer group for 2013 awards is: Aegon Aflac AIA AIG Allianz Aviva AXA Generali Legal & General Manulife MetLife Munich Re Old Mutual Prudential Financial Standard Life Sun Life Financial Swiss Re Zurich Insurance Group Performance ranges for IFRS operating profit measured on a cumulative basis over three years are set at the start of the performance period.
Due to commercial sensitivities these are not published in advance but will be disclosed for Group, when awards vest.
2013 cash long-term incentive awards In addition to his PLTIP award, Michael McLintock receives an annual award under the M&G Executive LTIP.
In 2013 he received the following award: Percentage of award Face value released for of award Face value achieving End of % of of award threshold performance Executive Role salary s targets period Michael McLintock Chief Executive, M&G 300% 1,112,400 See note 31 Dec 15 Note 1 The value of the award on vesting will be based on the profitability and investment performance of M&G over the performance period, as described in the Directors remuneration policy.
116 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Statement of directors shareholdings The shareholding requirements and share ownership guidelines are outlined below: Articles of Association Share ownership guideline Where Number of Where Period to applicable, shares as Period to applicable, Number of meet the requirement a percentage meet the requirement 1 2 shares requirement met?
of salary fee guideline met?
Group Chief Executive 2,500 1 year Yes 350% 5 years Yes Other executive directors 2,500 1 year Yes 200% 5 years Yes Chairman 2,500 1 year Yes 100% 5 years On course Non-executive directors 2,500 1 year Yes 100% 3 years Yes Notes 1 Holding requirement of the Articles of Association 2,500 ordinary shares must be obtained within one year of appointment to the Board.
2 The increased guidelines for executive directors were introduced with effect from 1 January 2013.
Executive directors have five years from this date or date of joining if later to reach the enhanced guideline.
The guideline for non-executive directors was introduced on 1 July 2011.
Non-executive directors have three years from this date or date of joining if later to reach the guideline.
The interests of directors in ordinary shares of the Company are set out below.
Beneficial interest includes shares acquired under the Share Incentive Plan detailed in the table on page 123, deferred annual incentive awards and interests in shares awarded on appointment detailed in the other share awards table on page 121.
It is only these shares that count towards the share ownership guidelines.
Further information on share awards subject to performance conditions are detailed in the share-based long-term incentive awards section of the Supplementary information.
Notes 1 Jackie Hunt was appointed to the Board on 5 September 2013.
2 For the 1 January 2013 figure part of Barry Stowes beneficial interest in shares is made up of 207,963 ADRs representing 415,926 ordinary shares and 95,305 ordinary shares 8,513.73 of these ADRs are held within an investment account which secures premium financing for a life assurance policy.
For the 31 December 2013 figure the beneficial interest in shares is made up of 200,570 ADRs representing 401,140 ordinary shares.
3 For the 1 January 2013 figure Mike Wells beneficial interest in shares is made up of 295,904 ADRs representing 591,808 ordinary shares.
For the 31 December 2013 figure his beneficial interest in shares is made up of 202,922 ADRs representing 405,844 ordinary shares.
In the table above, the figure for shares subject to performance conditions includes the maximum number of shares 150 per cent of the original number awarded which may be released to Mike Wells under the JNL Performance Share Plan.
This maximum number of shares may be released if stretch performance targets are achieved.
4 Rob Devey left the Board on 5 September 2013.
5 Anthony Nightingale was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2013.
6 Philip Remnant was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2013.
7 Alice Schroeder was appointed to the Board on 10 June 2013.
For the 31 December 2013 figure her beneficial interest in shares is made up of 1,000 ADRs representing 2,000 ordinary shares.
8 Keki Dadiseth retired from the Board on 1 May 2013.
9 Michael Garrett retired from the Board on 31 August 2013.
Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 117 Outstanding share options The following table sets out the share options held by the directors in the UK Savings-Related Share Option Scheme SAYE as at the end of the period.
No other directors participated in any other option scheme.
Exercise period Number of options Market price at 31 Date of Exercise December Beginning End of grant price 2013 Beginning End of period Granted Exercised Cancelled Forfeited Lapsed period John Foley 25 Apr 08 551 1,340 1 Jun 13 29 Nov 13 2,953 2,953 John Foley 20 Sep 13 901 1,340 1 Dec 16 31 May 17 998 998 Tidjane Thiam 16 Sep 11 466 1,340 1 Dec 14 29 May 15 965 965 Tidjane Thiam 20 Sep 13 901 1,340 1 Dec 16 31 May 17 499 499 Nic Nicandrou 16 Sep 11 466 1,340 1 Dec 16 31 May 17 3,268 3,268 Notes 1 A gain of 16,418.68 was made by directors in 2013 on the exercise of SAYE options.
2 No price was paid for the award of any option.
3 The highest and lowest closing share prices during 2013 were 1,340 pence and 901.5 pence respectively.
4 All exercise prices are shown to the nearest pence.
Directors terms of employment Executive directors service contracts The remuneration policy report contains further details of the terms included in executive director service contracts.
Details of the service contracts of each executive director are outlined below: Notice period Notice period Executive director Date of contract to the Company from the Company 1 Rob Devey 1 July 2009 12 months 12 months John Foley 8 December 2010 12 months 12 months Jackie Hunt 25 April 2013 12 months 12 months Michael McLintock 21 November 2001 6 months 12 months Nic Nicandrou 26 April 2009 12 months 12 months Barry Stowe 18 October 2006 12 months 12 months Tidjane Thiam 20 September 2007 12 months 12 months 2 Mike Wells 15 October 2010 12 months 12 months Notes 1 Rob Devey left the Company on 31 October 2013.
2 The contract for Mike Wells is a renewable one-year fixed-term contract.
The contract is renewable automatically upon the same terms and conditions, unless the Company or the director gives at least 90 days notice prior to the end of the relevant term.
Chairmans letter of appointment Paul Manduca was appointed as a non-executive director on 15 October 2010 and became Senior Independent Director on 1 January 2011.
On 2 July 2012 he was appointed Chairman.
A contractual notice period of 12 months by either party applies.
Non-executive directors letters of appointment The remuneration policy report contains further details on non-executive directors letters of appointment.
Details of their individual appointments are outlined below: Initial election by Expiration of current Non-executive director Appointment by the Board shareholders at AGM Notice period term of appointment 1 Keki Dadiseth 1 April 2005 AGM 2005 6 months n a Howard Davies 15 October 2010 AGM 2011 6 months AGM 2014 2 Michael Garrett 1 September 2004 AGM 2005 6 months n a Ann Godbehere 2 August 2007 AGM 2008 6 months AGM 2014 Alistair Johnston 1 January 2012 AGM 2012 6 months AGM 2015 Kaikhushru Nargolwala 1 January 2012 AGM 2012 6 months AGM 2015 3 Anthony Nightingale 1 June 2013 AGM 2014 6 months AGM 2014 Philip Remnant 1 January 2013 AGM 2013 6 months AGM 2016 3 Alice Schroeder 10 June 2013 AGM 2014 6 months AGM 2014 Lord Turnbull 18 May 2006 AGM 2006 6 months AGM 2015 Notes 1 Keki Dadiseth retired from the Board on 1 May 2013.
2 Michael Garrett retired from the Board on 31 August 2013.
3 For Anthony Nightingale and Alice Schroeder the table assumes initial election by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
118 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued External appointments Subject to the Group Chief Executives or the Chairmans approval, executive directors are able to accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other organisations.
Any fees paid may be retained by the executive director.
During 2013, Michael McLintock received 65,000 as a trustee and non-executive director of another organisation.
Jackie Hunt received 45,000 as a non-executive director for another organisation.
Other directors served on the boards of educational, development, charitable and cultural organisations without receiving a fee for such services.
Recruitment arrangements Jackie Hunt On 26 April 2013, it was announced that Jackie Hunt would join Prudential as Chief Executive for UK & Europe.
The Remuneration Committee determined that long-term awards forfeited by Ms Hunt as a consequence of joining Prudential would be replaced on a like-for-like basis, and are subject to Prudential performance criteria.
Ms Hunt was compensated for the loss of her outstanding Standard Life long-term incentive awards with equivalent awards under the Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan as outlined below: Percentage of award Performance released for Face value condition achieving End of of award attached threshold performance Standard Life award being replaced s to award targets period 2011 Group LTIP 1,185,536 Relative TSR 25% 31 Dec 2013 2012 Group LTIP 1,060,994 Relative TSR 25% 31 Dec 2014 The face value of awards was calculated using Standard Lifes three days average share price on the date Jackie Hunt joined the Company September 2013 of 3.389.
The performance conditions attached to the awards are the same TSR conditions as other GPSP and UK BUPP awards made in the relevant year.
Ms Hunt was not compensated for forfeiting her 2013 Standard Life Group LTIP.
Instead, a 2013 long-term incentive award was granted to her.
Full details of this award are set out in the Long-term incentives awarded in 2013 section of this report.
Ms Hunt forfeited Standard Life deferred bonus awards with a value of 801,210.
The Company arranged for these to be replaced with Prudential shares on a like-for-like basis.
A cash payment was made to Ms Hunt in respect of these awards, the net value of which was used to purchase 36,337 shares which will be held in a nominee arrangement on her behalf and released to her in March 2014 and March 2015 in line with the release dates of the original Standard Life awards.
In order for Ms Hunt to take up the position with Prudential she was required to relocate.
To facilitate this, the Committee approved the reimbursement of reasonable removal charges for the transport of household items and of legal fees for the sale and purchase of properties.
A one-off payment of 188,679 was made to cover additional expenses, such as stamp duty and estate agent fees.
Payments to past directors Rob Devey On 26 April 2013 it was announced that Rob Devey would leave Prudential at the end of October 2013.
In line with his contractual entitlements, Mr Devey will receive a payment in lieu of salary and pension allowance for the period 1 November 2013 to 25 April 2014.
This is paid in instalments and is subject to mitigation.
The total amount paid will be 378,000.
Medical and life assurance cover will be provided until 25 April 2014.
The amounts paid in 2013 are included in the table of 2013 total remuneration on page 112.
In 2013 Rob Devey was granted an award under the Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan as follows.
At vesting, the award will be pro-rated for time employed.
It remains subject to the original vesting schedule and to potential future reduction depending on the achievement of performance conditions: Percentage of award released for Face value achieving End of of award Face value threshold performance % of of award targets period Executive salary s Rob Devey 225% 1,390,497 25% 31 Dec 15 The Award is calculated based on the average share price over the three dealing days prior to the award being granted 22 May 2013.
The percentage of award released for achieving maximum targets is 100 per cent which will then be pro-rated for time employed.
50 per cent of the award will vest subject to relative TSR and 50 per cent subject to the achievement of UK IFRS profit targets.
Further details of the performance conditions are outlined in the Long-term incentives awarded in 2013 section.
Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 119 The Remuneration Committee used their discretion to determine that outstanding variable awards of pay would be treated in the following ways: A 2013 bonus pro-rated for the amount of time Mr Devey was employed by Prudential during the 2013 financial year to 31 October 2013.
A 2013 bonus of 637,776 was awarded: 60 per cent of this award was paid in cash and 40 per cent was deferred into Prudential shares and will be released in 2016: Outstanding long-term incentive awards were prorated based on the time Mr Devey was employed by Prudential as a proportion of the relevant performance periods.
Awards will continue to be subject to the original performance conditions and released on the original timescales.
As set out in the section on Remuneration in respect of performance in 2013, the performance conditions attached to Rob Deveys 2011 GPSP and UK BUPP awards were met in full and 100 per cent of the proportion of these awards that were outstanding 34 months out of 36 will be released in 2014.
Clark Manning Clark Manning stepped down from his role as President and Chief Executive of Jackson and as an executive director on 31 December 2010.
Clark Manning remained Chairman of Jackson until 30 April 2011 and acted in an advisory role until 31 December 2011.
The 2010 directors remuneration report provided full details of the remuneration arrangements that would apply to Clark Manning after his resignation.
These arrangements were implemented as intended by the Committee.
The performance conditions attached to the 2010 GPSP and BUPP awards were met in full and awards to Clark Manning were released during 2013 on a pro-rata basis, as disclosed in last years report.
There are no further outstanding awards.
Other directors A number of former directors receive retiree medical benefits for themselves and their partner where applicable.
This is consistent with other senior members of staff employed at the same time.
A fide minimis threshold of 10,000 has been set by the Committee: any payments, or benefits provided to a past director under this amount will not be reported.
Statement of voting at general meeting At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, shareholders were asked to vote on the 2012 directors remuneration report, the adoption of the Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan and the adoption of the rules of the Prudential 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Prudential SAYE.
Each of these resolutions received a significant vote in favour by shareholders: the Committee is grateful for this support and endorsement by our shareholders.
The votes received were: Votes % of votes Votes % of votes Total votes Votes Resolution for cast against cast cast withheld The Directors remuneration report 1,680,696,983 88.40% 220,534,791 11.60% 1,901,231,774 36,594,496 Prudential SAYE 1,870,467,975 96.63% 65,332,272 3.37% 1,935,800,247 2,036,940 Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan 1,649,705,967 87.11% 244,056,797 12.89% 1,893,762,764 44,065,902 Statement of implementation in 2014 Executive directors salaries were reviewed in 2013 with changes effective from 1 January 2014.
When the Committee took these decisions, it considered the salary increases awarded to other employees in 2013 and the expected increases in 2014.
The Committee also took account of the performance and experience of each executive, and the relative size of each directors role, as well as the performance of the Group.
The external markets used to provide context to Committee were those used for 2013 salaries, with for the Chief Executive, M&G, an additional benchmark of Asset Management within International Insurance Companies.
The 2014 salary increase for the Chief Financial Officer was 5 per cent, all other executive directors received a 3 per cent increase.
These uplifts are in line with 2014 salary increase budgets for other employees across our business units 3 per cent to 6 per cent.
2014 salaries are set out in the Our executive remuneration at a glance section.
No changes will be made to executive directors maximum opportunities under the annual bonus and long-term incentive awards other than for the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Financial Officers 2014 long-term incentive award increased to 250 per cent of salary.
The Chief Financial Officers total remuneration opportunity for 2014 has increased by 10 per cent.
This reflects the increasing complexity and responsibilities of the role, together with the incumbents considerable performance and contribution to the Group.
In making this adjustment the Remuneration Committee were mindful of ensuring that the majority of this be provided through long-term incentive awards, so that the full value is only realised over the long term and subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions.
Major shareholders were consulted on this change prior to implementation.
The performance measures attached to 2014 bonuses and long-term incentive awards remain unchanged from those set out in the Remuneration in respect of 2013 section of this report.
