78 | Capita plc Directors remuneration report In order to achieve this, our Remuneration Policy for Executive Annual statement from the Remuneration Directors is to set fixed pay base salary plus benefits around Committee Chair the lower quartile and to offer the potential for competitive levels of total pay if stretching performance targets attached Dear shareholder, to incentive awards are met.
Our policy is that performanceIt is my pleasure to report on the activities of the Remuneration related pay should form a significant part of Executive Directors Committee for the period to 31 December 2013.
This years remuneration packages with an appropriate balance between remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with short and longer term targets linked to delivery of the Groups the new remuneration reporting regime and will be presented business plan.
to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 12 May 2014.
At the AGM, shareholders will have the Paul Pindars retirement opportunity to vote on two separate remuneration resolutions As also explained in our announcement in November 2013, Paul as follows: Pindar will receive no payments for salary after his retirement a binding vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy as set on 28 February 2014 and no other payments in relation to his out on pages 81 to 83, which describes the Companys forward retirement.
Awards outstanding under the Long Term Incentive looking Remuneration Policy which will operate from 1 January Plans and the Co-Investment Plan at the date of his retirement 2014 and will, subject to shareholder approval, become will continue until their maturity.
Such awards will remain formally effective from the conclusion of the 2014 AGM: and subject to the existing performance conditions and will be pro an advisory vote on the annual report on remuneration as set rata reduced for the time period post retirement.
The Deferred out on pages 84 to 92, which provides details of how the Policy Annual Bonus Plan matching award made in 2013 will lapse.
for 2014 will be operated and the remuneration earned by Remuneration policy for 2014 and overview of key changes Directors in the year ended 31 December 2013.
As explained above, a review has been undertaken of Executive Readers of this report in previous years will be aware that Directors remuneration and this has determined our policy going our policy is to maintain the Companys Executive Directors forward and this is detailed below: base salaries around the lower quartile of the FTSE 100, with performance-related pay forming a significant part of overall The maximum total pay potential of Executive Directors has remuneration.
However, our Executive Directors base salaries been reduced.
Previously, the maximum variable pay for the CEO was approximately 950% of salary, this has now been have remained at the bottom of the lower quartile for a number reduced to 500% of salary and the maximum variable pay of years with the gap between their salaries and other members for the other Executive Directors was approximately 800% of of the lower quartile expanding and we therefore decided to salary, this has now been reduced to 450% of salary investigate and address this issue.
We appointed Deloitte to conduct research and we undertook a consultation with our Executive Director salaries are increased closer to a lower major shareholders, the Association of British Insurers and quartile market positioning consistent with our existing Institutional Shareholder Services regarding some key proposed Remuneration Policy as shown on page 81 changes to Executive Directors remuneration.
Id like to thank Grants under our Deferred Annual Bonus matching share our shareholders, the ABI and ISS for their time and views on scheme will cease.
There will also be no award to Andy addressing this issue, which resulted in overwhelming support Parker, our incoming CEO, equivalent to that granted to his from our major shareholders on the proposals.
predecessor under our Co-Investment Plan.
This will simplify our long term incentive arrangements and reduce variable pay The revised remuneration arrangements are outlined in this potential as a multiple of salary years remuneration report and the Remuneration Policy and will be subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
Future LTIP awards will be subject to a combination of ROCE The Committee made a number of changes to the remuneration and EPS performance measures.
structure, although the changes remain consistent with our existing Remuneration Policy.
Summary of remuneration policy and strategy The remuneration strategy of Capita is to provide a pay package that: attracts, motivates and retains the best employees encourages and is supportive of a high performance culture rewards the fulfilment of the overall business plan of the Group aligns management with the interests of our shareholders and other external stakeholders is consistent with our risk policies and systems.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 79 The rebalancing of increased salaries and reduced variable pay Simplicity: Capita currently operates two different long potential will result in a reduction in total pay potential.
term incentive schemes which are both subject to an EPS performance target.
Our changes simplify this arrangement by CEO salaries: FTSE companies 31-100 removing one of those long term schemes.
We believe this will improve the line of sight for participants and increase clarity 1,200,000 for shareholders 1,000,000 Capita current Alignment with strategy: a key principle of our pay philosophy is that pay should be aligned with delivery of strategic 800,000 goals.
The Committee believes that to measure long term 600,000 performance against a broader range of performance metrics will better reflect delivery of the business plan and our 400,000 strategic priorities.
The proposal also responds to requests from some of our shareholders for us to use a wider selection 200,000 of performance measures.
We have, therefore, added Return 0 on Capital Employed ROCE as an additional metric.
In summary, our revised Executive Directors pay arrangements Companies based on average market capitalisation in 3 months to 1 January 2014. for 2014 will comprise the following elements: Key principles underlying the changes Element of pay Details Performance conditions Alignment with remuneration policy: our Remuneration Policy Base salary CEO 500,000 n a is for executive pay to be highly  with fixed pay salary and benefits set around the lower quartile.
FD 380,000 However, our current Executive Director base salaries being Other Directors consistently at the bottom of the lower quartile and virtually 300,000 340,000 the lowest amongst similar sized FTSE companies, were Pension 5% of salary n a inconsistent with that policy.
These changes more closely align salaries with our intended salary market positioning Benefits Private medical n a insurance, company car Competitive pay packages for recruiting key talent: low allowance, work travel Executive Director salaries have compressed salaries for other and accommodation senior staff and have impacted our ability to recruit effectively Annual bonus Maximum potential of Underlying Group profit at Divisional Director level and below.
The changes will 200% of salary before tax address this issue and ensure that we can offer competitive Half paid in cash and salaries throughout the business to both retain and attract half deferred in shares talent effectively for three years Retention of the management team: as illustrated on the total LTIP Award of shares worth 75% based on EPS, 25% shareholder return chart on page 92, Capitas management at grant 300% of based on ROCE.
Share team has consistently generated amongst the highest levels salary for the CEO and price underpin 250% of salary for of returns to shareholders of FTSE 100 companies other Directors The Board is firmly of the view that retention of the current DAB matching Final award in February EPS management team is vital to the continuation of this awards 2014 in relation to the success.
Additionally, the CEO succession plan, leading to 2013 annual bonus the promotion of our internal candidate, Andy Parker, and his replacement COO, Dawn Marriot-Sims, another internal promotion, led the Committee to believe that an important factor in securing their future retention will be ensuring that they regard their pay arrangements, and in particular their salaries, as fair and appropriately competitive Appropriate leverage in package: in order to ensure total pay levels are competitive, Executive Directors currently have high multiples of variable pay potential to offset their low salaries.
The changes will restructure the pay arrangements to reduce the extent of leverage and, as a consequence, significantly reduce the maximum potential total pay for Directors, whilst keeping them at competitive market rates 80 | Capita plc Directors remuneration report Members of the Remuneration Committee In 2013, these operations comprised 45m of Group revenue and made a combined operating loss of 14.4m.
The combined The following Non-Executive Directors were members of the non-trading cash cost, net of tax, from the sale and closure is Remuneration Committee during 2013: 38.5m.
The loss on disposal was 82.1m including 62.6m from Martina King Chair, Gillian Sheldon and Paul Bowtell.
impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.
The Committee met five times during 2013 and the attendance The Groups performance is reflected in the annual bonus of the Committee is shown on page 65. awarded to the Executive Directors.
In respect of performance for the year, 200% of base salary was achieved.
Although the Key activities undertaken during 2013 targets were met in full the Remuneration Committee has used In line with the responsibilities set out in the Remuneration its discretion that such bonuses will be scaled back due to the Committees terms of reference, the following key issues were partial sale of the insurance distribution business and the closure discussed during the year: of the SIP business.
The annual bonus for 2013 has therefore approval of the 2012 Directors remuneration report been reduced by 25% to 150% of salary.
In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, 50% of the bonus achieved has been review of bonus and share plan performance measures against deferred into shares under the DAB with three-year performance the 2012 year-end targets targets see page 90, strongly linking the interests of the review of the Committees terms of reference Executive Directors with those of the Groups shareholders.
approval of the Remuneration Policy Statement as required The remaining amount will be paid in cash.
under the FCAs Remuneration Code Remuneration Committee discretion review and approval of all awards made under the Long Term The Remuneration Committee has exercised its discretion in Incentive Plan LTIP and Deferred Annual Bonus DAB plan, relation to the retirement of Paul Pindar and also in respect taking into account the total value of awards made under of the bonus awards for the period to 31 December 2013. these plans Specifically the discretion has been used in relation to: review of Executive Directors shareholdings and levels Long Term Incentive Plan Paul Pindar Under the rules of the achieved plan the Board delegated to the Remuneration Committee annual review of all Executive Directors and Chairmans base will determine the proportion of the awards that shall vest salaries and benefits upon retirement.
For this award it has been pro-rated in ratification of salary increases for Divisional Directors in line line with service, but continues to be subject to the same with Company policies performance conditions.
assessment of the risk environment surrounding the Co Investment Plan Paul Pindar Under the rules of the Companys current remuneration arrangements plan the Remuneration Committee may, at its discretion, setting of targets for 2014 cash bonuses and deferred bonus allow the participant to exercise if the participant is no longer employed with the Company.
Using this discretion the award review of targets under the DAB and the LTIP was prorated in line with service and is subject to the same review of the retirement of Paul Pindar and remuneration performance conditions.
for Andy Parker and Dawn Marriott-Sims Bonus All Executives Although the bonus targets were met a review of the total remuneration structure for in full, the Remuneration Committee has used its discretion Executive Directors such that bonuses will be scaled back due to the partial sale of consideration of advisory bodies and institutional investors the insurance distribution business and the closure of the SIP current guidelines on executive compensation.
The annual bonus for 2013 has therefore been reduced by 25% to 150% of salary.
Performance and reward in 2013 The Remuneration Committee has not exercised any further 2013 was a year of strong sales, operational and financial discretion during the year.
The Groups financial results illustrate our ability to deliver strong sustainable growth.
During the year the Group On behalf of the Committee I recommend this remuneration successfully made 13 acquisitions.
Reporting record profits for report to you.
the 25th successive year, demonstrates the strength of our business model, the strong and effective leadership of our senior Martina King management team and the talents of our people.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee As previously disclosed, in November 2013 we completed the disposal of some of our Insurance Distribution operations and closed our SIP Self Invested Pensions administration business based in Salisbury.
This followed a detailed review which concluded that the route to recovery for these businesses would take a long time and we therefore acted swiftly to resolve this.
