78 | Capita plc Directors remuneration report In order to achieve this, our Remuneration Policy for Executive Annual statement from the Remuneration Directors is to set fixed pay base salary plus benefits around Committee Chair the lower quartile and to offer the potential for competitive levels of total pay if stretching performance targets attached Dear shareholder, to incentive awards are met.
Our policy is that performanceIt is my pleasure to report on the activities of the Remuneration related pay should form a significant part of Executive Directors Committee for the period to 31 December 2013.
This years remuneration packages with an appropriate balance between remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with short and longer term targets linked to delivery of the Groups the new remuneration reporting regime and will be presented business plan.
to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 12 May 2014.
At the AGM, shareholders will have the Paul Pindars retirement opportunity to vote on two separate remuneration resolutions As also explained in our announcement in November 2013, Paul as follows: Pindar will receive no payments for salary after his retirement a binding vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy as set on 28 February 2014 and no other payments in relation to his out on pages 81 to 83, which describes the Companys forward retirement.
Awards outstanding under the Long Term Incentive looking Remuneration Policy which will operate from 1 January Plans and the Co-Investment Plan at the date of his retirement 2014 and will, subject to shareholder approval, become will continue until their maturity.
Such awards will remain formally effective from the conclusion of the 2014 AGM: and subject to the existing performance conditions and will be pro an advisory vote on the annual report on remuneration as set rata reduced for the time period post retirement.
The Deferred out on pages 84 to 92, which provides details of how the Policy Annual Bonus Plan matching award made in 2013 will lapse.
for 2014 will be operated and the remuneration earned by Remuneration policy for 2014 and overview of key changes Directors in the year ended 31 December 2013.
As explained above, a review has been undertaken of Executive Readers of this report in previous years will be aware that Directors remuneration and this has determined our policy going our policy is to maintain the Companys Executive Directors forward and this is detailed below: base salaries around the lower quartile of the FTSE 100, with performance-related pay forming a significant part of overall The maximum total pay potential of Executive Directors has remuneration.
However, our Executive Directors base salaries been reduced.
Previously, the maximum variable pay for the CEO was approximately 950% of salary, this has now been have remained at the bottom of the lower quartile for a number reduced to 500% of salary and the maximum variable pay of years with the gap between their salaries and other members for the other Executive Directors was approximately 800% of of the lower quartile expanding and we therefore decided to salary, this has now been reduced to 450% of salary investigate and address this issue.
We appointed Deloitte to conduct research and we undertook a consultation with our Executive Director salaries are increased closer to a lower major shareholders, the Association of British Insurers and quartile market positioning consistent with our existing Institutional Shareholder Services regarding some key proposed Remuneration Policy as shown on page 81 changes to Executive Directors remuneration.
Id like to thank Grants under our Deferred Annual Bonus matching share our shareholders, the ABI and ISS for their time and views on scheme will cease.
There will also be no award to Andy addressing this issue, which resulted in overwhelming support Parker, our incoming CEO, equivalent to that granted to his from our major shareholders on the proposals.
predecessor under our Co-Investment Plan.
This will simplify our long term incentive arrangements and reduce variable pay The revised remuneration arrangements are outlined in this potential as a multiple of salary years remuneration report and the Remuneration Policy and will be subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
Future LTIP awards will be subject to a combination of ROCE The Committee made a number of changes to the remuneration and EPS performance measures.
structure, although the changes remain consistent with our existing Remuneration Policy.
Summary of remuneration policy and strategy The remuneration strategy of Capita is to provide a pay package that: attracts, motivates and retains the best employees encourages and is supportive of a high performance culture rewards the fulfilment of the overall business plan of the Group aligns management with the interests of our shareholders and other external stakeholders is consistent with our risk policies and systems.
