RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Dear Shareholder, COMMITTEE As Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee of the Board, CHAIRMANS LETTER I present this Report for your approval covering the year to 31 December 2013.
This has been a very disappointing year.
Overall, financial performance has been poor, despite good underlying growth occurring across many parts of the business.
Group Combined Operating Ratio for the year is 99.6%, Net Written Premium is INDEX TO THE REPORT: 8,664m, with the Group reporting a pre-tax loss of 244m.
Consequently, I can advise that: SECTION 1 REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Salaries will remain unchanged for the Executive Directors 1.
R SAs remuneration philosophy and strategy 71 No bonuses will be awarded to the Executive Directors for 2013, which affects the Group Chief Financial Officer and the Chief 3.
R SAs remuneration policy for Executive Directors 72 4.
R SAs remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors 76 Executive, UK and Western Europe 5.
P aying for performance 78 No performance-based long-term incentive plan LTIP awards 6.
Contractual terms 79 will vest arising from the 201113 cycle.
E ngagement on Directors remuneration 79 The single figure tables on page 82 show the extent to which actual SECTION 2 remuneration levels have reduced in 2013 from 2012.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION In recognition of how challenging 2013 has been, many employees 1.
Introduction 80 at all levels will not receive a salary increase this year, especially those 2.
Information about the Group Remuneration Committee 80 based in the UK and Ireland.
In addition, the total budget for 2013 3.
Total remuneration 2013: single figure tables audited 82 employee bonus awards across the Group has reduced significantly.
Components of Executive Directors remuneration 83 It has been a year of unforeseen events.
Directors shareholding audited 86 the Group Chief Executive on 12 December 2013 and left with 6.
Payments to Directors for loss of office audited 88 immediate effect.
As has been previously announced, he was paid 7.
Payments to former Directors audited 88 strictly in accordance with his employment contract, therefore, 8.
Historical TSR performance and executive remuneration 89 he will not receive a bonus for 2013 and all unvested and unexercised 9.
Percentage change in remuneration 89 LTIP awards have lapsed.
The Board requested that Mr Lee did not 10.
Relative importance of spend on pay 89 serve his contractual 12 months notice period and, instead, he is 11.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2014 90 being paid in lieu of this, covering the equivalent of his base salary only.
Statement of voting at General Meeting 92 The payments are made to him in monthly instalments, set off against 13.
Dilution 93 the value of any remuneration he may receive for future employment 14.
External Directorships 93 or engagement before the expiry of this 12 month period.
Directors contracts 93 not received any ex-gratia compensation for loss of office.
The details of Mr Lees total remuneration for 2013 are noted on page 82.
In the intervening period following Mr Lees departure, Martin Scicluna took on the role of Executive Chairman.
At his request, his remuneration remained unchanged.
The Board is pleased to have appointed Stephen Hester on 5 February 2014, to replace Simon Lee.
His annual salary is 950,000, to be first reviewed in April 2015.
In addition, Mr Hester receives a range of employment benefits including an annual company car allowance of 20,000 and private medical cover.
As Mr Hester has taken out enhanced pension protection, he is paid a supplement equal to 30% of his base salary in lieu of joining the RSA stakeholder pension plan.
His notice period is 12 months.
70 XXXX REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Mr Hester did not receive any sign-on payments and, since he Through the new LTIP, Executive Directors will retain their vested had already left his previous employer, no compensatory awards shares for two years: they can only sell sufficient to cover statutory were made.
deductions during this retention period.
In terms of incentives, Mr Hester has an on-target bonus The level of required shareholding for the Group Chief Executive opportunity of 80% of salary, rising to 160% of salary at maximum, rises from 200% to 300% of salary.
of which half must be deferred into RSA shares for three years.
In recognition of Mr Hesters experience, the scale of the challenge The Clawback Policy has been strengthened to cover a wider range ahead and also to give him the opportunity to build his shareholding of sanctions and scenarios where incentive awards can be reduced in RSA, his 2014 LTIP grant will be for 300% of salary, at maximum fully or partially, via malus adjustment.
This is contingent, however, on shareholder approval of the new LTIP at the AGM on 9 May 2014.
Consistent with the The Remuneration Policy sets out the context for these changes Remuneration Policy noted on pages 74 to 75, his future LTIP grants on pages 71 to 79.
The implementation of the Groups remuneration will be made at no more than 230% of salary, which is the Groups approach in 2013 is given on pages 80 to 89.
Specifically, how the usual level of award for Executive Directors.
No matching share Remuneration Policy is being implemented in 2014 is noted on pages grants will be made to enhance these LTIP awards, as this practice 90 to 92. has now ceased.
During the year, the Committee engaged the Groups 20 largest Mr Hester will be expected to hold all shares issued via the shareholders and the ABI, NAPF and ISS on remuneration changes, new LTIP for a further two-year period once they have vested.
and it took on board their feedback on matters such as performance He is subject to a required shareholding of 300% of salary, to be conditions and remuneration simplification to achieve a remuneration acquired over a five-year period, as set out in the policy summary structure which is balanced and appropriate, has regard to current on pages 74 to 75. best practice and, above all, is intended to promote growth in Turning to the remuneration review, in the 2012 Directors shareholder value for the long-term benefit of RSA.
Equally, risk Remuneration Report, I advised that the Committee would be management is woven even closer into the setting and managing of continuing to refine the Groups remuneration policy and framework.
remuneration policy, with key proposals and changes being briefed This review has concluded and some important changes have been to the Board Risk Committee.
These changes support the This has been the most exceptional of years, and the Committee execution of both operational plans and the business strategy to has responded accordingly to ensure that the remuneration strengthen the Groups performance over the short and long term.
arrangements of the Group are appropriate, both now and into the In summary, the changes that the Committee has agreed are: future.
The Board looks forward to your support for this Report.
The Executive Directors Annual Bonus Plan and the LTIP are focused on improving results for the sole purpose of building sustainable shareholder value.
The incentive framework will apply to other senior leaders across the Group.
The Annual Bonus Plan and the LTIP will actively align managements Hugh S Mitchell and shareholders interests by assessing: profitable growth, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Group Remuneration underwriting performance, shareholder returns, balance sheet Committee strength, capital strength, expense ratio and management actions, 26 February 2014 which includes a focus on risk.
Some of the performance metrics will be assessed individually, while others will be included within a specific Business Review Scorecard underpinning the execution of the Groups strategy.
Executive Directors will defer 50% of their bonus awards into RSA shares for three years, which doubles the previous level of compulsory deferral.
Voluntary bonus deferral now ceases.
A new LTIP has been designed to be straight-forward for employees, shareholders and regulators to understand, therefore matching share awards will no longer be granted.
The normal maximum LTIP award opportunity reduces from 309% of salary to 230% of salary.
To allow the Committee additional headroom to grant performance-related awards for appointment purposes to gain high calibre candidates, or in other highly exceptional circumstances, a ceiling of 400% of salary will be in place.
This headroom will not be used routinely, and will be by exception only.
This Report is prepared in accordance with the amended requirements of Schedule 8 of SI 2008 410 The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Account and Reports Regulations 2008, which came into effect for periods ending on or after 30 September 2013.
The Policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 71 1.
INTRODUCTION SECTION 1 In this section of the Directors Remuneration Report, the principles and policies are described that will be used to set and manage the REMUNERATION Directors remuneration over the next three years, subject to shareholder approval.
The Group Remuneration Committee POLICY REPORT considers that this report will be effective from the date it is approved by shareholders.
However, it has been adhering to many of the revised best practice components within this Report since 1 January 2014.
Specifically, this Remuneration Policy Report covers: How decisions on directors remuneration will be made at RSA, and the remuneration philosophy and strategy which underpin these decisions How remuneration packages will be structured and managed for current, newly-appointed and departing directors What impact business and individual performance will have on the potential value of the Executive Directors remuneration What key contractual terms will apply to current and newlyappointed directors How RSA has engaged with its shareholders and employees on the subject of executive remuneration during 2013, and its plans for continuing to engage with them in the future.
RSAS REMUNERATION PHILOSOPHY AND STRATEGY RSAs remuneration philosophy and strategy are directly informed by the business strategy, which is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 43 of this Report.
The remuneration principles the Committee follows are: Competitive remuneration packages are offered in order to attract, retain and reward the levels of high calibre talent which are essential to RSAs success in todays competitive global insurance market Each component of the total remuneration package is simple and transparent, so as to be effective and understood by executives, shareholders and regulators A significant proportion of the overall remuneration package takes the form of variable pay, giving focus to stretching short and long-term objectives which directly support the achievement of strategic priorities and are aligned to shareholders interests Executive Directors and other executives are required to hold a significant number of shares in the Company: they are encouraged to act in shareholders best interests by having a personal investment in RSA The remuneration framework is reviewed regularly to ensure that it continues to appropriately reward executives, while protecting shareholders interests and complying with principles of good risk management and reward governance.
The next pages of this Report describe how these remuneration principles are applied in practice.
72 XXXX REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 3.
RSAS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Key policy changes from 2013 Base salary Reviewed annually with consideration of factors including: market positioning, internal pay relativities, levels of pay for other Performance conditions do not apply, but business and individual performance may be considered when conducting None fixed remuneration RSA employees, inflation, affordability, job scale and content, individuals experience and expertise.
Only annual base salary the review process.
Although salaries are reviewed annually, there is no automatic right for any Director to receive is pensionable.
An existing Executive Directors salary may be increased outside of the normal review cycle for material a salary increase.
Salaries are aligned to role changes.
Other than exceptional circumstances such as a role change, salary increases will not exceed the level of increases This is to attract and retain Benchmarked referencing competitive practice within two peer groups of listed international insurers and FTSE listed applied to other RSA employees.
high calibre executives, companies of broadly comparable market capitalisation to RSA, excluding banks and heavy industries.
The Executive Directors salaries effective 1 April 2014 are noted on page 90. essential for ensuring RSAs Committee can change the constituents of the benchmark peer group or the basis upon which market information ongoing success.
is obtained at its discretion to ensure that the data remains robust and relevant.
Note to table: Policy is consistent for other UK-based managers.
Benefits Directors receive a variety of benefits, some of which are delivered as taxable cash-in-lieu allowances.
Benefits cover Performance conditions do not apply.
None fixed remuneration the areas of: health and well-being, leave of absence, car and business travel, sickness benefit, insurances, professional Benefits are valued and determined with reference to the benchmarking peer groups and other surveys reviewed by subscriptions, external advice and employee discounts on certain insurance products.
Home to work travel may be Employment benefits the Remuneration Committee.
Details of the benefits received by the Executive Directors for 2013 are provided covered where appropriate.
Tax changes are not compensated.
are provided to support on pages 82 to 83. the executive and Assistance would be available under RSAs relocation policy or global mobility policy should this be required.
This may form part of a market include tax equalisation in the event an executive is subsequently appointed to the Board as an expatriate, although the competitive package.
Committee would review if this was necessary long-term.
UK-based Executive Directors can participate in RSAs flexible benefits programme and acquire shares through voluntary HMRC-approved share plans Sharesave and Sharebuild.
They can also claim expenses according to RSAs business and travel policies.
Benefits are determined with reference to market practice within the same benchmark peer groups referenced above.
The Committee can also source information from bespoke benefits surveys to aid decision-making.
Committee can amend any benefit or introduce new ones to ensure the remuneration package remains market competitive or to respond to regulatory, legal or best practice changes.
Internal appointees to the Board may retain any legacy benefits they receive, at the Committees discretion, or a buy-out may be made depending on the benefit type and circumstance.
Note to table: Policy is consistent for other UK-based managers and most other UK-based employees.
Pension Non-contributory pension plan membership or a full partial cash allowance, where the Director is unable to join the Performance conditions do not apply.
None fixed remuneration Companys pension plans.
The RSA defined benefit pension plan is closed to all new entrants.
No Executive Director will receive a pension benefit in excess of 30% of salary.
Pension benefit forms Pension cash allowances are paid monthly and are subject to statutory deductions.
The Executive Directors pension benefits for 2013 are detailed on pages 82 to 83. a part of a market Pension cash allowances are set referencing practice within the benchmark peer groups and specialist survey data may competitive package also be obtained.
The Committee has regard to the market median allowance data.
and enables executives Committee can adjust the employer pension contribution or cash allowance levels to ensure these remain appropriate to save for retirement.
It can also agree changes to the terms of the Directors pension plan s, as appropriate.
Annual Bonus Plan Overall bonus opportunity is set at a level to be market competitive.
Awards are calculated against stretching annual Normal bonus opportunity is 16% of salary at threshold, rising to 80% of salary for on-target performance and Bonus plan decoupled from variable remuneration financial and non-financial targets, as well as the performance of the individual executive.
Only superior performance will 160% of salary at maximum.
Additional bonus headroom of up to a further 40% of salary may be available, the LTIP.
result in a bonus award which is above target.
at the Committees discretion, to recognise highly exceptional circumstances.
Full disclosure will be given Supports RSAs short-term Voluntary bonus deferral if an increased bonus opportunity is applied.
Targets are Fifty per cent of the bonus will be awarded in cash and the remainder will be deferred into a share award for a period of ceases.
directly linked to the three years.
Dividends or equivalents accrue on the deferred shares, and are awarded at the end of the deferral period.
Performance is measured over one financial year, according to a range of metrics, some of which can be assessed on Compulsory deferral rises from operational plan and reflect The deferred bonus shares are granted under the rules of the LTIP as a conditional award.
a scorecard basis, typically including: growth in earnings and profitability, underwriting performance, risk management, 25% to 50% of the total bonus.
RSAs priority to create expense ratio and cost savings, capital strength, balance sheet strength, customer and employee engagement, and Under RSAs Clawback Policy, cash and deferred share awards arising from the Annual Bonus Plan can be reduced or Bonus measures changed shareholder value through objectives which are personal to the executive.
Around 70% of the Annual forfeited prior to receipt under a range of circumstances and other sanctions can apply.
The policy is noted in detail on to give greater strategic sustained growth and Bonus Plan is weighted according to financial metrics.
The performance conditions and targets which were used page 85.
The Committee reviews the policy annually and may amend or update it, as required.
alignment and capture profitability, based on its to inform the 2013 bonus awards are detailed on page 83.
The Executive Directors maximum bonus opportunity is set having regard to the market median bonus opportunity operational priorities.
Deferral into Group Executives are targeted against performance of the entire Group.
Executive Directors who have a regional of its benchmark peer groups.
shares creates shareholder accountability will be targeted against the performance of both the Group and their business areas.
Committee can exercise discretion to change the bonus measures, how they are weighted, calculated and targeted.
It can Leaver treatment modified alignment.
Targets are set with reference to the Groups operational plan.
also change the Directors bonus awards both upwards and downwards once the measures have been tested, provided regarding deferred bonuses.
this is appropriate and in shareholders interests.
The Committee can make such amendments as are necessary to respond No additional performance conditions apply to the deferred bonus shares once they are granted.
Changes are noted on pages to regulatory, legal or accounting requirements.
Shareholders will be notified if this has been carried out by disclosure in the 90 to 91. relevant Directors Remuneration Report.
Note to table: All permanent UK-based employees are eligible to receive a bonus award, but share deferral is only operated for senior leaders at RSA.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 73 3.
74 XXXX REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 3.
RSAS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Key policy changes from 2013 Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP grants are made annually to a range of senior employees across the Group.
For Executive Directors, awards are made Normal threshold LTIP opportunity is 58% of salary, rising to 144% of salary for on-target performance and 230% New LTIP designed to replace LTIP variable in the form of performance shares which vest subject to performance conditions.
The LTIP is also used as a vehicle for of salary at maximum.
2006 Plan, for shareholder remuneration granting restricted shares which, for an Executive Director would only be used to satisfy a buy-out upon appointment and approval at 2014 AGM.
For recruitment purposes, or in highly exceptional circumstances, such as for retention, the Committee may agree shares awarded through compulsory bonus deferral.
Supports RSAs long-term to a conditional performance-related award being made up to an additional 170% of salary.
This would be considered Normal maximum opportunity strategy.
Targets reflect Performance conditions are reviewed annually.
Dividends or equivalents accrue during the performance period and are a one-off award.
Where an exceptional award is made, full disclosure will be given on the rationale.
reduces from 309% to 230% RSAs priority to create added to the shares that vest.
Exceptional maximum Conditional awards are determined based on the Directors salary as at the grant date, using the mid-market closing shareholder value through performance-linked grant is A two-year retention period will apply to the Executive Directors vested shares prohibiting their sale excluding any sold price of an RSA ordinary share, as determined by the Committee in accordance with the Plans rules.
sustained earnings and 400% of salary.
This policy will cover performance-based awards granted through the LTIP and it will first The LTIP is intended to support the delivery of the business strategy over a three-year time horizon, and it will share price growth.
be implemented for shares vesting in 2017 i. e. the 2014 grant.
The retention period only applies while the Director Ceased granting Matching therefore include at least two metrics which, typically, will be directly linked to value creation through performance remains in employment.
of the Groups share price, earnings profitability, capital strength and balance-sheet strength.
The measures can be Under RSAs Clawback Policy, unvested share awards granted from 2013 onwards can be subject to forfeiture partial assessed on an absolute and or a relative basis.
The metrics can be assessed through a scorecard.
The performance Performance conditions revised or full covering a range of circumstances and other sanctions can apply.
The policy is noted in detail on page 85. conditions are not subject to re-testing.
and include a scorecard aligned The Committee reviews the policy annually and may amend or update it, as required.
The performance period will normally be at least three years for all measures.
By exception, the relative TSR metric The Executive Directors maximum award opportunity is set having regard to the market median grant within the will be assessed over circa 34 months for the 2014 grant only.
The performance conditions and targets that will apply to the 2014 grant, subject to the new LTIP gaining shareholder Clawback Policy strengthened.
Committee can act within the parameters of the Plans rules as approved by shareholders and its performance conditions, approval, are detailed on page 91.
Change in relative TSR covering matters such as the measures, calculation methods, performance period, eligibility rules, and general Plan Shareholders will be consulted if changes to the measures are proposed by the Committee.
The purpose of discretion is to enable the LTIP to be appropriately administered under both normal and grant cycle.
exceptional circumstances, e. g. corporate or capital events affecting the Group or a significant number of employees.
In Changes noted on pages addition, the Committee can make such amendments as may be necessary to respond to legal, accounting or regulatory 90 to 91. changes.
Awards can be reduced or otherwise amended, provided the action is fair and justifiable, for example, to guard against a windfall award or the converse generated by an accounting treatment, to put employees in a neutral position following a capital event.
Specifically, under a change of control, performance conditions are tested and awards can vest earlier than scheduled, pro-rated for time and performance, however, the Committee can determine whether a pro-ration for time is applied to other forms of award not subject to performance conditions.
Note to table: The policy applicable to the Executive Directors long-term incentives is the same for all other participants who receive performance-based awards, with exception to the two-year post-vesting retention period which only covers Executive Directors.
LTIP award opportunities vary for individuals below the Board.
Legacy incentives The Executive Directors will continue to retain any awards granted under RSAs 2006 Long-term Incentive Plan including Performance conditions for any outstanding awards are Group underlying Return on Equity and relative Total None variable remuneration deferred share awards.
Subject to the 2014 Performance Share Plan being approved by shareholders, no further grants Shareholder Return as noted in the Directors Remuneration Report for 2012 and in this Report on page 85. will be made under the 2006 Plan.
The Committee can exercise the same discretion as noted in the LTIP section above, There is no re-testing of the performance conditions.
Required shareholding Executive Directors must acquire shares in RSA and hold them according to specified levels, expressed as a salary multiple.
Performance conditions do not apply.
Shareholding level increased for Group Chief Executive Ensures alignment with Executives have five years in which to build up their holding, commencing from the first date an unconditional share award With effect from 1 January 2014, the shareholding levels to be reached are: from 200% to 300% of salary, shareholders interests is made to them as a Director.
No shares are to be sold until the holding level is reached, except where required to cover Group Chief Executive: 300% of salary as noted on page 92. and enables the Director statutory deductions.
Other Executive Directors: 150% of salary to build a stake in The shares which count towards the holding are those held either in their own right or that of immediate family members, The Executive Directors shareholding levels as at 31 December 2013 are noted on page 86. the business.
and any awarded by RSA which cease to be bound by any performance or service conditions.
Vested LTIP shares form The shareholding levels were determined with reference to the practice across the benchmark peer groups.
part of the holding during the two-year retention period.
For the purpose of reporting to shareholders, the holding levels will be determined using the mid-market closing price of an RSA ordinary share and executives annual gross basic salaries, both as at 31 December in the reporting year.
The Committee can exercise discretion to temporarily waive or reduce the holding requirement or allow shares to be sold in exceptional business or personal circumstances e. g. ill-health, divorce, financial hardship.
Note to table: Members of the Executive Team and selected senior leaders across the Group are also required to hold shares in RSA.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 75 3.
76 REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 3.
RSAS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Key policy changes from 2013 Appointment treatment Appointment salaries are set using the same approach as for the Directors salary reviews, as noted on pages 72 to 73 If the Director is entered into an RSA LTIP and made an award of performance shares, these will be subject Policy adheres to previous above.
The Committee can exercise discretion on the timing and level of salary reviews for newly appointed Directors to the same performance conditions and vesting date as applies to other plan participants.
internal practice, except that Ensures a consistent and reflecting the individuals development and performance in the role.
restricted shares have not transparent approach is Under normal circumstances, a new Executive Director will be eligible for incentive awards in line with the been utilised to satisfy a taken when appointing Benefits, pension and contractual terms will be the same as those offered to current Executive Directors, but the usual policy which provides for a maximum bonus of 160% of salary and LTIP award of 230% of salary.
compensatory award at executives to the Board, in Committee may exercise judgement to flex the package to accommodate any specific terms bespoke to the individual, However, in exceptional circumstances, a higher bonus opportunity of up to 200% of salary may be agreed and Executive Director level.
e. g. related to health, annual leave, pension or insurance benefits.
a performance-related LTIP award may be approved by the Committee in the Directors first year of service up to the limit of 400% of salary.
No Director will be appointed on a notice period exceeding 12 months.
Restricted shares may be issued and, if so, these will not carry any financial performance conditions, only continued Where the Director is an internal promotion within the Group, he she may be permitted to retain any legacy benefits service with the Group or such other conditions as the Committee may agree.
Restricted shares will only be awarded or terms at the Committees discretion.
Continuity of service with the Group will be maintained.
to an Executive Director in the case of compensation for loss upon recruitment.
Where the Director is an external appointment, the Committee may agree to a compensatory package reflecting The Committee may agree to reduce the value of the compensatory award below the anticipated or actual loss value incentives or benefits forfeited upon resignation.
This will only be permitted on receipt of reasonable evidence of loss.
if the compensation is paid at an advanced date i. e. early settlement.
There will be no cash sign-on payments where there is no loss.
Any compensatory award using cash or restricted shares will always carry a service condition and an appropriate Typically, the form of award that is being forfeited e. g. cash or shares will be replaced by the same form of award at RSA.
repayment schedule to protect shareholders interests.
Share awards, if they are subject to performance conditions, will generally be compensated by performance share grants in the LTIP.
A fair value approach will be applied to determine the value of any compensatory share awards.
As a point of principle, restricted shares will only be used where a performance condition has been achieved or is nearing testing and there is a reasonable expectation of the vesting level.
Cash bonuses may be bought out with restricted shares in order to give the Director an early stake in RSA.
Committee can exercise discretion on how to settle any buyout and over what time period to phase any compensatory awards.
It will have regard to the performance and vesting periods of the Directors forfeited incentives when determining this.
Note to table: The policy is largely consistent with the approach taken on recruitment remuneration for senior executives across the Group.
Leaver treatment Directors who resign or are dismissed for cause are not eligible for an annual bonus if they have left or are under notice at Where good leavers receive pro-rated bonus or LTIP awards, performance is tested in line with the normal Compulsory deferred bonus the date of payment, and forfeit all unvested LTIP awards.
They retain any shares they have voluntarily deferred in the LTIP performance timetable.
The Committee can, however, arrange for the performance conditions to be tested shares granted from 2014 Ensures fair treatment for under the 2006 Plan.
Directors who resign can retain any compulsory deferred bonus shares awarded from 2014 onwards early and for awards to vest sooner than the scheduled date in cases of death in service, medical severance onwards will only be forfeited departing executives while and any associated dividends or equivalents.
with discretion or under a change of control.
for executives where the avoiding reward for failure.
Clawback Policy is implemented Good leavers, at the Committees discretion, and normally including such circumstances as planned retirement, death, Based on the leaving circumstances and having regard of shareholders interests, the Committee can exercise or for other reasons disability medical severance, transfers outside of the Group and redundancy, would be eligible for an annual bonus for the discretion to reduce or lapse awards or enable a proportion of awards to be received but only in highly exceptional determined by the Committee.
proportion of the bonus year served.
Deferred bonus shares will normally vest in line with the normal timetable, and LTIPs circumstances and where appropriate.
Shareholders will be informed if discretion is applied, and details will be In 2013, compulsory deferred vest subject to performance and time-prorating.
The Committee will make reasonable judgement on determining whether provided wherever possible.
shares were only permitted a Director qualifies for good leaver status by reason of retirement, by understanding the individuals intentions post There are no pre-determined special provisions for Directors with regard to compensation for loss of office.
to be retained for executives employment termination and taking account of the context of his her departure from the Group.
The Committee has Compensation is based on what would be earned by way of salary and other contractual benefits including pension, whose employment ended the discretion to make the final bonus award in cash and therefore waive compulsory deferral.
In the normal course of events, reasonable professional fees may be paid in relation to a for reasons of ill-health, If a loss of office were to occur giving rise to a redundancy payment under prevailing employment legislation, the payment Directors employment termination.
redundancy, death or will be calculated taking account of the Directors length of service with the Group and his annual gross basic salary as at his No payment or compensation for loss of office made to any departing Director will be disclosed if it is less than retirement.
Benefits continue until the employment termination date or the date the contractual notice 10,000 gross.
period expires, whichever is the latter: they can be settled as payments.
The unexpired period of the Directors notice may either be paid or served, including on garden leave: this is regardless of which party has served notice.
Generally, in the event of termination and in all cases of termination on performance grounds, the Committees policy would be to seek and apply mitigation, and payments may be made on a phased basis.
Note to table: The policy is largely consistent with the approach taken for senior executives across the Group.
RSAS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Key policy changes from 2013 Fees Fees are reviewed annually but an annual increase may not always be applied.
Fees increased on 1 July 2013, and details are noted on page 92.
Ensures competitive When assessing fee levels, account is taken of the required time commitment and the degree of expertise necessary to With exception to the Chairman, all Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee, further fees are then paid remuneration is paid to fulfil the particular role such as chairing a committee.
to reflect membership of more than one committee and for chairing a committee.
A separate fee is paid to attract high calibre the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman receives a fee for his role and this is set by the Committee.
The fees are benchmarked using the same peer groups as for the Executive Directors remuneration, and will have regard non-executives and to the market median.
Base fees including the Chairmans fee will be kept within the aggregate limit stated in the Groups Articles recognise their time of Association.
Fees are paid in cash, subject to any required statutory deductions which are taken at source.
Details of the Chairmans fee and the Non-Executive Directors fees earned for 2013 are noted on page 82.
The Company has the discretion to introduce new fees or change the Non-Executives Directors terms.
Other key terms of office The Chairman is provided with secretarial support and the use of an office.
None Reflects current good Non-Executive Directors may claim expenses in line with RSAs business and travel policies: some of these expenses do Contractual terms are noted on page 79. governance.
not qualify for HMRC tax relief.
They receive no other benefits, but they can have RSA insurance products at a discount.
As the Non-Executive Directors are not employed by the Company, they are not eligible to receive a bonus award or participate in any of RSAs share plans.
The Non-Executive Directors may hold shares in RSA, but this is a personal matter and is not mandatory.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 77 3.
78 REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 5.
PAYING FOR PERFORMANCE RSA has a pay-for-performance culture across the Group, which means that remuneration is linked closely to the performance of both the business and the individual.
A significant proportion of the Executive Directors remuneration is variable, i. e. it is subject to performance conditions and is therefore at risk.
The Committees aim is that superior levels of remuneration will only be paid in return for delivering superior levels of performance.
The following charts show how much the Executive Directors could earn for the 2014 financial year based on the application of the Remuneration Policy described on pages 72 to 77.
Their remuneration potential changes according to varying levels of performance achievement.
The assumptions that were used to prepare these charts are noted below.
Also below are the timings of when each component of the remuneration package would be physically delivered to the executives.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE APPLICATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration bonus Variable remuneration long-term 5,637 6,000 5,000 51% 3,808 4,000 3,000 47% 2,512 2,497 1,690 1,691 2,000 27% 45% 45% 20% 1,267 42% 41% 1,000 584 607 32% 31% 23% 23% 33% 100% 22% 36% 24% 100% 35% 23% 100% 0 Below threshold On-target Maximum Below threshold Below threshold On-target Maximum On-target Maximum Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Of cer Chief Executive, UK and Western Europe Notes: 1.
The below threshold scenario shows the minimum remuneration receivable.
For the Group Chief Executive, it includes annual base salary, benefits and pension valued in accordance with the terms of Stephen Hesters appointment.
For the Group Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive, UK and Western Europe, it includes the value of annual base salary and pension as at 1 January 2014 and the value of benefits in the single total figure of remuneration for 2013.
No bonus is awarded and no LTIP vesting occurs for below threshold performance.
The on-target scenario shows the remuneration receivable with a bonus award at half of the maximum opportunity i. e. 80% of salary and LTIP vesting at 62.5% i. e. half-way between threshold 25% vesting and maximum 100% vesting.
The LTIP maximum award level is taken to be 300% of salary for the Group Chief Executive which reflects Stephen Hesters appointment commitment for the 2014 grant only, and 230% of salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive, UK and Western Europe.
The maximum scenario shows the remuneration receivable with both the Annual Bonus Plan and the LTIP paying out in full i. e. 160% of salary and 300% 230% of salary, respectively.
The table below shows when each component of the Executive Directors remuneration package as noted in the charts above would be delivered to them once any performance conditions or other restrictions have ended as noted by the shading.
These each relate to the 2014 financial year and, in the case of the LTIP, for awards vesting in 2017.
Financial Year Remuneration Package Component 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Base salary Benefits Pension contribution cash allowance Annual bonus: cash award Annual bonus: deferred share award LTIP: performance share award Year of share award granting Year of share award vesting Year when any restrictions have ended 000 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 79 7.
CONTRACTUAL TERMS Executive Directors RSAs shareholders Each of the Executive Directors is employed under a service As previously noted in the shareholder letter on pages 69 to 70, the agreement, which contains a variety of contractual terms and Committee is dedicated to maintaining an active and open dialogue conditions.
Their employment can be terminated by the Company with RSAs shareholders.
It believes that a transparent approach or the individual, by the serving of 12 months notice.
In the case of on all matters connected to boardroom pay is essential for building summary dismissal, no notice will be served by the Company and and maintaining trust and integrity.
Similarly, the Committee values no compensation will be paid in lieu of it.
Notice periods are approved constructive feedback, regardless of whether it is from an institutional by the Committee and, at its discretion, can be reduced in the event investor or a retail shareholder.
an Executive Director resigns and wishes to leave prior to the end During 2013, the Committee actively engaged its leading of his contractual notice period.
shareholders on changes it was considering arising from the As with any RSA employee, the Executive Directors may be remuneration review.
The Committee Chairman wrote to the suspended from their duties in the event of their misconduct or Companys 20 largest shareholders and the UKs leading corporate during an investigation which might result in their dismissal.
governance bodies on the structure of its incentive programmes The Company has the contractual right to place the Executive and the directors shareholding requirements.
This communication Directors on garden leave for part, or all, of their notice period.
continued the dialogue the Committee had begun the previous year, Salary, benefits and pension contributions continue during garden following a series of changes it had made to the Groups remuneration leave, but this time will not count towards the calculation of any annual framework beginning in 2011.
The Committee reflected views given bonus award that may subsequently be due.
Executive Directors do on its proposals as noted on page 70. not have terms which provide additional rights or payments to them Also during the year, the Committee Chairman and Chairman met in the event of a change of control, reconstruction or amalgamation with representatives from several key institutional investors to discuss of the Company.
Restrictive covenants are in place to help protect remuneration.
Shareholder meetings will continue to be held for as RSAs interests should the individual leave the Company for any reason.
long as all parties feel they are beneficial: this is aside of the AGM, Executive Directors may hold one external non-executive analyst briefings and shareholder road shows and meetings.
position of a FTSE100 company provided this does not give rise RSAs employees to any conflict of interest, with the approval of the Nomination The Committee is proud of RSAs world-class levels of employee Committee.
If there is any remuneration arising from this role, engagement, which are measured through  the individual can retain it.
surveys and reports across the Group.
Information is exchanged The date when each Executive Director was appointed to the between employees, the Board and RSAs leaders in a number of ways, Board is shown in the table on page 93.
Contracts are available for some via formal consultation forums.
The European Works Council inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Non-Executive Directors As the Executive Directors are UK-based employees, the Non-Executive Directors are not employed by RSA, but they are Group Reward Director met with the EWC during 2013 to engage engaged on a contract for services basis.
They are issued with an it specifically on boardroom remuneration.
She explained how the appointment letter for an initial three-year term, which can be Executive Directors packages are structured, the factors that extended with the Boards agreement.
The term of office can end influence them and the role of the Remuneration Committee.
Finally, prior to its expiry with either the individual or the Company serving the EWC heard how the directors remuneration principles are used one months notice, or three months in respect of the Chairman.
to inform how remuneration is approached across the Group, even No notice will be served by the Company in the event of gross though the actual detail may differ from country to country.
of the EWC welcomed the insight shared with them, and the session Non-Executive Directors are expected to disclose any conflicts enabled a free flowing exchange of views.
Further briefings will be held of interest prior to, and during, the course of their tenure.
They will to maintain the EWCs knowledge, gain mutual insight and enable not participate in making a decision if any conflict is considered to further input on reward matters.
impact their independence or limit their ability to discharge their duties to shareholders.
Since Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman receive only fees and expenses, no individual can have a loss of office payment, although payment in lieu of notice can be made.
The dates when each Non-Executive Director was appointed to the Board and the expiry dates of their current terms of office are shown in the table on page 93.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors fees are noted on page 92.
Appointment letters are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
80 XXXX REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 1.
INTRODUCTION SECTION 2 This section of the Directors Remuneration Report describes the way in which remuneration decisions have been carried out in the ANNUAL REPORT ON financial year ended 31 December 2013.
There is a statement on how the Group intends to implement its Remuneration Policy in 2014 on REMUNERATION pages 90 to 92.
Some of the information contained in this section of the report is subject to audit and, where this is the case, it is noted.
I NFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Purpose of the Committee The Group Remuneration Committee Committee is a formal committee of the Board, accountable to shareholders through its policies and actions.
It updates shareholders via the publication of the Directors Remuneration Report.
At the AGM on 9 May 2014, the Policy section of this Report on pages 71 to 79 will be submitted for a binding shareholder vote, while the Annual Report section on these pages, 80 to 93, will be put to an advisory vote.
The Committee determines the remuneration and contractual terms for the Executive Directors and the Executive Team whose profiles are contained on pages 46 to 49.
It also approves the fee and contractual terms of the Chairman whose profile is on page 47.
The decisions the Committee makes are intended to promote the ongoing success of the Group, whilst upholding the interests of shareholders, regulators, customers and other stakeholders.
Consequently, it pays close attention to the Groups risk management policies, ensuring that these are considered alongside other relevant information so that its actions are balanced, appropriate and support the Groups strategy.
To enable the Committee to fulfil its accountabilities to shareholders, it meets as often as is required and it must meet at least twice a year.
It operates within an agreed set of terms, which the Committee reviews annually.
A copy of these terms of reference can be viewed on the Groups website at: www.
com or alternatively a paper copy can be requested in writing from the Group Company Secretary.
Committee members The Committee comprises a number of independent Non-Executive Directors who are called upon to exercise judgement on the setting and management of executive remuneration.
The Committees members in 2013 are detailed in the table below.
The number of meetings each Director attended is shown as a proportion of the total number of meetings held during the period of the year in which they were a Committee member.
Committee member Meetings in 2013 5 1 Edward Lea 1 2 Malcolm Le May 5 5 Hugh Mitchell 5 5 Jos Streppel 5 5 2 Johanna Waterous 3 3 Notes: Chair of Committee 1.
Edward Lea was a member of the Committee until 1 March 2013.
Johanna Waterous was appointed to the Committee effective 1 March 2013.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 81 Committee attendees Committee advisors The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and other senior executives PwC was formally appointed by the Committee, as its independent attend Committee meetings by invitation to advise on Group strategy, advisor in September 2012.
It was selected following a market tender performance, HR and remuneration policies and practices.
During 2013, PwC also provided wide-ranging advice and none of these executives have a right to attend and are not present consultancy services across RSA globally on matters including business if their own remuneration is being discussed.
The table below notes processes, IT, internal audit, corporate social responsibility, the Committee attendees during 2013. direct and indirect tax and governance.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory to its Code of Committee attendee Position Conduct.
In addition, the Committee has satisfied itself that the Martin Scicluna Chairman advice it receives is objective and independent as the firm has confirmed there are no conflicts of interests arising between it, Derek Walsh Group General Counsel & Group Company its advisors and RSA.
The fee paid for services to the Committee Secretary Secretary to the Committee in the year was 104,000 excluding VAT, based on a fixed fee for 1 Simon Lee Group Chief Executive a defined scope of work, and hourly rates for specific projects.
Vanessa Evans Group Human Resources Director Leigh Harrison Group Reward Director Note: 1.
Simon Lee resigned from the Board and his employment ended effective 12 December 2013.
He attended Committee meetings prior to this date.
Committee meetings held in 2013 In 2013, the Committee met on five occasions and the table below summarises the matters it discussed.
Meeting Regular items Additional items January Review of performance update and associated payout projections of the Corporate governance update Annual Bonus Plan 2012 and LTIP cycle 201012 vesting in 2013 Review of outputs of Remuneration Committee Effectiveness Survey 2012 Review of performance conditions for 2013 LTIP grant February Review of Directors base salaries and approval of increases for 1 April 2013 Remuneration review Testing of the performance conditions underpinning the Annual Bonus Plan 2012 and the LTIP cycle 201012: approval of Directors awards Review of Executive Directors personal goals for 2013 Approval of the terms of the LTIP grant 2013 and Directors associated conditional share awards July Review of the 2013 LTIP grant and an update on dilution levels Corporate governance update Update on the Annual Bonus Plan 2013 and LTIP cycles 2011, 2012 and 2013 Approval of the rules relating to the Scandinavia deferred bonus plan September Approval for a supplementary grant of conditional LTIP awards in November Corporate governance update 2013 for non-Board employees Remuneration review Approval to operate Sharesave in 2013 Approval of design of new LTIP 2014 Performance Share Plan 1 December Update on the Annual Bonus Plan 2013 and LTIP cycles 2011, 2012 and 2013 Shareholder engagement approach Review of proposed 2014 incentives performance conditions and targets New LTIP rules Review of Committee meeting schedule for 2014 Approval of revised Remuneration Committee terms of reference Note: 1.
The Board met to agree the treatment of Simon Lees remuneration and terms following his resignation on 12 December 2013.
82 XXXX REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 3.
TOTAL REMUNERATION 2013: SINGLE FIGURE TABLES audited The tables below set out the Directors total remuneration single figure for the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
For comparative purposes, 2012 figures are also provided.
The components of the Executive Directors remuneration are detailed on pages 83 to 85.
The fee structure applicable to Non-Executive Directors is detailed on page 92.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Groups incentive plans.
Taxable benefits: includes reimbursement in respect of travel and accommodation.
Adrian Brown received a car allowance of 19,685 2012: 21,791, Richard Houghton received a car allowance of 16,260 2012: 9,047 and Simon Lee received a car allowance of 17,979 2012: 17,812.
In 2012, George Culmer received a company car benefit of 5,856.
In addition, each of the Executive Directors received medical benefits valued at 2,153 in 2013, which included family cover from 1 January 2013 2012: 861.
Alastair Barbour received benefits of 12,370 2012: 4,735 for taxable travel where relief under HMRC rules is not available.
Bonus: comprises awards in respect of performance measures relating solely to the financial year shown, in accordance with the plan described on page 83.
No Executive Director received a bonus in respect of the 2013 financial year, and therefore no deferred shares will be awarded.
2012: A 25% portion of the bonus shown was awarded in Compulsory Deferred Shares, and Executive Directors could elect to defer a further 33% of the net cash bonus into Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares.
LTIP 2013: performance based awards granted under the 201113 LTIP cycle will lapse in full on 7 April 2014.
LTIP 2012: the value of Performance Shares, Compulsory Deferred Matching Shares and Voluntarily Invested Deferred Matching Share awards that vested on 7 April 2013, arising from the LTIP cycle 201012, against a market price of 1.096 on the vesting date.
Pension related benefits: these benefits are detailed on page 83.
Other remuneration: includes gains made from RSAs HMRC-approved all-employee share plans, i. e. gains on maturing Sharesave options and Sharebuild matching shares granted during the year detailed on page 87.
These other items in the nature of remuneration are available to all qualifying UK staff and are non taxable.
George Culmer resigned as a Director with effect from 14 May 2012.
Richard Houghton was appointed as a Director effective 12 June 2012 on an annual salary of 480,000.
The salary value shown in the table for 2012 is the pro-rated amount based on his appointment date.
Simon Lee resigned from the Board and his employment ended on 12 December 2013.
The salary value shown in the table for 2013 is the pro-rated amount.
Pay in lieu of notice is not included in this table, and is captured in the Loss of Office section on page 88.
Kath Cates was appointed as a Director on 1 September 2013.
The table shows the total remuneration paid for the period 1 September to 31 December 2013.
Noel Harwerth and John Maxwell resigned as Directors with effect from 31 March 2013.
The table shows the total remuneration paid for the period 1 January to 31 March 2013.
Hugh Mitchell was appointed as a Director on 26 September 2012.
John Napier retired as a Director and Chairman on 31 December 2012.
Martin Scicluna was appointed as a Director and Chairman on 1 January 2013.
A 21,000 portion of the above fees relate to the period from 1331 December 2013 when he was appointed to the role of Executive Chairman.
At his request, there was no increase in fee for this period.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 83 4.
COMPONENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Base salary The Committee reviewed the Executive Directors salaries during 2013, and did so referencing a range of information including market data from two benchmarking peer groups of listed international insurers and FTSE companies of a broadly comparable market capitalisation to RSA, excluding banks and heavy industries.
It took into account the average reviews applied elsewhere in the Group, including those for employees subject to collective bargaining agreements, and UK inflation figures.
The table below notes the Executive Directors salaries effective from 1 April 2013.
The Executive Directors salaries remain unchanged for the 1 April 2014 review, as also noted on page 90.
Annual base salary % Director effective 1 April 2013 Change Adrian Brown 484,500 2% Richard Houghton 494,400 3% Simon Lee 824,000 3% Employment benefits The Executive Directors received a range of employment benefits during the year, including car and medical benefits, and the value of these is noted in the table on page 82.
Pension provision audited The Executive Directors pension benefits for 2013 were as follows: Adrian Brown received a taxable cash allowance of 17.5% of base salary, having opted out of the defined contribution scheme from 31 January 2012.
Richard Houghton received a combination of a taxable cash allowance of 5.27% of base salary 26,000, and an employer pension contribution of 9% of base salary into the defined contribution scheme 44,000.
In 2012, Richard Houghton received a taxable cash allowance of 13.18% of base salary and no pension contribution.
Simon Lee received a taxable cash allowance of 25% of base salary for the period he was employed during 2013 and 2012.
The aggregate value paid by RSA into the Companys stakeholder pension scheme for the Executive Directors in 2013 was 44,172 2012: 20,849.
All-employee share plans Executive Directors were eligible to participate in RSAs all-employee share plans Sharesave and Sharebuild during the year.
Details of their share interests in these plans to 31 December 2013 are noted in the tables on page 87.
Annual Bonus Plan audited For the 2013 financial year, the Executive Directors Annual Bonus Plan consisted of stretching targets aligned to Group underlying Return on Equity ROE and operational objectives personal to their roles which were assessed against a performance scorecard.
The Chief Executive, UK and Western Europe was additionally targeted against the Combined Operating Ratio COR performance for his region.
The maximum bonus opportunity that could be earned by the Executive Directors in 2013 was 160% of salary, of which half of any award would be compulsorily deferred into RSA shares for three financial years and subject to malus adjustment under the Groups Clawback Policy detailed on page 85.
As set out on pages 72 to 75, voluntary deferral and matching shares no longer form part of the incentive framework, and so these were not applicable to any awards arising from this years Plan.
The achievement of the financial performance measures was below threshold for the year ending 31 December 2013.
There was achievement in respect of the individual performance measures, however in light of the financial results the Committee determined that no award would be made to Executive Directors for this component of the bonus plan.
The Executive Directors bonus awards are stated below for the 2013 and 2012 financial years.
The values shown are inclusive of the Compulsory Deferred Share awards.
The bonus awards were determined by the Committee relative to the following annual gross basic salaries: Adrian Brown: 2013: 484,500 2012: 475,000 Richard Houghton: 2013: 494,400 2012: 480,000 Simon Lee: 2013: 824,000 2012: 800,000 3.
Simon Lee resigned from the Board and his employment ended on 12 December 2013, and therefore any eligibility for a bonus award ceased on this date.
84 XXXX REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Long-term incentives awards vesting from 201012 and 201113 cycles audited Conditional long-term incentive awards were made to Executive Directors in the 201012 and 201113 cycles.
This included Performance Shares of up to 150% of salary.
Additionally, they could receive Matching Shares for each share deferred through the respective 2009 and 2010 annual bonus plans, via both compulsory and voluntary deferral.
The maximum opportunity was 2.5 matching shares per deferred bonus share for the 201012 cycle: this was reduced to two matching shares for the 201113 cycle.
The vesting of these awards was contingent on RSA achieving targets for Group underlying Return on Equity ROE and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR, measured over a three-year performance period.
The table below shows the outcome of the 201012 and 201113 LTIP cycles, as tested by the Committee and independently verified.
Details of the Directors Compulsory Deferred Shares and the Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares for the 201113 cycle are noted in the table on page 88.
201113 201012 Threshold target: Maximum target: Actual Threshold target: Maximum target: Actual 3 3 3 3 LTIP performance measures 25% vesting 100% vesting performance 25% vesting 100% vesting performance 1 Relative TSR Median: Upper quintile: Median: Upper quintile: 48.9% 78.8% 4.7% 4.6% 44.5% 18.2% 2 Group ROE 10% 16% 6.3% 10% 16% 10.6% Notes: 1.
Relative TSR target is between median and upper quintile within a peer group of: Aegon, Allianz, Aviva, AXA, Baloise, Generali, Legal & General, Munich Re, QBE, Swiss Re and Zurich.
Group underlying ROE target is a three-year average measured over the performance period.
A straight line calculation is applied to determine the portion of awards that vest for performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
As a result, the 201012 cycle had partial vesting on the ROE performance measure 32.5% vesting and partial vesting on the relative TSR performance measure 41.2% vesting.
Awards granted under the 201113 cycle will not vest as neither of the performance conditions were achieved.
The Performance Shares and Compulsory Deferred Matching Shares were weighted 70% on the ROE performance measure, and 30% on the Relative TSR measure.
The Voluntarily Invested Deferred Matching Share awards were weighted 100% on the ROE performance measure.
Consequently, the overall proportion of awards that vested was as follows: Overall % vesting Form of LTIP award 20112013 20102012 Performance Shares 0% 35.1% Compulsory Deferred Matching Shares 0% 35.1% Voluntarily Invested Deferred Matching Shares 0% 32.5% The details of the Executive Directors vested awards are set out in the table below: Compulsory Deferred Voluntarily Invested Deferred Performance Shares Matching Shares Matching Shares Total LTIP vesting Granted Vested Value Granted Vested Value Granted Vested Value Granted Vested Value Adrian 467,693 0 0 232,365 0 0 152,872 0 0 852,930 0 0 1 Brown 201113 3 Simon Lee 402,329 0 0 372,757 0 0 245,239 0 0 1,020,325 0 0 Adrian 435,823 152,990 167,677 316,697 111,173 121,846 208,961 67,912 74,432 961,481 332,075 363,954 2 Brown 201012 3 Simon Lee 501,091 175,902 192,789 474,950 166,726 182,732 313,385 101,850 111,628 1,289,426 444,478 487,148 Notes: 1.
201113 cycle: The table shows that no performance-based awards arising from this cycle will vest.
201012 cycle: The market price of an ordinary share on the date of vesting, 7 April 2013, was 1.096.
His awards in the 201113 LTIP cycle shown above lapsed on this date.
Richard Houghton was appointed as a Director on 12 June 2012, and had no awards in the above LTIP cycles.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 85 Long-term incentives awards granted in 2013 audited Conditional long-term incentive awards were made to the Executive Directors during 2013.
The awards included both Performance Shares and Matching Shares because they were granted under the 2006 LTIP.
They will vest in 2016, subject to the satisfaction of the plans performance conditions based on Group underlying ROE and relative TSR, which are measured over a three-year period.
The targets for these performance measures are shown in the table below.
3 3 LTIP performance measures 201315 Threshold target: 25% vesting Maximum target: 100% vesting 1 Relative TSR RSAs TSR is equal to the unweighted RSAs TSR outperforms the unweighted index of comparators by at index of comparators least 7% per annum 22.5% compound over three years or exceeds the TSR of the highest performing company in the index 2 Group ROE 9% 14% Notes: 1.
Relative TSR index of comparators includes: ACE, Admiral, Allianz, Amlin, Aviva, Catlin, Direct Line, Gjensidige Forsikring, Hiscox, Intact, Mapfre, QBE, Topdanmark, Tryg and Zurich.
Group underlying ROE target is a three-year average over 2013 to 2015.
The awards granted to each Executive Director are set out in the table below: Compulsory Deferred Voluntarily Invested Deferred 1 2 1 2 1 3 Performance Shares Matching Shares Matching Shares Basis of Award: Basis of Award: 4 150% of salary Two matching shares granted for each share deferred from the 2012 bonus award Total 5 6 5 6 5 6 6 Director No.
For all forms of awards, the performance period is three years and ends on 31 December 2015.
For Performance Shares and Compulsory Deferred Matching Share awards, the performance measures are Group underlying ROE 70% weighting and relative TSR 30% weighting.
For Voluntarily Invested Deferred Matching Shares, the performance measure is Group underlying ROE 100% weighting.
Basis of Award: Under the historical incentive arrangements, Executive Directors could receive two Matching Shares for each share deferred through the 2012 annual bonus plan, on either a compulsory or voluntary deferral basis.
25% of the Executive Directors total gross bonus award for the 2012 financial year was awarded in Compulsorily Deferred Shares and eligible for matching.
An additional 33% of the net bonus award could be deferred into Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares and eligible for matching.
If threshold performance is achieved, 25% of the number of shares shown will vest.
Face value of awards are calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures and targets are met, multiplied by the mid-market closing price of an RSA ordinary share averaged over the five business days preceding the date of grant 3 April 2013, of 1.166.
His LTIP awards shown in this table lapsed on that date.
Clawback Policy A Clawback Policy was introduced in 2013 which has been further strengthened to apply to awards issued in 2014 onwards.
In summary, the Committee has the ability to reduce or forfeit awards that have yet to be paid or vest in the case of shares i. e. malus adjustment, to delay the payment or vesting date or to amend another form of award or benefit which has yet to be received.
These sanctions may apply in circumstances including: Material financial misstatement of results for any financial year or the material financial loss under-performance of a business unit that could have been reasonably risk-managed Error or material misstatement leading to an over-payment Employee misconduct, including regulatory or other breaches Legitimate concerns regarding an employees conduct, capability or performance Actions leading to reputational damage Deterioration in the financial health of the Company leading to severe financial constraint Any other situation as the Committee may reasonably determine.
86 XXXX REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 5.
DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING audited Executive Directors required shareholding 2013 RSA believes it is in shareholders interests for its executives to hold shares in the Company.
Under the guidelines applicable during 2013, executives were expected to build up a minimum holding over a five-year period and maintain it thereafter.
The required shareholding levels that applied during 2013 are shown below.
For 2014, the Committee increased the Group Chief Executives required shareholding to 300% of salary as noted on page 92.
Position % of salary Group Chief Executive 200% Other Executive Directors 150% The number of shares held by the Executive Directors as at 31 December 2013 is shown in the table below.
Simon Lees and Adrian Browns shareholdings exceeded the required level.
Richard Houghton joined RSA in June 2012 and continues to build up his holding within the allotted five-year period.
The shareholding excludes all unvested share awards and those otherwise subject to forfeiture or a holding period.
It includes Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares and shares acquired through RSAs all-employee plan, Sharebuild.
The valuation is against the mid-market closing price of an RSA ordinary share as at 31 December 2013 of 91.4p per share.
The gross base annual salary as at 31 December 2013.
His shareholding is shown at that date, and valued using his gross annual base salary and the mid-market closing price of an RSA ordinary share at that date 99.7p per share.
Shareholdings The interests of Directors in ordinary shares of 27.5p each of the Company were as follows: Shares held at Shares held at Director 1 January 2013 31 December 2013 1,2 Executive Directors Adrian Brown 624,407 916,210 Richard Houghton 0 179,710 3 Simon Lee 1,359,300 2,010,038 2 Non-Executive Directors Alastair Barbour 20,609 43,780 4 Kath Cates 0 0 5 Noel Harwerth 10,000 10,000 Edward Lea 764,917 902,624 Malcolm Le May 21,862 23,063 5 John Maxwell 536,832 536,832 Hugh Mitchell 20,000 21,099 Martin Scicluna 0 42,012 Jos Streppel 0 0 Johanna Waterous 36,761 45,161 Notes: 1.
Adrian Brown and Richard Houghton each had a beneficial interest as at 31 December 2013 in Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares held under the LTIP.
Adrian Brown also has an interest in the Partnership, Dividend and Matching Shares under Sharebuild.
These are not included in the above table.
They are disclosed on pages 87 to 88.
As at 26 February 2014, the interests in ordinary shares of the current Non-Executive Directors and Richard Houghton had not changed since 31 December 2013.
Changes in the interests of Adrian Brown are disclosed in the notes to the Sharebuild table on page 87.
His share interests are shown at that date and not 31 December 2013.
Kath Cates was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 September 2013.
The table above shows her shareholding on the date of her appointment and not 1 January 2013.
Noel Harweth and John Maxwell resigned from the Board on 31 March 2013.
Their interests are shown as at 31 March 2013.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 87 Scheme interests held Details of Executive Directors existing awards in the Groups incentive schemes and all-employee share plans for the financial year are set out below.
Full details of all Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares are recorded in the Groups Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection by shareholders at the AGM and at the Companys registered office during standard business hours.
Outstanding options Unexpired options held during 2013 in respect of the ordinary shares of the Company as a result of executive and Sharesave share option schemes are shown below.
All options were granted for nil consideration.
None of the terms or conditions of any of the existing options over shares of the Group were varied during the year.
The 1999 ESOS is an executive share option scheme under which options were granted with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
Any outstanding options expire 10 years from the date of grant.
No grants have been made under the 1999 ESOS since 2006.
The 1999 ESOS expired in 2009 although a number of options remain outstanding in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
The relevant performance conditions were achieved in respect of the options noted in the table below.
The aggregate gross gain made by Directors during the year on the exercise of share options amounted to 39,778.38.
His interests are therefore shown as at close of business on that date.
With the exception of the Sharesave award described in note 3 below, and options under the 1999 ESOS scheme which lapsed during the year, all Mr Lees outstanding share options lapsed on 12 December 2013.
Simon Lees Sharesave award remains exercisable until 31 May 2014 in accordance with the 2009 Sharesave Rules under which it was granted.
The status of the information on this award is given as at close of business on 12 December 2013.
The official closing middle market price at its highest during the year was 136.3p per share and at its lowest was 90.1p per share.
On the last dealing day of the year it was 91.4p per share.
Sharebuild The Directors interests in Sharebuild shares during 2013 were as follows: Sharebuild Shares Partnership Shares Matching Shares Dividend Shares Sharebuild Shares 2 held at 1 January 2013 acquired during the year awarded during the year acquired during the year held at 31 December 2013 1,2 Adrian Brown 8,639 1,276 1,276 553 11,744 3 Simon Lee 8,639 1,276 1,276 553 0 Notes: 1.
The interests of Adrian Brown increased by 254 ordinary shares on 7 January 2014 and a further 242 ordinary shares on 7 February 2014 following the purchase of Partnership Shares and the awards of Matching Shares on those dates.
Under the terms of the Companys all-employee Sharebuild Plan an HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan, the Matching Shares awarded between December 2009 and February 2011 have vested.
Any Matching Shares which have vested under the rules have remained in the Trust and are included in the above table.
Simon Lee resigned from the Board and his employment ended on 12 December 2013, and he received his Partnership Shares, vested Matching Shares and Dividend Shares as at that date in accordance with the rules of the Sharebuild Plan.
A total of 3,839 unvested Matching Shares in the Scheme were forfeited upon his resignation.
88 XXXX REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Long-term Incentive Plan 2006 LTIP The Directors interests in the LTIP were as follows: Share awards held at Share awards granted Share awards vested Share awards lapsed Share awards held at 1 8, 9 1 January 2013 during the year during the year during the year 31 December 2013 Adrian Brown 2 Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares 135,563 33,225 49,315 0 119,473 3 Compulsory Deferred Shares 265,009 69,905 126,679 0 208,235 4 Voluntarily Invested Deferred Matching Shares 596,353 138,437 67,912 141,049 525,829 5 Compulsory Deferred Matching Shares 639,830 139,810 111,173 205,524 462,943 6 Performance Shares 2,043,807 623,284 152,990 282,833 2,231,268 Richard Houghton 2 Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares 0 34,336 0 0 34,336 3 Compulsory Deferred Shares 0 72,244 0 0 72,244 4 Voluntarily Invested Deferred Matching Shares 0 143,066 0 0 143,066 5 Compulsory Deferred Matching Shares 0 144,488 0 0 144,488 6 Performance Shares 712,025 636,020 0 0 1,348,045 Simon Lee 2 Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares 194,616 64,760 259,376 0 0 3 Compulsory Deferred Shares 378,628 136,256 189,980 324,904 0 4 Voluntarily Invested Deferred Matching Shares 861,082 269,833 101,850 1,029,065 0 5 Compulsory Deferred Matching Shares 926,797 272,512 166,726 1,032,583 0 6 Performance Shares 2,055,714 1,060,034 175,902 2,939,846 0 Notes: 1.
The market price of ordinary shares on 3 April 2013, the date on which long-term incentive plan interests were granted during the year, was 111.4p.
Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares are purchased by Capita Trustees Limited on behalf of each participant using part of the net annual bonus paid to them and are held in trust for three years.
These deferred shares are not at risk of forfeiture and may be withdrawn from the Trust at any time but any associated Matching Shares lapse if this occurs.
Compulsory Deferred Shares have a service condition of three years from date of grant.
The performance condition for Voluntarily Invested Deferred Matching Share grants made in 2011, 2012 and 2013 was Group ROE 100% weighting.
The performance conditions for Compulsory Deferred Matching Share grants made in 2011, 2012 and 2013 were Group ROE 70% weighting and relative TSR 30% weighting.
The performance conditions for Performance Share grants made in 2011, 2012 and 2013 were Group ROE 70% weighting and relative TSR 30% weighting.
The date by which performance and other conditions for LTIP awards must be met is as follows: 2011 awards by 31 December 2013, 2012 awards by 31 December 2014 and 2013 awards by 31 December 2015.
In respect of the awards made to Adrian Brown and Simon Lee, the market price on the date of grant of awards 7 April 2010 was 129.1p, the market price on date of vesting of awards 7 April 2013 was 109.6p.
The performance conditions for these awards are shown on page 84.
The aggregate value of share awards vested for Directors during the year under the Long-term Incentive Plan amounted to 1,198,162.
Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares, which are shown in the table above, are not included in this value.
No other Directors of the Company held long-term incentive scheme interests during 2013.
PAYMENTS TO DIRECTORS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE audited Simon Lee resigned from the Board and his employment ended on 12 December 2013.
He received no ex-gratia remuneration for loss of office, however, in line with Mr Lees contractual agreement, he was entitled to receive a payment in lieu of twelve months notice, paid in monthly instalments.
The payment is equivalent to his annual salary 824,000.
A portion of this payment, 40,144, was paid for the period from 13 December to 31 December 2013.
Mr Lee is required to mitigate his losses, and therefore the monthly instalments would be reduced on a pro-rated basis or cease if he receives payment or remuneration in respect of any alternative employment he accepts during the period.
Mr Lee will not receive any benefits or compensation in lieu in respect of this period.
He was paid 31,693 in lieu of accrued annual leave days not taken during 2013.
Mr Lee is not entitled to receive a bonus in respect of the 2013 or 2014 financial years.
A total of 4,481,450 shares granted to Mr Lee under the 2006 Long-term Incentive Plan lapsed on his employment termination date.
This included all outstanding LTIP awards, except his 185,417 Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares which he retained in accordance with the Plan rules the latter were purchased using part of prior years net bonus awards, and were valued at 184,861 based on a share price of 0.997 on 12 December 2013.
In addition, Mr Lees vested and unexercised share options granted under the 1999 Executive Share Option Scheme totalling 1,024,447 options, lapsed with immediate effect.
Mr Lees participation in RSAs voluntary all-employee share plans were treated in accordance with the rules of these plans for employees who resign.
PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS audited There were no payments made to former directors during 2013, other than the payments disclosed in the Loss of Office section above.
As disclosed in the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report, former Group Chief Executive, Andy Haste, was treated as a Good Leaver and so the awards conditionally granted to him in the 201012 LTIP cycle partially vested on 7 April 2013, pro-rated for time and achievement against the Plans performance conditions.
The 749,914 Performance, Matching and Compulsory Deferred Shares vesting were valued at 821,906 using a market price at date of vesting of 1.096.
His 155,637 Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares from the cycle were valued at 170,578 based on the same vesting date and share price.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 89 8.
H ISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE AND EXECUTIVE 9.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION REMUNERATION The table below sets out the percentage change in salary, benefits and The graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the FTSE100 bonus for the individual undertaking the most senior Executive Index and the relative TSR peer group used as an LTIP performance Director role in the Company compared with UK employees on measure for the 201315 cycle, the constituents of which are noted average between 2012 and 2013.
The UK population was selected on page 85. for this comparison because pay changes within RSA vary significantly, The FTSE100 Index is included as it comprises the 100 most highly according to local market factors.
The Group Chief Executives capitalised companies in the UK market, of which RSA was a member role has a Group-wide remit, but is located in the UK.
Salary and Taxable 1 RSAs TSR performance relative to the indices is shown over the Fees benefits Bonus five years from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2013.
The graph All employees 2.8% 1.0% -21.2% reflects the change in value of ordinary shares in a company over 2 Most senior Executive Director -0.2% 6.0% -100% time, as represented by a hypothetical 100 holding in the shares.
Any distribution of dividends is included.
Data was provided by Notes: Datastream.
Family medical cover was introduced for Executive Directors from 1 January 2013 to reflect market practice.
The value of the benefits used in the calculation increased from 34,479 in 2012 to 36,548 in 2013.
The calculation for the 2013 year includes Martin Scicluna for the period he was Executive Chairman 13 to 31 December 2013, and Simon Lee for the period he was 160 Group Chief Executive 1 January to 12 December 2013.
Simon Lee did not receive a bonus in respect of the 2013 financial year.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY 100 The table below shows the all-employee pay spend and returns to shareholders by way of dividends for 2013.
Figures from 2012 are 80 provided for comparison.
The employee pay data covers the Groups employees globally, and therefore includes the impact of exchange rate Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 changes.
Levels of inflation vary across the different countries in which the Group operates and, therefore, salary changes will be reflective of FTSE100 local market conditions.
RSA LTIP Peer Group 20132015 cycle % RSA difference from prior m 2012 2013 year The table below shows the total remuneration for the incumbents Total Spend on 1,154 1,215 5.3% appointed as the most senior Executive Director in the Group over 1 the last five years.
The percentages show the proportion of bonuses Employee Pay and LTIPs that were received.
Bonuses include both cash and Total Distributions Compulsory Deferred Shares.
2 to Shareholders 336 232 -31.0% Single figure Annual bonus LTIP vesting Notes: of total award rates rates 1.
Includes salaries, social security costs, pension costs and share-based payments as remuneration % of % of shown in the notes to the Financial Statements on page 132.
Includes the figures as shown in the notes to the Financial Statements on page 134.
Martin Scicluna was appointed Executive Chairman effective 13 December 2013.
The single figure of total remuneration above is pro-rated for his time in the position.
Simon Lee resigned as Group Chief Executive and his employment ended on 12 December 2013.
He did not receive a bonus in respect of the 2013 financial year, and his awards in the 201113 LTIP cycle lapsed on that date.
Simon Lee became the Group Chief Executive effective 1 November 2011.
Andy Haste resigned as Group Chief Executive effective 31 October 2011 and his employment ended 31 December 2011.
Value of Hypothetical 100 Holding 90 XXXX REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 11.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2014 This section outlines decisions taken by the Committee in respect of the 2014 financial year, and how the Committee intends to implement the Directors Remuneration Policy during 2014.
At a glance The table below summarises how the Remuneration Policy will be implemented in the 2014 financial year.
Remuneration Component Implementation in 2014 Executive Directors Base salary No change from end of 2013 Benefits No change from end of 2013 Pension No change from end of 2013 Annual Bonus Plan Opportunity of 16% of salary at threshold, rising to 80% of salary for on-target performance and 160% of salary at maximum.
Performance measures for 2014 are: Group underlying Return on Tangible Equity ROTE Group underlying Profit Before Tax PBT Regional Underwriting Result Group Regional COR Business Review Scorecard comprising Capital Strength metrics and Management Actions Personal Scorecard LTIP Opportunity of 58% of salary at threshold, rising to 144% of salary for on-target performance and 230% of salary at maximum opportunity of 300% of salary at maximum for Group Chief Executive.
Performance measures and weightings for 2014 are: Group underlying Return on Tangible Equity Relative Total Shareholder Return Business Review Scorecard comprising growth in TNAV per share, cumulative earnings and a range of capital strength metrics Required shareholding Group Chief Executive shareholding requirement increases to 300% of base salary Non-Executive Directors Fees No change from end of 2013 Recruitment of new Group Chief Executive Stephen Hester joined the Board on 5 February 2014.
His remuneration package is set out below: Base salary: 950,000 per annum.
No sign-on payments or other similar exceptional, compensatory remuneration will be paid.
Benefits: Provided in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Pension: A taxable cash allowance of 30% of base salary.
Annual Bonus Plan: An on-target opportunity of 80%, rising to 160% of salary at maximum, linked to the achievement of the Plans targets.
Half of any bonus award will be deferred in RSA shares for three years.
Long-term incentives: Subject to the Groups remuneration arrangements receiving shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, Mr Hester will be granted an opportunity over Performance Shares, along with other executives.
His first grant in 2014 will have a face value equivalent to 300% of salary, and successive annual grants will be made no higher than 230% of salary.
When vested, all shares must be held for a further two years less those sold to cover statutory deductions.
Shareholding requirement: 300% of salary, to be built up over a five-year period.
Base salary The Committee has reviewed the Executive Directors base salaries and has determined that no increases will apply from April 2014.
From 1 April 2014, Adrian Brown and Richard Houghtons salaries will be maintained at 484,500 and 494,400, respectively.
In accordance with the terms of his appointment, Stephen Hesters salary will first be reviewed on 1 April 2015.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 91 Annual Bonus Plan As noted in the Committee Chairmans letter on pages 69 to 70, the Annual Bonus Plan has been revised for 2014.
Its performance measures are aligned with the core priorities for focus in 2014, chiefly centring on actions arising from the business review as set out in the Group Chief Executives statement on pages 18 to 19.
The Executive Directors will be expected to deliver against stretching targets which are geared towards making significant performance improvement.
Specifically, the Business Review Scorecard is a new element of the bonus plan, and it covers two components: capital strength and management actions, required to deliver the business review.
The Personal Scorecard consists of SMART objectives bespoke to the Director covering such matters as: financial control, operational performance, customer and employee engagement and risk management.
The level of compulsory deferral has doubled, such that 50% of the total bonus will be awarded in the form of shares and released following a three-year deferral period.
As the bonus plan is now decoupled from the long-term incentive plan, there will be no requirement for any voluntary bonus deferral, nor will any matching shares be granted.
The bonus opportunity remains unchanged at 80% of salary for on-target achievement, rising to a maximum of 160% of salary.
Threshold performance has been aligned to the market following a benchmarking exercise and it represents 16% of salary i. e. 10% of the maximum opportunity.
The Committee will assess performance for 2014 once the financial year has ended.
It will review the Executive Directors achievement against the performance measures and apply a performance management framework to ascertain award levels.
All of the bonus targets are considered to be commercially sensitive because they signal the Groups forward plan for the year, and therefore they are not provided in this document a performance narrative will be disclosed in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report.
The table below sets out the structure of the bonus plan for 2014.
Group Executives Regional Executive Stephen Hester and Richard Houghton Adrian Brown Maximum Maximum Weighting opportunity Weighting opportunity Bonus performance measures % of bonus % of salary % of bonus % of salary Group underlying Return on Tangible Equity ROTE 20% 32% 20% 32% Group underlying Profit before Tax PBT 10% 16% n a n a 1 Regional Underwriting Result n a n a 10% 16% 2 Group Regional COR 10% 16% 10% 16% Business Review Scorecard 30% 48% 30% 48% Personal Scorecard 30% 48% 30% 48% Totals 100% 160% 100% 160% Notes: 1.
The measure applicable to Adrian Brown will be UK and Western Europe Underwriting Result.
The measure applicable to Stephen Hester and Richard Houghton will be Group COR, the measure applicable to Adrian Brown will be UK and Western Europe COR.
Resulting levels of awards related to Group ROTE, Group PBT, Underwriting Result and COR are calculated on a straight line basis between threshold and target, and between target and maximum.
Long-term Incentive Plan Following the remuneration review, a new LTIP has been designed and will be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM on 9 May 2014.
As detailed on pages 74 to 75, the normal maximum LTIP opportunity has been reduced from 309% of salary to 230% of salary.
The plan directly supports the building of shareholder value by targeting growth in Group underlying Return on Tangible Equity ROTE, relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and a Business Review Scorecard which comprises: growth in Tangible Net Asset Value per Share TNAV, cumulative earnings and a range of capital strength metrics.
For the 2014 grant, by exception, the relative TSR metric will be targeted against a performance period which will commence four weeks before the grant date and end on 31 March 2017: this is to ensure that the measurement period does not begin during a time when shareholders were not in possession of the full information on RSAs performance and strategy.
All other metrics will be assessed against a performance period of 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016.
Achievement against the Business Review Scorecard will be evaluated using a performance framework whereby each metric will be reviewed against its target, and judgement in the round used to determine the level of vesting.
The specific targets cannot be disclosed prospectively for reason of price sensitivity, particularly regarding the capital metrics.
A performance narrative will be given to summarise the level of vesting on the Business Review Scorecard once the performance conditions have been tested.
Executive Directors must retain all vested shares arising from this incentive plan for a further two years except those sold to cover statutory deductions.
The table below summarises the LTIPs structure.
3 3 LTIP performance measures 201416 Weighting Threshold target: 25% vesting Maximum target: 100% vesting 1 Relative TSR RSAs TSR is equal to the RSAs TSR outperforms the unweighted index of unweighted index of comparators comparators by at least 7% per annum 22.5% compound over three years or exceeds the TSR of the highest performing company in the index 2 Group ROTE 11% 16% Business Review Scorecard Commercially sensitive Commercially sensitive Notes: 1.
The index of comparators for this cycle includes: ACE, Admiral, Allianz, Amlin, Aviva, Catlin, Direct Line, Gjensidige Forsikring, Hiscox, Intact, Mapfre, QBE, Topdanmark, Tryg and Zurich.
Group underlying ROTE will be calculated on a three-year average basis.
A straight line calculation is applied to determine the portion of awards that vest for performance between the threshold and maximum targets in respect of relative TSR and Group ROTE.
92 REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Executive shareholding requirement From 1 January 2014, the Group Chief Executives shareholding requirement increased from 200% to 300% of salary.
The requirement for other Executive Directors remains at 150%.
Non-Executive Directors fees Under RSAs Articles, the Non-Executive Directors remuneration is determined by the Board, within limits set by shareholders.
The biographies of the Non-Executive Directors are contained on pages 46 to 47.
The only exception is in respect of the Chairman, whose terms fall within the remit of the Group Remuneration Committee.
The Board minus the Non-Executive Directors discharges its accountability for setting and managing Non-Executives Directors remuneration: it will do this when their contractual terms or fee structure are under consideration, which is typically once a year, as noted on pages 76 to 77.
The table below shows the Non-Executive Director fee structure.
The Chairman receives a fee of 400,000 per annum which, under the terms of his appointment is not scheduled to be reviewed until January 2016.
The Company reviewed the Non-Executive Directors fees during 2013 in accordance with the Remuneration Policy, and did so referencing a range of information including market data on fees taken from the same peer groups used to benchmark the Executive Directors salaries, UK inflation figures and the average reviews applied elsewhere in the Group.
The fees effective from 1 July 2013 will continue to apply in 2014.
Fee structure From 1 July 2013 To 30 June 2013 Base fee 60,000 60,000 Additional fee for chairing committees: Group Audit Committee 20,000 20,000 Group Remuneration Committee 20,000 12,500 Group Investment Committee 12,500 12,500 Board Risk Committee 20,000 12,500 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 20,000 20,000 1 5,000 5,000 Additional committee fee Note: 1.
From 1 July 2013, a fee of 5,000 applies for each committee a Non-Executive Director is a member of other than as Committee Chairman: prior to this date, a 5,000 flat fee was paid per annum for Committee membership.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING The following voting was recorded at the AGM on 15 May 2013 regarding the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report: 1 Resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report Votes For Votes Against Total Votes Cast Votes Witheld Number of votes 2,043,026,720 206,719,426 2,249,746,146 67,289,722 % of votes cast 90.81% 9.19% 100% Note: 1.
Votes withheld are not included in the calculation as a vote withheld is not a vote in law.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 93 13.
DILUTION RSA monitors its dilution levels on a regular basis to ensure that they remain within the headroom limits set by the Association of British Insurers ABI.
As at 31 December 2013, the dilution levels were as follows: ABI Limit RSA dilution % 10% over 10 years for all share schemes 6.86% 5% over 10 years for discretionary schemes, including long-term incentives 4.13% 14.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS Stephen Hester, Richard Houghton and Adrian Brown do not hold outside directorships of FTSE100 or any other listed companies but would be allowed to have one such appointment, subject to the approval of the Group Nomination Committee.
In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, they would be permitted to retain any fees or expenses arising from such an appointment.
DIRECTORS CONTRACTS The Executive Directors service agreements became effective on the following dates: Executive Director Effective date Adrian Brown 5 July 2011 Stephen Hester 5 February 2014 Richard Houghton 12 June 2012 The table below shows when the Non-Executive Directors appointments became effective and when their terms will expire.
Non-Executive Director Date of initial appointment Expiry date of current term Alastair Barbour 10 October 2011 10 October 2014 Kath Cates 1 September 2013 1 September 2016 Edward Lea 10 July 2003 27 May 2014 Malcolm Le May 30 March 2004 27 May 2014 Hugh Mitchell 26 September 2012 26 September 2015 Martin Scicluna 1 January 2013 1 January 2016 Jos Streppel 3 October 2011 3 October 2014 Johanna Waterous 20 May 2008 20 May 2014 Hugh S Mitchell Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Group Remuneration Committee 26 February 2014
