Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Remuneration Report Introduction This Report has been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Report is presented in a different format this year in order to comply with new legislative requirements.
Both the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration are subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM as described below.
Directors Remuneration Policy The determination of the Directors fees is a matter dealt with by the Management Engagement Committee and the Board.
It is the Boards policy to determine the level of Directors remuneration having regard to amounts payable to nonexecutive directors in the industry generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect of Board and Committee responsibilities, and time committed to the Companys affairs, taking into account the aggregate limit of fees set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
This aggregate level of Directors fees is currently set at 200,000 per annum and any increase in this level requires approval by the Board and the Companys shareholders.
The Board and its Committees exclusively comprise non-executive Directors.
No Director past or present has an entitlement to pensions, and the Company has not, and does not intend to, award any share options or long term performance incentives to any Director.
No element of Directors remuneration is performance-related.
No Director has a service contract with the Company however directors have a letter of appointment with the Company under which they are entitled to one months notice in the event of termination.
Directors do not receive exit payments and are not provided with any compensation for loss of office.
No other payments are made to Directors other than the reimbursement of expenses incurred in carrying out business for the Company.
The terms of Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office address during normal business hours and during the AGM at the location of such meeting.
The Board did not seek the views of shareholders in setting this Remuneration Policy.
Any comments on the Policy received from shareholders would be considered on a case-by-case basis.
As the Company does not have any employees, no employee pay and employment conditions were taken into account when setting this Remuneration Policy and no employees were consulted in its construction.
Component Parts of the Directors Remuneration The elements which comprise the basis of remuneration paid to Directors are set out in the table below see also related notes below the table.
Amounts receivable Amounts receivable during the financial during the financial year in respect of year in respect of of one-year performance Pensions performance targets of more related Salary fees Taxable benefits targets than one year benefits Fees only payable Reimbursement of expenses N A N A N A Notes 1 The Chairman of the Board and the chairman of the Audit Committee each receive fees at a higher rate than the other Directors to reflect their more onerous roles.
In addition, fees are paid for membership of each of the Boards Audit, Management Engagement and Nomination Committees for members contributions to the deliberations of such Committees.
The Board reserves the right to cease the payment of any additional fees for membership of its Committees if considered appropriate.
2 The fees payable to Directors are not performance-related.
They are set at a level to recruit and retain individuals of sufficient calibre, with the level of knowledge, experience and expertise necessary to promote the success of the Company in reaching its short and long-term strategic objectives.
3 The maximum that may be paid in respect of Directors aggregate fees is limited by the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, as amended from time to time with the approval of shareholders.
4 As the Company has no employees, there are no comparisons to be made between this Directors Remuneration Policy and a policy on the remuneration of employees.
Directors fees are reviewed annually and take into account research from third parties on the fee levels of Directors of peer group companies, as well as industry norms and factors affecting the time commitment expected of the Directors.
New Directors are subject to the provisions set out in this Remuneration Policy.
18 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Remuneration Report Directors Annual Report on Remuneration This Report sets out how the Directors Remuneration Policy was implemented during the year ended 30 September 2013.
Fees Paid to Directors During the year ended 30 September 2013, the Chairman was paid a fee of 26,000, and the other members of the Board were each paid a fee of 19,000.
The Senior Independent Director, who is also the Chairman of the Audit Committee, received an additional 2,000.
In addition, 2,000 per annum is paid to each member of the Audit Committee, and 1,000 per annum is paid to members of each of the Management Engagement and Nomination Committees.
The following amounts were paid by the Company to the Directors for services as non-executive Directors in respect of the year ended 30 September 2013 and the previous financial year: Amounts Amounts receivable receivable during the during the year ended year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 in respect 2013 in respect of one-year of performance PensionsTaxable performance targets of more Related 1 Salary Fees Benefits targets than one year Benefits Total Director 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 1012 The Hon.
2 Robert Binyon is resident in Thailand and his taxable benefits comprise reimbursements amounting to 14,118 2012: 5,908 for travelling expenses incurred attending 4 board meetings in London.
These amounts have been grossed up for income tax to arrive at the figures shown in the table above.
3 Resigned from the Board on 28 June 2013.
4 The information in the above table has been audited see Independent Auditors Report on pages 26 to 28.
Consideration of Matters Relating to Directors Remuneration Directors remuneration levels were reviewed by the Management Engagement Committee and Board during the year under review.
The members of the Committee at the time that remuneration levels were considered were as set out in the inside front cover of this Report.
No external advice was sought in considering Directors fee levels, however information on fees paid to Directors of other investment trusts managed by Schroders and peer group companies provided by the Companys Investment Manager and corporate broker was taken into consideration.
Following consideration, the Management Engagement Committee did not make any recommendations to the Board to change Directors remuneration.
Performance Graph A graph showing the Companys share price total return compared with its Benchmark over the last five years is shown below.
With effect from 31 January 2011, the Companys benchmark has been the MSCI All Countries Asia excluding Japan Index in Sterling terms.
Prior to that date the Benchmark was the MSCI All Countries Far East excluding Japan Index in Sterling terms.
The return for the year ended 30 September 2011 was based on a combination of both of these indices, calculated on a pro-rata basis.
19 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Remuneration Report 240 220 200 180 160 140 120 Benchmark Total Return Share Price Total Return 100 80 30 Sep-08 30 Sep-09 30 Sep-10 30 Sep-11 30 Sep-12 30 Sep-13 Source: Morningstar Thomson Financial DatastreamRebased to 100 at 30 September 2008.
Expenditure by the Company on Directors Remuneration compared with Distributions to Shareholders The table below compares the remuneration paid to Directors to distributions made to shareholders during the year under review and the prior financial year.
In considering these figures, shareholders should take into account the Companys principle investment objective of achieving capital growth.
Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 % 000 000 Change Remuneration paid to Directors 161 128 25.8 Distributions to shareholders Dividends 4,732 4,014 17.9 Share buy-backs 11,063 N A Total distributions to shareholders 15,795 4,014 293.5 Directors Share Interests The Companys Articles of Association do not contain provision for Directors to own shares in the Company.
The shareholdings of Directors, including those of connected persons, at the beginning and end of the financial year under review are set out in the Report of the Directors on page 14.
Such information has been audited.
The Company does not operate a share scheme for Directors nor does it award Directors share options.
Implementation of the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year ending 30 September 2014 The Board does not intend to make any significant changes to the implementation of the Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in this Report for the year ending 30 Sep tember 2014.
Shareholder Approval Directors Remuneration Policy The above Remuneration Policy is currently in force and is subject to a binding vote every three years.
An ordinary resolution to approve this Policy will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, following which the full Policy provisions will continue to apply until the AGM to be held in 2017 unless a revised Remuneration Policy is approved prior to such AGM.
Directors Annual Report on Remuneration The above Report on Directors Remuneration is subject to an annual advisory vote.
An ordinary resolution to approve this Report will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 29 January 2013, 99.99% of the votes cast including votes cast at the Chairmans discretion in respect of approval of the Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 were in favour while 0.01% were against.
