68 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration Report On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for 2013.
In accordance with the new Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations, the report is split into two parts.
Our remuneration policy for 2014 and beyond is set out in the Remuneration Policy Report.
The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out the remuneration paid to the Executive and Nonexecutive Directors in respect of 2013, together with details of how the Remuneration Policy will be implemented in 2014.
Each part of the report will be subject to separate votes at the AGM.
Shareholders will also be asked to approve a new longterm incentive plan at the AGM.
Key Remuneration Policy Considerations during 2013 As reported last year, during 2013 the Remuneration Committee has carried out a thorough review of the Groups remuneration policy.
The main objectives of this review were: to design a suitable longterm incentive plan to replace the current plan, which expires in 2015: Sarah Bates Chairman to consider overall pay levels in the context of the Group generally, the Executive Directors sustained strong performance and the increasing scope and complexity of the Executive Directors roles: to ensure our remuneration policy supports the Groups strategy through the creation of appropriate incentives to encourage safe and sustainable growth, and to put in place a remuneration policy which is regarded as fair and reasonable by shareholders, staff, partners, regulators and other stakeholders.
Summary of Main Remuneration Policy Decisions The policy for Directors remuneration is to support and drive the delivery of the Groups business objectives.
Remuneration packages are designed to be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate executives of the highest calibre, with performancerelated incentives based on measures linked to the safe and sustainable growth in long term shareholder value and the delivery of a significant proportion of remuneration in St. Jamess Place shares, thus aligning the interests of the Executives with those of shareholders generally.
The remuneration review highlighted that our Executives total target remuneration is some way below that of comparable executives in companies of similar size and complexity and this has been taken into account in formulating the Companys policy for 2014 and beyond.
The changes that the Committee is proposing are as follows: Salaries will be increased by 3% for each of the Executive Directors effective from 1 March 2014 and in line with average workforce increases for the Group.
The annual bonus potential for all of the Executive Directors will be increased from 120% to 150% of salary.
As in previous years, 50% of any bonus is payable in cash, with 50% invested in SJP shares and deferred for three years.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 2014 PSP awards for Executive Directors will remain During 2013, as part of the Committees review of the Groups unchanged from 2013, but will be increased in 2015 from remuneration policy, the Committee consulted with the Groups 190% of salary up to 200% for the Chief Executive and from major shareholders and investor representative bodies regarding 175% of salary up to 190% for the other Executive Directors.
the proposed new longterm incentive plan and changes to the Executive Directors remuneration policy.
The Committee With the increases to potential variable pay, the total packages of received helpful and welcome feedback on its proposals and our the Executives will still be below the mid market level for major investors were supportive of our proposals.
We are grateful companies of SJPs size.
to shareholders for their responses to our consultation and for the support they have given.
The Committee is at the same time introducing other changes to the Executive Directors remuneration policy to strengthen Corporate Performance and Remuneration for 2013 shareholder alignment.
Shareholders will be aware that the Group has achieved strong A postvesting holding requirement has been introduced for growth in recent years, which has continued in 2013, during a PSP awards granted from 1January 2014 under the existing period of considerable change for the industry.
The key highlights PSP scheme, whereby Executive Directors will not be able to are set out on pages 2 to 4 of this document.
sell their shares for a period of six months post vesting.
For awards granted from 1January 2015 under the new PSP Our Executives remuneration for 2013, on which we are scheme, this holding period will be extended to two years post reporting, reflects this.
Based on the threeyear performance to vesting five years from grant of the award except to meet the end of 2013, 95% of the Executive Directors PSP awards income tax and expenses on vesting exercise.
granted in 2011 will vest in March 2014, as a result of total The required level of shareholding that Executive Directors are shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS growth expected to build in the Company will also increase to 150% of near to or above the challenging performance targets set by the salary from 100%.
In addition, Executive Directors will be Committee for the three years to 31December 2013.
In addition, required to hold a further 50% of base salary either in the Remuneration Committee determined that 98% of the Company shares or SJP funds, providing further alignment maximum annual bonus should be payable for 2013, reflecting the with shareholders and clients.
strong financial results for 2013 and excellent progress against other strategic objectives set by the Committee at the start of the The Company will seek shareholder approval for a new longterm year.
Further details are set out in the Remuneration Report incentive plan The 2014 Performance Share Plan, to replace onpages 83 and 84. the existing PSP.
This new plan will be used for the granting of awards from 1 January 2015.
The 2014 PSP will be similar in Summary design to the existing plan, but taking into account where The Remuneration Committee has worked hard to ensure that relevant developments in market and best practice.
The maximum the changes to the remuneration policy that it is proposing to level of awards which can be granted under the plan will be make this year support our corporate objectives over the longer 250%of salary increased from 200% in the current plan and the term and reflect the strong performance of the Company and Committee will retain flexibility in the policy to increase awards management.
The Committee believes that the new policy up to the maximum, but will consult with its major shareholders achieves this objective.
if the Committee contemplates making awards that exceed the 2015 levels referred to above.
I hope that you will be supportive of the remuneration resolutions to be proposed at the next AGM.
If in the meantime you have The total shareholder return TSR comparator group for the anyquestions regarding our remuneration policy then my TSR performance measure under the PSP is currently based on colleagues and I on the Remuneration Committee will be pleased the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding certain sectors.
Reflecting the more recent market capitalisation of SJP, the 2014 awards will use the companies ranked FTSE 51 to 150 at the date of grant excluding investment trusts, the oil, gas and mining sectors.
No change is being proposed to the PSP performance Sarah Bates measures based on earnings per share.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 February 2014
