70 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013 Remuneration Policy Report Engagement with Shareholders This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the The Committees policy is to engage with and seek the views of remuneration policy for the Company, which will be subject its major investors and investor representative bodies on any to shareholder approval at our AGM on 14 May 2014.
The proposed major changes to remuneration policy.
The Committee Remuneration Committee the Committee is currently will also engage on those aspects of implementation of that policy operating under this remuneration policy although it will be that it considers appropriate.
Any views expressed by shareholders legally effective under the new Directors Reporting at general meetings of the Company or otherwise will be Regulations from the date it receives shareholder approval considered by the Committee as part of any review of at the AGM.
remuneration policy or sooner if appropriate.
In setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors the Committee takes into consideration a number of different The remuneration policy is designed to support and encourage the factors: delivery of the Groups shortterm and longterm business the Committee applies the principles set out in Schedule A objectives.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code and also takes into account best practice guidance issued by the major UK The following table summarises each element of the remuneration institutional investor bodies, the FCA and other relevant policy for the Executive Directors, explaining how each element organisations: operates and how each part links to corporate strategy.
the Committee has overall responsibility to be aware of the remuneration policies and structures of the Group as a whole and it reviews remuneration policy on a firmwide basis.
When the Committee determines and reviews the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors it considers and compares it against the pay, policy and employment conditions of the Group to ensure that it is comfortable that there is alignment and equity between the two: and the Committee considers the external market in which the Group operates and uses comparator remuneration data from time to time, but as a guide only recognising that data can be volatile and must be used carefully to avoid the risk of an unwarranted upward ratchet in remuneration.
The Committee recognises that there is often a need to phasein changes over a period of time.
The Committees overall policy, having had due regard to the factors above, is for a substantial proportion of total remuneration to be based on variable pay.
This is achieved by setting base pay and benefits up to midmarket levels, with annual bonus and long term incentive opportunities linked to the achievement of demanding performance targets.
In this way, the Committee facilitates alignment between the interests of shareholders and the total remuneration paid to the Executive Directors and, historically, the levels of variable pay paid to the Executives have varied considerably, reflecting the performance of the Group in the relevant year.
Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office can only be made if they are consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy or are otherwise approved by ordinary resolution of the members of the Company.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Salary Purpose and link to strategy including To provide the core reward for the role.
choice of performance metrics Sufficient level to recruit and retain individuals of the necessary calibre, taking into account the skills, experience, demands and complexity of therole.
Operation Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months commencing 1March.
Influenced by: role, experience and performance of the individual: company performance: external economic conditions: average change in broader workforce salary: periodic benchmarking for each role against similar UK listed companies: and overall policy, having regard to the factors noted, is normally to target salaries up to the mid market level.
Maximum opportunity Salary increases in percentage terms will normally be linked to the average of the workforce generally other than in exceptional circumstances such as where the increase may be higher for a significant change in responsibility, experience or increase in role or the size or complexity of the Group where increases may be phased.
Where new joiners or recent promotees have been given a starting salary below midmarket level, a series of increases above those granted to the wider workforce in percentage terms may be awarded over the following few years, subject to satisfactory individual performance and development in the role.
The base salaries for the Executive Directors from 1 March 2014 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance metrics The Committee considers all of the factors described above when deciding how the salary policy operates.
72 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 Annual Bonus Purpose and link to strategy including Rewards the achievement of annual financial and strategic business plan targets and delivery choice of performance metrics of strategic objectives.
Deferred element aids retention, encourages longterm shareholding, discourages excessive risk taking and aligns with shareholder interests.
Performance metrics reflect the key performance drivers of the annual business plan, achievement of which will reflect performance in line with the Groups strategy.
Operation Performance measures, targets and weightings are reviewed annually and set in line with the annual business plan.
Bonus payments are determined by the Committee after the year end, based on performance against the targets set.
50% of any bonus payable is paid in cash with the remaining 50% deferred into SJP shares, the vesting of which is normally subject to a three year continuous service requirement.
Dividends that accrue on the deferred shares are paid to the Executive Directors during the threeyear deferral period.
All bonus payments are at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee has the overriding discretion to scale back payments under the strategic part of the annual bonus if it deems them to be inappropriate in the context of the overall financial results of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee has the overriding discretion to adjust the bonus outcome up or down subject to the overall 150% maximum to take account of factors such as an exceptional positive or negative event.
Annual bonus payments including deferred amounts are subject to clawback if there is found to have been a material misstatement, error or misconduct following the payment of the bonus.
Maximum opportunity 150% of base salary.
Performance metrics Performance measured over one year.
At least half the bonus is based on financial measures reflecting the key priorities of the business for the relevant year.
Up to half of the annual bonus can be based on the achievement of key strategic objectives set at the start of the year.
Actual measures and weightings may change from year to year to reflect the business priorities at that time.
Details of performance criteria set for the year under review and performance against them is provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
20% of the annual bonus vests for threshold performance.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Performance Share Plan Purpose and link to strategy including Incentivises the Directors to achieve superior long term shareholder returns.
choice of performance metrics Provides long term retention.
Focuses the Executives on longer term corporate performance and performance objectives.
A mix of three performance conditions provides an appropriate balance of targets that both incentivise the Executives to achieve stretching longterm financial performance while also keeping their interests aligned to those of shareholders.
Operation Awards are granted annually with vesting on the third anniversary of the date of grant dependent on the achievement of stretching performance conditions measured over a period of three financial years.
Metrics and targets are set in line with the business plan and are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate as well as the weighting between them.
Awards in 2014 will be made under the current performance share plan.
Dividend equivalents may accrue on awards made in 2014 under the current plan between the date of grant and the date of exercise of the awards.
These dividend equivalents will be released only to the extent that awards vest.
The 2014 awards will have a postvesting holding requirement of six months whereby participants will not be able to sell their net of tax shares for a six month period following vesting.
Awards made from 2015 onwards will be made under a new performance share plan subject to the plan receiving shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
These awards will have a post vesting holding period of two years net of tax.
For awards granted from 2015 dividend equivalents may accrue on awards between the date of grant and the end of the twoyear postvesting holding period.
Subject to clawback in the event of a material misstatement, error or misconduct allowing summary dismissal.
Maximum opportunity The maximum annual award under the plan rules is 250% of salary as at date of grant although the Committee will not increase above the 2015 award levels without prior consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The PSP award levels for 2014 as in 2013 will be 190% of salary for the Chief Executive and 175% of salary for the other Executive Directors value of shares at date of award.
The Committee intends to increase the PSP award levels for 2015 to 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 190% of salary for the other Executive Directors value of shares at date of award.
Performance metrics The vesting of awards is dependent on the achievement of three equally weighted performance measures as set out below.
The Committee may choose alternative measures and weightings between them if it deems it appropriate taking into account the strategic objectives of the Company.
The vesting of at least onethird of the PSP award will however be determined by a relative TSR target.
The performance targets for the 2014 PSP awards will be based on: EPS growth based on EEV adjusted profit: EPS growth as above but excluding the impact of the EEV unwind of the discount rate effectively excluding the impact of stock market movements on earnings : and relative TSR performance.
For each performance condition, a threshold and stretch level of performance is set.
At threshold, 25% of the relevant element vests.
74 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 Pension Purpose and link to strategy including Helps recruit and retain Executives.
choice of performance metrics Provides a discrete element of the package to contribute to postretirement lifestyle.
Operation Defined contribution pension scheme.
20% of salary is paid into the Group personal pension scheme for the Executive or an equivalent cash amount via nonpensionable salary supplement if the Executive is affected by the pension cap.
Maximum opportunity 20% of base salary.
Performance metrics N A Other Benefits Purpose and link to strategy including Operate competitive benefits to help recruit, retain and support the wellbeing of employees.
choice of performance metrics Operation Including but not limited to: Company car or salary supplement in lieu, private medical insurance, life, critical illness and death in service cover, relocation assistance where necessary and the use of a driver for business purposes.
Participation in the Groups all employee SIP and SAYE schemes.
Maximum opportunity Benefit costs are monitored and controlled and represent a small element of total remuneration costs.
Performance metrics N A Non-executive Directors fees To attract high quality, experienced Nonexecutive Directors.
The Chairman is paid an allencompassing annual fee, which is reviewed periodically by the Committee.
All Nonexecutive Directors receive a basic annual fee for carrying out their duties, together with additional fees being paid in respect of Board Committee and other responsibilities, with fee levels reviewed periodically by the Board.
They may also be paid additional fees calculated at an appropriate day rate in the event of exceptional levels of additional time being required, for instance in response to corporate developments.
There is no prescribed maximum annual increase.
Reviews take into account market data for similar nonexecutive roles in other companies of a similar size and or business to St. Jamess Place as well as the time commitment of its Nonexecutive Directors.
The Companys Policy is to pay up to the midmarket level based on similar time commitments of chairman and nonexecutives in similar sized companies.
