70 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013 Remuneration Policy Report Engagement with Shareholders This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the The Committees policy is to engage with and seek the views of remuneration policy for the Company, which will be subject its major investors and investor representative bodies on any to shareholder approval at our AGM on 14 May 2014.
The proposed major changes to remuneration policy.
The Committee Remuneration Committee the Committee is currently will also engage on those aspects of implementation of that policy operating under this remuneration policy although it will be that it considers appropriate.
Any views expressed by shareholders legally effective under the new Directors Reporting at general meetings of the Company or otherwise will be Regulations from the date it receives shareholder approval considered by the Committee as part of any review of at the AGM.
remuneration policy or sooner if appropriate.
In setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors the Committee takes into consideration a number of different The remuneration policy is designed to support and encourage the factors: delivery of the Groups shortterm and longterm business the Committee applies the principles set out in Schedule A objectives.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code and also takes into account best practice guidance issued by the major UK The following table summarises each element of the remuneration institutional investor bodies, the FCA and other relevant policy for the Executive Directors, explaining how each element organisations: operates and how each part links to corporate strategy.
the Committee has overall responsibility to be aware of the remuneration policies and structures of the Group as a whole and it reviews remuneration policy on a firmwide basis.
When the Committee determines and reviews the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors it considers and compares it against the pay, policy and employment conditions of the Group to ensure that it is comfortable that there is alignment and equity between the two: and the Committee considers the external market in which the Group operates and uses comparator remuneration data from time to time, but as a guide only recognising that data can be volatile and must be used carefully to avoid the risk of an unwarranted upward ratchet in remuneration.
The Committee recognises that there is often a need to phasein changes over a period of time.
The Committees overall policy, having had due regard to the factors above, is for a substantial proportion of total remuneration to be based on variable pay.
This is achieved by setting base pay and benefits up to midmarket levels, with annual bonus and long term incentive opportunities linked to the achievement of demanding performance targets.
In this way, the Committee facilitates alignment between the interests of shareholders and the total remuneration paid to the Executive Directors and, historically, the levels of variable pay paid to the Executives have varied considerably, reflecting the performance of the Group in the relevant year.
Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office can only be made if they are consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy or are otherwise approved by ordinary resolution of the members of the Company.
