176 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 176 Directors remuneration Directors remuneration policy 179 Annual report on remuneration 189 report Additional remuneration disclosures 206 Committed to long-term shareholder value beimplemented for 2014.
The annual report on remuneration together with this letter is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
The impact of the external environment  2013 has seen a number of external factors impacting overall business, including a turbulent economy which has seen slowerglobal growth and a continued rise in policy interventions through regulatory changes.
Following a number of incidents in the financial sector there has been a sustained level of political and public opposition to current banking structures with a pressure for banks to demonstrate that they have a social purpose and will not tolerate or reward failure.
In particular, regulators have intensied their focus on the conduct and behaviour of employees and how this is reected in their remuneration.
Against this background the Group has deepened and strengthened our risk adjustment process for compensation decisions and further developed the framework within which supervision, responsibility and culpability of Ruth Markland employees and the impact this has on pay are assessed.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee Challenges on remuneration structure under CRD IV The introduction of new rules as a result of the European Unions E xternal pressures continue to challenge Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV is undoubtedly having a the structure of our remuneration but our significant impact on the structure of remuneration in the financial industry for those banks covered by the regulations, philosophy remains the same pay for including Standard Chartered.
We are seeking shareholder performance, we do not reward failure.
approval at the May 2014 AGM to increase the limit on variable remuneration for the executive directors and other staff subject to the limit known as Code Staff to allow up to two times xed Dear Shareholder compensation to be paid in variable compensation.
Increasing I am pleased to share with you the directors the ratio will enable us to deliver more total compensation in the remuneration report for 2013.
This letter provides a form of variable compensation and, as aconsequence, have a summary of the major decisions taken on directors larger proportion of total compensation subject to claw back remuneration and the context in which these decisions and or future performance than would be the case if we did not were made.
receive approval for the increased limit.
The report is presented in two sections, reecting the changes The new rules present a number of challenges for the Group.
required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and The limit will apply to all Code Staff including those outside of Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. the European Union EU and the cap will not apply to our A number of new disclosures have been provided including the non-EU competitors outside the EU.
The European Banking early adoption of the Capital Requirements Regulation Authoritys EBA extended criteria for the identication of disclosure.
We hope that this new format makes the information material risk-takers will result in a significant increase in the on remuneration clear and easy to understand.
A summary of number of Code Staff in 2014, with a significant majority of this report can be found on page 23.
In addition to the new newly identied Code Staff located outside of Europe in our requirements we have retained some of our historical disclosures footprint of Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
In presenting its with the aim of providing you with a well-rounded picture.
recommendations to shareholders at the AGM, the Remuneration Committee the Committee has sought to nd The directors remuneration policy sets out the Groups balanced solutions which address the following challenges: proposed policy on directors remuneration for three years with effect from the May 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM and the Ensuring compliance with the provisions while remaining key factors that were taken into account in setting the policy.
In competitive in terms of attracting and retaining talent across line with the new legislative requirements we will be seeking Asia, Africa and the Middle East shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM on this policy.
Maintaining competitive pay for our Code Staff in our footprint The annual report on remuneration sets out payments and without committing the Group to substantially higher xed costs awards made to the directors and details the link between Structuring and delivering variable compensation as the company performance and remuneration for the 2013 EBAs new rules do not provide any additional discount for nancialyear and the way in which the proposed policy will performance conditions attached to long-term incentives Corporate governance 177 Our approach to addressing CRD IV is outlined on page 178, Allocation of the Groups earnings between stakeholders andinvolves the introduction of a new component of pay, % calleda xed pay allowance, to ensure we can continue to pay 100 18.4 20.4 22.6 27.8 competitively.
Additional xed pay has been minimised and for directors the xed pay allowances will be paid in shares 40.3 80 39.6 37.8 released over five years.
29.9 60 Organisation structure and director changes 28.3 22.8 40 24.4 25.1 After more than five years Val Gooding stepped down from the Committee on 1 May 2013 and Margaret Ewing also stepped 20 18.5 15.6 14.5 down on 31 January 2014.
I would like to pay tribute to Val and 14.0 Margaret for their valuable contribution to the Committee during 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 their appointments.
Additionally, I welcome Louis Cheung and Paid to shareholders in dividends Christine Hodgson, who both joined the Committee in 2013.
Retained by shareholders Corporate taxation including levy On 9 January 2014, the Group announced that it was integrating Cost of discretionary variable compensation its two businesses, Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking to form one business, and that as of 1 April 2014 Mike Rees had The Committee believed that, given the leadership role of the been appointed Deputy Group Chief Executive leading the executive directors, they should take a disproportionate share in integrated business.
It also announced that Richard Meddings the reduction relative to the overall decrease in the pool.
As a and Steve Bertamini would be stepping down from the Board result, TVC for executive directors is 22 per cent lower than 2012. later this year.
In line with the new UK reporting regulations, details of the relevant termination arrangements were set out in Changes to xed pay in 2014 the formal stock exchange announcement on the same day.
As part of the changes to xed pay as a result of CRD IV, and inlight of the role changes announced on 9 January 2014, the Context to year-end compensation decisions Committee undertook a review of the appropriate positioning of The Committee recognised that 2013 was a challenging year base salary for executive directors in the context of the market.
forthe Group with some businesses facing acute margin As communicated at that time, to recognise his appointment as pressure and increased regulatory requirements leading to Deputy Group Chief Executive, Mike Rees annual base salary financial performance that was not as good as the Group has will be increased to 975,000 and his total compensation previously delivered.
While the Group has suffered some opportunity reduced by more than 45 per cent.
setbacks, progress has been made in many areas.
The Committee also approved a base salary increase of As in previous years, the Committee carefully considered 4.2percent for Peter Sands, the first salary increase for three thebalance of all stakeholders interests including the value years.
Following this increase, and given the revised remuneration delivered to shareholders before nalising the size of the structure approved by the Committee to comply with CRD IV, totalvariable compensation TVC pool and any executive Peters maximum total compensation for 2014 is reduced by directors remuneration decisions.
Indeed, as the following chart 15per cent.
shows, the cost of variable compensation has fallen in relative In response to CRD IV, some amendments to the structure of terms to the value paid to shareholders as dividends and is remuneration have been made.
The details can be found on approximately half the amount of dividends paid in 2013. page 178.
The approved TVC pool for 2013 is 15 per cent lower The respective remuneration disclosures have been prepared year-on-year, compared to an 11 per cent reduction in reported bythe Committee and approved by the Board as a whole.
On operating profits and a decrease of 7 per cent in underlying behalf of the Committee, I encourage you to vote in favour of the profit i. e. before taxation, goodwill, own credit adjustments and forward-looking remuneration policy and our 2013 annual report 1 the settlements with the US authorities.
on remuneration at the Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting Consequently, the Committee believed it was appropriate to and, in the meantime, welcome any feedback that you may have.
make variable compensation awards to those that contributed to the Groups continued performance including the executive directors.
These awards were at a level that balanced financial and non-financial performance including control related matters and progress against the executive management groups collective agenda.
Ruth Markland In the context of the reduction in both reported profit 11 per cent Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the TVC pool 15 per cent, the Committee determined that the starting point for executive directors TVC awards should be a minimum 20 per cent reduction in TVC year-on-year prior to the 1 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Ofce consideration of individual and business performance.
DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED 178 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 1 2 34 Remuneration Committee Members 5 6 78 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: Group Chief Executive: Director, Compliance, People and Communication: Group Chief Risk officer: Group Head, Performance, Reward and Benets: and the Group Company Secretary.
Key facts Proposed remuneration structure of The proposals have inevitably, and regrettably, resulted in an executive directors in light of CRD IV increase in xed pay.
The Committee has sought to minimise We have long had a robust pay for performance culture, the level of xed pay allowances and has offset the increase subjectto high levels of governance: we do not reward failure.
inxed pay by paying the allowance in shares, deferring a Ourapproach to total compensation will not change.
It will greater proportion of TVC, increasing the deferral period, and continue to be delivered via a combination of xed pay reducing the maximum level of pay for executive directors comprising basesalary, allowances, benets and pension andvariable compensation.
Consistent with our pay for On a face value basis this means that approximately 35percent of TVC will now be deferred over five years, performance culture, variable compensation plays an integral role in enabling us to recognise and reward superior andmore than aquarter of TVC will continue to be based onlong-term performance conditions performance and behaviour that support our values.
As the Group is seeking shareholder approval at the AGM on The face value maximum total compensation opportunity 8May 2014 to adopt the higher 2:1 ratio for those employees forindividual executive directors will be reduced by impacted by the capping requirements of CRD IV and because between15percent and 47 per cent.
Illustrative scenarios the rules affect remuneration for executive directors, major are provided on page 188 investors have been engaged on how the Group intends to We have developed a simplied remuneration structure comply with therules.
thatapplies in a standard manner across all our executive directors.
Remuneration will be delivered over five years Structure rather than over three years.
The proportion of each executive The Group will comply fully with the new rules, but at the same directors maximum TVC delivered in shares will increase time must meet the requirements of operating a successful from 80 per cent to 100 per cent global bank and willcontinue to pay competitively.
In 2014, thefollowing amendments to the pay of executive directors areproposed: A xed pay allowance for specic executive directors will be introduced, delivered fully in shares released over a five-year period.
This is a new component of xed pay.
Although the allowance will apply for a period of time, it is subject to periodic review and may be reduced, increased or withdrawn based onfactors such as a change in role, regulation or market pay.
Itcannot vary based on performance Total variable compensation TVC will be limited to two timesxed pay as valued in line with the European Banking Authoritys guidelines on discounting variable remuneration.
Infuture TVC awards will be made based on a single performance decision each year, but delivered in a combination of immediately vested upfront shares, deferred shares, and performance shares vesting over five years On an expected value basis, the structure of TVC will be asfollows: 20 per cent of the award will be paid in shares upfront.
There will no longer be an upfront cash element 55 per cent will be deferred over three years, vesting one-third each year 25 per cent will be deferred for five years, half of which will only vest if further performance conditions measured over a three-year period are satisfied Shareholding requirements have been increased for all executive directors and senior management.
Corporate governance 179 Remuneration Committee Attendance Scheduled Ad hoc During 2013 meetings: 5 meetings: 2 a.
Appointed 1 September 2013, stood down 31 January 2014 a c. Stood down 1 May 2013 Dr L Cheung 2 3 3 2 2 d. Appointed 1 September 2013 b M Ewing 3 1 2 2 2 c V F Gooding 4 2 2 0 0 d C Hodgson 5 1 2 2 2 J G H Paynter 6 4 5 2 2 c Sir John Peace 7 2 2 0 0 P D Skinner 8 5 5 2 2 During 2013 there were five scheduled meetings and two ad hoc meetings Directors remuneration policy This section sets out the Groups proposed policy on directors remuneration which, if approved by shareholders at the AGM on 8May 2014, will be effective from that date and will apply to variable compensation payments made in respect of the 2014, 2015 and 2016 performance years and outlines the key factors that were taken into account in setting the policy.
This section is subject to a binding shareholder vote at this years AGM and after that at least every third year.
If the Group is required to make changes to the policy for legal or regulatory reasons, payments outside this policy will be made to ensure compliance.
Future remuneration policy for the Chairman and independent non-executive directors Maximum potential value, payment How the element supports atthresholdand performance the Groups strategic metrics used, weighting and time objectives Operation period applicable Fees Chairman and INED fees may be paid in cash or shares Overall aggregate base fees paid to all To attract a Chairman and INEDs will remain within the limits stated Chairman and INED fees are reviewed periodically.
INED independent non-executive inour Articles of Association, currently fees are set by the Board as a whole.
The Remuneration directors INEDs who GBP1,500,000 Committee sets the Chairmans fees.
The Chairman and together with the Board as a INEDs excuse themselves from any discussion on their Fees are set at a level which reects the whole have abroad range of respective fees duties, time commitment and contribution skills and experience to which are expected from the Chairman NEDs are able to use up to 100 per cent of their monthly determine ourstrategy and andINEDs post-tax base fees to acquire shares in Standard oversee itsimplementation Chartered PLC Fees are reviewed and appropriately positioned against those for the chairman Expenses incurred during the performance of INEDs and INEDs in banks and other companies duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for of a similar scale and complexity directly by the Company as appropriate, including any tax due on the payments.
Non-UK-based INEDs may No recovery or withholding provisions receive UK tax return assistance.
INEDs may from time apply to fees totime be accompanied by their spouse or partner to Current base fee levels as well as those meetings events.
The costs associated with this are met fees for additional responsibilities are by the Company and in some instances, they are disclosed in the annual report on deemed to be taxable and therefore treated as benets remuneration on page193 for the INED Separate to the base fee, INEDs mayadditionally be paid fees for chairmanship and membership of board committees and to the senior independent director Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of ofce for the Chairman and non-executive directors The Chairman is provided with a notice period of up to 12 months NEDs are appointed for a period of one year unless terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party upon giving three months written notice.
Their appointment and any subsequent re-appointment are subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and to the usual re election by the shareholders of the Company 180 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Future remuneration policy for executive directors How the element supports the Maximum potential value, payment Groups strategic atthreshold and determination of objectives Operation performance metrics Base salary Normally reviewed annually with any increases Ordinarily, salary increases will be in line with Support the generallyapplying from April increases awarded to other employees in major recruitment operating businesses of the Group.
However, When determining base salary levels, consideration andretention increases may be made above this level at the isgiven to the following: ofexecutive Committees discretion to take account of The individuals skills and responsibilities directors, individual circumstances such as: Pay at international banks of a similar size and recognising the Increase in scope or responsibility international scope including the UK banks within size and scope of Increase to reect the individuals development theFTSE 20 the role and the and performance in role e. g. for a new Group and individual performance individuals skills appointment where base salary may be and experience increased over time rather than set directly atthe level of the previous incumbent or Set at a level that marketlevel enables the Group Alignment to market competitive levels to operate fully exible variable No performance metrics, although overall compensation performance of the individual is considered by plans including theCommittee when setting and reviewing the ability to pay salaries annually zero variable compensation Fixed pay When determining the level of xed pay allowances, Fixed pay allowances will be set at an appropriate allowances market competitive levels of total compensation for the levelsubject to a maximum of one times salary Provide a role are considered, against the same peer groups as No performance metrics used market-competitive outlined for base salary.
In making these comparisons level of xed pay benchmarking is undertaken on a total compensation reecting the skills basis to reect the different structures of pay delivery, and experience of particularly for EU and non-EU banks, but also for different the executive while banks within the EU.
The aim is to deliver total xed pay complying with which is competitive and appropriate for the role, and thevariable which enables a competitive expected value of total compensation compensation, when added to target TVC and other requirements elements of xed pay underCRD IV The xed pay allowance for executive directors will be allocated in shares that vest immediately on a bi-annual basis or any other frequency that the Committee considers to be appropriate Fixed pay allowances will not count towards any entitlements, benets or payments which are calculated by reference to salary and can be reduced, increased, terminated or withdrawn The shares will be released over a five-year period.
Thereis in effect a retention period of up to five years with 20 per cent released every 12 months following allocation Shares may benefit from the payment of dividends during the holding period Corporate governance 181 Future remuneration policy for executive directors continued How the element supports the Maximum potential value, payment Groups strategic atthreshold and determination of objectives Operation performance metrics Benets The Group provides a range of benets which may include The maximum opportunity for benets is dened Provide a the provision of a car or cash equivalent, private medical by the nature of the benefit itself and the cost of competitive insurance, permanent health insurance, life insurance and providing it.
As the cost of providing insurance benets package financial advice benets varies according to premium rates and that is consistent thecost of other benets is dependent on market Additional benets may also be provided where an with our values rates and other factors, there is no formal executive director is relocated or spends a substantial and supports maximum monetary value portion oftheir time in more than one jurisdiction for executives to carry business purposes.
Such benets may include, but are Set at a level which the Committee considers out their duties not limited to, relocation, housing allowance, education provides a sufficient level of benefit based on effectively fees and any tax and social security that may be due on therole and individual circumstances, such Provide such benets.
Other benets may be offered if considered asrelocation directorswith an appropriate and reasonable by the Committee No performance metrics used opportunity to Sharesave is an all employee plan where directors are invest voluntarily ableto open a three-year savings contract inthe Group Option price is set at a discount of up to 20 per cent ofthe share price at the date of invitation In countries where it is not possible to offer Sharesave, typically due to securities or regulatory issues, an equivalent cash plan is offered Total variable TVC is delivered as follows: The maximum value of TVC can in no compensation circumstances exceed 200 per cent of each Proportion Provide a portion on an expected executive directors xed pay as valued in line with Structure value basis of total the EBA rules compensation that Upfront in shares 20% The level of TVC for a target level of performance is performance Deferred in shares with a three-year phased isset in combination with xed pay to deliver a related and in vesting period, subject to claw back 55% competitive level of total compensation for the role partis linked on an expected value basis against peer groups Deferred in shares with a five-year cliff vesting tospecic, period, subject to claw back 12.5% The approach to the determination of individual measurable TVC awards will be similar to that adopted in 2013 Deferred in shares with a five-year cliff vesting performance and described on page 194 period, subject to claw back and satisfaction of criteria performance conditions see notes below 12.5% Payments can be made at any point from zero to Ensure a market maximum.
Delivery of a target level of performance competitive While the above proportions are on an expected value would be expected to result in payment of target package and link basis, on a face value basis, the proportion of TVC delivered TVC total reward to in performance shares would be approximately 26 per cent Performance shares are measured against achievement of the of TVC dened performance metrics.
Each is assessed Groups objectives Where a portion of TVC is deferred in the form of shares, independently of one another supporting a the Committee may award dividend equivalents on those balanced scorecard approach.
For 2014, shares to plan participants performance conditions will be based on equal weighting of relative total shareholder return, The Committee can, in circumstances determined by the earnings per share and return on risk-weighted Committee, apply claw back to all or part of any unvested assets share award In relation to any element of TVC that is delivered Performance shares are the award of nil-cost options inperformance shares, the Committee has subject to a three-year performance period, exercisable discretion to vary the relevant measures, weighting after the fifth, but before the tenth anniversary of the date of and targets each year prior to the grant of any grant, subject to continued employment and performance performance share awards, and will subsequently conditions being met over the first three years disclose these measures and targets in the annual The rules of the 2011 Standard Chartered Share Plan remuneration report for the respective financial provide the Committee with the discretion to adjust year.
The Committee will consult leading vesting of share awards and or the number of shares shareholders on any material changes underlying an award on the occurrence of corporate Discretion may be exercised in cases where the events and other reorganisation events Committee believes that the TVC outcome is notafair and accurate reection of business performance but in no circumstances will it exceed the maximum opportunity 182 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Future remuneration policy for executive directors continued How the element supports the Maximum potential value, payment Groups strategic atthreshold and determination of objectives Operation performance metrics Pension Dened benefit DB scheme closed to new entrants Under the DB scheme, a pension of 1 30th Facilitate ofnal salary for each year of service payable Cash allowance available for those not participating in long-term atthe age of 60 DBscheme retirement For those not in the DB scheme an annual Executive directors are able to opt for an individually costed savings allowance of 40 per cent of salary is payable pension allowance on a broadly cost neutral basis to the Group for future service No performance metrics used Executive directors who cannot accrue a full pension atretirement are able to waive base salary to increase theirpension Shareholding Each director is required to hold a specified number Not applicable requirement ofshares determined by the Committee.
If the To strengthen speciednumber is increased or a new appointment the alignment ismade, executive directors will be given time to meet ofthe interests therequirement, rather than it necessarily taking ofexecutive effectimmediately directors with shareholders The Committee reserves the right to honour any remuneration commitments which were entered into before this new policy takes effect, even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the policy in place at the time the commitment is fullled.
Notes to the future remuneration policy for executive directors table Recovery Unless otherwise stated in the future remuneration policy for executive directors there are no recovery or withholding provisions applicable to the various elements.
Performance measures and targets In 2014, the performance measures on performance share awards will be dependent on the achievement of total shareholder return TSR, earnings per share EPS and return on risk-weighted assets RoRWA.
The Committee selected the performance conditions as using a risk-adjusted measure ensures a an appropriate return for the risk taken: and b reward is aligned with the Groups risk appetite.
The measures support a balanced scorecard approach through equal focus on financial measures, investor interests and prudent risk-taking.
The performance targets are reviewed annually by the Committee.
Relative TSR, which measures the growth in share price plus dividends paid to shareholders, is recognised as one of the best indicators as to whether shareholders have achieved a good return investing in a specic company relative to a basket of similar companies or a single index.
In the case of awards made in 2014 the following banks comprise the TSR peer group: Banco Santander Citigroup ICBC Royal Bank of Scotland United Overseas Bank Bank of America Credit Suisse ICICI Socit Gnrale Bank of China DBS Group JP Morgan Chase Standard Bank Bank of East Asia Deutsche Bank Kookmin State Bank of India Barclays HSBC Oversea-Chinese UniCredito Banking Corporation The Committee considers that EPS is an appropriate measure of our underlying financial performance.
RoRWA is a key indicator of the Group that is already used to calculate capital adequacy.
This performance measure takes into account not only the return on assets but also risk-adjusts the assets by looking at credit, operational, and market risk.
RoRWA is a check on inappropriate pursuit of income, rewarding as much for prudent capital management as for pursuing financial management.
Corporate governance 183 EBA valuation guidelines Draft valuation guidelines introduced by the EBA enable a discounted valuation for remuneration deferred over five years for the purposes of assessing against the 200 per cent cap.
The Group will be taking advantage of this discount in order to minimise the increase in xed pay required to deliver a competitive compensation opportunity under CRD IV.
The EBA guidance is still in draft but is likely to allow a maximum unadjusted face value of approximately 220 per cent of xed pay given the proposed five-year deferral of an element of TVC.
Approach to determination of individual variable compensation awards The Committee is of the opinion that the performance targets for the element of TVC that is not delivered in performance shares are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Group to disclose them before the start of the financial year.
However, TVC will be determined at a level that balances financial performance and non-financial matters including control related matters and progress against the executive management groups collective agenda, which includes the priorities laid out in the Group Chief Executives review on page 6.
A performance assessment will be disclosed after the end of the relevant financial year.
Performance management Group objectives are determined and aligned to the Groups strategic goals.
Each executive director agrees with the Group Chief Executive individual priorities around the Group objectives according to the business in which the executive director works and their role.
The Group Chief Executive agrees his objectives with the Chairman.
Objective setting Interim review Final review January February July December January Personal objectives agreed with manager Mid-year discussion on Self appraisals prepared and performance performance to date discussion held with manager Objectives shared with the Committee against objectives Group Chief Executive Chairman provides the In addition, collective agendas are shared with Committee with performance updates on the Committee that are aligned to the Groups both delivery against objectives and also on strategic goals and also reect function, conduct and behaviours geography or business priorities Feedback from Risk and other control Objectives cover quantiable financial as well as functions is taken into account role-based metrics 2.
Determining compensation outcomes In 2014 the Committee will continue to rene a framework to develop a more transparent link between TVC and performance.
The framework will be designed on the basis that the combination of meeting both satisfactory financial performance and achievement of other non-financial factors would, all other things being equal, deliver a target level award, prior to the consideration of any personal or business performance.
Step 1: Eligibility for an award Step 2: Initial determination of awards Prior to any TVC decisions being made for the executive The Committee considers the headline Group financial directors, the Committee considers whether i the Groups performance in absolute and relative terms and the achievement financial performance has been achieved within the of other non-financial factors including progress against the Groupsriskappetite: and ii in light of the Groups current and Groups agreed collective agenda, control related matters and forward-looking capital position, there is anything that should how this might, all other things being equal, translate into an award prevent the Committee from approving any awards outcome In relation to each individual executive director, the Committee Step 3: Finalising individual awards then considers i whether they have achieved a minimum Award levels are then differentiated based on personal and relevant standard in terms of living the Groups values and associated business performance, individual conduct and behaviour, as well behaviours: and ii whether the level of financial performance as other individual circumstances such as market competitiveness achieved in their particular area of responsibility warranted payment of any TVC The Committee shares the recommendations with other nonexecutive directors 184 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Changes to remuneration policy from that operating in 2013 and 2012 Performance metrics used, weighting Element Operation of the component Maximum potential value and time period applicable Base salary No change No change No change 1 Fixed pay allowance Introduction of a xed pay One times base salary None allowancedelivered in shares Benets No change No change No change Pension No change No change No change 1 Variable compensation An element of variable The maximum potential TVC On an expected value basis: compensation is paid upfront and opportunity has been reduced 55 per cent of TVC will the balance deferred for up to five Total maximum variable bedeferred for up to years previously three years compensation will be 200 per cent threeyears In light of the integration of ofxed pay as valued in line with the 25 per cent of TVC will performance shares into the single EBA discounting rules bedeferred for five years variable compensation framework, 20 per cent of TVC will the Group is moving to target TVC bedelivered upfront rather than target APA inshares Half of the five-year deferral willbe in performance shares subject to measurement of current criteria over a three-year performance period.
While the above proportions are on an expected value basis, on a facevalue basis the proportion of TVC delivered in performance shares would be circa 26percent 1 Maximum award potentials for xed pay allowances and variable compensation awards are based on obtaining shareholder approval to increase the maximum variable compensation as a percentage of xed pay under CRD IV from 100 per cent to 200 per cent at the AGM on 8 May 2014.
If shareholder approval is not obtained, the maximum xed pay allowance payable for each executive director under the policy will be the difference between i 50 per cent of maximum total remuneration of the executive director under this policy as shown in the Remuneration scenarios chart on page 188 and ii the aggregate of the base salary, benets and pension cost for that executive director.
The maximum variable compensation award levels will then be revised from 200 per cent to 100 per cent of xed pay in line with the EBA valuation rules.
The increase in the cap to 200 per cent would enable us to minimise the increase in xed remuneration costs and maintain greater exibility on total pay while retaining a larger quantum of variable pay that can be subject to claw back and forward-looking performance conditions Differences in remuneration policy for all employees Statement of consideration of employment Our performance, reward and benets approach supports and conditionselsewhere in the Group drives our business strategy and reinforces our values in the The Committee reviews annually and takes account of the context of a clearly articulated risk appetite and a Group-wide remuneration trends across the Group including the relationship framework, under which we apply a consistent approach to between executive remuneration and the remuneration of other reward for all employees.
All employees are entitled to base salary and benets and have The Committee is also responsible for approving the design of, the opportunity to receive an element of performance-related and determining targets for, any material performance-related compensation, subject to their contractual entitlement.
The pay plans operated by the Group and approving the annual maximum opportunity of performance-related compensation TVCpool.
available is based on the seniority and responsibility of the role.
The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration Fixed pay allowances will only be provided to specic material structures for Code Staff dened on page 209 and uses this risk-takers as dened by the EBA based on their role, function, information to work with the Human Resources team to ensure skills and experience.
Senior management will receive shares consistency of approach throughout the Group in addition to aligned to the approach for executive directors.
All other overseeing compliance with regulations.
specified employees will receive the xed pay allowance in The Group also assesses the appropriateness of variable cashwhen it is below a certain amount.
The excess above compensation decisions in the context of the individuals thisamount will be delivered in shares.
performance, the performance of their business function and the Groups performance by reviewing output from any annual employee survey that follows the final review.
Corporate governance 185 Consideration of shareholder views Any conditional award is subject to the prevailing deferral The Committee consults with the Groups leading shareholders mechanism, claw back policy and the maximum of 200 per cent periodically to understand their expectations with regard to of xed pay as valued in line with the EBA rules.
executive remuneration and any changes in shareholder views.
Any new executive directors package would normally include This year, major shareholders were also consulted during the the same elements, and be subject to the same structure as latter part of 2013 on proposed changes to the Groups those of the existing executive directors, as shown below.
remuneration structures for certain employees, including Element Maximum percentage of salary executive directors, in order to comply with the regulatory Base salary Not applicable requirements of CRD IV.
Fixed pay allowance 100 per cent of base salary The Committee factored the feedback into the final proposals Legacy matters For existing employees the Group will outlined on page 178. continue to honour remuneration commitments already in place Approach on recruitment for directors remuneration Fees and benets for a new Chairman or independent Benets Dependent on circumstances but non-executive director INED would be in line with the policy typically consists of car provision, described on page 179.
The Groups approach to reward and medical insurance, life assurance and benets reects the fact that many of our employees bring for international hires expatriate international experience and expertise and that we recruit benets as outlined in the table on page 181 froma global marketplace.
The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive reward Pension 40 per cent of base salary package that reects our international nature and enables us to Variable compensation Dependent on circumstances but attract and retain candidates to the role.
Base salary and xed nomore than 200 per cent of xed pay allowance will be set to reect the role and the skills and pay as valued in line with the EBArules experience of the candidate, and will enable payment of a market-competitive total remuneration within the limits on variable compensation set by our remuneration policy.
Where it is decided to compensate for forfeited remuneration from the individuals previous employer through a buyout, it will typically be delivered in the form of restricted shares or performance shares.
The Group looks to replicate broadly the arrangements being bought out.
The Committee recognises that in exceptional circumstances the use of a guaranteed variable compensation award can be important in securing key senior talent, albeit it acknowledges that there is a need for appropriate safeguards on how it is composed and delivered and subject to regulatory restrictions.
The Committee will take into consideration the variable remuneration awarded or offered by the individuals previous employer in a similar role.
186 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Service contracts, policy on payment for loss of ofce and change of control Other provisions Standard provision Policy Details inservicecontracts Notice periods in 12 months notice from Executive directors may be required executive directors the company to work during the notice period or service contracts may be provided with pay in lieu of 12 months notice from notice if not required to work the full the executive director notice period No more than Payable quarterly and subject to In the event of a compromise Compensation for lossof ofce in 12months salary, mitigation if the executive director orsettlement agreement, the service contracts and pension and benets seeks alternative employment Committee may make payments it treatment of annual considers reasonable in settlement Variable compensation Good leavers as determined by performance award of potential legal claims.
This may is awarded at the theCommittee may be eligible for under plan rules include an entitlement to Committees discretion variable compensation although compensation in respect of their there is no automatic entitlement.
statutory rights under employment Typically the amount is pro rata to protection legislation in the UK or theperiod of service during the year other jurisdictions.
The Committee The Committee has discretion to may also include in such payments reduce the entitlement of a good reasonable reimbursement of leaver in line with performance and professional fees in connection the circumstances of the termination withsuch arrangements Change of control: No more than Payable quarterly and subject to The Committee reserves the right to 12months salary, mitigation if the executive director alter the performance period or the Treatment of pension and benets seeks alternative employment performance measures and targets compensation for of the annual performance plan or of Share awards are In the event of a change of control, loss of ofce on a any outstanding awards under the treated in line with the any outstanding awards may vest change of control annual performance plan or the plan rules asappropriate, to the extent any Share awards performance share plan in the event performance conditions have been Variable compensation of a change of control, to ensure that Annual met.
Awards will become exercisable is awarded at the the performance conditions remain performance awards immediately.
Where a change of Committees discretion relevant but challenging control occurs part-way through a performance period, the award will The Committee has the discretion be pro rata, unless the Committee totest performance at the point of decides otherwise change of control or to allow awardsto continue or roll-over in anyreasonable manner with agreement of the acquirer, taking intoaccount the circumstances of the change of control Treatment of unvested The Committee has For good leavers, vesting may be deferred restricted thediscretion under subject to non-solicit and nonshare awards and therelevant plan rules compete requirements performance share to determine how Awards vest in full over the original awards on termination good leaver status timescale and remain subject to the under plan rules should be applied on Groups claw back arrangements termination.
The unless otherwise specified in the current approach rules.
This is reective of the provides that discretion increased level of deferred will be afforded in compensation over recent years cases such as death, dueto changes in regulatory disability, redundancy requirements.
The Committee has and mutual separation discretion to vary the level of vesting Awards lapse for employees not designated good leavers Corporate governance 187 Service contracts, policy on payment for loss of ofce and change of control continued Other provisions Standard provision Policy Details inservicecontracts Outside appointments Executive directors, The Boards approval must be sought byagreement of the before accepting appointment Board, may serve as Fees may be retained by the executive non-executive directors director of other organisations.
Inaddition, executive directors are permitted to hold a maximum of only one non-executive directorship with a FTSE 100 company on the basis that there is no conict of interest Dates of executive directors service contracts letters of appointment Copies of executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Groups registered ofce.
The dates of their service contracts and letters of appointment are shown below.
Standard provision Date of service contract letter of appointment Peter Sands 31 December 2003 Richard Meddings 12 December 2003 Steve Bertamini 22 April 2008 Mike Rees 7 January 2010 Jaspal Bindra 8 May 2013 V Shankar 14 April 2010 Details of the non-executive directors dates of appointment are on pages 138 to 142.
188 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy The Groups proposed remuneration structure, as outlined earlier in this section, is subject to approval by shareholders at the 2014AGM.
If approved, the charts below provide illustrative outcomes that could result for each of the executive directors based on the proposed structure under three performance scenarios minimum, target and maximum and show the difference between the structure of remuneration in 2013 versus what is proposed for 2014.
For 2013, the maximum total variable compensation opportunity was 250 per cent of the target annual performance award 150 per cent for Mike Rees and a performance share award of four times base salary No share price growth has been assumed and dividends have not been included The 2014 value of pension and benets is as per the 2013 single gure of remuneration table on page 198 except for Mike Rees pension which includes an uplift to recognise the increase in accrual as a result of the adjustment to his base salary.
The actual xed pay in 2014 will be dependent on exchange rates, the cost of benets and the pension valuation Any base salary increases would be effective 1 April 2014 therefore a pro rata gure has been provided in the charts.
The 2014 xed pay allowances and details of the base salary increases for Peter Sands and Mike Rees are outlined on pages 204 and 205 Corporate governance 189 Advisers to the Committee Annual report on remuneration Advisers are appointed independently by the Committee, which This section sets out payments and awards made to the reviews its selection annually.
During the year the Committee directors and details the link between company performance undertook a full review of its advisers.
Some committee and remuneration for the 2013 financial year.
The annual report members, including Paul Skinner, absented themselves from on remuneration together with the letter to shareholders from thisformal selection process in view of potential conicts with the chair of the Remuneration Committee on page 176 is subject prospective shortlisted advisers.
As noted in his biographical to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM in May 2014. details on page 142, Mr Skinner sits on an advisory board for  LLP PwC.
After a rigorous process Committee role and focus in November 2013, PwC was appointed as adviser, replacing The Remuneration Committee has oversight of all reward Towers Watson, which has been its adviser since 2009.
In light policies for Standard Chartered employees.
It is responsible of PwCs role as adviser to the Committee on remuneration forsetting the principles and governance framework for all matters, the Committee considered this position and compensation decisions.
determined that there was no conict or potential conict In particular the Committee: arising.
PwC is a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct inrelation to remuneration consulting in the UK.
PwC also Determines and agrees the remuneration of the senior provides professional services in the ordinary course of management and employees with the potential to have a business including assurance, advisory and tax advice to the material impact on the risk prole of the Group Group, and the Committee is satisfied that there are processes Approves any proposal to award a high remuneration in place to ensure that the advice the Committee receives package to new recruits or a high level individual isobjective and independent.
The 2013 adviser fee paid to performanceaward to a Group employee Towers Watson was 15,700.
The 2013 adviser fee paid to PwCwas 32,000.
Ensures that the remuneration policy is appropriate and consistent with effective risk management, with the Group Managements advice to the Committee was supported Chief Risk officer attending key meetings of the Committee by:i the provision of market data from Towers Watson: and during the year ii advice on the design and operation of our share plans and issues relating to executive directors contracts and INEDs Approves the overall TVC pool on an annual basis letters of appointment from Clifford Chance LLP.
Members of the Committee As outlined in the corporate governance section page 152, theBoard is satisfied that all of our non-executive directors are independent including Ruth Markland and Paul Skinner who areboth Committee members.
Ruths and Pauls continuity of service and commitment provided an in-depth knowledge andunderstanding of the Group which was invaluable.
The Committee also welcomed two new members, Louis Cheung and Christine Hodgson, during 2013, both of whom were appointed to the Board during the year.
At the end of most meetings, Committee members provided real time feedback to enhance the Committees effectiveness.
In addition, as part of the effectiveness review for the entire Board, aformal evaluation of the Committee was undertaken.
This involved each Committee meeting providing their thoughts on the Committees effectiveness.
While the review concluded that the Committee had generally operated effectively, some observations included: Explore opportunities for Committee members to gain insights on local remuneration practices during any overseasvisits There is scope for Committee papers to be as concise as possible while balancing this with the need to ensure that the Committee receives the correct level of detail in order to effectively full its duties 190 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued The Committees key activities during the financial year Meeting January Regular items Initial review of TVC pool Discuss executive directors performance and initial compensation recommendations Consider draft remuneration disclosures February Regular items Conrmation of aggregate Group TVC pool Finalisation of directors compensation recommendations Review of compensation recommendations for other senior management Update on risk and control matters and discussions on the application of claw back Setting of performance conditions for 2013 share award grants as well as reviewing achievement ofconditions for performance share awards vesting in 2013 May Regular items Review any feedback from the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA on the prior year compensationreview Performance update for specic recent new joiners Ad hoc items Update on shareholder consultations on CRD IV matters Review of approach to external remuneration disclosures September Ad hoc items Update on shareholder consultations on CRD IV matters October Regular items Review outcome from AGM Consider any changes to remuneration policy required Review of Remuneration Committee advisers Performance update for specic new joiners Ad hoc items Review of the Groups deferral framework for variable compensation November Ad hoc items Appointment of new adviser Discussion on approach for managing risk and control matters and impact on pay and performance decisions at the year-end December Regular items Review of Groups submission of the Remuneration Policy Statement to the PRA Ad hoc items Adoption of new claw back policy Update on remuneration changes for CRD IV At each scheduled meeting, the Committee also discussed the emerging regulatory and investor trends as well as tracking the level and nature of management hires.
Corporate governance 191 Statement of shareholder voting The votes cast on the resolution seeking approval for the Directors remuneration report at our AGMs were as follows: For Against Number Number % % Withheld 406,944,552 31,434,513 2012 Remuneration report 92.83% 7.17% 27,097,339 457,066,542 7,456,140 2013 Sharesave plan 98.39% 1.61% 1,523,587 415,658,499 33,425,931 2011 Remuneration report 92.56% 7.44% 114,311,180 The disclosure in the 2014 remuneration report will include details of the binding shareholder vote on directors remuneration policy in addition to the existing advisory vote on historical remuneration payments.
Relative expenditure on pay The graph below shows the actual expenditure of the Group and the change in spend between current and previous financial periods including the remuneration paid to all employees, distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback and any other significant distributions or payments or other uses of profit or cash ow.
Cost of total variable compensation pool versus dividends paid in year The Committee carefully considered the balance of all stakeholders interests including the value delivered to shareholders before nalising the size of the TVC pool and any individual remuneration decisions.
The cost of variable compensation has fallen in relative terms to the value paid to shareholders as dividends.
Total variable compensation Dividends paid in year $m $m 49% 8% 35% 14% 1,385 2,062 21% 1,278 25% 1,867 1,192 1,675 1,039 1,385 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 Note Percentage changes in TVC and dividends are calculated using 2010 as a base Allocation of the Groups earnings between stakeholders Actual Allocation 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 $m $m $m $m % % % % Staff costs 5,763 6,631 6,584 6,569 65 64 63 62 Corporate taxation including levy 1,708 2,007 2,065 2,099 19 19 20 19 Paid to shareholders in dividends 1,385 1,675 1,867 2,062 16 16 18 19 Note Corporate taxation including levy is included as it is classied as a significant distribution or payment or other uses of profit or cash ow 192 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Single gure of remuneration of the Group Chairman and independent non-executive directors Audited The Chairman and independent non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Groups incentive arrangements.
The table below shows the fees and benets received by the Group Chairman and non-executive directors in 2013.
For overseas-based INEDs, this includes travel to meetings in the UK.
To the extent it is not yet possible to determine whether a benefit is taxable an estimate has been made of the taxable amount Notes Details of pension and variable compensation amounts have not been included as non-executive directors are not eligible for either in line with Group policy Changes to the directors interests in ordinary shares since December 2013 are detailed in the 2014 Notice of Annual General Meeting The beneficial interests of directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out above.
The directors do not have any non-beneficial interests in the Companys shares No director had an interest in the Companys preference shares or loan stocks of any subsidiary or associated undertaking of the Group No director had any corporate interests in the Companys ordinary shares Corporate governance 193 Salaries fees Audited Fees paid to the Group Chairman and independent non-executive directors in 2013 were comprised as follows: Effective 1 January 1 September 2013 2013 000 000 1 Chairman 1,150 1,150 Board member 100 100 Additional responsibilities Senior Independent Director 30 40 Chairman of Audit Committee or Board Risk Committee 65 70 Chairman of Remuneration Committee or Brand and Values Committee 50 60 Membership of Audit Committee or Board Risk Committee 30 30 Membership of Remuneration Committee or Brand and Values Committee 25 30 Membership of Nomination Committee 15 15 1 There was an error in the 2012 Directors remuneration report audited remuneration table for non-executive directors fees.
SirJohns annual fee was incorrectly stated at 1,050,000 when it should have been 1,150,000 in line with the narrative In 2013, Sir Johns compensation of GBP1,150,000 was part delivered in cash and part delivered in restricted shares granted in two equal tranches.
Sir John was entitled to a car and driver, which he did not utilise, and was provided with private healthcare.
INEDs were paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year.
UK-based INEDs were able to use up to 100 per cent of their monthly post-tax base fees to acquire shares in the Group.
The Chairman and the INEDs were not eligible to receive discretionary variable compensation or to participate in our retirementplans.
INED fees were reviewed during 2013 and amended where appropriate.
194 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued 2013 Group variable compensation pool Total remuneration is typically delivered via a combination of base salary and benets plus variable compensation.
Consistent withour pay for performance culture, our annual performance awards APAs and variable incentives play an integral role in enabling us to recognise and reward superior performance and behaviour that support our values.
TVC comprises both discretionary APAs which may be in the form of cash or shares and performance shares.
TVC spend is calculated after sufficient profit has been accrued to accord shareholders an appropriate risk-adjusted return and in the context ofthe forward-looking capital plan.
The Committee also considers as part of its deliberations on the aggregate TVC pool factors such as returns to investors, external sentiment on remuneration and achievement relative to peers.
Income statement charge for the approved total variable compensation pool Audited 2013 2012 $million $million Annual performance awards 1,154 1,364 Non-deferred cash awards 955 1,105 Deferred cash and share awards 199 259 Other long-term incentive awards 54 61 Total approved variable compensation pool 1,208 1,425 Less: deferral of charge for amounts awarded for current year 186 233 Plus: current year charge for amounts deferred from prior years 212 255 Income statement charge for variable compensation 1,234 1,447 Actual Expected Year in which income statement is expected to reect 2012 2013 2014 2015 and beyond deferred variable compensation $million $million $million $million Variable compensation deferred from 2011 and earlier 254 110 57 11 Variable compensation deferred from 2012 87 103 82 66 Variable compensation deferred from 2013 66 80 107 Total 341 279 219 184 General Unless otherwise indicated, the foreign exchange rates used in the Directors remuneration report are based on average rates throughout the relevant financial year.
2013 performance and reward outcomes for executive directors This section describes all of the payments made or accruing to the Groups executive directors in connection with the 2013 performance year.
Each executive director has documented objectives that are presented to the Committee at the start of the financial year and assessed at the year-end.
These objectives are based on a broad range of factors including both financial and non-financial measures.
The importance of each executive directors individual performance and that of the Group as a determinant in their compensation is reected in the variation of APAs made in recent years.
Comparisons with market compensation are typically made against our international banking peers and the FTSE 20.
These two groupings have business characteristics, such as international scope of operations, complexity and size that are similar to ours, representing organisations with which we compete for talent.
Total compensation for each executive director is structured to provide an appropriate mix of xed versus variable compensation with the potential to earn upper-quartile total compensation relative to peers for upper-quartile performance.
The Committee followed a three-step process for determining TVC awards.
Step 1: Eligibility for an award The Committee concluded that, for the executive directors as a whole, the Groups financial performance had been achieved within the Groups risk appetite and, from a forward-looking capital position, there was nothing that prevented the Committee from approving any awards.
In addition, each executive director had achieved a minimum standard in terms of living the Groups values and there was no reason why the financial performance in any part of the Group should prevent payment of any TVC.
Corporate governance 195 Step 2: Initial determination of awards In 2012, the Committee introduced, on a trial basis, a Group performance matrix applicable to all executive directors which measured both Group financial performance and achievement of the Groups strategic priorities as set out in the Groups collective agenda as a means of determining executive directors awards.
For the most recent performance year the Committee continued to trial the framework extending its use to cover the determination of total variable compensation rather than just annual performance awards.
The Committee also believed it was important to include broader considerations under the framework such as relative performance and control related matters, in addition to financial performance and the achievement of the executive management groups collective agenda.
Assessment of performance in 2013 Financial measures As outlined in the financial highlights section on page 2, performance in 2013 was resilient Deliver superior financial performance in a challenging environment.
Double-digit earnings per share growth The normalised return on equity reduced to 11.2 per cent, as profits declined.
Mid-teens return on shareholders equity Deliver diversied income growth Our income stream remains highly diversied with 23 markets delivering over $100 million of income.
The Committee noted that these results needed to be viewed in the context of the challenging market conditions also experienced by our global peers.
The Committee concluded that overall the Group did not meet expectations against the financial measures.
Non-financial measures The key performance indicators on pages 14 and 15 show that significant progress was made Build long-term, deep relationships against the non-financial measures.
For example: withour clients and customers We have consistently grown the number of leading clients that generate income of Continue to run our balance sheet $1million, $5 million and $10 million per year conservatively, maintaining a strong capitalbase The net promoter score, an indication of customer satisfaction of our products and Risk and control services in Consumer banking, showed year-on-year improvement Prove we are Here for good The Groups capital position continues to be strong with good levels of organic equity Innovate and digitise generation.
We remain well capitalised and our balance sheet remains highly liquid The Committee noted the status of compliance and risk and control matters, and also considered the progress that had been achieved during the year in relation to the roll out of the new operational risk framework.
We supported governments across our footprint in relation to the structure of their financial services industries and established new ofces in countries that will enable us to serve the network better.
Over 90,300 volunteering days were undertaken by our employees and $6 million was raised for Seeing is Believing.
We have become globally recognised for our best-in-class mobile and internet banking services, winning several external awards including the Global Finance 2013 Awards for Best Consumer Internet Bank in: Bangladesh, Brunei, Ghana, Jersey, Kenya, Korea, Pakistan, Singapore, the United Arab Emirates, Vietnam and Zambia.
The Committee concluded that the performance in this category in aggregate met expectations.
As a result of these considerations, the Committee determined that the starting point for executive directors should be a minimum 20 per cent reduction in TVC year-on-year prior to the consideration of individual performance.
This initial reduction was in the context of the 15 per cent reduction in the TVC pool.
The Committee believed that, given the leadership role of the executive directors, they should take a disproportionate share in the year-on-year reduction.
196 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Step 3: Finalising individual awards The combination of Group, business and individual performance assessment is reected in both the APA and in the absolute level of performance shares, which together comprise TVC.
Having determined the baseline 20 per cent reduction, the Committee assessed the following factors for each executive director to determine the final TVC outcome: Individual performance against their objectives including any business-specic financial performance Consideration of relevant risk and control matters specic to their portfolio How the executive director has exhibited the groups values Market positioning Variable remuneration awarded in respect of 2013 performance During 2013, the Group made good progress against many aspects of its collective agenda including the focus on embedding Here for good in the businesses and deepening client and customer relationships.
Peter Sands showed resilient leadership in adifcult year and was the key architect of the refreshed strategy and new organisation model.
However, the Groups financial performance was more disappointing.
Peter Sands total variable compensation is set in the context of at income and a reduction in both reported and underlying profit of 11 and 7 per cent respectively.
The Committee proposed a total TVC decrease of 21 per cent as a consequence of a lower APA and performance share grant, both of which are down approximately 21 per cent year-on-year see table on page 197.
Richard Meddings continued to provide strong management of the Groups capital and liquidity position and enforced tight discipline on costs during 2013.
He also oversaw the development of a much sharper and clearer resource allocation and investment prioritisation process.
In addition to his core role, Richard led the Groups Seeing is Believing initiatives, which raised afurther $6m in 2013.
On the basis of the same rationale for Peter Sands, his TVC was 21 per cent lower year-on-year.
His APA anda performance share grant were down 20 and 21 per cent respectively.
Financial performance in Wholesale Banking WB was lower relative to expectations with income falling by 2 per cent in 2013 and, excluding the impact of the cost of the settlements with the US authorities and own credit adjustment, underlying profit fell by 4 per cent.
In 2013, there was good progress on a number of non-financial priorities, for example, we played a leading role in the internationalisation of the renminbi and rened our client coverage model to simplify how we serve our clients and to push greater decision-making into geographies.
Mike Rees has been a strong advocate for Group conduct and put in place a number of programmes of work such as It Matters in Financial Markets.
Mikes TVC decreased by 24 per cent year-on-year, including a 28per cent fall in the APA.
Consumer Banking CB was signicantly impacted by the financial performance in Korea where we reported an operating loss of $163 million.
As a Group we also took a goodwill impairment of $1 billion in Korea.
As a consequence, CBs operating profit overall fell by 11 per cent.
Excluding Korea, the increase in operating profit was 8 per cent.
In terms of non-financial performance, CB won a number of awards in the digital space and its new product and customer acquisition metrics reected a marked shift to digital channels.
Under Steve Bertaminis leadership, the Groups diversity and inclusion agenda in 2013 made good progress.
Steves TVC decreased by 28 per cent year-on-year, including a 29 per cent fall in the APA.
In contrast to the respective heads of CB and WB, whose compensation is more directly linked to their respective business and therefore inclined to uctuate signicantly year-on-year based on performance, movement in variable compensation for the governance heads tends to be less volatile, linked to broader and sustained Group performance.
Jaspal Bindras TVC is down by 20 per cent year-on-year.
There were good performances in India and Hong Kong, two of the Groups largest markets, where operating profit rose by 3 and 16 per cent respectively, against weaker year-on-year performance in Korea and Singapore.
In terms of non-financial measures, Jaspal, among other things, personally oversaw the incorporation of our retail banking business in Singapore and made good progress in developing our regulatory and governmental relationships such as the collaboration with the Myanmar government to help develop a safe banking sector.
In common with the Group as a whole, the financial results in V Shankars region were mixed.
There were strong performances inAfrica operating income up 10 per cent, against weaker year-on-year performance in the Americas, UK and Europe where income fell 6 per cent.
Shankar has shown strong management of our external relations across the region.
In December 2013, theacquisition of ABSAs custody business in South Africa was completed and early in 2014 the opening of a subsidiary in Angola together with ENSA, a leading Angolan insurance company, was announced.
The Committee proposed a total TVC decrease of 20per cent as a consequence of a lower APA and performance share award.
Richard Meddings salary for 2013 was 800,000.
Steve Bertaminis salary for 2013 was $1,000,000.
Jaspal Bindra was issued with a new contract of employment in May 2013.
This included a Hong Kong dollar base salary as disclosed last year of HKD6,500,000.
Benets Peter Sands, Richard Meddings and Mike Rees benets include private medical cover, life assurance, ill-health income protection, a car allowance, an allowance in respect of taxation advice and the use of a company vehicle and driver where required for business purposes.
Peter, Richard and Mike are not tax equalised.
Steve Bertamini carries out his executive duties in a host country location so in addition to private medical cover, life insurance, ill-health income protection, a car allowance, an allowance in respect of taxation advice and the use of a company vehicle and driver where required for business purposes, Steve also received allowances to cover the cost of accommodation $336k and education of dependent children $55k.
The Group covered the cost and social security on these benets, known as tax equalisation $313k.
Jaspal Bindras benets include private medical cover, life assurance, ill-health income protection, a car allowance, an allowance in respect of taxation financial advice and the use of a company vehicle and driver where required for business purposes.
Jaspal also received an accommodation allowance $741k.
Since migrating to a Hong Kong base contract of employment in May 2013, Jaspal is no longer tax equalised.
V Shankars benets include private medical cover, life insurance, ill-health income protection, an accommodation allowance $380k, a car allowance, an allowance in respect of taxation financial advice and the use of a company vehicle and driver where required for business purposes.
Shankar is not tax equalised.
Annual Details of performance measures for the APA are included in 2013 performance and reward outcomes for executive performance directors on page 194.
60 per cent of the APA will be deferred in shares over a period of three years subject to claw award back.
Non-deferred variable compensation was delivered 50 per cent in upfront shares and 50 per cent in cash.
Performance Details of the performance share awards are included in the tables following this section and in the table headed share award assessment of performance on page 197.
Pension Peter Sands, Richard Meddings and Mike Rees are contractually entitled to participate in a DB pension plan, with a headline entitlement of 1 30th of base salary for each year of service, with the Committee continuing to take into account the value of such benets as part of total compensation.
Steve Bertamini received a cash allowance of 40 per cent of his base salary.
He has elected to receive a proportion of this in a US dened contribution pension plan with the balance payable in cash.
Under his old contract, Jaspal Bindra had been building up pension benets on a DB basis.
Since 1 January 2012, executive directors with a DB promise have had the option to give up part or all of their future pension accrual and have it replaced with an individually costed pension allowance.
Jaspal took up the option in 2013 and therefore now receives an allowance of 49 per cent of base salary, which has been determined on a cost-neutral basis to the Group, reecting the level of benefit forfeited and the individual executive directors age as at 1 January 2012.
Of Jaspals $482k pension benefit, $333k relates to his dened contribution pension.
Jaspal receives part of the allowance in a dened contribution pension plan with the balance payable in cash.
V Shankar received a cash allowance of 40 per cent of his base salary.
Corporate governance 199 Achievement against performance share award measures Audited The PSA amount in the 2013 single gure of remuneration table is the conditional share award granted in 2011 as part of each directors 2010 TVC.
Vesting was dependent on performance over the three financial years ended on 31 December 2013 and continued service until 31 May 2014.
The performance achieved against the performance targets is shown below.
As the awards had not vested at the date this report was nalised, the average share price for the last three months of the financial year has been used to determine the value for the purposes of the single gure of remuneration.
The awards held by the executive directors were as follows: Details of how the total shareholder return, earnings per share and return on risk-weighted assets performance measures operate are included in note 38 to the financial statements share-based payments.
2011 awards Percentage of Target Maximum maximum Performance measure 30% vesting 100% vesting Actual achieved Earnings per share one-third weighting Median Equal to or Between 16th above fifth and 17th place 0% Earnings per share one-third weighting 15% 30% 3.55% 0% Return on risk-weighted assets one-third weighting 1.5% 1.7% 1.76% 100% Total 33% Value of No.
of shares vesting Conditional share awards in 2011 shares awarded shares vesting $000 P A Sands 211,526 69,803 1,561 R H Meddings 144,083 47,547 1,063 S P Bertamini 113,427 37,430 837 A M G Rees 168,608 55,640 1,244 J S Bindra 101,164 33,384 747 V Shankar 76,640 25,291 566 Notes Average share price for last three months of financial year is 14.31 The exchange rate used to convert GBP to $ is 0.6398 Current position on outstanding performance share awards The tables below show the current position against performance targets for performance share awards outstanding from 2012 and 2013: Target Maximum Conditional share awards 30% vesting 100% vesting Grants in 2012 Grants in 2013 Total shareholder return Median Equal to or Between 16th Between 19th above fifth and 17th place and 20th place Earnings per share 15% 30% 14.04% 13.54% Return on risk-weighted assets 1.5% 1.7% 1.66% 1.58% 200 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Executive directors shareholding Audited The Group remains committed to the principles of share ownership and aligning the interests of its most senior employees withthat of investors.
Those employees classied as Code Staff under the Remuneration Code are required to hold a specified minimum number of vested ordinary shares equivalent to a 12-month holding period for vested and upfront shares.
In line with a desire for our executive directors to hold shares and be aligned to shareholder interests in the long-term, they are also subject to a higher of test, being the greater of the above requirement or a specified number of shares.
Additional shares from unvested awards Met Shareholding Shares held requirements Subject to requirement beneficially at as at deferral but not Subject to at 31 December 31 December 31 December performance performance 2013 2013 2013 conditions conditions P A Sands 200,000 200,000 met 154,458 636,982 R H Meddings 120,000 128,964 met 105,914 433,712 S P Bertamini 120,000 126,490 met 83,136 345,544 A M G Rees 120,000 169,835 met 449,142 511,842 1 J S Bindra 120,000 153,378 met 81,434 321,469 V Shankar 120,000 150,539 met 127,585 276,387 1 183,000 of these shares are subject to a charge from 31 December 2011 Notes Changes to the directors interests in ordinary shares since December 2013 are detailed in the 2014 Notice of Annual General Meeting The beneficial interests of directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out above.
The directors do not have any non-beneficial interests in the Companys shares No director had an interest in the Companys preference shares or loan stocks of any subsidiary or associated undertaking of the Group No director had any corporate interests in the Companys ordinary shares 2004 Deferred Bonus Plan 2012 was the final year in which awards under the 2004 Bonus Plan were made to Mike Rees as part of his 2009 APA.
The shares are held in trust and vest automatically after one year.
No further awards under the 2004 Deferred Bonus Plan are planned following simplication of the Groups share award arrangements in 2011.
Shares held Shares held in trust at Shares in trust at 1 January awarded during Shares vested 31 December 2013 the period in the period 2013 A M G Rees 70,255 70,255 Sharesave As at Awarded As at 1 January Exercise Price during the 31 December Period of Grant Date 2013 Pence period Exercised Lapsed 2013 exercise P A Sands 26 Sep 07 1,601 1,048 1,601 0 2012-2013 P A Sands 01 Oct 12 789 1,140 789 2015-2016 S P Bertamini 09 Oct 09 1,405 1,104 1,405 2014-2015 J S Bindra 09 Oct 09 1,407 1,104 1,407 2014-2015 R H Meddings 04 Oct 10 614 1,463 614 2013-2014 R H Meddings 09 Oct 13 764 764 2016-2017 Corporate governance 201 Sign-on awards Audited In recognition of the substantial elements of deferred compensation and share awards forfeited when he left his previous employer in 2008, Steve Bertamini participates in a deferred compensation arrangement under which a total of $6,500,000 was initially allocated into an interest-bearing account with the option for all or part of the value to be invested in alternative assets at his discretion.
The original allocation in September 2008 together with the accrued interest and investment returns vests in three tranches: $3,000,000 after the second, $2,000,000 after the fourth and $1,500,000 after the sixth anniversary of joining.
No further awards are planned.
Scheme interests awarded during the year Percentage Performance Face value vesting at Number of period Director Scheme 000 threshold shares end date P A Sands PSA 3,353,922 30 186,329 31 Dec 15 DRSA 1,213,182 100 67,399 31 Dec 12 R H Meddings PSA 2,281,950 30 126,775 31 Dec 15 DRSA 831,888 100 46,216 31 Dec 12 S P Bertamini PSA 1,877,544 30 104,308 31 Dec 15 DRSA 673,992 100 37,444 31 Dec 12 A M G Rees PSA 2,708,802 30 150,489 31 Dec 15 DRSA 3,466,260 100 192,570 31 Dec 12 J S Bindra PSA 1,813,356 30 100,742 31 Dec 15 DRSA 673,992 100 37,444 31 Dec 12 V Shankar PSA 1,925,694 30 106,983 31 Dec 15 DRSA 757,014 100 41,723 31 Dec 12 Notes Face value calculated based on share value at date of grant 11 March 2013 GBP 18.00 DRSA have no attached performance conditions PSA are exercisable between 2016 and 2023 with the exception of Steve Bertamini whose conditional rights automatically exercise on vesting DRSA are subject to notional dividend payments at the date of vesting Both APA and DRSA were awarded in respect of 2012 performance and part of 2012 total variable compensation decisions disclosed in the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts Shareholder dilution All awards vesting under the Groups share plans are satisfied by the transfer of existing shares or, where appropriate, the issuance of new shares.
Our share plans contain monitored limits that govern both the aggregate amount of awards that may be granted and the amount of shares that may be issued to satisfy any subsequent exercise of awards.
These limits are in line with those stated in the Association of British Insurers principles of remuneration and the terms of our listing on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
As well as the Groups share plans, the Group operates a savings-related share option plan Sharesave approved by HM Revenue & Customs for all employees.
Grants of restricted stock awards are by shares delivered from the employee benefit trusts which buys shares on the market.
The Group has two employee benefit trusts that are administered by an independent trustee and which hold ordinary shares to meet various obligations under the Groups share plans.
As each executive director is within the class of beneciary of these trusts, they are deemed, for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, to have an interest in the trusts shares.
202 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Total pension entitlements The Groups approved DB scheme is not open to new joiners.
Peter Sands, Richard Meddings and Mike Rees participated in this pension scheme up to their lifetime limits.
The balance of their pensions is payable from the Groups unapproved plan.
Jaspal Bindra moved to a dened contribution arrangement with effect from 1 March 2013.
Neither Steve Bertamini nor V Shankar are members of the DB scheme.
There is no retirement age for executive directors, but the normal retirement age for UK employees is 60.
Payments to past directors and payments for loss of ofce No payments to past directors or payments for loss of ofce were paid in 2013.
Executive directors non-executive directorships Executive directors may, by agreement with the Board, serve as non-executives of other organisations and retain any fees payable for their services.
The following executive directors served as non-executive directors elsewhere and received fees or other benets for the period covered by this report as follows: Fees Organisation $000 P A Sands The Institute of International Finance, Inc The Department of Health World Economic Forum 1 R H Meddings 3i Group Plc 136 V Shankar Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC 300 Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 18 1 GBP80,000 plus the cost of 2,500 3i shares Corporate governance 203 Performance table The graph below shows our TSR performance on a cumulative basis over the last five years alongside that of the FTSE 100.
The FTSE 100 provides a broad comparison group against which our shareholders may measure their relative returns.
Standard Chartered is a constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index and the London Stock Exchange is the principal exchange for our shares.
For illustrative purposes we have also shown our TSR performance against the peer banks that were part of our performance share award comparator group in a particular year.
Percentage change in TSR over a five-year period % 220.11 250 213.66 190.95 188.67 184.95 200 100.53 183.05 143.4 142.69 140.27 150 148.27 137.09 132.13 127.33 106.67 100 50 0 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Data provided by Thomson Reuters Standard Chartered FTSE 100 Comparator median The table below shows the historic levels of pay for the Group Chief Executive compared with the percentage change in TSR for the Group and the APAs and long-term incentive pay awards PSAs as a proportion of plan maxima.
Peter Sands was appointed as Group Chief Executive in November 2006 therefore all of the data below are in relation to his appointment: Annual Long-term Percentage performance incentive change in total Single gure award as a vesting rates as shareholder of total percentage of a percentage return for remuneration maximum of maximum Standard Performance year $000 opportunity opportunity Chartered 2013 6,841 50% 33% 191% 2012 11,014 63% 77% 214% 2011 12,469 70% 90% 185% 2010 12,305 70% 90% 220% 2009 11,139 64% 81% 189% Notes Single gure calculated as per requirements under The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 APA maximum is 250 per cent of target APA Long-term incentive plan LTIP vesting is based on proportion of awarded shares that have vested 2013 estimated TSR changes use 2008 as base year at 100 per cent 204 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Percentage change in remuneration of the Group Chief Executive and all employees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration between the 2012 and 2013 performance years for both the Group Chief Executive and the wider employee population.
To enable a comparison the All Employee group for taxable benets has been based on UK employees only as it was deemed the most appropriate comparison for the Group Chief Executive given the varied requirements in the provision of benets across different jurisdictions.
For all employees, base salary and APA data are based on the global population of those employees who are eligible to participate in the annual performance plan and therefore have an element of variable remuneration.
Given the Groups global footprint and the fact that more than 90 per cent of our employees are based outside of Europe it is difficult to provide a comparison which takes into account the impact of local market movement and business unit performance: CEO All employees % change % change Salaries and allowances 0 5.8 Taxable benets 34.2 1.3 Annual performance awards 20.6 14.0 Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 The remuneration policy will be implemented with effect from the AGM in 2014 with the exception of Peter Sands and Mike Rees salary changes subject to shareholder approval as follows.
P A Sands R H Meddings S P Bertamini A M G Rees J S Bindra V Shankar Base salary 000s 1,120 800 $1,000 975 HKD6,500 AED3,200 Fixed pay allowance 000s $1,100 n a n a $1,000 $575 $575 Pension Dened benefit or dened contribution arrangements consistent with past policy Benets No change from previous years Maximum TVC face value 000s $8,425 $2,200 $1,800 $7,750 $4,625 $4,780 Shareholding requirement 250,000 120,000 120,000 200,000 150,000 150,000 Changes compared with 2013 Base salary Peter Sands salary increased by 4.2 per cent to reect market positioning.
Mike Rees salary increased to reect new role and responsibilities.
Fixed pay This is a new component of pay delivered in shares, released over five years.
TVC The Annual Performance Award and the Performance Share Award have combined into a single Total Variable Compensation TVC Award.
Maximum TVC is the amount of variable which assumes that any performance conditions are fully satisfied, and is setat200 per cent of xed pay as valued under the EBAs rules.
The TVC for a target level of performance is set in combination with xed pay to deliver competitive total compensation on an expected value basis against peer groups.
In relation to any performance shares awarded as part of the TVC, the measures and targets remain unchanged from those granted in respect of 2013 performance, i. e. one-third each on relative TSR, EPS and RoRWA.
The targets for performance shares are set out on page 199.
Shareholding Test toughened to higher of test.
Increases to the specified number of shares including the creation of a new requirement level specic to the role of the Deputy Chief Executive.
No changes to the requirements for Steve Bertamini and Richard Meddings, who are retiring from the Board in 2014.
Corporate governance 205 Changes to Peter Sands compensation The table below shows the historic range of Mike Rees actual The Committee has not sought to make wholesale increases total compensation over 2009 to 2013 valuing PSA at the inbase salary as a response to CRD IV.
In line with our usual expected value and compares this with the estimated range of annual process, executive directors salaries were reviewed his future package value between target and maximum, both against market data and the Committee noted that Peter Sands including and excluding the one-off pension adjustment.
salary had not been increased for three years.
The review of Historic range Estimated future target peers compensation indicated a possible increase to Peters 2009 2013 to max range 2014-2016 base salary in the region of 10 per cent.
However, given the Excluding structural changes to compensation this year in relation to 2013 target 2009-2013 one-off CRDIV and feedback from major investors during consultation, to maximum actual Including one-off pension the Committee decided to implement amore modest range range pension impact impact adjustment in 2014 of 4.2 per cent.
The Committee noted that, c. $13m to c. $10m to 2014: c. $6.7m to notwithstanding this base salary increase, Peters total annual $19m $16.5m c. $9.3m to $12.7m $10m maximum opportunity reduces inface value terms by circa 15per cent and concluded thiswas appropriate taking account 2015: c. $7.6m to $10.9m of the structural changes in response to CRDIV.
2016: Changes to Mike Rees compensation c. $6.7m to $10m Mike Rees package has historically reected his specic dutiesas the Chief Executive of Wholesale Banking and was in The Committee noted that even allowing for the one-off pension line with marketpractice for capital markets leadership roles.
impact, the reduction in Mike Rees compensation opportunity Following Mike Rees appointment as Deputy Group Chief is very significant both by reference to historic target and actual Executive, the Remuneration Committee determined that his ranges and concluded this was appropriate for the transition to remuneration package should be structured in a manner his new role.
appropriate to his new role, and accordingly more in line with the structure adopted for the Group Chief Executive.
For the 2014 performance year, the Committee has therefore decided to make a number of changes to Mike Rees remuneration structure.
These changes are in addition to those being made toall executive directors following the introduction of CRD IV.
The key changes to his remuneration are: An increase in base salary, so as to be positioned appropriately relative to other executive directors and the Group Chief Executive A reduction in maximum total compensation of approximately 47 per cent Mike Rees participates in the companys DB pension scheme.
As such, the salary increase has a material one-off impact onhis accrued pension benefit.
The Committee carefully considered the impact and value of this when establishing theelements of Mikes future package, taking into account an appropriate competitive level of compensation for his new role and the transition from his historic compensation levels.
The 12-month averaging period for pensionable salary means that under the new single gure of remuneration disclosure, this increase in pension value will emerge through the single gure over two years, and will result in an aggregate disclosed value ofapproximately $3.6million.
206 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Additional remuneration disclosures The following pages provide other remuneration disclosures that the Group is required to publish.
Governance and regulatory requirements Benchmarking Standard Chartereds 2013 compensation arrangements against emerging regulatory best practice.
Regulatory benchmarking Emerging regulatory best practice Standard Chartered practice for 2013 Fixed and variable Fixed remuneration was set at a level that was both appropriate for the role and the market as well as compensation balance allowing for truly exible variable remuneration arrangements where, for example, no variable compensation award could be paid There was a single pool from which all discretionary variable compensation irrespective of structure e. g. cash, deferred shares, performance shares is funded Remuneration policy Risk management is core to all business decisions across the Group and we operated a robust process for supporting effective ensuring that compensation decisions took risk into account risk management processes Rewarding for Employees were assessed and rewarded on performance against objectives and adherence to Group performance and values.
Those individuals modelling our values typically received an uplift of up to 20 per cent over target adherence to values variable compensation compared with those who demonstrated the values less frequently Claw back on unvested deferred variable compensation could have been activated by inappropriate behaviours and non-adherence to Group values Strong, dened link Variable compensation for senior management was driven by collective and individual objectives that were between remuneration clearly linked to the achievement of business objectives consistent with the Groups risk appetite and strategy Risk and performance A robust risk-adjusted profit metric was used that took into account regulatory capital, credit and market risk alignment in the formulation of variable compensation pools Claw back was able to be applied to deferred and performance awards prior to vesting The Groups share plan used a risk-based performance condition to ensure it was aligned to risk A three-year vesting period for share awards was consistent with the tenor of the Groups banking book.
More than 74 per cent of the book had a five-year tenor or less.
Within WB, the vast majority 93 per cent was less than five years Meaningful levels of A Group-wide deferral framework with a top rate of 60 per cent deferral of TVC applied to all employees deferral for variable although this was higher for directors compensation All employees were subject to the higher of any regulatory deferral requirements and the Group deferral framework Strong internal The Committee oversaw all material variable compensation plan spend and reviewed the remuneration of governance process the most highly paid and those subject to the Remuneration Codes deferral requirements The Group Chief Risk officer attended key Committee meetings Control function variable compensation pools were managed separately from the businesses they control A comprehensive set of reward plan committees provided rigorous challenge of variable compensation decisions and allocation of pools Control functions provided input into reward plan committees on any control issues positive or negative that should inuence compensation and claw back decisions The Committee reviewed the most material risk and control matters to assess impact on the TVC pool and executive directors decisions Corporate governance 207 Supporting risk management through The Committee then uses this information and exercises  discretion to determine the final pool and approve allocations to Effective risk management is fundamental to building business and support functions.
In arriving at its decision it sustainable performance and is the central tenet of the financial looks at the proposed aggregate pool relative to both trading and operational management of the Group.
The Risk function profit and risk-adjusted profit notably risk capital-adjusted profit ensures management of risk throughout the Group via a robust RCAP.
The Committee is also informed by the underlying and rigorous Risk Management Framework.
Risk appetite is set funding frameworks for individual pools and has oversight for in the context of the Groups strategy and the annual Strategy the allocation of the overall Group pool across businesses.
Board meeting sets strategic goals that are translated into The GRPC is responsible for allocating the approved pools to financial and business targets and, ultimately, to employees each business-specic reward plan committee RPC, which objectives.
The Board also remains involved in all material then oversees the allocation of variable compensation spend decisions made regarding performance and reward.
All of our WB and CB discretionary variable Since performance against these objectives is a significant compensation is delivered under RCAP-based pools.
factor in the determination of an individuals TVC, employees are required to ensure the effective management of risks within the Governance of reward committees scope of their direct organisational responsibilities.
Reward plan committees play an important role in ensuring that risk and control environment matters are appropriately taken The Committee reviews the Groups performance and reward into account in performance award decision making.
In 2013, policy on a regular basis against significant regulatory we have further strengthened this governance approach by developments in our markets, market practice and shareholder establishing a committee for support functions in addition to expectations.
As part of its review process the Committee those that already exist within the WB and CB businesses and receives the following input from Risk: the Risk function.
RPCs consider such risk and control matters The Group Chief Risk officer GCRO attends key Committee in relation to both the distribution of the allocated pool and in meetings that approve pools respect of individual employee performance award decisions.
Asub-committee of the GRPC has also been established with All plan committees are constituted with cross-functional the objective of achieving consistent, fair and appropriate representation and are typically chaired by the representative decision making across the Group.
In addition to these from a control function for example risk or compliance responsibilities, RPCs also review individual awards for key Plan committees oversee the formation and allocation of populations, anomalies in award allocation and any highly award pools taking all risk issues into consideration leveraged awards.
The Group Reward Plan Committee GRPC is made up of the Each business specic RPC involves Risk, Compliance and HR GCRO: the Group Finance Director: Director, Compliance, functions in compensation decision-making.
For each RPC, People and Communication: and the Group Chief Executive Risk and Finance representatives jointly oversee the compilation and accuracy of financial data used to underpin award pool Pool funding funding.
In addition, the HR function provides independent input The Group operates a single discretionary annual performance to minimise the risk of conicts of interest which might arise.
plan comprising of a number of pools.
Reward issues are To ensure consistency from an overall Group perspective, the governed on a top down basis and our variable compensation RPCs are governed by the GRPC.
The GRPC oversees all awards deliberately do not contain any direct formulaic link reward plans in the Group and ensures that decision making is between business income and individual reward to avoid the in accordance with the Groups established performance and shortcomings of incentive plans that may not allow important reward philosophy.
The GRPC acts as a link to the Committee factors such as the quality of business written and the external and will provide feedback to the other RPCs as necessary.
environment to be taken into account.
Although each performance award pool has an initial funding Risk adjustment of compensation mechanism, the Committee approves the TVC pool for the The Committee views management of TVC in a holistic way, Group taking into account a submission it receives from the usinga number of levers to determine both the appropriate size of GRPC.
The Committee exercises its judgment to ensure that the variable compensation pool and individual recommendations the overall pool appropriately reects relative performance and taking account of current and future risks to the Group at the time control related matters in addition to financial performance and at which compensation decisions are made.
These levers are used to make ex-ante risk and performance adjustments beginning with the use of RCAP in determining the TVC pool.
In addition, the Committee has agreed a number of mechanisms to make ex-post performance adjustments that provide further alignment to actual performance outcomes seefollowing page.
208 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Considerations at the time of award ex-ante application in 2013 Initial pool funding TVC pool determination was based on risk-adjusted profit Validation of the The Committee then reviewed the TVC pool and exercised its judgment to ensure that the overall payout TVCpool appropriately reected Group performance, the control environment, and any other qualitative risk factors that the Committee considered appropriate Adjustments after awards made ex-post application in 2013 Balance of upfront The Committee considered the balance of cash, deferred and performance shares to be delivered both at anddeferred annual an aggregate level and at an individual level.
Ex-post adjustments are only effective if the appropriate levels performance awards of deferrals and performance shares are delivered andperformance shares Deferrals started at $50,000 and up to 1,375 employees were eligible to receive performance shares depending on individual performance Performance adjustment This was achieved through multiple lenses: and claw back Potential diminution in the value of the deferred award: through share price movement until vesting Claw back in accordance with the policy described on page 209 Potential diminution in value of performance shares: through share price movement as well as subsequent testing of performance conditions Shareholding The Group operated a shareholding requirement policy to align the interests of its senior employees with requirements itsinvestors.
We remain committed to the principles of share ownership by senior employees with an expectation that such employees build up a shareholding over time Employees subject to the Remuneration Code were required to hold a specified minimum number of vestedordinary shares which effectively resulted in a 12-month retention period for vested and upfront share awards Executive directors were subject to a higher test, being the greater of the above requirement or a specified number of shares as set out on page 200 Application of deferrals and claw back The 2013 deferral thresholds for non-Code Staff are shown in APAs above $50,000 were subject to deferral under the Groups the following table: standard framework.
The deferred portion was delivered Annual performance award thresholds $ Percentage deferred entirely inshares for the majority of employees.
However, those 50,000 or less No deferral, employees with the highest level of deferrals a minimum total paid in cash deferred APA of $85,000 had the opportunity to elect for 50percent of their deferred award to be delivered as deferred Above 50,000 and equal to 250,000 25% cash.
All deferred awards, shares and cash, vest equally over Above 250,000 and equal to 500,000 35% three years and remain subject to the Groups claw back Above 500,000 and equal to 3 million 50% policy.
Vested deferredshare and upfront share awards mayonly be soldifthe employee meets any stated minimum Above 3 million 65% .
Note The net deferral rate was capped at an aggregate deferral of 60 per cent including the expected value of any performance shares Corporate governance 209 The Committee had discretion in exceptional circumstances to Remuneration for Code Staff was delivered in 2013 through a determine that a whole award may not vest or will only partially combination of base salary, benets and variable compensation vest.
Such circumstances dened as a Material Event may split between an APA and a PSA.
include a material restatement of the Groups financial Variable compensation for Code Staff was structured in line statements, the discovery of endemic problems in financial withthe Remuneration Code requirements.
40 to 60 per cent reporting, or where, as a result of financial losses, a material ofvariable compensation was deferred over a period of three breach of regulatory guidelines e. g. in relation to capital years.
Non-deferred variable compensation was delivered holdings or liquidity or a significant failure in risk management 50per cent in upfront shares and 50 per cent in cash.
at Group or business unit level has occurred or is likely to occur.
Deferredvariable compensation was delivered through a mix Where the Group financial statements have been subject to a ofthe following depending on the individual and quantum of material restatement or there has been a risk management theaward: failure, the Committee may also determine that forfeiture is to be restricted to the award holders in a particular business unit if Deferred restricted shares issues in that unit alone have been the cause of the restatement Deferred cash eligible employees may elect to receive or the risk management failure.
50percent of the deferred amount in cash rather than just Individual award holders may also forfeit their awards if it is deferred shares determined that the employee or former employee or group Performance shares ofemployees has, as a result of an appropriate review, been deemed to have i caused in full or in part a material loss for the Deferred compensation cash and shares is subject to Group as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions or ii theGroups claw back policy and continued employment exhibited inappropriate values, behaviour or applied a lack of whichmay be terminated by the Group in the event of material appropriate supervision.
Both upfront and deferred shares are subject to a Group shareholding requirement level set out in our structure of Code Staff remuneration disclosures for 2013 discretionary variable compensation policy.
The following groups of employees have been identied as The following tables show the remuneration decisions made meeting the PRAs criteria for Code Staff: bythe Group in respect of 2013 for the employees whose Employees performing a significant inuence function SIF professional activities could have a material impact on the within the Group Groups risk prole.
In accordance with the Remuneration Code which is now contained in the handbooks of the PRA and FCA this includes direct reports to a director of Standard Chartered Bank the regulated entity who are the head of a significant business function or business group with Risk and or profit and loss accountability and not previously classied as SIF Other staff identied as risk-takers The combination of the first two categories above are referred toin the subsequent disclosures as senior management.
In line with the denition, risk-takers are those whose professional activities are deemed to have a potentially material impact on the Groups risk prole, and are drawn from the following areas: Heads of material support or control functions not already classied as senior managers or SIFs Heads of significant Corporate Finance and Financial Marketsunits this includes relevant product sales or tradingbusinesses and who sit on the Corporate Finance orFinancial Markets leadership teams Other designated risk professionals not otherwise coveredabove Other designated Wholesale Banking employees not otherwise coveredabove 210 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Code Staff employees remuneration by business Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Other Aggregate remuneration expenditure for Code Staff $000 $000 $000 2013 14,289 107,559 86,842 2012 18,566 119,088 88,398 Note Other includes all support functions and general management positions, including executive and non-executive directors Code Staff employees remuneration by xed variable compensation 2013 2012 Senior Other Code Staff Senior Other Code Staff Analysis of remuneration for Code Staff employees management employees management employees between xed and variable compensation $000 $000 $000 $000 Fixed compensation 51,269 21,001 44,195 14,808 Variable compensation 88,275 48,145 110,411 56,638 Upfront cash 17,344 10,637 20,287 12,150 Upfront shares 16,846 10,101 20,065 11,650 Deferred awards 34,125 24,356 45,540 27,936 Performance shares 19,960 3,051 24,519 4,902 Number of Code Staff 88 36 78 35 Notes Fixed compensation includes base salary and other cash allowances and, in the case of non-executive directors, any fees Deferred awards includes any element of deferred cash for senior management 2013: $8,075 and 2012: $11,580 and other Code Staff employees 2013: $8,353 and 2012: $10,180 Performance shares includes the expected value of any performance shares award to be granted in respect of 2013 and 2012 performance respectively The ratio between xed and variable compensation for all Code Staff in 2013 was 189 per cent Deferred remuneration 2013 2012 Senior Other Code Staff Senior Other Code Staff management employees management employees Analysis of deferred remuneration $000 $000 $000 $000 Start of the year 1 January 238,496 84,878 219,377 79,114 Awarded during the financial year 85,088 36,976 111,177 42,982 Vested during the year 72,461 32,718 109,106 43,351 Non-vested due to performance adjustments 1,427 114 17,147 433 Close of the year 31 December 222,935 80,158 239,659 86,242 Notes Deferred remuneration includes both deferred awards and performance shares.
Code Staff population in 2013 and 2012 differ Value of deferred remuneration awarded during the year is based on the share price at grant Value of vested deferred remuneration during the year is based on the share price as at 31 December in that year Value of deferred remuneration which has lapsed as a result of i performance conditions not being satisfied or ii claw back Value of deferred remuneration as at 31 December is based on the share price at the respective dates in that year Corporate governance 211 significant payments and severance 2013 2012 Senior Other Code Staff Senior Other Code Staff management employees management employees Analysis of sign-on payments and severance $000 $000 $000 $000 Sign-on payments 3,083 5,100 1,632 4,800 Severance payments 587 475 396 Notes Sign-on payments include the value of any guaranteed performance awards cash or shares which were made on appointment.
In2013 and 2012 sign-on payments relate to four and two employee s respectively In 2013 and 2012 severance payments relate to two and one employee s respectively Value of vested deferred remuneration during the year is based on the share price as at 31 December in that year Remuneration at or above EUR 1million The table below shows the number of individuals whose remuneration base salary, cash allowances and variable compensation was EUR 1million or more in 2013.
The remuneration bands are EUR 500,000 for EUR 1 million to EUR 5 million and EUR 1 million for more than EUR5 million.
Remuneration band Number of employees EUR 1m EUR 1.5m 75 EUR 1.5m EUR 2m 20 EUR 2m EUR 2.5m 8 EUR 2.5m EUR 3m 4 EUR 3m EUR 3.5m 6 EUR 3.5m EUR 4m 1 EUR 4m EUR 4.5m 1 EUR 4.5m EUR 5m 1 EUR 5m EUR 6m 1 EUR 7m EUR 8m 1 Total 118 Ten highest paid employees beneath the Board The following table sets out, on an anonymised basis, the remuneration of the 10 highest-paid employees for the year ended 31December 2013 who are not executive directors.
This disclosure is not limited to those discharging executive responsibility PDMRs.
Variable compensation Deferred shares Fixed Non-deferred and performance compensation cash Upfront shares Deferred cash shares Total Employee $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 1 957 1,114 1,114 1,307 2,034 6,526 2 957 921 921 1,064 1,698 5,561 3 703 868 868 1,165 1,438 5,042 4 1,271 730 730 1,060 1,131 4,922 5 696 778 778 1,045 1,290 4,587 6 458 760 760 1,140 1,225 4,343 7 640 1,252 1,252 1,187 4,331 8 957 668 668 767 1,236 4,296 9 934 652 652 766 1,189 4,193 10 738 1,029 1,029 935 3,731 Notes Fixed compensation includes base salary, benets and allowances paid in respect of 2013 and, where appropriate, on a pro rata basis for new joiners Deferred shares and performance shares includes the deferred share element of APA, the expected value of any performance shares and, if appropriate any distribution from any carried interest plan paid in 2013 212 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration of the five highest-paid individuals and the remuneration of senior management In line with the requirements of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the following table sets out, on an aggregate basis, the remuneration of the five highest-paid employees and senior management including two executive directors discharging executive responsibility PDMRs for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Five Senior highest-paid management $000 $000 Basic salary, allowances and benets in kind 5,734 13,935 Pension contributions 1,761 4,486 Annual performance awards paid or receivable 27,342 29,323 Payments made on appointment Compensation for loss of ofce contractual or other Other Total 34,837 47,744 Total HKD equivalent 270,215 370,333 Note For 2013, the five highest-paid includes two executive directors, Mike Rees and Peter Sands.
Senior management includes Tim Miller who stepped down as a Court director on 31 March 2013 APAs paid or receivable excludes any performance awards or commissions linked to profits generated by the individual collectively or with others engaged in similar activities.
It includes the deferred element of any APA and Performance Share Awards.
The table below shows the emoluments of the five highest-paid and senior management discharging executive responsibility PDMRs for the year ended 31 December 2013.
