Report on Directors Remuneration This report comprises three sections: the Remuneration I have chaired the Remuneration Committee since Committee Chairmans annual statement: a Directors 6 March 2013 when Rupert Robson was appointed Chairman Remuneration Policy which will be subject to a binding vote of the Board and accordingly relinquished his membership at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 May 2014: of the Remuneration Committee.
The other members of the and an Annual Report on Remuneration which will be Remuneration Committee throughout the year were Angela subject to an advisory vote at the 2014 AGM.
David Clark was a member until his retirement as a Director after the AGM on 9 May 2013.
All The Report on Directors Remuneration has been prepared members of the Remuneration Committee are independent in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as amended Non-executive Directors.
The terms of reference of the by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Remuneration Committee are set out in the Corporate Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, Governance Report.
the UKLA Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditor to As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, my first report to the Companys members on certain parts of the responsibility has been to undertake a review of Executive Report on Directors Remuneration and to state whether Director remuneration.
This process commenced in April in their opinion those parts of the report have been and was finally concluded in September.
As part of this properly prepared in accordance with the regulations.
process, we consulted shareholders and met or had calls The Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement, with sixteen of our largest shareholders and or their the Directors Remuneration Policy and certain parts of advisers representing approximately two thirds of Tullett the Annual Report on Remuneration indicated in that Prebons issued share capital.
The Remuneration Committee report are unaudited.
appointed  LLP executive compensation consultants PwC to assist it to undertake Definitions used in this report the review.
As a result of the consultation a number of Executive Director means any executive member changes were made to the structure originally proposed of the Board: to be adopted by the Remuneration Committee.
Senior Management means those members of the Companys The changes we have made to the Executive Director Executive Committee other than the Executive Directors remuneration structure are summarised below: and the first level of management below that level: Fixed remuneration: An increase to Paul Mainwarings Broker means front office revenue generators: basic salary to reflect the increase in recent years in Paul Mainwarings responsibilities and value to the business Control Functions means those employees engaged in and to align his fixed remuneration with both internal and functions such as Compliance, Legal, HR, Finance, Operations external peers.
Following the increase, Paul Mainwarings and Risk Control: fixed remuneration is in line with the median for finance Remuneration Code means the Remuneration Code of the directors in financial sector comparator groups reviewed FCA: and by the Remuneration Committee with PwCs assistance.
Comparator groups included listed companies of similar 2013 Regulations means the Large and Medium-sized size, FTSE 250 financial organisations and a bespoke group Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports of similar companies.
In this context, the Remuneration Amendment Regulations 2013.
Committee noted that relative to many of the comparator group peers, Tullett Prebons business is larger in terms REMUNERATION COMMITTEE of revenue, number of employees and number of geographies in which it operates.
It is not expected that CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Executive Director fixed remuneration will be reviewed again until 2017.
This is my first report as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and is the Companys first report under the Annual discretionary bonus: A new method to calculate new disclosure regime introduced by the 2013 Regulations.
the annual discretionary bonus which incorporates both This statement includes an overview of the operation of a cap on bonus payments for the first time as well as the Remuneration Committee during 2013, including the a level of operating profit below which no bonus will shareholder consultation exercise which we undertook to be paid has been introduced for 2013 and future years.
implement a new Executive Director remuneration structure The new bonus scheme is calculated as a percentage described in the Remuneration Policy as well as the voting of operating profit with the Remuneration Committee on the Report on Directors Remuneration at the 2013 AGM.
having discretion to determine the exact calculation within this range and to make appropriate adjustments in exceptional circumstances.
The detailed mechanics are set out in the policy table on page 35.
32 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 32 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information LTIS: A new cash settled long term incentive scheme As required by the Remuneration Code, an annual central LTIS has been introduced to replace the Tullett Prebon and independent review of compliance with policies Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, which had ceased to and procedures for remuneration adopted by the operate as an effective incentive for the Executive Company was undertaken.
This work, conducted by Directors.
Since its introduction in 2008, options granted , the Companys internal auditor, under the LTIP have only vested in part on one occasion.
provided the Remuneration Committee with an independent In designing the new LTIS, the Remuneration Committee assessment of compliance with the Remuneration Code and was mindful that it was important for there to be supported the Remuneration Committees conclusion that alignment of shareholders and managements longer the Company continues to comply with the Remuneration term interests.
At the same time, there needed to be Code.
The Remuneration Policy Statement, including the list stretching operational targets, both in absolute terms and of Remuneration Code staff, has been reviewed, and the by comparison with the Companys key IDB competitors.
disclosures required to be made under the Remuneration The Committee is of the opinion that the metrics set out Code have been approved.
These disclosures are available below fulfil all of these objectives.
Awards have been on the Companys website www.
made in 2013, subject to shareholder approval at the Voting at the 2013 AGM 2014 AGM.
At the AGM held on 9 May 2013 the following votes were Minimum shareholding requirements: More onerous cast in respect of the Report on Directors Remuneration: minimum shareholding requirements have been adopted.
As is currently the case, 50% of variable remuneration will For Against Votes withheld continue to be paid in cash with the balance being subject No.
to deferral through the requirement for that proportion 134,757,885 83.87 25,919,207 16.13 26,904,890 to be invested in the Companys shares to be held for a period of time.
The deferral period before the shares Notes: 1 V otes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of votes cast.
A Vote can be sold will now be extended from two to three years.
withheld is not a vote in law.
New overarching shareholding requirements linked to 2 Votes For includes those giving the Chairman discretion.
levels of fixed remuneration have additionally been introduced.
As reported above, during the Executive Director remuneration review, shareholders holding some two thirds Clawback and malus: The element of annual bonus of the Companys issued share capital were consulted, required to be invested in the Companys shares will be including a number of shareholders who voted against the subject to clawback and the level of vesting of an LTIS Report on Directors Remuneration or withheld their votes award may be reduced, including to nil, in the event of at the 2013 AGM.
A number of issues raised by shareholders, a material misstatement of results such that the annual including the lack of a cap on Executive Directors variable bonus was too high or the LTIS award was granted at too remuneration and the lack of clawback on annual bonuses high a level or if an Executive Directors conduct is found or malus in respect of long term incentives were addressed to amount to gross misconduct and or fraud, wilful in the new remuneration structure approved by the dishonesty or accounting malfeasance.
Remuneration Committee following completion of the The Remuneration Committee considers that the new consultation exercise.
Further details are set out in the remuneration structure provides an appropriate incentive Directors Remuneration Policy below.
for the Executive Directors and is good for the Company and 2014 AGM its shareholders and has adopted the above amendments Copies of the Executive Directors service agreements, in respect of 2013.
In light of the LTIP no longer operating the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment and the as an effective incentive for the Executive Directors, the new LTIS rules are available for inspection at the registered Remuneration Committee resolved to make awards under office of the Company during normal business hours and will the new LTIS in 2013.
As this LTIS has not yet been approved be available for shareholders to view at the 2014 AGM.
by shareholders, these awards are subject to the approval of the LTIS at the 2014 AGM.
It is intended that the new Executive Director remuneration structure should operate Stephen Pull until a new policy is put to shareholders at the AGM in 2017.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee During 2013 the Remuneration Committee also undertook 4 March 2014 the regular tasks of reviewing and determining the remuneration of the Chairman: approving the remuneration of Senior Management: and dealing with the Companys obligations under the Remuneration Code which apply to the Company and its FCA regulated subsidiaries which remain in the lowest category for the purposes of the Remuneration Code classified as Proportionality Tier Three including reviewing the remuneration of all Remuneration Code staff.
33 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 33 25 03 2014 16:49 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Risk DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The Remuneration Committee considers the relationship between incentives and risk when approving remuneration This remuneration policy will be subject to a shareholders policy which will apply throughout the Group.
binding vote at the 2014 AGM on 9 May 2014.
The policy set Details of the Companys key risks and risk management out in this report has already been adopted by the Company are set out in the Strategic Report in this Annual Report.
in 2013 and will accordingly be implemented, for the The majority of transactions are brokered on a Name Passing purposes of the new rules, with effect from the 2014 AGM.
basis where the business is not a counterparty to a trade.
When formulating its policy on Executive Director Commissions earned on these activities are received remuneration, the Remuneration Committee consulted monthly in cash.
The business does not take any trading risk shareholders holding approximately two thirds of the issued and does not hold principal trading positions.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee also only holds financial instruments for identified buyers and reviewed employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
sellers in matching trades which are generally settled within In particular, internal relativities with the Executive 1-3 days.
The business does not retain any contingent Committee in terms of basic salary as well as total market or counterparty risks.
The business does not have remuneration were considered.
The Remuneration valuation issues in measuring its profits.
Committee did not consult with employees.
The Remuneration Committee has concluded that the Background Companys remuneration policy reflects the low risk profile In reviewing and approving the general principles of the Company, is consistent with and promotes sound of the Companys remuneration policy which apply and effective risk management, and does not encourage throughout the Group, the Remuneration Committee risk taking.
takes account of the corporate objective to maximise The Remuneration Committee considers that the Companys returns to shareholders over the medium to long term remuneration policy is consistent with the measures set out with an acceptable level of risk.
The Remuneration in the businesss compliance manuals relating to conflicts of Committee is mindful that the Groups strategy to achieve interest.
that objective is to continue to develop its business, operating as an intermediary in the worlds major wholesale The Companys policy is to ensure that variable over-the-counter OTC and exchange traded financial and remuneration is not paid through vehicles or methods commodity markets, with the scale and breadth to deliver that facilitate avoidance of the Remuneration Code.
superior performance and returns, underpinned by strong Policy table financial management disciplines and without actively The policy which has been applied in respect of Executive taking credit and market risk.
Director and Non-executive Director remuneration is The Remuneration Committee takes into account general summarised in the table below.
The policy set out in this practices in the parts of the financial services sector in table is that which is currently in practice and which will be which the Company operates, and in particular those of subject to the binding vote of shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
the Companys competitors which include BGC Partners Inc, For the purposes of the 2013 Regulations, the policy is GFI Group Inc, ICAP plc and Compagnie Financire Tradition.
intended to apply with effect from the 2014 AGM.
These practices are characterised by high levels of variable remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee has concluded that it is in the best interests of the Company and shareholders to pay remuneration in line with market practice in the sectors in which the Company operates.
The Companys remuneration policy is designed to attract, motivate and retain staff with the necessary skills and experience to deliver the strategy, in order to achieve the Companys objective.
34 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 34 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information How remuneration supports the Companys short and long term Recovery strategic objectives Operation Maximum payable Performance framework withholding Executive Directors Fixed remuneration To provide a level of Paid monthly in arrears.
Reviewed Fixed remuneration None None fixed remuneration periodically to ensure not will not be reviewed reflecting the scope significantly out of line with until 2017 of individual the market.
responsibilities to attract and retain high calibre individuals Benefits To provide basic Medical cover and participation in No new benefits will None None benefits but otherwise any schemes for all UK employees be introduced during to avoid provision of such as the group life insurance the term of this benefits scheme.
Remuneration Policy, unless such benefits Relocation or the temporary are made available to provision of accommodation may all UK employees.
be offered where the Company requires a Director to relocate.
The Remuneration Committee may determine that Executive Directors should receive other reasonable benefits if appropriate, taking into account typical market practice.
Pension To make basic Membership of a defined 6% of fixed None None pension provision contribution pension scheme remuneration up to a cap set at 105,600 Annual discretionary bonus Aim is to motivate and Allocation of pool takes account of The maximum Pool is 2.5-3% of Group Clawback of the retain Executive individual contribution and relative aggregate Executive reported operating profit, element of bonus Directors, consistent responsibilities.
No payment is Directors bonus is 3% provided operating profit subject to with the risk appetite made if the Remuneration of Group reported exceeds a threshold investment determined by the Committee is not satisfied with operating profit, calculated as the weighted requirement in Board and thereby to personal performance.
No rising to 5% in the average cost of capital times the event of achieve superior contractual entitlement to a bonus event that one or the average capital material returns for if the Executive Director is not in more new Executive employed.
In exceptional misstatement of shareholders.
It employment or is under notice on Directors are circumstances payments results for the provides a direct link the payment date.
Operating may be made outside this period to which between the profit may not exceed range.
Adjustments may the bonus related Directors must invest 50% of achievement of annual 150% of the operating be made in relation to which caused the post-tax annual bonuses in the business performance profit used to significant acquisitions.
bonus to be paid Companys shares for three years targets and reward.
calculate the previous at too high a level the investment requirement.
This The pool may be extended years bonus.
In or if an Executive The shareholding investment requirement can be to a maximum of 5% of exceptional Directors requirements align met, in part or in full, by ordinary reported operating profit to circumstances conduct is found Directors interests shares already held, excluding any accommodate one or more payments may be to amount to with shareholders.
shares already being counted new Executive Directors.
made outside this gross misconduct towards investment requirements In such circumstances, range.
Adjustments and or fraud, in relation to previous bonus the existing Executive may be made in wilful dishonesty payments.
Directors will not be entitled relation to significant or accounting to participate in the acquisitions.
35 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 35 25 03 2014 16:49 Report on Directors Remuneration continued How remuneration supports the Companys short and long term Recovery strategic objectives Operation Maximum payable Performance framework withholding Minimum shareholding Aligns Directors Directors must hold a minimum None None None interests with number of the Companys ordinary shareholders by shares equivalent to 300% of basic focusing on longer term salary in respect of the Chief shareholder returns Executive and 150% of basic salary for all other Executive Directors.
Shares acquired to meet the investment requirement attaching to annual bonuses can be used to meet this requirement.
LTIS Aligns Directors Annual awards equivalent to the Maximum is as Performance conditions are The level of interests with higher of aggregate basic salary and described in the measured over a period of vesting of an shareholders by 25% of the prior year aggregate Operation column at least three years.
award may focusing on longer term variable remuneration or basic be reduced, Performance conditions are shareholder returns salary for a new Executive Director including to nil, 50% based on TSR relative of Executive Directors in office at in the event of to FTSE 250 companies the date of the award.
Awards are a material excluding investment trusts, satisfied in cash when all relevant misstatement 25% based on average cash performance conditions have of results that flow before dividends and been measured.
caused the LTIS debt repayments and 25% award to be based on ROE relative to IDB granted at too competitors.
high a level or For each element of the if an Executive award, vesting starts at 25% Directors at threshold performance conduct is found rising on a straightline basis to amount to to 100% for maximum gross misconduct performance.
and or fraud, wilful dishonesty or accounting malfeasance.
Non-executive Directors Fees To attract high calibre, Paid monthly in arrears.
Periodically Aggregate annual None None experienced Nonbenchmarked against other UK fees limited to executive Directors listed companies of comparable size 700,000 in the and activities.
Additional fees for Articles of Association additional responsibilities of the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, for chairing each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees or other services performed such as acting as a trustee of a Company pension scheme.
36 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 36 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Executive Directors variable remuneration is also subject Notes to the policy table: to a requirement that at least 50% net of tax of bonus Performance measures payments must be invested in the Companys shares to The annual discretionary bonus payable to Executive be held for a minimum period of at least three years.
Directors is calculated as a percentage of reported operating Clawback arrangements apply to this element of variable profit.
The operation of the Executive Director bonus scheme remuneration for the duration of the investment was changed in 2013 following the Remuneration requirement.
The Remuneration Committee has concluded Committees review of Executive Director remuneration that given the Companys low risk profile and the fact that and shareholder consultation.
Operating profit is a key this is not consistent with market practice in the Companys performance indicator, is a clear and simple metric and key competitor organisations, neither deferral nor clawback was chosen as it links remuneration directly with business arrangements are applied to variable remuneration paid to performance.
The percentage range of profit allocated to other staff.
the bonus scheme was chosen to provide an acceptable level of variable remuneration for the Executive Directors while The new LTIS has been put in place for the benefit of the at the same time delivering value to shareholders.
Executive Directors only and it is not anticipated that any other staff will participate in a long term incentive The introduction of the new LTIS in 2013 also followed the arrangement.
The Remuneration Committee has concluded review of Executive Director remuneration referred to above.
that the provision of long term equity based or cash settled Performance measures used for the LTIS were chosen by incentives for any staff other than the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee, with advice having been except in specific individual circumstances such as to assist provided by PwC and following consultation with significant recruitment, is not consistent with market practice in the shareholders.
The relative TSR measure had been used as Companys key competitor organisations.
LTIS awards will a metric for the LTIP for several years and despite its many not therefore be made routinely to any member of staff well recognised limitations, shareholders were keen for it below the Board.
to be retained as a substantial component of the metrics for the LTIS.
Half of LTIS awards are therefore subject Remuneration policies for Brokers to the relative TSR performance measure.
However, the The Companys remuneration policy for Brokers is based Remuneration Committee was also concerned to incorporate on the principle that remuneration is directly based on new metrics to target and reward good operating financial performance, generally at a desk team level, and performance measured by reference to the Companys cash is calculated in accordance with formulae set out in flow generation, and return on equity compared with the contracts of employment.
These formulae take into account Companys IDB competitors.
Both metrics are regarded the fixed costs of the Brokers, and variable remuneration by the Board as key performance indicators.
One quarter payments are therefore based on the profits that the Brokers of LTIS awards are accordingly subject to these performance generate for the business.
Initial contract payments are only conditions respectively.
The targets were set, having regard paid upfront when a claw-back provision is included in the to recent performance and at a level which would be seen contract of employment.
Typically, Brokers receive a fixed to be achievable but at the same time could be expected salary paid regularly throughout the year, with a significant to be challenging.
proportion of variable remuneration dependent on revenue, which is paid after the revenue has been fully received Policy on Directors remuneration compared with in cash.
employees generally As a general rule, the same principles are applied to Remuneration policies for Control Functions Directors fixed remuneration, pension contributions The Companys remuneration policy for Control Functions and benefits as are applied to employees throughout the is that remuneration is adequate to attract qualified and organisation.
A competitive level of fixed remuneration experienced staff, is in accordance with the achievement of is paid to all staff taking into account their responsibilities objectives linked to their functions, and is independent of the and experience and minimal pension provision and benefits performance of the business areas they support.
Employees are provided, the Board considering that employees are best in such functions report through an organisation structure placed to determine priorities for funds set aside for that is separate to and independent from the business units.
Heads of Control Functions are designated as Remuneration Code staff and accordingly their remuneration is reviewed There are a number of different bonus schemes in operation by the Remuneration Committee.
throughout the Group for Brokers, management and other employees.
Brokers bonus schemes are described below: all other bonuses are generally discretionary.
During 2013, the Remuneration Committee introduced a cap on Executive Directors bonuses in response to requests from shareholders.
However, the Remuneration Committee does not believe that the formal capping of bonuses for Senior Management and Brokers is consistent with the delivery of enhanced returns to shareholders and accordingly no caps have been introduced on Senior Managements or Brokers bonuses.
37 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 37 25 03 2014 16:49 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Illustrations of the application Executive Directors service agreements of remuneration policy and loss of office entitlements The total remuneration for each of the Executive Directors for The Executive Directors contracts may be terminated by a minimum, target and maximum performance for 2014 is either party on the expiry of 12 months written notice presented in the charts below: save in circumstances justifying summary termination, or by making a payment in lieu of notice at the Companys Terry Smith election.
The Company will consider the scope for requiring 6,000 the Executive Director to mitigate his loss when taking account of all the circumstances surrounding the 5,057 termination of employment.
The Executive Director 5,000 16% would also be entitled to accrued but untaken holiday.
The contracts do not provide for termination payments in 4,000 excess of salary and contractual benefits.
Post-termination 3,254 restrictive covenants also apply to each Executive Director.
12% 3,000 In addition to the contractual rights to a payment on loss of 71% office, any employee including the Executive Directors may 2,000 have additional statutory and or common law rights to 68% certain additional payments, for example in a redundancy situation.
1,000 650 When determining payments for loss of office, the Company 100% 20% 13% will take account of all relevant circumstances on a case by 0 Minimum Target Maximum case basis including but not limited to : the contractual Basic salary and bene ts Bonus LTIS notice provisions and outstanding holiday: the best interests of the Company: whether the Executive Director has Paul Mainwaring presided over an orderly handover: the contribution of the Executive Director to the success of the Company during 6,000 their tenure: and the need to compromise any claims that the Executive Director may have or to pay the Executive 5,000 Directors legal costs on a settlement agreement.
There is one unvested award remaining under the Tullett 4,000 Prebon LTIP and awards were made in 2013 under the new LTIS subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
3,000 The LTIP rules provide for an award to lapse in all circumstances where an Executive Director ceases to hold 2,000 office or employment with a Group company other than 1,452 14% death, unless the Remuneration Committee determines 1,001 10% 1,000 otherwise, in which case any award would vest to the extent 62% 55% that the performance conditions had been met and the 350 100% 35% 24% extent that the performance period had elapsed.
0 Minimum Target Maximum The LTIS rules provide for an award to lapse where Basic salary and bene ts Bonus LTIS an Executive Director ceases to hold office or employment with a Group company other than through death, although As the variable remuneration calculation is based on a the Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to percentage of reported operating profit, the Board has allow an award to vest to the extent that the performance prepared the above illustrations using 2013 operating profit conditions have been met other than in circumstances to avoid including a profit forecast.
involving gross misconduct, fraud, wilful dishonesty or Outside directorships accounting malfeasance, and, unless the Remuneration The Board recognises that external non-executive Committee determines otherwise, pro-rating for time.
appointments and certain other business appointments are beneficial both to Executive Directors and the Company.
Executive Directors are entitled to retain any remuneration in connection with such appointments.
38 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 38 25 03 2014 16:49 000 000 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Remuneration Committee may consider offering Non-executive Directors appointment letters additional cash or share-based payments to buy out existing The Non-executive Directors serve under letters of awards forfeited by a new Executive Director when it appointment which are terminable on the earliest of considers these to be in the best interests of the Company the Director not being re-elected at an AGM, removed and its shareholders.
Any such buy-out payments would as a director or required to vacate office under the Articles mirror so far as possible the remuneration lost when leaving of Association, on resignation, at the request of the Board the former employer.
The Remuneration Committee may or subject to 12 months notice.
avail itself of the current Listing Rule exemption to make Recruitment of Directors such buy-out awards where doing so is necessary to The Remuneration Committees approach to setting facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment remuneration for new Executive Directors is to ensure that of the relevant individual.
the Company pays market rates, with reference to internal Relocation payments may also be set, within limits pay levels, the external market, location of the executive to be determined by the Remuneration Committee, where and remuneration received from the previous employer.
considered appropriate and in the Companys best interests Salary will be provided in line with market rates, and the to do so.
Remuneration Committee reserves discretion to offer appropriate pension and benefit arrangements, which may In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of include the continuation of benefits received in a previous internal promotion, the Group will honour any contractual role.
On-going variable pay awards for a newly appointed commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Executive Director will be as described in the Policy table, Director.
subject to the same maximum opportunities.
It is not The fee payable to a new Non-executive Director will be currently intended that future service contracts for in line with the fee structure for Non-executive Directors Executive Directors would contain terms differing materially in place at the date of appointment.
from those summarised in this report, including with respect to notice provisions.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This report is subject to shareholders advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
Information in this report is audited except where stated.
6 T he value attributed to the LTIP which would be included in the single total remuneration table is based on the awards which vested during the reporting period included as remuneration in the financial year in which the performance conditions were satisfied at the market value on the date the options first became exercisable.
No LTIP awards vested in either 2013 or 2012 as the performance conditions were not satisfied.
39 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 39 25 03 2014 16:49 Report on Directors Remuneration continued The vesting of half of the awards is subject to relative TSR Fixed remuneration performance over the three years to 31 December 2015, The fixed remuneration of the Chief Executive, Terry Smith, with minimum vesting of 25% of the awards if the was 650,000 and has not been changed since 2005.
The percentile ranking of the Companys TSR over the fixed remuneration of the Finance Director, Paul Mainwaring respective period relative to the TSR of all other companies unchanged since 2006, was increased from 275,000 to the comprising, at the start of the relevant performance current level of 350,000 with effect from 1 October 2013, period, the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts is 50th following completion of the shareholder consultation on and with maximum vesting of 100% if it is 25th or better.
The vesting of one quarter of the awards is subject to Annual bonus average cash flow before debt repayments and dividends The Remuneration Committee determined that the bonus performance over the three years to 31 December 2015 pool for 2013 should amount to 2.755m, which represented Cash flow, with minimum vesting of 25% if Cash flow 2.75% of reported operating profit.
The allocation to equals or exceeds 40m and maximum vesting of 100% each of the Executive Directors took into consideration if Cash flow equals or exceeds 150m.
their personal contribution and relative responsibilities.
50% of the 2013 bonus net of tax has to be invested in the The vesting of one quarter of the awards is subject to return Companys ordinary shares to be held for three years and on equity performance compared with the Companys IDB will be subject to clawback as described in the Directors competitors over the three years to 31 December 2015 or Remuneration Policy during this time.
equivalent financial year in respect of competitors, with minimum vesting of 25% if the Companys ROE equals the Awards under the Long Term Incentive average ROE of competitors and maximum vesting of 100% Scheme LTIS if the Companys ROE is three times the average or better.
Awards under the new cash-settled LTIS made in 2013, The companies comprising the comparator group are BGC subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, Partners Inc, GFI Group Inc, ICAP plc and Compagnie amounted to 800,000 for Terry Smith and 200,000 for Financire Tradition.
The awards have a normal vesting date Awards under the Companys Long Term of 30June 2016 and are subject to malus as described in the Directors Remuneration Policy and the following Incentive Plan LTIP performance conditions: The outstanding share options awarded to each of the Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Awards under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Shares Shares under under Earliest Date of option at option at Exercise exercise Director grant 1Jan 2013 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31Dec 2013 price date Expiry date Terry Smith 22 June 22 June 21 June 2009 302,148 302,148 1 in total 2012 2019 18 April 18 April 17 April 2011 446,001 446,001 1 in total 2014 2021 21 June 21 June 20 June 2012 571,719 571,719 1 in total 2015 2022 Paul 22 June 22 June 21 June Mainwaring 2009 127,832 127,832 1 in total 2012 2019 18 April 18 April 17 April 2011 111,500 111,500 1 in total 2014 2021 21 June 21 June 20 June 2012 142,930 142,930 1 in total 2015 2022 40 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 40 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information During the year Paul Mainwaring exercised an option This investment requirement can be met, in part or in full, granted under the LTIP over 127,832 ordinary shares.
by ordinary shares already held, excluding any shares already The gain on the exercise amounted to 278,000. being counted towards investment requirements in relation to previous bonus payments.
Only the 2012 awards are unvested and the performance conditions attaching to those awards are: In 2013 a new overarching shareholding requirement was also introduced for the Executive Directors, details of which The vesting of half of the awards is subject to relative TSR are set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy above.
over the three years to 31 December 2014, with minimum vesting of 25% of the awards if the percentile ranking of Both Executive Directors currently comply with the the Companys TSR over the respective period relative to Companys overarching minimum shareholding the TSR of all other companies comprising, at the start of requirements and comply with investment requirements the relevant performance period, the FTSE 250 excluding in respect of previously paid bonuses.
investment trusts is 50th and with maximum vesting of Non-executive Directors fees 100% if it is 25th or better.
The fees paid to the Non-executive Directors are determined The vesting of half of the awards is subject to absolute TSR by the Board and the fees paid to the Chairman are over the three years to 31 December 2014, with minimum determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The fees for vesting of 25% of the awards if the Companys annualised the Chairman are 175,000 per annum, 59,000 per annum TSR over that period is equal to RPI 4.5% and with for the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and maximum vesting of 100% if annualised TSR is equal to 54,000 per annum for all other Non-executive Directors.
The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees each receive an annual fee of 7,500 in respect of the An average return on capital employed of at least 25% additional responsibility of chairing a committee.
Nonmust be achieved during the three year performance executive Directors acting as trustees of the Companys period.
occupational pension scheme are entitled to an attendance The lowest closing price of Tullett Prebon plc ordinary shares fee of 1,000 per meeting.
during the year to 31 December 2013 was 240p and the highest closing price was 396p.
At 31 December 2013 the Directors interests closing share price was 377p.
The interests all beneficial as at 31 December 2013 or the date of retirement from the Board of those persons who Shareholding requirements were Directors and their connected persons during the Half of the 2013 bonus awarded to each of the Executive year in the ordinary share capital of the Company, were Directors was subject to a condition that the net of tax as follows: amount to be paid at the end of March 2014 would be invested in the Companys shares, to be held for a minimum of three years.
Directors interests 1 LTIP awards Director Shares Unvested Vested but unexercised Exercised during the year Rupert Robson 7,000 Terry Smith 9,645,510 571,719 302,148 Paul Mainwaring 279,740 142,930 127,832 Angela Knight Roger Perkin Stephen Pull 7,000 2 Keith Hamill 80,299 3 David Clark Notes: 1 All LTIP awards are subject to performance conditions 2 Retired 6 March 2013 3 Retired 9 May 2013 There were no changes in the interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company from the end of the year to the date of this report.
41 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 41 25 03 2014 16:49 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Advice provided to the Performance graph A graph depicting the Companys total shareholder return Remuneration Committee in comparison to other companies in the FTSE 250 index Fees payable to PwC in respect of the Executive Director excluding investment trusts in the five years to 31 remuneration review as well as general remuneration advice December 2013 is shown below: during the year totalled 62,275.
PwC has advised the Company on remuneration issues for several years and the 400 Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the other services provided by  LLP to the Company, 350 which include outsourced internal audit services, tax advice and other associated services, do not affect their objectivity 300 or independence.
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP was appointed by the Company 250 to provide advice on law and regulation in relation to employee incentive matters.
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP 200 also provides general legal advice to the Company.
The information in the following part of the Annual Report 150 on Remuneration is not subject to audit.
100 Outside directorships Neither Terry Smith nor Paul Mainwaring has any outside 50 directorships from which they received any remuneration Dec2008 Dec2009 Dec2010 Dec2011 Dec2012 Dec2013 in 2013.
Tullett Prebon plc FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts The Board believes that the above index is most relevant as it comprises listed companies of similar size.
Chief Executive remuneration history The following table sets out the changes in Terry Smiths remuneration over the last five years: 000 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Total remuneration 2,856 3,153 4,929 4,344 4,652 1 Annual bonus outcome % of maximum 51% N A N A N A N A LTIP vesting outcome % of maximum 45% Notes: 1 Variable remuneration was uncapped in the years 2009-2012 Change in Chief Executive remuneration The table below shows the change in Terry Smiths fixed and variable remuneration and benefits in comparison with Senior Management: Chief Executive Senior Management 2013 Change Change 000 2013 v 2012 2013 v 2012 Salary 650 Benefits 2 Bonus 2,204 -12% -25% A large proportion of the Groups remuneration is payable to Brokers, who earn a significant proportion of their income as contractual bonus based on a formula linked to revenue.
The Remuneration Committee considered that comparison of the Chief Executives remuneration with that of Senior Management would accordingly be more meaningful than comparison with all employees.
42 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 42 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Relative importance of spend on remuneration The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend payments: m 2013 2012 % change Employee remuneration 531.1 582.8 -9% Shareholder dividends paid 36.7 36.6 Notes: 1 Employee remuneration includes employers social security costs and pension contributions 2 Shareholder dividends comprises the dividends paid Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2014 The policies set out in the policy table in the Remuneration Policy section of the Report on Directors Remuneration will apply in 2014.
There is no intention to review Executive Director fixed remuneration in 2014.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Stephen Pull Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 March 2014 43 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
