Directors remuneration report The Committee normally consists of three non-executive Chairma ns statement directors, including its Chairman, who are appointed by the Board.
During the year I served as Chairman of the Committee Introduction and Mr H M Henderson and Mr R J Oldfield were members of As Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee the Committee.
I was appointed to the Committee, and to act the Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors as its Chairman, in 2009.
Mr Henderson and Mr Oldfield were Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013. appointed to the Committee in 2003 and 2011 respectively.
This report covers the remuneration-related activities of the The Committees programme is to meet formally at least twice Committee for the year ended 31 December 2013.
It sets out a year and on such other occasions as required.
The Committee the remuneration policy and remuneration details for the held two formal meetings during the year, during which it non-executive and executive directors of the Company.
addressed all the remuneration-related matters under its remit.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and There have been no substantial changes in the Companys Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations approach to the remuneration of the CEO, or the fees payable which came into force on 1 October 2013 and the requirements to non-executive directors, during the year.
In February 2014, of the Association of Investment Companies.
This is the the Committee undertook a review of the non-executive first time that the Company has been required to report directors fees.
The Committees recommendation, to which the Board agreed, was for non-executive directors fees to be in accordance with the Regulations.
The report is split into three main areas: this statement from me as Chairman of increased with effect from 1 April 2014 by 3,000 per annum in respect of the non-executive directors other than the the Committee, an annual report on remuneration and a Chairman and 5,000 per annum in respect of the Chairman policy report.
The policy report will be subject to a binding of the Company.
The additional fee payable to the Chairman shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting in 2014 of the Audit Committee was increased from 4,000 to 6,000 and will take effect from 1 January 2015.
This will be the first increase since 1 April 2011. report on remuneration provides details on remuneration Accordingly, with effect from 1 April 2014, the non-executive in the financial year ending 31 December 2013 and other directors fees will be paid at the following annual rates: information required by the Regulations.
It will be subject to an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
Chairman of the Compan y 57,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee 36,000 The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to Chairman of the Remuneration shareholders on certain parts of the Directors Remuneration and Nomination Committee 34,000 Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of Senior Independent Director 34,000 the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
The parts of the annual report on remuneration Other non-executive directors 30,000 that are subject to audit are indicated in the report.
The implementation of the Alternative Investment Fund Role of the Committee Managers Directive is expected to result in additional duties It was agreed during the year that the Committee should for non-executive directors.
The degree to which this is required will be reviewed after the future regulatory structure be renamed the Remuneration and Nomination Committee formerly the Remuneration Committee to reflect its role has taken full effect to determine what, if any, additional remuneration may be appropriate.
The aggregate non-executive directors fees currently The remuneration-related role of the Committee is essentially amount to 225,500 per annum.
This will increase to twofold.
First, it has a role in respect of executive remuneration, 251,000 with effect from 1 April 2014. assisting the directors in determining the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer the CEO and evaluating his The Companys Articles of Association currently limit the performance: and assisting the CEO in determining the aggregate fees payable to the non-executive directors to remuneration arrangements for the Companys staff.
The Board has agreed to seek an in respect of the non-executive directors, it serves as the Boards increase in this limit and a resolution will be put to the Annual nomination committee with responsibility for reviewing the General Meeting in April 2014 which, if passed, will increase effectiveness and composition of the Board and considering the aggregate maximum to 350,000 per annum.
the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its terms Catherine Claydon of reference, which are available on request from the Company Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee Secretary and can be found on the Companys website.
44 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
