Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration policy for non-executive directors The following table provides a summary of the key elements of the remuneration of the non-executive directors: Purpose Operation Fees Fees payable to the directors should reflect the time Non-executive directors are to be remunerated committed to the Companys affairs and should be in the form of fees, payable monthly in arrears, to sufficient to enable candidates of high calibre to be the director personally or to a third party specified recruited.
There are no long-term incentive schemes or pension arrangements and the fees are not There are no performance-related elements and no specifically related to their performance, either fees are subject to claw-back provisions.
The Committee determines the level of fee at its discretion.
The fees are reviewed each year, although such review will not necessarily result in any increase in the fees.
Proposed increases in fees are determined in the light of increases in inflation and in the Companys share price, net asset value and dividend payments.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chairmen of the Boards Committees and the Senior Independent Director are paid higher fees than the other non-executive directors in recognition of their more{onerous roles see below.
The Chairman of the Board receives a fee of 57,000 per annum.
The Senior Independent Director receives a fee of 4,000 in addition to the annual base fee.
Each non-executive directors annual base fee is 30,000.
Additional fees are payable as follows: Chairman of Audit Committee 6,000: Chairman of Remuneration and Nomination Committee 4,000.
All of the above fees will take effect on 1 April 2014.
The maximum amount of fees, in aggregate, that may be paid to non-executive directors in any financial year is 300,000 although a resolution has been put to the Annual General Meeting in April 2014 which, if passed, will increase the aggregate maximum to 350,000.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover is held by the Company in respect of all the directors including the CEO.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 49
