Section 3 106 Corporate Governance Report of the Remuneration Committee No changes to the structure of remuneration for Executive and Annual General Meeting voting Non-Executive Directors were made for the Directors Remuneration pleased to introduce the Report of in the year ended 31 December 2013 Report for the year ended the Remuneration Committee the 31 December 2012 and and none are proposed for the year Committee for the year ended 31 consideration of shareholder ending 31 December 2014.
December 2013. feedback: The following report has been The primary role of the Committee prepared in accordance with the is to determine and recommend the Performance Share Plan Companies Act 2006 and Schedule PSP to the Executive Directors 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized and members of the Senior Companies and Groups Accounts Management Team: their individual contributions to the requirements of the Listing Rules of Companys overall performance.
targets for the annual bonus the Financial Conduct Authority and The Committees objective is to scheme for the year ended 31 the UK Corporate Governance Code.
support the business strategy of the December 2014: and The Report is presented in two parts Company and to align remuneration the Remuneration Policy Report and with shareholders returns whilst of reference and performance the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Ordinary resolutions will be proposed and motivate experienced and at the forthcoming Annual General high-calibre individuals who are Against a background of slowly Meeting on 9 June 2014 to approve committed to achieving consistently separately the Remuneration Policy high performance in its sector.
The the Groups performance has been Report which is subject to a binding Committee also administers the shareholder vote and the Annual Companys share incentive plans.
increase in Normalised Income Report on Remuneration and this Statement which are subject to an carried out the following activities: advisory vote.
In this of annual bonus scheme that the level of payment under performance measures against the annual bonus scheme for the target: Executive Directors is merited.
Base salary increases for the Executive Richard Cotton benchmarking and setting of base salaries for Executive 10 March 2014 similar to the aggregate increase for Directors: employees across the Group.
Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 December 2012: HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC
