82 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual Statement by Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Our long-term incentive plan has time how remuneration is linked to performance.
Dear Shareholder, horizons extending to five years, and 50per In line with the new remuneration I am pleased to present Intus 2013 cent of our annual bonus is deferred into disclosure regulations this report is Directors remuneration report to shares, aligning pay with Intus success over divided into you, which has been prepared by the the longer term.
Remuneration Committee and approved 1. a f orward-looking Directors We have adopted the Governments new remuneration policy which details bythe Board.
regulations on remuneration reporting, Intus remuneration policies, and will Results and context of remuneration including additional disclosures and the besubject to a binding vote: and for2013 Executive Directors remuneration policy 2. an annual remuneration report, 2013 has been a year of significant activity which will be subject to a binding vote at and change within the Group, with a major which focuses on the remuneration the 2014 AGM.
In the binding report we arrangements and outcomes for the rebranding exercise: significant progress have set out the key terms of our policy, with the project pipeline: and an improved year under review, as well as how our formulating it sufficiently broadly to ensure policy will be applied for 2014. financial position with new debt and our policy remains relevant and aligned equity.
A number of positive actions in the with business objectives over the next Shareholder Annual General Meeting year have had the effect of temporarily three years.
The Directors remuneration policy report reducing some of our headline financial and the annual remuneration report will The key decisions made in applying measures.
Whilst total property return was be put to the shareholder vote at our 2014 a healthy 7per cent, net asset value per our policies in 2013 and for 2014 were AGM and we look forward to receiving your as follows share reduced by 3 per cent such that total views and support.
the annual bonus awarded to the Summary of key areas of focus and Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013 was 55 per cent to decisions for 2013 We undertook a comprehensive review 57 per cent of maximum opportunity, Neil Sachdev based on EPS performance against of executive remuneration ahead of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2013 AGM.
As part of this process we budget in the year and the achievement of key, strategic objectives, including discussed our new approach with our major 28 February 2014 shareholders, and took into account their the performance of the Groups existing assets, progress with the development feedback.
The Committee was delighted with the level of shareholder supportwe pipeline, successful launch of a corporate identity change, introduction received for the approach last year.
Compliance statement Against that background we have made no of Wi-Fi services into shopping centres, This is the Directors remuneration report refinancing of debt maturities and substantial changes to our remuneration of the Company which has been produced policy in the year under review.
progress in international expansion pursuant to, and in accordance with, the Listing Rules, section 420 of the Companies Our remuneration policy for Executive the Chief Executive has declined to have a salary increase this year Act 2006 and Schedule 8 to the Large and Directors includes a significant portion of Medium-sized Companies and Groups pay linked to the performance of the Group.
the salary of the Finance Director has Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Executive Director total pay is linked to been increased by 2.5 per cent with as amended 2013.
The Company has effect from 1 April 2014, broadly in line out-performance of TSR against also followed the requirements of the UK our peers with increases across the Group Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code.
delivering absolute total return for How to read this report This report sets out the remuneration our shareholders This report contains both auditable and policy for the Executive and Non-Executive non-auditable information.
The information annual EPS performance Directors of Intu, describes the individual subject to audit is set outin the Annual remuneration of the Directors for the year achievement of our strategic initiatives Remuneration Report, insections marked ended 31 December 2013 and, inparticular, that will build value for the longer term with.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 83 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy This section sets out the Directors remuneration policy of the Company.
In accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act, abinding shareholder resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The policy will apply from the 2014 AGM subject to shareholder approval.
Key principles of remuneration policy The Companys remuneration policy aims to attract, motivate and retain high calibre executives by rewarding them appropriately with competitive compensation and benefit packages.
The policy seeks to align the interests of Executive Directors with the performance of the Company and the interests of its shareholders.
Our incentive arrangements are designed to reward performance on our key performance indicators.
Our aim is to focus management on delivering sustainable long-term performance and support the retention of critical talent.
Future policy table The table below describes the policy in relation to the components of remuneration for Executive Directors and, at the bottom of the table, the policy for the Non-Executive Directors.
Element and link tostrategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Executive Directors Base salary To provide an appropriately Reviewed annually.
competitive level of base pay Salary levels take account of: David Fischel: 545,480 toattract and retain talent.
Size and nature of the Matthew Roberts: 430,090 responsibilities of each role Base salary increases may be applied, Market pay levels for the role taking into account the factors considered as part of the annual Increases for the rest of the Group review.
There is no maximum increase The executives experience or opportunity.
Changes to the size and complexity For new appointments salaries may be of the Group set at a lower level.
In such cases, there may be scope for higher than usual Implications for total remuneration salary increases in the first three years Overall affordability as the individual progresses in the role.
Individual and Company performance The Committee may award an out-of-cycle increase if it considers it appropriate.
Pension To help provide for an appropriate The Company operates an approved Company pension contribution is None.
defined contribution pension 24per cent of base salary.
The Chief Executive receives an A cash alternative may be offered in additional 6per cent of salary in recognition of the additional value of certain circumstances, for example where HMRC statutory limits have the benefit foregone on the closure been reached.
of the defined benefit scheme.
This amount was actuarially determined to be cost-neutral to the Company.
Other benefits To provide an appropriately Benefits include a car allowance, Car allowance of up to 18,000 per None.
private medical insurance, life annum.
assurance and long-term sickness The cost of insurance benefits may insurance.
Other benefits may be vary from year to year depending on provided if the Committee considers it the individuals circumstances.
There is no overall maximum benefit In the event that an Executive Director value but the Committee aims to is required by the Group to relocate, ensure that the total value of benefits benefits may include, but are not remains proportionate.
limited to, relocation allowance and housing allowance.
co. uk 84 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Element and link tostrategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Short-term incentive To align annual reward with Intu operates a short-term incentive Maximum annual opportunity of Executives performance is measured annual performance and to arrangement with a maximum 120per cent of salary.
relative to targets in key financial, support retention and alignment individual opportunity.
operational and strategic objectives with shareholders interests inthe year.
A proportion of any earned bonus through significant deferral of is normally deferred in Intu shares, The measures selected and their bonus into shares.
vesting over two years and three years, weightings vary each year according subject to continued employment.
to the strategic priorities, however at least two thirds will be based on Group The Committee awards dividend financial measures or quantitative equivalents in respect of dividends over reported key performance indicators the deferral period which may assume reinvestment on a cumulative basis.
Entry award level for financial measures is normally between 0 and The Committee has discretion to 25per cent of maximum.
apply malus to unvested deferred bonus awards in certain circumstances including if there is a material misstatement in the annual financial statements or a material failure of risk management.
Long-term incentives To reward good long-term Intu operates a Performance Share Normal maximum grant size of Long-term incentive performance decisions which help grow the Plan PSP, which was approved by 250per cent of salary per annum.
conditions are reviewed on an annual value of Intu over a three to shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
basis, and are chosen to be aligned In exceptional circumstances five-year horizon and support the with the long-term success of the Grants are made to eligible employees opportunity of up to 375 per cent of retention of critical executives.
at the discretion of the Committee.
To ensure that participants were not unduly disadvantaged as a The intention is that measures will be Awards can be made as performance result of the move towards longer time one or more of TSR, total return NAV shares, nil-cost options or jointly horizons, the first award under the plan growth, EPS growth, relative total ownedequity, and vest one third, had an opportunity of 375 per cent.
property return or return oncapital.
one-third, one third after three, four and five years respectively.
For 2014, awards will be based The Committee awards dividend 50 per cent on relative TSR equivalents in respect of dividends over 50 per cent on total return the vesting period, which may assume NAVgrowth plus dividends reinvestment on a cumulative basis.
If the Committee considers that The Committee has discretion to the level of vesting based on the apply malus to unvested awards in extent to which the performance certain circumstances including if conditions have been satisfied is not there is a material misstatement in afair reflection of underlying financial the annual financial statements or a performance, the Committee may material failure of risk management by adjust the level of vesting upwards theCompany.
For the current performance measures this applies to the TSR portion only.
Entry vesting is 25 per cent ofmaximum.
All employee share plans To align interests of employees Executive Directors may participate Participants can contribute up to the None.
in the HMRC approved Share relevant HMRC limit.
Incentive Plan on the same basis as allemployees.
Legacy share awards Payments can also be made to Executive Directors under the legacy share option plan and equivalent jointly owned equity arrangements, which were the predecessor arrangements to the current PSP and were approved by shareholders in 1999.
Under this plan, market value share option grants were made, with vesting based on EPS growth.
It is not intended that this plan will be used to grant any future awards to the Executive Directors.
Details of legacy share awards are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 85 Governance Directors remuneration report Element and link tostrategy Operation Performance metrics Non-Executive Directors Fees Independent Non-Executive Directors To remunerate Non-Executive The Chairmans fees are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the Board.
The level of fees takes into account the time commitment, responsibilities, market levels and the skills and experience required.
Non-Executive Directors normally receive a basic fee and an additional fee for specific Board responsibilities, including membership and chairmanship of committees.
The Chairman is entitled to receive certain benefits in addition to fees as detailed on page 87.
Additional fees may be paid to Non-Executive Directors on a per diem basis to reflect increased time commitment in certain limited circumstances.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax due on the expenses.
Other Non-Executive Directors In addition to the above, in certain circumstances Non-Executive Directors None.
other than those deemed to be independent may receive a fee in relation to consultancy services including Alternate Directors.
Such fees may be provided directly to the Director or, in certain circumstances, paid to a third party company under a consultancy services agreement.
Such agreements may provide for the payment of an annual fee and reimbursement of expenses.
Such an agreement is currently in place with the Peel Group for the provision of Non-Executive Director services including Alternative Director services.
The Company also operates a shareholding policy details can be found on pages 94 and 95 of the Annual remuneration report.
The Performance Share Plan shall be operated in accordance with the rules of the plan as approved by shareholders in 2013 and amended from time to time in accordance with those rules.
In accordance with the rules of the PSP, the performance condition may be replaced or varied if an event occurs or circumstances arise which cause the Committee to determine that the performance conditions have ceased to be appropriate, in which case the Committee can vary or replace the performance condition provided that the amended performance condition is in its opinion, fair, reasonable and no more or less difficult than the original condition when set.
The plan rules provide for adjustments in certain circumstances.
For example, awards may be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, any consolidation of profits or reserves or special dividend.
Malus applies where stated in the above table.
Other elements of remuneration are not subject to recovery provisions.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments that are not in line with the policy where the terms of the payment were agreed: i b efore the policy came into effect including the 2012 deferred bonus award : or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
co. uk 86 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Performance measures and targets Annual bonus Annual bonus metrics and targets are selected to provide an appropriate balance between incentivising Directors to meet financial objectives for the year and achieve strategic operational objectives.
Annual bonus metrics and targets are chosen in line with the following principles the targets set for financial measures should be incentivising and appropriately stretching.
Targets may be adjusted by the Committee to take into account significant capital transactions during the year strategic and operational objectives should include quantitatively assessed financial and operational measures and these are weighted to each role there should be flexibility to change the measures and weightings year-on-year in line with the needs of the business PSP Performance conditions and targets are determined by the Committee to reflect the Groups strategy and having regard to market practice within the Companys business sector.
Measuring performance one third over years three, four and five provides a balance between the typical executive time horizon and the longer time horizon of shopping centre investments.
For 2014 awards the measures were selected taking into account that absolute total return NAV growth plus dividends is considered by the Company to be the best internal indicator of value creation total shareholder return is a key objective of most of our shareholders Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group Differences in the policies for Executive Directors and other employees in the Group generally reflect differences in market practice taking into account role and seniority.
The remuneration policies for Executive Directors and the senior executive team are consistent in terms of structure and the performance measures used.
An annual bonus plan operates below the senior team for head office, asset management staff and Intu centre staff management.
The bonus is based on corporate and personal performance.
As with the senior team, a portion of bonus is generally deferred into Intu shares including SIP shares.
Below the senior team, employees may be awarded long-term incentives in the form of options granted under the Companys share option schemes.
Pay for performance: scenario analysis The following charts show the potential split between the different elements of the Executive Directors remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target and Stretch see table below.
Scenario analysis chart 000 Chief Executive Finance Director Stretch Stretch Target Target Minimum Minimum 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 Fixed remuneration Annual bonus Performance share plan Component Minimum Target Stretch Base salary Annual base salary 30 per cent of salary for Chief Executive, Fixed remuneration Pension 24 per cent of salary for Finance Director Benefits Taxable value of annual benefits provided in 2013 Annual bonus 60 per cent of salary 120 per cent of salary cash and deferred shares 0 per cent of salary target opportunity maximum opportunity Performance share plan 0 per cent vesting 25 per cent vesting 100 per cent vesting Excludes share price growth and dividends.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 87 Governance Directors remuneration report Approach to recruitment remuneration In the event that the Group appointed a new Executive Director, remuneration would be determined in line with the following principles the Committee will take into account all relevant factors, including the calibre and experience of the individual and the market from which they are recruited, whilst being mindful of the best interests of the Group and its shareholders and seeking not to pay more than is necessary so far as practical the Committee will look to align the remuneration package for any new appointment with the remuneration policy set out in the table above salaries may be higher or lower than the previous incumbent but will be set taking into account the review principles set out in the policy table.
Where appropriate the salaries may be set at an initially lower level with the intention of increasing salary at a higher than usual rate as the executive gains experience in the role.
For interim positions a cash supplement may be paid rather than salary for example a Non-Executive Director taking on an executive function on a short-term basis to facilitate recruitment the Committee may need to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on joining the Company.
Any buy-out would take into account the terms of the arrangements forfeited, in particular any performance conditions and the time over which they would vest.
The overriding principle would be that the value of any replacement buy-out awards should be no more than the commercial value of awards which have been forfeited.
The form of any award would be determined at the time and the Committee may make buy-out awards under LR 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules for buy-out awards only PSP opportunity will be no more than the plan rules maximum set out in the policy table.
The exceptional maximum may be used for the purpose of recruitment the maximum variable pay opportunity on recruitment excluding buy-outs is in line with the policy table above, comprising a maximum annual bonus of 120per cent of salary and a maximum initial grant of LTIP not exceeding 375 per cent of salary.
The Committee retains the flexibility to determine that for the first year of appointment any annual incentive award will be subject to such terms as it may determine Where an executive is appointed from within the Company, the normal policy would be to honour any legacy arrangements in line with the original terms and conditions.
Where an executive is appointed following corporate activity reorganisation e. g. merger with another company legacy terms and conditions would also be honoured.
Where the recruitment requires relocation of the individual, the Committee may provide additional costs and benefits.
Details of Directors service contracts Executive Directors Executive Directors have rolling service contracts which are terminable on 12-months notice on either side.
None of the existing service contracts for Executive Directors makes any provision for termination payments, other than for payment of salary and benefits in lieu of notice.
The Executive Directors service contracts contain provisions relating to salary, car allowance, pension arrangements, salary continuance in the event of extended absence due to illness, holiday and sick pay, life insurance, personal accident, medical insurance, dependants pensions, and the reimbursement of reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Executive Directors while on Company business.
The following service contracts in respect of Executive Directors who were in office during the year are rolling service contracts and therefore have no end date: Date of commencement of contract Notice period David Fischel 24 June 1999 12 months Matthew Roberts 17 May 2010 12 months Chairman The terms of the Chairmans appointment broadly reflect the terms of the three-year appointments of the Non-Executive Directors.
However, the Chairmans appointment is subject to a 12-month notice period.
During the Chairmans period of service, he is also entitled to the following benefits: office support for Company business, a car and driver for Company business, private medical insurance and personal accident and travel insurance.
The Chairman does not currently take all benefits to which he is entitled.
The Chairman may also receive independent professional advice of a value of up to 2,500 when such expenditures are authorised by the Chief Executive.
co. uk 88 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Non-Executive Directors All Non-Executive Directors have been appointed on fixed terms of two or three years, subject to renewal thereafter.
Mr R. M. Gordon is deemed to have served for more than nine years and is now subject to a one-year term.
All are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which include provisions for early termination in specified circumstances.
Non-Executive Directors receive no benefits from their office other than fees and reimbursement of expenses incurred in performance of their duties, including any tax due on the expenses.
They are not eligible to participate in Group pension arrangements.
In the event of a takeover of the Company, and exceptionally on other occasions, Non-Executive Directors would be entitled to an additional payment to reflect any additional time spent on Company affairs, over and above that normally expected in the performance of ordinary duties as a Non-Executive Director.
The payment will be calculated by reference to the amount of additional time spent at a rate per diem.
The following table sets out the dates of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors: Date of appointment Current term expires Adle Anderson 22 February 2013 2016 AGM Richard Gordon 7 May 2010 2014 AGM Andrew Huntley 8 July 2009 2014 AGM Louise Patten 22 September 2011 2014 AGM Neil Sachdev 1 November 2006 2016 AGM Andrew Strang 8 July 2009 2015 AGM John Whittaker 28 January 2011 2014 AGM Directors service contracts are kept available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Loss of office payment policy In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined by reference to the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
The Committee may structure any compensation payments in such a way as it deems appropriate taking into account the circumstances of departure.
In the event of the Company terminating an Executive Directors contract, the level of compensation would be subject to mitigation if considered appropriate.
Payment in lieu of notice The Company may at its discretion make termination payments in lieu of notice based on base salary and benefits only.
The notice period for both Executive Directors is one year.
Bonus There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus.
The Committee retains discretion to award bonuses for leavers taking into account the circumstances of departure.
Any bonus would normally be subject to performance and time pro-rating.
Deferred bonus Deferred bonus awards will lapse if the executive ceases to be employed before the normal vesting date except in good leaver circumstances, which include retirement, redundancy, a transfer of the business or company by which the individual is employed, ill-health, death or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 89 Governance Directors remuneration report Performance share plan In the event an executive is a good leaver any outstanding PSP awards will be pro-rated for time and will vest based on performance to the end of the performance period unless the Committee determines an alternative level of vesting in its discretion.
Good leaver circumstances are reasons of injury, disability, ill-health, redundancy, retirement, the sale of the individuals employing company or businesses out of the Group or for any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
For JSOP awards under the PSP time and pro-rating applies below the threshold only.
The Committee may adjust the number of shares vesting below the threshold in order to apply an appropriate overall pro-rating for the award.
In the event of death, early vesting is permitted, based either on the Committees assessment of performance against the performance condition to date of death, or 50 per cent vesting.
The award would also be subject to time pro-rating.
However, the Committee has discretion to adjust the level of vesting.
2 Were an award to be made under LR 9.4.
2 then the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of award.
Other circumstances Under the PSP on a change-of-control or winding up of the Company, PSP awards may vest in accordance with the rules of the plan.
Vesting would be subject to pro-rating for time and performance, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Bonuses may be paid in respect of the year in which the change of control or winding up of the Company occurs, if the Committee considers this appropriate.
The Committee may determine the level of bonus taking into account any factors it considers appropriate.
Deferred bonus awards, which have been earned in respect of previous performance periods, will normally vest in full on a change of control or winding up.
Legacy share option plan All awards granted under the legacy share option plan were made prior to 27 June 2012.
Vesting would be in accordance with the plan rules.
On voluntary resignation, awards granted less than three years before cessation lapse and other subsisting awards are exercisable within 6 months of cessation subject to any performance conditions.
In other leaving circumstances subsisting options may be exercised within 6 months of cessation subject to any performance conditions or 12 months in the case of death.
However, in the above cases the Committee has discretion to decide alternative vesting and may impose other conditions.
Both unvested and vested awards will lapse if the Director leaves for reasons involving misconduct, impropriety and inefficiency as determined by the Committee.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Prior to the annual pay review, the Committee receives a detailed report from the HR Director setting out changes to broader employee pay.
This forms part of the basis for determining Executive Director remuneration.
The Company does not consult with employees on Executive Director remuneration, but does consult with employees as part of an annual employee survey, which includes questions regarding the Companys approach to reward and recognition.
Consideration of shareholder views When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the guidelines of investor bodies and shareholder views.
The remuneration policy was developed following extensive consultation with major shareholders and their views were taken into account during its formation.
The Committee seeks to have an ongoing dialogue with shareholders on executive remuneration matters.
Minor changes The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax, administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
co. uk 90 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual remuneration report This section sets out how the Directors remuneration policy of the Company has been applied in the year and details of how the Committee intends to apply the policy going forward.
In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act, an advisory shareholder resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Subsections marked with have been audited in accordance with the relevant statutory requirements.
Key responsibilities Chairman The principal role of the Remuneration Committee is to Neil Sachdev Independent Non-Executive Director determine and agree with the Board the framework and policy Members for the remuneration of the Chief Executive, the Finance Louise Patten Independent Non-Executive Director Director, the Chairman of the Company and such other members of the executive management as it is designated Rob Rowley stepped down October 2013, Independent to consider.
Non-Executive Director Summary of changes made to remuneration Adle Anderson appointed September 2013, Independent arrangementsin 2013 Non-Executive Director As disclosed in last years remuneration report, a root Meetings in 2013 and branch remuneration review was carried out by the Remuneration Committee in 2012.
The changes to Executive 1 Remuneration Committee Director remuneration approved by shareholders at the 2013 6 meetings AGM included A B Neil Sachdev Chairman 6 6 rebalancing incentives to long-term performance by Adle Anderson 3 3 reducing the maximum annual bonus opportunity from Louise Patten 6 6 150 per cent of salary to 120 per cent, and replacing the long-term incentive award of up to 200 per cent of salary in Rob Rowley 3 3 options with up to 250 per cent in performance shares A Maximum number of meetings eligible to attend.
B Number of meetings actually attended.
deferring 50 per cent of any earned bonus, and increasing 1 In addition to the six scheduled meetings, members of the Remuneration the deferral period from two years to half for two years and Committee attended several sessions focused on the drafting of the half for three years Directors remuneration report.
The Committee normally invites the Chairman and the Chief Executive to attend the scheduled meetings.
lengthening of the performance period under the long-term The Chairman attended all of the scheduled meetings in 2013.
The Chief Executive attended five of the six scheduled meetings.
The Finance incentive plan to one third over three years, one third over Director was invited to, and attended, one scheduled meeting of the fouryears and one third over five years Committee in 2013.
No individual is present when his or her remuneration is being determined.
reducing entry vesting from 33 per cent to 25 per cent increasing executive share ownership requirements from 100 per cent of salary to 200 per cent for the Chief Executive and to 150 per cent for the Finance Director introducing clawback malus on unvested deferred bonus and LTIP awards Against the background of the significant review undertaken leading to a new policy in 2013, the Committee determined that, for 2014, there would be no substantial changes to the remuneration policy.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 91 Governance Directors remuneration report Total remuneration in 2013 The table below sets out the total remuneration received by each Director for the year to 31 December 2013 together with the 2011 ESOS awards which are subject to performance to 31 December 2013 but expected to vest in 2014.
Annual bonus Long-term cash and incentive Total Salary or fees Benefits deferred shares ESOS Pension remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 1 Director 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Executive David Fischel 540 514 20 20 359 546 575 162 155 1,081 1,810 Matthew Roberts 415 392 20 20 287 420 127 99 94 821 1,053 Chairman Patrick Burgess 400 400 6 6 406 406 Independent Non-Executive Adle Anderson appointed 22.02.13 58 58 Andrew Huntley 62 55 62 55 Louise Patten 65 60 65 60 Neil Sachdev 85 79 85 79 Andrew Strang 62 60 62 60 Other Non-Executive Richard Gordon 57 55 57 55 2 John Whittaker Former Non-Executives John Abel stepped down 08.05.13 46 66 46 66 Rob Rowley stepped down 18.10.13 92 89 92 89 Total 1,882 1,770 46 46 646 966 702 261 249 2,835 3,733 1 Figures have been calculated to show value on vesting date and are therefore different to those set out in the 2012 Annual Report.
2 John Whittaker did not receive any remuneration in 2013 or 2012 in connection with his position as Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director of the Company.
See page 98 for further details.
The figures have been calculated as follows: Base salary: amount earned for the year.
Benefits: the taxable value of annual benefits received in the year.
Pension: the value of the Companys contribution during the year 30 per cent salary supplement in lieu of contributions for the Chief Executive, 24 per cent SIPP contribution, party taken as a salary supplement, for the Finance Director.
Annual bonus: cash and deferred: the value at grant of the annual incentive payable for performance over 2013.
ESOS: awards made in 2011, subject to a three-year vesting period, vest subject to EPS performance to 31 December 2013.
These awards are expected to lapse on 3 March 2014.
Awards have been valued based on embedded gain and the three-month average share price to 31 December 2013.
co. uk 92 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual remuneration report continued Directors remuneration and incentives Base salary Salaries of Executive Directors and other staff are reviewed annually in the light of competitive market practice, including reference to comparable data of other companies of a similar size and companies in the real estate sector.
When determining executive remuneration, the Committee takes careful account of pay and employment conditions in the Company as a whole.
The current salaries for Executive Directors are set out below.
Matthew Robertss salary will be increased with effect from 1 April 2014 by 2.5 per cent.
Executive Director 2013 salary 2014 salary % increase David Fischel 545,480 545,480 0 Matthew Roberts 419,600 430,090 2.5 Benefits The main benefits are life assurance, long-term sickness insurance, private healthcare and company car cash allowance.
The value of the company car cash allowance is 18,000.
Pension Company pension contribution for Executive Directors is 24 per cent of base salary.
The Chief Executive receives an additional 6 per cent of salary in recognition of the additional value of the benefit foregone on the closure of the defined benefit scheme.
Annual bonus The maximum award for both the Chief Executive and Finance Director in 2013 was 120 per cent of salary.
This will remain unchanged for 2014.
Annual bonus payments are based on pre-determined performance measures.
Two thirds is based on adjusted EPS performance in the year, split evenly between performance versus budget figures and prior year achievement.
The remaining third is based on achievement of strategic and operational objectives against a scorecard of measures.
The Remuneration Committee considers the objectives carefully each year to align with Intus strategic objectives, and include quantitatively assessed financial and operational measures and milestones.
Each objective relates directly to the strategic plan.
Under the scorecard approach, the weightings of each objective vary between Executive Directors to reflect their roles and responsibilities.
For 2014, the scorecard will include objectives in the following key areas optimising assets branding and customer relationships financial achievements, including financing and focus on financial flexibility corporate development talent development Annual bonus 2013 out-turn Performance against the targets for the 2013 short-term incentive arrangements is given below: Target 2013 Out-turn Performance element Weighting Threshold Target Maximum performance % max element Adjusted EPS vs. budget 33% 13.9p 14.6p 15.3p 15.0p 77% Adjusted EPS vs. prior year 33% 100% 102.5% 105% 93.2% 0% David Fischel Matthew Roberts Scorecard of strategic and operational measures 33% See details of scorecard below 87% 94% Total 55% 57% Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 93 Governance Directors remuneration report For 2013, the scorecard weightings and out-turns were as follows: Scorecard Weighting Out-turn David Matthew Including specific objectives under each area of focus Fischel Roberts 0% 100% Corporate development, digital and branding 25% 15% l Financial operations 10% 40% l Operational 20% 15% l Scale and scope international and acquisitions 35% 20% l Corporate culture 10% 10% l Achievements against objectives included total return performance of existing assets, progress with lettings and lease expiries, obtaining planning permissions and other progress on the 1bn development pipeline successful launch of corporate identity change, including creation of a nationwide consumer-facing shopping centre brand introduction of Wi-Fi services to nine shopping centres launch of intu.
co. uk, a transactional, fashion-focused, mobile-enabled website implementation of a new venture, Intu Retail Services, to deliver total facilities management to all intu shopping centres, with significant impact on customer experience acquisition of Midsummer Place refinancing of 201517 debt maturities and Secured Group Structure establishment of a joint venture in Spain with Eurofund acquisition of Parque Principado, a top 10 centre in Spain, via joint partnership with Canada Pension Plan Investment Board staff survey results demonstrated outstanding staff engagement The lower overall score in some areas, such as digital, reflects items where good progress was achieved in 2013 but completion of the overall objective is in part deferred into 2014.
The Directors consider that more granular details of the strategic objectives are commercially sensitive.
The resulting total short-term incentive payouts for David Fischel and Matthew Roberts in respect of 2013 were 66 per cent and 68 per cent of salary 55 per cent and 57 per cent of maximum opportunity, respectively.
Deferral into shares 50 per cent of the 2013 short-term incentive for both David Fischel and Matthew Roberts was deferred into Intu shares.
Executive Directors must remain in employment with the Company for a period of two years half of award and three years half of award after the date of award before such shares are released.
Long-term incentives Awards with performance periods ending in the year Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS The LTIP awards shown in the single figure relate to 2011 ESOS awards which were due to vest in March 2014.
The performance condition was as follows: The Companys adjusted earnings are to grow over a three-year period at a rate in excess of 5 per cent per annum compound.
Adjusted earnings means the percentage increase in underlying earnings per share, adjusted by a excluding exceptional and valuation items and b limiting trading or non-recurring items to 10 per cent of profit before tax.
Actual adjusted EPS growth over the period to 31 December 2013 has been calculated as 0.9 per cent per annum compound.
As the performance condition has not been met, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the 2011 ESOS awards will lapse in March 2014.
The ESOS does not form part of the forward looking policy for Executive Directors, and in 2013 the Company adopted the Performance Share Plan.
co. uk 94 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual remuneration report continued Awards granted during the year Performance Share Plan PSP In May 2013, David Fischel and Matthew Roberts were granted performance share awards of 375 per cent of salary under the PSP.
These awards only vest, subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions over three, four and five years, as follows: Face value of award Performance period end % vesting at Individual Type of interest % of salary threshold 3 years 4 years 5 years David Fischel Nil-cost 2,045,545 375% 25% 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 options Matthew Roberts 1,573,491 375% 25% 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 Face value calculated using share price at date of grant of 3.57.
Vesting of these awards is based on TSR and NAV performance with performance measured one third over three years, one third over four years and one third over five years.
Half of awards vest by reference to absolute total return 25 per cent minimum vesting for 6 per cent per annum: full vesting for 10 per cent per annum: straight-line vesting in between.
Half of awards vest by reference to TSR relative to the top-five UK-listed REITS 25 per cent minimum vesting for TSR in line with the third-ranked company: full vesting for TSR in line with the top-ranked company: straight-line vesting in between, subject to a Committee-operated discretionary assessment of underlying financial performance.
As permitted under the rules of the PSP, both David Fischel and Matthew Roberts elected to receive their awards through a Joint Ownership Structure which required them to make an upfront contribution to acquire an interest in Intu shares.
Awards for 2014 Awards for 2014 will be 250 per cent of salary.
It is intended that the performance measures and targets for PSP awards for 2014 will be in line with those granted in 2013 see above.
Other share schemes The Company operates an Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP which has in the past used funds provided to purchase shares required under the annual bonus scheme.
The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan SIP for all eligible employees, including Executive Directors, who may receive up to 3,000 worth of shares as part of their annual bonus arrangements.
The SIP arrangements offer worthwhile tax advantages to employees and to the Company.
Also, as part of the SIP arrangements, the Company offers eligible employees the opportunity to participate in a Partnership share scheme, the terms of which are governed by HM Revenue & Customs regulations.
Season ticket loan All employees of the Group are entitled to an interest-free travel season ticket loan which is repaid over the year via deductions from salary.
Neither David Fischel nor Matthew Roberts received a season ticket or other loan from the Group during 2013.
Chief Executive pay increase in relation to all employees The table below sets out details of the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus for Chief Executive and wider employee comparator group.
For these purposes, head office employees who have been in employment over both periods have been used as a comparator group as this is considered to be a reasonable, practical sub-set of the all-employee population.
Percentage change in remuneration from 31 12 2012 to 31 12 2013 Percentage change in base salary Percentage change in benefits Percentage change in annual bonus Chief Executive 4.9% 0.4% 34.4% Head office employees 6.7% 1.4% 25.6% Shareholding and share interests As part of the root-and-branch review of policy carried out in 2012, the Committee introduced new, higher shareholding requirements effective from 1 January 2013.
Executive Directors must build up, over a period of three to five years, a holding of Intu shares with a value equivalent to 200 per cent of salary David Fischel and 150 per cent of salary Matthew Roberts.
The graph below illustrates the shareholdings of the Executive Directors as a percentage of salary.
Note that only actual holdings count towards the shareholding requirements.
Shares subject to deferral and or performance conditions have also been shown for reference.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 95 Governance Directors remuneration report Shareholdings at 31 December 2013 against requirements are shown below : Shareholding of Intu ordinary shares as at 31 December 2013 % of salary 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 David Fischel Matthew Roberts Actual shareholding counts towards shareholding requirement Deferred shares Shares subject to performance conditions Shareholding requirement As shown above, David Fischels shareholding clearly exceeds his shareholding requirement.
Matthew Roberts was appointed in May 2010, and has until May 2015 to build up the required shareholding.
The table below sets out the Directors interests in shares as at 31 December 2013 or the date of cessation, if earlier.
Number of Unvested awards Vested awards shares owned including Conditional shares not connected subject to performance persons conditions PSP Options Held in SIP Held in SIP subject to subject to Unexercised Unexercised Options Own trust for Deferred trust for performance performance unapproved approved exercised in 1 2 3 name 5 years Shares 5 years conditions conditions options options the year Executive David Fischel 666,987 4,628 277,078 6,813 572,982 659,000 1,256,648 11,041 0 Matthew Roberts 64,699 0 207,796 4,172 440,754 488,000 437,416 9,584 0 1 PSP awards held as fixed-value zero-cost options and jointly owned shares.
2 Held as jointly owned shares.
3 Held as jointly owned shares with underlying Capped unapproved options.
Non-Executive Directors interests in shares are set out in note 50 on page 151.
Details of the outstanding share awards are as follows: Vested 2009 ESOS awards Awards of market value share options, with an exercise price of 271.69 pence.
These awards became exercisable on 28 02 2013 and may be exercised until 28 05 19.
2010 ESOS awards Awards of market value share options, with an exercise price of 313 pence.
These awards became exercisable on 26 05 2013 and may be exercised until 26 05 20.
Unvested 2011 ESOS awards Award of market value share options, granted in March 2011 with an exercise price of 387 pence.
Vesting is based on three-year EPS growth 5 per cent p. a. compound to 31 December 2013.
These awards are due to lapse in full see section on long-term incentives above for more detail.
2012 ESOS award Award of market value share options, granted in March 2012 with an exercise price of 336 pence.
Vesting is based on three-year EPS growth to 31 December 2014 ranging from 4 per cent p. a. to 6 per cent p. a.. Any awards that vest would be exercisable between 05 03 15 to 05 03 22.
2013 PSP award Award of performance shares, granted on 21 May 2013.
Vesting is based on TSR relative to the top five UK-listed REITS and absolute total return performance ranging from 6 per cent p. a. to 10 per cent p. a., in three equal tranches over three, four and five years.
Any awards that vest will be exercisable to21 May 2023.
co. uk 96 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual remuneration report continued Five-year TSR chart The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR for Intu Properties plc over the five-year period ended 31 December 2013, compared with our closest comparator group for this purpose, the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
TSR is defined as share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
Five-year total shareholder return TSR performance 250 200 150 100 50 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2009 Intu FSTE 350 Real Estate Chief Executive historic remuneration The table below sets out details of historic Chief Executive pay.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Chief Executive single figure of total remuneration 1,044k 1,350k 1,275k 1,810k 1,081k Annual bonus payout % maximum 50% 100% 83% 70% 55% Long-term incentive plan vesting in year % maximum 0% 0% 0% 100% 0% Shareholder context The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2012 Directors remuneration report and binding vote on the approval of the Performance Share Plan at the 2013 AGM.
It is the Committees policy to consult with major shareholders prior to any major changes, and to maintain an ongoing dialogue on executive remuneration matters.
For Against Abstentions 2012 DRR votes 91.33% 8.67% 4.0m Performance Share Plan 2013 votes 96.52% 3.48% 0.1m Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 97 Governance Directors remuneration report Additional disclosures Other directorships Executive Directors are not generally encouraged to hold external directorships unless the Chairman determines that such appointment is in the Groups interest and does not cause any conflict of interest.
Where such appointments are approved and held, it is a matter for the Chairman to agree whether fees paid in respect of the appointment are retained by the individual or paid to the Company.
David Fischel currently holds three external directorships.
In two cases he receives and retains the fees.
His principal external appointment is as a Non-Executive Director of US company Equity One, Inc, in which Intu retains an investment through a joint venture company EQY-CSC LLC.
David Fischel also holds another external appointment as a Non-Executive Director of Marlowe Investments Kent Limited, a UK private company which relates to his family affairs and does not require any significant time commitment and does not conflict in any way with his role as Chief Executive of Intu.
David Fischel is also aNon-Executive Director of Prozone Capital Shopping Centres Limited, an Indian shopping centre owner and developer in which Intu has a 33 per cent interest.
He does not receive a fee in respect of this appointment.
During 2013, David Fischel received a fee of $47,500 in respect of his directorship of Equity One, Inc.
He retained the fees paid in respect of his appointment.
In addition to his fee, restricted stock in Equity One, Inc. awarded to David Fischel vested during the year with a value on vesting of $74,349.
He also received and retained a fee of 5,000 in respect of his non-executive directorship ofMarlowe Investments Kent Limited.
Payments to former Directors A Life Presidency fee of 150,000 per annum 2012 150,000 was paid to Sir Donald Gordon, the Groups Life President and former Chairman who founded the Company in 1980.
The Life Presidency fee was agreed by the Board at the time of his retirement in June2005 in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the Group.
The payment is payable for the remainder of Sir Donalds life, and is secured by Deed.
Rob Rowley served as a Non-Executive Director during the year.
He stepped down from the Board on 18 October 2013.
To enable a smooth handover of responsibilities Rob continued to provide services to the Company until the end of the year at equivalent fee levels.
Total fees paid in respect of these services were 18,392.
Alternate Directors Steven Underwood and Raymond Fine serve as Alternate Directors to John Whittaker and Richard Gordon respectively.
Neither Steven Underwood nor Raymond Fine received any fees in 2013 in respect of their appointment as Alternate Directors.
Raymond Fine received a fee of 159,250 in respect of consultancy services provided to the Company in connection with South African tax and shareholder issues particularly in respect of South African dividends tax, liaison with the Gordon Family and other related matters.
co. uk 98 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual remuneration report continued Distribution statement The table below shows the percentage change in profit after tax, dividends, and total employee compensation spend from the financial year ended 31 December 2012 to the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
includes increased costs associated with Dividend per share was 0.15 2012 0.15. the establishment of Intu Retail Services.
Average increase in sta salaries for 2013 was 4.2 per cent.
The Group employed a total of 2,027 staff as at 31 December 2013 2012 645.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees The Chairman receives a fee of 400,000 per annum.
This fee remained unchanged during the year.
The current base fee for Non-Executive Directors is 56,375 per annum.
The Senior Independent Director receives an additional fee of 10,000 per annum.
Committee chairmen receive 15,000 per annum, and Committee members receive 5,000 per annum.
Fees were last increased in April 2013.
John Whittaker does not receive a fee in respect of his position as Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director.
The Board has authorised the payment of a management fee of 200,000 per year to Peel Management Limited for the provision by Peel of management and advisory services, including the provision of a Non-Executive Director and an Alternate Director, together with reasonable costs and out of pocket expenses.
The agreement is for an initial period of one year although it is anticipated that it will be renewed annually thereafter by agreement between the parties.
This payment is disclosed in the related party transactions note on page 146.
Remuneration Committee membership in 2013 The principal responsibilities of the Committee, which take full account of the recommendations contained within the Code, include: Determining the remuneration policy for the Companys Executive Directors and senior executives Determining individual remuneration packages for the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior executives Setting appropriately stretching and achievable targets for the Companys incentive schemes in order to motivate executives to deliver high levels of performance in the interests of our shareholders, customers and employees Overseeing any significant changes to remuneration policy for the wider employee population The full duties and responsibilities are set out in the terms of reference of the Committee which are available on the Companys website.
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Throughout the year the Committee consisted of Neil Sachdev Chairman and Louise Patten.
Adle Anderson was appointed to the Committee in September 2013.
Rob Rowley was a member of the Committee until October 2013.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Company Secretary and HR Director are invited to attend Committee meetings to contribute to the Committee in its deliberations.
However, no individual is present when his or her remuneration is being determined.
The Remuneration Committee met a total of nine times in 2013, including six scheduled meetings and three additional drafting meetings which focused on improving disclosure through adoption of the new remuneration disclosure regulations.
A summary of attendance at each scheduled meeting is set out on page 90.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 99 Governance Directors remuneration report Advisers to the Committee The Committee appointed and received advice from Kepler Associates, a remuneration consultancy firm, for the nine months to October 2013.
The Committee appointed Deloitte LLP as the Committees independent remuneration advisers, with effect from October 2013, in place of Kepler Associates.
During the year, Kepler Associates provided advice on market trends, incentive design, and other remuneration matters that materially assisted the Committee.
The fees paid to Kepler in respect of this work in 2013 totalled 69,662.
Kepler Associates doesnot provide any other services to the Company.
During the year, Deloitte provided advice on new reporting regulations, market data and other remuneration matters that materially assisted the Committee.
The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of this work in 2013 totalled 49,550.
Deloitte also provided tax advisory services to the Group in respect of South African taxation of dividends and carried out the statutory audit of the annual financial statements of the Trafford Centre Limited Retirement Benefit Scheme the trustee-based money purchase scheme operated for intu Trafford Centre employees.
Total fees paid to Deloitte in respect of these services were12,950.
Both firms are founding members of the Remuneration Consultants Group, and adhere to its code of conduct.
In each case the firms were appointed directly by the Committee, and the Committee is satisfied that the advice received was objective and independent.
The Committee has also appointed and been advised by Norton Rose LLP and Keystone Law during the year on various remuneration matters.
Norton Rose and Keystone Law do not advise the Company on any other matters.
The fees paid to NortonRose LLP in respect of this work in 2013 totalled 55,400, and the fees paid to Keystone Law in 2013 totalled 21,000.
The Committee also makes use of various published surveys to help determine appropriate remuneration levels.
On behalf of the Board Neil Sachdev Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2014 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
