GOVERNANCE letter From the chairman oF the remuneration committee Dear Shareholder, In particular, the decision to prioritise voting.
We believe the new structure is simple, development over property investment and transparent and demonstrably aligned with This is my first report to shareholders as our relentless focus on asset management shareholder interests.
We continue to monitor Chairman of the Committee, having taken has led to substantially higher returns than its impact carefully.
over from David Rough on 1 October.
would otherwise have been the case.
David has been a first class Chairman of In common with many remuneration the Committee and overseen a number of At year end, we have seen a strong performance committees, we have been particularly conscious improvements to the structure of executive on both TSR and TPR measures.
Our TSR for of the environment for pay in listed companies.
I would like the year has been 19.1%.
Over three years, it We have monitored closely the policy statements to thank him for his contribution and for his has been 39%, outperforming our peer group received from our shareholders and have support since stepping down.
Our ungeared TPR responded to the Governments consultations produced 7.8% over the year.
Over three years, on executive pay.
We are supportive of the The last year has been another difficult our TPR was 37%, outperforming other changes, which are in the process of being one for the commercial property market, investors in our core sectors by 1.03% per finalised by the Government and likely to come characterised by uncertainty and caution.
We were especially pleased with our into force for our 2014 Annual Report.
To Notwithstanding the outlook, for the year, TPR outperformance of 1.70% over the year, demonstrate our commitment, we have adopted the Board again set ambitious ungeared Total which followed a year of underperformance.
as many of the new regulations as possible in a Property Return TPR and revenue profit This has driven our Annual Bonuses higher new style of report this year.
We have also made targets for the business.
The targets for our than for the same period last year, although the the report clearer and easier to read by using long-term incentives, Total Shareholder Return proportion of our long-term incentives vesting more tables and reducing the amount of text.
TSR and TPR have remained challenging.
The report is now split into a Policy section, The vast majority of our performance which deals with our remuneration policy going Management was also tasked with beating targets are relative, aiming to achieve higher forward, and an Implementation section which challenging targets for revenue profit.
As we TSR and TPR returns than both our listed deals with payments made to Directors in the highlighted last year, our revenue profit company peers and investors operating in year.
In another change to previous years, you would be under pressure this year following similar commercial property sectors as will have a separate vote on each section.
the sales of a number of properties and the ourselves.
This means that even in a year cessation of income from other properties More details of the work of the Committee where profits are very high, the outturns moving into our development programme.
follows and I hope you find it helpful in from our variable pay will be low where we The changes caused our net rental income understanding our executive remuneration have not outperformed our benchmarks.
to fall by 25 million from last year, although policy and practice.
Of course, this also means that in a year where managements actions have reduced the profits are low or losses are recorded, the revenue profit decline to 8.7m.
A good outturns for variable pay could be high where result in a difficult environment.
Last year, David Rough took you through the At the beginning of the year, we faced a extensive consultation that we undertook with Simon Palley relatively benign market.
Management investors on our proposals for a remuneration Chairman, Remuneration Committee knew that it would need to rely on its own policy and structure for Executive Directors.
efforts to create value and meet the targets Committee Members: We listened carefully to feedback and made a set for the business.
A combination of good Simon Palley Chairman and Independent number of changes before putting them to judgement and hard work has led to a Non-executive Director shareholders at our AGM.
The proposals strong performance against our targets.
Alison Carnwath Chairman of the Board received the support of 98.3% of shareholders Chris Bartram Independent Non-executive Director 74 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE directors remuneration policy report 1. introduction 2. remuneration strategy Are structured to ensure that superior In this section, we explain: Put simply, our aim is to generate returns for rewards are only paid for exceptional our shareholders that are higher than those performance against challenging targets Our remuneration strategy and policy received by others who invest in our peer Encourage management to adopt a level of How this strategy is underpinned by key group or in property assets themselves.
The risk which is in line with the risk profile of elements of our remuneration packages key to achieving this is our people.
the business and as approved by the Board Why we have selected the performance Our remuneration strategy is underpinned Are applied consistently across the Group conditions for variable pay and why we by remuneration packages that are designed to promote alignment and support a high believe they are stretching and aligned to motivate high performing people to deliver performance culture with the interests of our shareholders our strategy.
They: Ensure a long-term focus through the Other relevant information about our Are simple, transparent and demonstrably deferral of a significant part of the annual service agreements with Directors and aligned with the interest of shareholders bonus and the requirement for Executive remuneration around the Group.
Directors to maintain significant personal Reflect the views of our investors, Following a significant review of investments in the Companys shares.
shareholder bodies and other stakeholders remuneration policy for 2012 13, and Are weighted to incentivise outperformance subsequent approval of changes to the policy of our peer group, over the short and by shareholders at the 2012 AGM, no further long term changes to policy will be made for 2013 14.
We have summarised the individual elements of the remuneration packages offered to our Executive Directors in the following table: remuneration policy unaudited taBle 50 Changes in purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity performance metrics the year Base salary To aid the Reviewed annually, with effect from N A N A No changes to policy, although recruitment, 1 June.
Review reflects: Directors salaries increased by 1 retention and 2.0% for 2013 14, slightly lower Increases throughout the rest of the motivation of high than the increase for the wider business.
Market benchmarking exercise To reflect their undertaken periodically to ensure salaries experience and are set at around the median of the market importance to competitive level for people in comparable the business.
roles with similar levels of experience, performance and contribution.
Where a new Director is appointed at a salary which is at a discount to reflect their experience at that point, the Committee may increase it over time subject to satisfactory performance and market conditions.
In years where no benchmarking exercise is undertaken, increases likely to be aligned with the general increase for the wider workforce or to reflect changes in responsibility.
Changes in the scope of a Directors role may also require a further adjustment to salary.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 75 GOVERNANCE remuneration policy continued unaudited taBle 50 Changes in purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity performance metrics the year Benefits To provide Directors are entitled to N A N A None protection and a combination of: market competitive A company car allowance.
benefits to aid Private medical insurance.
retention of high Ill health income protection.
Professional advice in connection with their directorship.
Pension To help recruit Participation into a money purchase Directors receive a None None and retain high pension scheme or cash equivalent.
pension contribution or performing allowance of 25% of salary.
Reward continued contribution to the business by enabling Executive Directors to build long term savings.
Annual bonus To incentivise All measures and targets are reviewed and Maximum bonus Of this, 130% based on performance None the delivery of set by the Committee at the beginning of potential of 150% against the following key targets, all stretching, nearthe year and payments are determined by of salary.
of which are approved by the Board: term business the Committee after the year end, based The Groups ungeared Total targets and personal on performance against the targets set.
Property Return TPR relative performance Bonuses up to 50% of salary are paid to its sector weighted IPD index.
To reward near-term Any amounts in excess of 50% are Other key business targets.
outperformance deferred into shares for one year.
20% based on objectively measurable relative to industry Any amounts in excess of 100% are personal performance objectives.
deferred into shares for two years.
The ability to Deferred shares are potentially forfeitable recognise if the executive leaves prior to the share performance 2 release date.
enables the Group to flexibly control its cost base and react to events and market circumstances.
Deferred bonuses encourage a longer term focus aligned to shareholders and discourage excessive risk taking.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme To encourage All employees, including Executive There are no performance None all employees to Directors, are entitled to contribute up to conditions.
make a long-term 250 per month, for between three and investment in the seven years.
Companys shares, At the end of the period, participants may in a tax efficient way.
use the monies to purchase shares at a discount of 20% to the market price at the time they joined the scheme.
Alternatively, they may ask for their contributions to be returned, with accrued interest.
The scheme offers tax advantages in that the gain is free of income tax.
76 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE remuneration policy continued unaudited taBle 50 Changes in purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity performance metrics the year Long-term share incentive plans Incentivises value The Committee makes an annual award Long Term Incentive Plan: Measured and vest over a three year None creation over the of shares under the Long Term Normal and current award period, with no re-testing.
long-term in excess Incentive Plan.
50% determined by the Groups total of that created by Additional awards are available on the shareholder return TSR relative Limit in exceptional general increases in basis of investment by Executive Directors to an index weighted by market circumstances e. g. the value of property in the Companys shares under the capitalisation based on a comparator recruitment 200% or shares in Matching Performance Share Plan.
group comprising all of the property of salary.
companies within the FTSE 350 Real Vesting under both Plans is on the same Matching Performance 4 Rewards execution Estate Index except Land Securities.
Share Plan: basis and determined by the Groups of our strategy and Up to 150% of salary, subject achievements against stretching 15% of the overall award vests for the long-term to pledging sufficient of performance targets over a fixed three matching the Index, with 50% outperformance of their own shares.
year period and continued employment.
vesting where we outperform the our competitors.
Index by 4% or more per annum.
The pledged shares would The Committee reviews the measures, Encourages No awards vest for below index then be matched on a two their relative weightings and targets prior long-term performance.
investment by Vesting is on a straight-line basis To obtain a maximum Awards will be satisfied by either newly Directors in the between matching the Index and award, a Director would be issued shares or shares purchased in the Companys shares.
outperforming it by 4% per annum.
required to pledge shares market and any use of newly issued shares Aligns the long-term with a value of 75% of salary will be subject to the dilution limits 50% determined by the Groups interests of Directors calculated on a pre-tax contained in the scheme rules.
ungeared total property return and shareholders.
3 TPR relative to the IPD weighted Clawback provisions apply.
indices that reflect the sector mix of The pledge may include the Groups investment portfolio.
shares within their minimum shareholding 12.5% of the overall award vests for requirement, but only for matching the Index with 50% the first five years of their vesting where we outperform the appointment.
No awards vest for below index performance.
Once the five year period has elapsed, shares pledged Vesting is on a straight-line basis must be over and above the between matching the Index and shareholding requirement.
outperforming it by 1% per annum.
Share ownership guidelines To provide close None None Executive Directors: Executive Directors: alignment between Are required to own shares with a value set Chief Executive 200% the longer term at a percentage of base salary.
interests of Directors Must be satisfied within five years of Other Executive Directors and shareholders appointment in order to qualify for future 150% of salary.
in terms of the long-term incentive awards.
Both within five years Companys growth Deferred or other unvested share awards of appointment.
not subject to performance conditions may Once five year count towards the guideline.
shareholding guideline has Non-executive Directors: elapsed, additional shares Are required to own shares with a value set are required to be held in at a percentage of annual fees.
order to qualify for awards under the Matching Must be satisfied within three years of Performance Share Plan.
Non-executive Directors: The Committee monitors the Directors 100% of annual fees, within progress against the guidelines as at three years of appointment.
31 March of every year, using the share price at the close of business that day.
The base salaries effective from 1 June 2013 with the prior year in brackets are Robert Noel 694,000 680,000, Martin Greenslade 469,000 460,000 and Richard Akers 418,000 410,000.
Robert Noel became the Groups Chief Executive on 1 April 2012, with the Committee awarding him an initial salary of 680,000.
This reflected his experience at that point and was set at a discount to market competitive benchmarks with the intention that it could be increased towards the market level over time subject to satisfactory performance in post.
Where part of a bonus is deferred into the Companys shares, those shares are held within the Companys employee benefit trust and automatically vest on the first or second anniversary of the award date, in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
The proceeds of any dividends accruing on the deferred bonus shares are used to purchase additional shares, with those additional shares transferred to the Executive Director on vesting.
The Committee has discretion to recover some or all of the value of awards of annual bonus and or LTIP Matching Performance Share Awards where the overpayment was made as a result of the misstatement of the Companys results or a performance condition which caused the overpayment.
The recovery will be made against future bonuses and unvested share awards and, to the extent permitted, from Deferred Bonus Shares.
This clawback applies to awards made to Executive Directors and to Senior Managers.
The TSR comparator group forming the index for 2013 awards will remain the property companies within the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
The comparator groups for awards made since 2010 are shown on page 80.
TSR will be measured over a single three-year performance period from the beginning of the first financial year to which the award relates and ending on the last day of the performance period.
The outturn is calculated by comparing average closing price over the 30 days prior to the start and the end of the performance period.
TSR calculations are performed independently for the Committee by its benefit advisers, New Bridge Street.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 77 GOVERNANCE 3.
Fixed and variaBle pay Our aim is to ensure that superior rewards are only paid for exceptional performance, with a substantial proportion of Executive Directors remuneration payable in the form of performance related pay.
The charts that follow illustrate the remuneration opportunity provided to each Executive Director at different levels of performance for the coming year.
Percentages are of the Maximum.
In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: Fixed and variaBle pay assumptions unaudited taBle 54 Fixed Consists of the latest base salary, benefits and pension allowances.
Benefits calculated using the figure for the 2012 13 year from the Directors emoluments table on page 84.
Pension allowance calculated at 25% of new base salary.
Base Benefits pension Total fixed 000 000 000 000 Robert Noel, Chief Executive 694 22 174 890 Martin Greenslade, Chief Financial Officer 469 20 117 606 Richard Akers, Executive Director 418 23 105 546 On-target This is based on what a director would receive if performance was in line with targets: Annual bonuses pay out at 60% of the maximum for on-target performance.
Long-term incentive plan performance at median would see approximately 50% 1 of the award vesting.
Maximum 100% of the Annual bonus.
1 100% vesting of Long-Term Incentive Awards.
Long-term incentives consists of share awards only, which are measured at face value, i. e. no assumption for increase in share price or dividends.
The following table illustrates in which financial years the various payments in the charts are actually made released to Executive Directors.
The table assumes that the maximum amount of the annual bonus is payable, so that the first third is paid in cash and the balance deferred into shares that vest after one and two years.
payment schedule unaudited taBle 55 Financial year 2013-2014 2014-2015 2015-2016 2016-2017 Element of remuneration received Base salary.
The annual bonus targets The second third of the The final third of the annual are measured and the annual bonus is deferred into bonus is also deferred into Pension.
first third of the annual shares that are released after shares, that are released after Benefits.
LTIP and Matching Share Awards vest.
78 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE 4. our choice oF perFormance targets For the coming year Our choice of performance metrics aligns individual reward with the Groups long-term and short-term performance and relative shareholder returns.
The following table examines how we intend to achieve this in terms of the targets we have set for the coming year: perFormance targets For the coming year unaudited taBle 56 Key metrics for variable pay Link to strategy and value for shareholders Long-term incentive and share matching plans Total Shareholder Return Rewards our outperformance of the returns generated by our listed company peers.
50% of award Encourages efficient use of capital through good sector allocation and appropriate gearing.
Based on a market capitalisation of 6.5 billion, our target of 4% per annum outperformance over three years would generate approximately 810 million of value for shareholders over and above that they would have received had we performed in line with our comparator group of property companies within the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
Ungeared Total Property Return Rewards sustained outperformance by our portfolio compared with the industrys commercial property 50% of award benchmark weighted towards the sector mix of our portfolio.
Focuses on increasing capital values and rental income.
Capital value growth is reflected in an increased net asset value, which is the measure with the strongest correlation to share price.
On the basis of a portfolio with a value of 11.5 billion, our target 1% per annum outperformance over 3 years generates approximately 350 million of value beyond that which would have been received had the portfolio simply performed in line with the index.
The benchmark sectors we have chosen are amongst the toughest to compete in as they are also amongst the most profitable, attracting some of the best investors in the sector.
Annual bonus key targets Ungeared Total Property Return Rewards annual outperformance by our portfolio compared with the industrys commercial 39.0% of salary property benchmark.
On the basis of a portfolio with a value of 11.5 billion, the 2% outperformance targeted for one year would generate approximately 230 million of return beyond the returns of commercial property within our sectors.
The benchmark sectors we have chosen are amongst the toughest to compete in as they are also amongst the most competitive and profitable.
Absolute growth in revenue profit Encourages above inflation growth in income profits, year on year, from a base set in 2010.
39.0% of salary Targets set so as not to encourage excessive risk taking.
Encourages sustainable dividend growth and cover over the medium term.
Encourages asset management activity and the income performance of assets, which is a very significant driver of capital values.
Annual Bonus specific business targets A key driver of income and revenue profit in the future.
Development lettings 20.8% of salary Proves the value of the development and drives capital growth.
Revenue profit against budget Rewards outperformance of a stretching income profit target set in the context of the Companys 10.4% of salary business plan for the current year.
Achieving planning permission to develop Increases the value of our investment property.
a number of sites Provides the ability to generate additional revenue profit and capital growth in the longer term.
10.4% of salary Disposal of certain properties at identified To reallocate capital within our portfolio to areas that will generate higher returns in the future.
price thresholds To generate selling prices that exceed our view of their values.
10.4% of salary Encourages the repositioning of certain parts of our portfolio.
Individual targets for Executive Directors A mix of short-term and long-term individual goals set at the beginning of the year.
These are 20.0% of salary commercially sensitive but will be reported on in our next Annual Report.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 79 GOVERNANCE 5. short-term and long-term incentives and targets Our remuneration policy seeks to balance returns over the short-term and long-term by incentivising outperformance of our peers in the following way: the short-term and long-term Balance oF our incentives unaudited taBle 57 Duration Our incentives and targets Short-Term Base salary and benefits to attract and retain high performing people.
Revenue profit performance targets within the annual bonus.
Total Property Return over one year is reflected in the annual bonus.
Successful planning applications will provide future opportunity for the business and will increase the value of our property in the short term.
Asset management initiatives have an immediate impact on revenue profit and capital values with a view to ensuring short-term outperformance of our peers.
Long-Term A significant proportion of the annual bonus is deferred into shares.
There are significant shareholding requirements for Executive Directors, of between one and a half and twice times gross annual base salary.
Relative TSR and TPR metrics are measured over three year periods.
Certain business unit KPIs set for the annual bonus, such as development lettings targets and successful planning applications, are likely to have a significant impact on long-term capital growth and revenue profit performance.
Development lettings targets provide dividend cover, scope for dividend growth and support capital values for the longer term.
Successful planning applications will lead to potential for capital and income growth in the future.
6. perFormance targets For our long-term incentive plans The performance targets we have set for our Long Term Incentive and Matching Performance Share Plans are the same.
They are designed to reward significant outperformance of our peers in the most competitive sectors of the commercial property market.
The performance conditions are described in the Policy section of this report.
The Committee has chosen the property companies within the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index as the comparator group for measuring our TSR performance against.
The TSR comparator groups for awards made since 2010 are set out in the table below.
Board and Non-executive Directors are with vesting subject to performance testing.
None of these Senior Managers receives a determined by the Board, having regard to New awards ceased to be made to Executive salary or total remuneration package which independent advice and published surveys.
Directors following the adoption of the LTIP is higher than those paid to the Executive in 2005.
The awards made under that scheme Directors.
The structure of their The Board also takes into account the time are exercisable for ten years from grant and remuneration packages, including bonuses, commitments of the Non-executive Directors, a few remain outstanding.
These are shown is broadly consistent with that of Executive which are reviewed annually as part of the on page 90.
Senior Managers typically have a bonus Awards under this scheme continue to be No additional fees are payable for potential of up to 80% of base salary, with made to employees below the level of membership of Board Committees, some eligible to receive up to 100%, based on Senior Manager.
though additional fees are paid for targets set at the beginning of the financial specific additional responsibilities: year.
In addition, they are eligible to 8. pay within the group participate in the discretionary bonus pool The average base salary increase awarded additional non-executive taBle 59 described below, although awards from this directors Fees unaudited across the workforce provides a key reference pool to Senior Managers are by exception.
point when determining levels of increase for Name the Executive Directors.
Chair of Audit Committee 17,500 Senior Managers may also receive LTIP Chair of Remuneration and Matching Performance Share Awards, In setting the pay budget for the wider Committee 12,500 albeit at lower proportions of salary than workforce, the Committee reviewed data on Executive Directors.
pay settlements within the economy, the rate Senior Independent Director 10,000 of inflation and pay settlements for equivalent 8.2 Other employees roles in similar companies.
Other employees are also entitled to Neither the Chairman nor the other Nonparticipate in the Companys bonus scheme.
In previous years, the personal element of executive Directors receive any pension The maximum awards range between 20% an employees bonus was scored against benefits from the Company, nor do they and 60% of salary, depending on seniority.
objectives set at the beginning of the year.
participate in any bonus or incentive schemes.
This year, we introduced a change whereby All employees, other than Executive the personal element of bonuses was scored Directors, are also eligible to be considered on the basis of an employees performance in for an award from the discretionary bonus their wider role.
Inevitably, the scoring will pool of 1 million, with awards typically involve an element of discretion.
Investor normally made to no more than 10% of the guidelines discourage the use of discretion Groups employees.
The awards are usually for bonuses paid to Executive Directors and not more than 30% of base salary and are so it has not been possible to apply the change made on the basis of an exceptional single to them.
Executive Directors annual bonuses achievement or outstanding all-round will continue to be calculated on the basis of performance.
In addition, all employees are entitled to receive private health insurance, life assurance, our savings related share option scheme and a season ticket loan, all on the same basis as the Executive Directors.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 81 GOVERNANCE 10. directors service agreements and letters oF appointment 11. shareholder engagement At last years AGM, we proposed significant dates oF appointment For directors unaudited taBle 60 changes to the remuneration structure for Name Date of appointment Date of contract our Executive Directors and Senior Executive Directors Managers.
The proposals were finalised Robert Noel 1 January 2010 23 January 2012 following a detailed consultation with Martin Greenslade 1 September 2005 9 May 2013 shareholders who, together, held more than 50% of the Companys shares and also Richard Akers 17 May 2005 9 May 2013 the two largest institutional shareholder representative bodies.
During the Non-executive Directors consultation, which took place over four Alison Carnwath 1 September 2004 13 November 2008 months, we received a number of suggestions for amendment and requests for additional David Rough 2 April 2002 29 April 2004 supporting data.
We adopted a number of Sir Stuart Rose 21 May 2003 29 April 2004 these suggestions and published much of Kevin OByrne 1 April 2008 9 April 2008 the additional supporting data in last years Chris Bartram 1 August 2009 21 July 2009 Annual Report.
Our proposals received the support of 98.3% of the votes cast at our Simon Palley 1 August 2010 29 July 2010 2012 AGM.
Stacey Rauch 1 January 2012 26 November 2011 Since then, we have continued to meet shareholders and shareholder bodies and Executive Director notice periods Mr Akers and Mr Greenslades new service have encouraged them to share their All of the Executive Directors have service agreements provide for the phased thoughts with us.
As a result, the Committee agreements that are terminable by either withdrawal of these termination provisions has resolved to dedicate the major part of the Company or the Executive Director on between 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2015. one of its meetings each year to consider 12 months notice.
None have fixed terms Mr Noels service agreement does not include new trends, shareholder feedback of service.
these provisions and is already in line with and requirements.
Each of these agreements includes a We are very grateful for the time and mitigation clause providing for monthly Otherwise, any proposals for the early assistance shareholders have given us.
phased payments through the notice period termination of the service agreements of of salary, benefits and pension until Executive Directors or Senior Managers are alternative employment is found.
At that considered by the Committee.
point, payments will cease or be reduced.
The Chairman and Non-executive Director Company does not make any arrangements letters of appointment that guarantee pensions with limited or no The Chairman and the Non-executive abatement on severance or early retirement.
Directors do not have service agreements Executive Director service agreements with the Company.
termination provisions Each of them has a letter of appointment During the course of the year, new service which sets out the terms of their appointment.
agreements for Martin Greenslade and The appointment of a Non-executive Richard Akers were executed in order to Director can be terminated, by either party, bring them into line with investor guidelines upon one months notice and the and best practice.
appointment of the Chairman on three Their previous service agreements contained months notice.
Non-executive Directors are provisions contractually entitling them to be appointed under letters of appointment treated as good leavers for the purposes of which provide for an initial term of service of the Companys share schemes in the event three years.
The dates of the current letters of they are dismissed.
In those circumstances, appointment of the Non-executive Directors they would be entitled to automatically are shown above.
receive a time pro-rated vesting of all The terms and conditions of appointment of outstanding share awards, subject to testing the Non-executive Directors are available for of the performance conditions.
In addition inspection at the Companys registered office.
they would be entitled to receive a bonus payment pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the bonus year they had worked, subject to a minimum payment of 10% of base salary.
82 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE directors remuneration implementation report In this section, we describe all of the New Bridge Street also provide Monitoring, reviewing and responding payments made or accruing to Directors benchmarking data to the Group for roles to the Governments consultation over in connection with the year under review.
below the Board and software to facilitate executive remuneration pay reviews, but otherwise have no other Determining salary increases for Executive 1. the role oF the committee connection with the Group.
Directors and Senior Managers, together and governance with overall levels of salary increases across For the financial year under review, New 1.1 Responsibilities and Terms of Reference the Group Bridge Street received fees of 54,100 in The Committee is responsible for: connection with its work for the Committee.
Reviewing the outcomes for business unit Engaging with shareholders with regard to and personal targets under the annual 1.3 Membership and meetings pay and ensuring their views are taken into bonus scheme for Executive Directors and David Rough chaired the Committee account when setting policy Senior Managers until 1 October 2012, when Simon Palley Determining the overall strategy and policy Reviewing the outcomes for achievement became Chairman.
Mr Rough stood down for the remuneration of Executive Directors against the performance conditions for from the Committee in May 2013. and Senior Managers the Long Term Incentive and Matching Ensuring the policy is aligned with and The other members of the Committee Performance Share Plans assists in the delivery of the Companys during the year were Alison Carnwath and Determining proposed share incentive strategy Chris Bartram.
Alison Carnwath is not and bonus awards to Executive Directors classified as an independent Non-executive Ensuring the outturn of performance and Senior Managers Director for the purposes of the UK conditions reflects the performance of Determining Directors compliance with Corporate Governance Code, solely by the business the Companys Share Ownership virtue of her being the Chairman of the Determining the individual remuneration Guidelines.
She was, however, an independent packages for Executive Directors and Non-executive Director at the time of her Senior Managers appointment as Chairman.
All of the other Overseeing any significant changes to members were and remain independent employee remuneration across the Group Non-executive Directors.
Approving the design of and targets for The Committee met four times during the performance-related incentive schemes year.
All of the members attended all of the Overseeing the operation of all incentive meetings.
The Group General Counsel and schemes and awards and determining Company Secretary acted as the Committees whether performance criteria have Secretary and attended all meetings.
The Chief Executive and Human Resources The Committees Terms of Reference are Director were invited to attend meetings of available at www.
No Director was involved in any decision relating to his or her own 1.2 Advisers remuneration.
As set out in the Corporate The Committee appointed and received Governance section of this report, a review advice on remuneration and ancillary legal of the Committees performance was matters from New Bridge Street, a trading undertaken by Boardroom Review.
It has also made use of various published surveys to help determine 1.4 Activities and highlights appropriate remuneration levels and relied During the course of the year, the on information and advice provided by the Remuneration Committee was engaged Group General Counsel and Company with a number of matters, including: Secretary.
New Bridge Street has voluntarily Extensive shareholder consultation signed up to the Remuneration Consultants connection with our review of all aspects Group Code of Conduct.
of remuneration for Executive Directors and Senior Managers The Committee intends to conduct a tender of its remuneration and benefit advisory work Reviewing trends and likely shareholder during the course of the coming year.
requirements for inclusion in remuneration policy going forward Land Securities Annual Report 2013 83 GOVERNANCE 2. director salary increases In accordance with investor guidelines, the Committee has not undertaken a peer group benchmarking exercise this year for Executive Directors.
Instead, the Committee has awarded Executive Directors increases of 2.0%.
This is slightly less than the average increase received by employees as a whole at 2.2% excluding promotions and exceptional increases.
Including those items increases the average to 2.9%.
Salary increases take effect from 1 June 2013.
No increases were awarded to our Chairman or Non-executive Directors, whose fees have not increased since October 2009.
Our Chairman has not received an increase since her appointment in November 2008. executive director salary increases 000 unaudited taBle 61 Average % From increase over five years Name Current 1 June 2013 % increase including 2013 14 1 Robert Noel 680 694 2% Martin Greenslade 460 469 2% 2.65% Richard Akers 410 418 2% 2.41% 1.
This is the first salary review for Robert Noel since he became Chief Executive on 1 April 2012. amounts shown are those earned in relation 3. remuneration outcomes For 3.1.
Directors Emoluments directors during the year to the Companys performance in the year.
The following table shows our Directors In this section, we explain the variable pay emoluments for the financial year ended The basis of disclosure is on an accruals basis.
outcomes for Executive Directors during 31 March 2013.
This means that the annual bonus column the year.
It is presented in a different format to those includes the amount that will be paid in We start with a table that shows the payments in previous years as we are seeking to comply connection with performance achieved in the we expect to make to Directors in connection with both the existing regulations and those financial year under review.
The values shown with the 2012 13 financial year.
We then move expected to come into force for next years for Long Term Incentive Plan awards in on to explain the performance outcomes for Annual Report.
The first total is that 2012 13 are calculated using the closing share our variable pay schemes in the context of required to be shown under the existing price on 31 March 2013, which was the final value created for shareholders before rules.
The second total includes the day of the performance period.
The actual showing the payments to individual Executive additional items of remuneration that we price is not known at the time of writing as Directors and examining the element of their expect will be required to be shown next year.
the awards do not formally vest until June and annual bonus determined by their personal This is commonly known as the one number July 2013.
In previous years, we have shown performance.
total and is designed to make it easier to the amounts which actually vest in the year compare remuneration between different and so have adjusted the 2011 12 year in order companies.
It also seeks to ensure that the to present a like for like comparison.
Robert Noel was appointed Chief Executive on 1 April 2012.
His basic salary for 2011 12 reflects his previous position as Managing Director of the Groups London Portfolio.
He was awarded 160,000 conditional shares on appointment to the Board in 2010 to replace lost awards made by his previous employer.
The final tranche of 80,000 shares vested in June 2012, but was intended to reflect his 2011 12 awards and so is shown in that year for consistency with awards made to other Directors.
Basic salary is stated as a per annum figure.
In the year Richard Akers received 408,000 and Martin Greenslade 454,000.
Benefits consists of the provision of a car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance and holiday pay.
Richard Akers was entitled to an additional bonus of 200,000 for 2011 12, to reflect the Retail Portfolios Total Property Return perfomance for that year, under a scheme which has now been withdrawn.
Although half of the amount is payable in cash in 2012 13 and the balance half deferred into shares for two years, the whole payment is recorded in 2011 12 as the payment relates to performance in that year.
Pensions of 63,374 2011 12: 68,072 were paid to former Directors or their dependents, these relate to unfunded historic benefit obligations.
Following the retirement of the Groups Chief Executive, Francis Salway, on 31 March 2012 all of his outstanding share awards lapsed.
84 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE 3.2 Variable pay overall performance outcomes i Annual bonus In the year under review, each Executive Director has had the potential to receive an annual bonus of up to 150% of his base salary.
Of this, 130% was dependent on meeting Group targets and 20% dependent on meeting personal targets.
All targets were set at the beginning of the year.
The annual bonus payout relating to the performance of the Group in this year has been reduced by 2.9%.
The reduction was used to fund an additional payment to each member of our staff who was not entitled to participate in the Group level bonus arrangements.
The payment is being made to reflect their contribution towards the Company achieving so many of its targets in the year.
This following table illustrates the Group targets, their significance in terms of the value to the Company and its shareholders and the respective outcomes.
annual Bonus outturn unaudited taBle 63 Outturn percentage of percentage of base salary base salary percentage of Target maximum Link to strategy and performance Assessment awarded maximum Ungeared total 39.0% Rewards annual outperformance by our portfolio The Land Securities Total 33.0% 85.0% property return compared with the industrys commercial property Property Return for the year benchmark, weighted towards the capital employed outperformed the IPD in our core sectors.
Quarterly Universe figure by Focuses on increasing capital values and rental income.
1.7% adjusted for the capital Capital value growth is reflected in an increased net employed in our core sectors.
asset value, which is the measure with the strongest correlation to share price.
On the basis of a portfolio with a value of 11.5bn, the 2% outperformance targeted for one year would generate approximately 230m of value beyond general movements in the value of commercial property within our sectors and cost c. 2.4m in terms of bonuses paid to Directors and other employees.
The benchmark sectors we have chosen are amongst the toughest to compete in as they are amongst the most profitable and attract some of the most successful investors in the industry.
Share in long-term 39.0% Encourages above inflation growth in income profits, Revenue profit for the year 31.4% 81.0% real growth in group year on year, from a base set in 2010. exceeded the target.
revenue profit Target set so as not to encourage excessive risk taking.
Although the performance Encourages sustainable dividend growth and cover was good, it was below that over the medium term.
of the previous year and this Funds additional investment.
is reflected in a lower outturn.
Encourages asset management activity and focus on the income performance of assets, which is a very significant driver of capital values.
Key business targets: Development lettings 20.8% A key driver of income and revenue profit in the future.
The Group secured 19.0% 91.5% Proves the value of the development and drives development lettings for the capital growth.
year of 31.7m, against a maximum target of 33m.
The outturn is calculated on the basis that nothing is paid out until a threshold of half of the target is achieved 16.5m.
Achievement is calculated on a straight-line basis from threshold to the maximum.
Revenue profit 10.4% Rewards outperformance of a stretching income profit Revenue profit achieved in 10.4% 100% against budget target set in the context of the Companys business plan the year exceeds the upper for the current year.
Charging the Groups 10.4% The aim is to increase the value of the pool of assets This was achieved, with 10.4% 100% interest in its Nova which can be mortgaged.
the outcome exceeding Victoria development As we invest in Nova Victoria, the value of the asset will expectations.
into its secured increase significantly.
lending pool Ultimately, this will reduce the Groups overall cost of borrowing.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 85 GOVERNANCE annual Bonus outturn continued unaudited taBle 63 Outturn percentage of percentage of base salary base salary percentage of Target maximum Link to strategy and performance Assessment awarded maximum Opening the Groups 10.4% Creates momentum for the opening of the scheme This was achieved to an 10.4% 100% Trinity Leeds Brings forward the receipt of income.
Builds customer confidence in our ability to deliver schemes on time.
Executive Director individual targets Each Director received 20.0% These targets comprise a number of measures that Individual Executive a number of personal are designed to improve the shortand long-term Directors were scored by the targets, which included: performance of the Group.
Remuneration Committee Ensuring the success on the basis of objectively of the new three measurable targets set at the Executive Director beginning of the year.
The structure in 2011 12, outturn was as follows: there were four Robert Noel 17.0% 85.0% Executive Directors.
Martin Greenslade 15.0% 75.0% Developing clear Richard Akers 13.0% 65.0% communication channels with domestic and international investors.
Implementation of a new budgeting and forecasting system.
Building a Group wide career development programme for high performing employees.
1 Total 150% Robert Noel 129% 1 Martin Greenslade 127% 1 Richard Akers 125% 1.
The outturn is adjusted to take account of the performance of the trading properties and income extracted from a property in Queen Annes Gate, London, SW1, through a bond issue in 2009.
The bonus outturns are reduced by 2.90% to fund an additional payment to staff to reward their efforts during the year.
ii Long Term Incentive Plan For the TSR proportion of the measure, a For awards granted in 2011, the Groups performance in line with that of the property performance over the two years to 31 March Summary of the performance conditions companies comprised within the FTSE 350 2013 would, if sustained over the three Awards under the Groups Long Term Real Estate Index will cause 15% of the year period, result in 81.9% of the share Incentive Plans are subject to performance award to vest, with straight-line vesting to awards vesting.
For awards granted in 2012, conditions measured over three financial the maximum 50% vesting for where our performance over the one year period to years.
The performance conditions compare TSR outperforms that of the Index by 4% 31 March 2013 would, if sustained over the the Groups relative performance against its per annum.
second and third years of the period, result peers in terms of Total Property Return in 70.1% of the awards vesting.
TPR and Total Shareholder Return TSR, The Policy Section of this report sets out the with each measure contributing 50% to the performance conditions and their calculation total.
The performance conditions are in full.
explained in detail in the Policy section of Calculation of the 2013 outturn and interim this report.
measurements for subsequent awards For the TPR portion of the measure, a Awards made in 2010 were measured over performance in line with the IPD weighted the three year period to 31 March 2013, with indices that reflect the sector mix of Land 76.1% vesting.
Securities investment portfolio will cause 12.5% of the award to vest, with straight-line vesting to the maximum 50% for where our TPR outperforms by 1% per annum or more.
86 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE The performance calculation and relative value created for awards vesting in 2013 are illustrated below.
total shareholder return 1 april 2010 to 31 march 2013 taBle 64 Land Securities proportion of the Land Securities TSR Comparator Group outperformance Approximate value of proportion of award 1 total award performance target for maximum vesting over the period TSR over the period per annum the outperformance vesting max 50% Outperformance of our comparator 50% group by 4% per annum 39.1% 35.2% 1.26% 198m 26.1% 1.
Based on a market capitalisation of 5,144 million at 1 April 2010. ungeared total property return 1 april 2010 to 31 march 2013 taBle 65 Land Securities proportion of the Land Securities TpR IpD sector weighted outperformance Approximate value of proportion of award 2 1 total award performance target for maximum vesting over the period TpR over the period per annum the outperformance vesting max 50% Ungeared outperformance of our sector 50% weighted IPD index by 1% per annum 36.8% 32.7% 1.03% 296m 50.00% 1.
Based on a portfolio value of 9,540 million at 1 April 2010.
The outturn is adjusted to take account of the performance of the trading properties and the capital and income extracted from a property in Queen Annes Gate, London SW1, though a bond issue in 2009.
Individual outcomes In this section, we set out the components of each Executive Directors remuneration for the year, compared with the maximum that could have been paid.
This is illustrated in the form of a chart and a table that shows the amounts.
The footnotes for the table apply to the charts as well.
We also explain any additional payments made to Directors that are not described in the previous section of this report.
340,000 of Robert Noels annual bonus will be deferred into shares for one year and 195,000 for two years.
Fixed pay On target Maximum Actual 2.
In 2010, Robert Noel received LTIP and Matching Share Awards over 134,057 shares, with a value of 794,000, in connection with his position as Managing 1 Director of the London Portfolio.
The award was based on an average share price of approximately 5.92.
Since then, the share Basic salary Annual bonus 2 price has increased, closing at 8.29 on 31 March 2013.
For consistency and in order to better illustrate the percentage of the maximum that will vest, we have Pension Share awards substituted the grant price with the closing price at 31 March 2013 in both the table and the chart.
Percentage is of variable pay maximum.
As part of the package to recruit Mr Noel to likelihood of vesting of those share awards.
of 80,000 shares vested in June 2012, but the Board as Managing Director of the In relation to quantum it was agreed that replaced awards vesting for performance London Portfolio on 1 January 2010, Mr Noel these awards would not be subject to ending in the financial year 2011 12. was granted an award of shares which broadly performance conditions but the value would Accordingly, these have been recorded in matched the long-term incentive awards he be scaled back to reflect assumptions in the 2011 12 year, in line with other awards left behind at his previous employer.
This relation to the likelihood of vesting.
An made to Executive Directors the Company award was described in the last years report award of 160,000 shares was made, to be for the same year.
The final tranche of the and was structured to reflect the timing and released over three years.
The final award award had a value of 595,000.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 87 GOVERNANCE MARTIN GREENSLADE, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER unaudited taBle 67 Outcome Maximum percentage of 2,500,000 2,452,000 potential maximum Element of pay 000 achieved 000 2,065,000 2,000,000 Base salary 460 n a 460 1,708,000 Pension 113 n a 113 1,500,000 Benefits 20 n a 20 1,000,000 1 Annual bonus 595,000 Group element 598 86% 514 500,000 Individual element 92 75% 69 2 0 Long-Term Incentive Plan 1,169 76% 889 Fixed pay On target Maximum Actual 3 Total 2,452 79% 2,065 1 Basic salary Annual bonus 1.
230,000 of Martin Greenslades annual bonus will be deferred into shares for one year and 123,000 for two years.
In 2010, Martin Greenslade received LTIP and Matching Share Awards over 140,936 shares with a value of 835,000, based on an average share price of Benets approximately 5.92.
Since then, the share price has increased, closing at 8.29 on 31 March 2013.
For consistency and in order to better illustrate the percentage of the maximum that will vest, we have substituted the grant price with the closing price at 31 March 2013 in both the table and the chart.
RICHARD AKERS, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR unaudited taBle 68 Outcome Maximum percentage of 2,500,000 potential maximum 2,207,000 Element of pay 000 achieved 000 2,000,000 1,851,000 Base salary 410 n a 410 1,542,000 Pension 103 n a 103 1,500,000 Benefits 23 n a 23 1,000,000 1 Annual bonus Group element 533 86% 458 534,000 500,000 Individual element 82 65% 53 2 0 Long-Term Incentive Plan 1,048 76% 797 Fixed pay On target Maximum Actual Share Options exercised 8 n a 8 1 Basic salary Annual bonus 3 2 Total 2,207 79% 1,852 Pension Share awards Benets 1.
205,000 of Richard Akers annual bonus will be deferred into shares for one year and 101,000 for two years.
In 2010, Richard Akers received LTIP and Matching Share Awards over 126,421 shares with a value of 749,000 based on an average share price of approximately 5.92.
Mr Akers became a Non-executive Director deFined BeneFit pension scheme audited taBle 69 of Barratt Developments PLC on 2 April Transfer 2012.
In keeping with the Companys policy, value of Transfer Increase in Increase in increase in Transfer value of Increase in the Nominations Committee has permitted accrued accrued accrued value of accrued transfer Accrued benefits benefits benefits accrued benefits at value net of him to retain his Directors fees of 58,000 benefit at excluding including excluding benefits at 31 March Directors per annum.
31 March 2013 inflation inflation inflation 1 April 2012 2013 contributions Mr Akers ceased to be an active member of R J Akers 37,752 0 1,003 0 765,626 856,286 90,660 the Groups defined benefit pension scheme RJ Akers opted out of the Scheme on 31 March 2012 and has a deferred benefit which is linked to inflation.
He does not earn future pension accrual.
on 31 March 2012 and so did not receive any There were no contributions from the Director.
The Increase in transfer value net of Directors contributions differs from the Transfer value of increase in accrued benefit in that it reflects the change in market additional accrual of benefit in respect of his conditions over the year less the Directors own contributions to the pension scheme.
service in the year under review.
The transfer values, have been calculated on the basis of the actuarial advice in accordance with the 2008 transfer value regulations.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement in respect of qualifying service represents the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the liability in respect of the Directors pension benefits that they earned in respect of qualifying service.
They do not represent sums payable to individual Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
88 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE 5. directors shares The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at 31 March 2013 are shown below.
There have been no changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between the end of the financial year and 31 May 2013, save that Alison Carnwath and Martin Greenslade acquired 1,238, and 1,778 shares respectively under the Companys Scrip Dividend Plan.
No Director had any other interests in contracts or securities of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings during the year.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 89 GOVERNANCE outstanding share awards made to executive directors The tables below illustrate those share awards made to Executive Directors that have not yet vested or, in the case of awards made under historic share option schemes, have not yet been exercised.
Vesting of Awards is dependent on the Companys growth in normalised adjusted EPS exceeding the growth in RPI by at least 2.5% per year.
2 003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Not subject to performance conditions as it is available to all staff and HM Revenue & Customs rules do not permit performance conditions for this type of scheme.
As adjusted for the Rights Issue in March 2009.
Total number of options held by Directors at 31 March 2013 was 18,394 2012: 26,588.
The range of the closing middle market prices for Land Securities Group PLC ordinary shares during the year was 849 pence to 704 pence.
The closing share price on 28 March 2013 was 829.0 pence.
90 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE All outstanding share option awards capable of The Long-Term Incentive Plan awards made 8. land securities 2012 agm, directors remuneration report voting results exercise at 31 March 2013 have an exercise price to Senior Managers vested on the same basis The votes cast on the resolution seeking that is above the market price on that date.
as the awards made to Executive Directors.
approval for the Directors Remuneration Compliance with shareholding guidelines 6.2 All Other Employees Report at our 2012 AGM were as follows: In May 2010 the Committee agreed that The average pay increase for employees Votes Votes Martin Greenslade and Richard Akers had other than Executive Directors was 2.2%, Votes for % for against withheld met the shareholding guidelines, which are or 2.90% including salary adjustments and 530,687,023 98.44 8,384,136 7,485,118 set out in the Policy section of this report.
promotions, as against 2.0% for the Executive Following his appointment as the Groups Directors.
The ratio of the salary of the Chief 9. perFormance graphs Chief Executive on 1 April 2012, Mr Noel Executive to the average salary across the As required by legislation covering the will have five years to meet the ownership Group excluding Directors was 13:1 Directors Remuneration Report, the guidelines.
680,000: 52,100. following illustrates the performance of the In May 2012, the Committee determined that Company measured by total shareholder 7. dilution all Non-executive Directors in place at the return share price growth plus dividends Awards granted under the 2005 and 2012 time had complied with this requirement, paid against a broad equity market index Long-term Incentive Plans, which cover LTIP with the exception of Stacey Rauch whom the over a period of five years.
As the Company and Matching Performance Share Awards, Committee determined met the guidelines is a constituent of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Deferred Bonus Share Awards and the 2005 in May 2013.
Index, this is considered to be the most Executive Share Option Plan are satisfied appropriate benchmark for the purposes of through the funding of an Employee Benefit 6. pay around the group the graph.
An additional line to illustrate the Trust administered by an external trustee 6.1 Senior Managers Companys performance compared with the which acquires shares in the market.
The During the year under review, bonuses for FTSE 100 index over the previous five years, Employee Benefit Trust held 1,037,633 shares this group of employees ranged from 60% is also included.
The average bonus is 86% of salary 2012: 61%.
The exercise of share options under the Two of these employees received additional Groups Savings-Related Share Option bonuses in the year that related to the Scheme, which is open to all employees who performance of their business units in the have completed three months service with prior year.
This scheme has now been the Group, is satisfied by the allotment of withdrawn.
Including these payments would newly issued shares.
At 31 March 2013, the increase the upper end of the range from total number of shares which could be 103% to 124% and the average to 92%.
allotted under this scheme was 460,875 shares, which represent significantly less than 1% of the issued share capital of the Company.
total shareholder return unaudited taBle 73 160 135.7 140 116.1 117.5 120 108.0 100 81.4 80 71.8 69.2 66.8 78.1 61.4 60 65.6 64.0 56.6 39.2 40 34.9 20 0 March 08 March 09 March 10 March 11 March 12 March 13 Land Securities Group PLC FTSE 350 Real Estate Index FTSE 100 Index This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2013, of 100 invested in Land Securities Group PLC on 31 March 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index or the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Source: Thomson Reuters Adrian fide Souza Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Land Securities Annual Report 2013 91
