70 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration of other senior executives Shareholder vote on 2012 Directors and management Remuneration Report A number of Senior Executives and the Executive Directors comprise The table below shows the voting outcome at the 7 February 2013 the Executive Board.
These key management roles influence AGM for the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report.
the ability of the Group to meet its strategic targets.
The Committee Number of % of Number % of Total Number has regard to the remuneration level and structure of this group votes For & votes of votes votes number of of votes 1 Discretionary cast Against cast votes cast Withheld whose total remuneration including salary and other short term benefits, target or par bonus and the expected value of long term 1,236,666,804 93.17% 90,666,039 6.83% 1,327,332,843 25,632,363 incentives is summarised in note 3 on page 91 of the consolidated financial statements.
1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law.
Remuneration advice 93.17% of the votes cast were for the approval of the Directors The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, together with Jane Remuneration Report, with 6.83% against with 1.93% of the total Kingston Group human Resources Director and harriet Kemp number of votes cast abstaining.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law.
Director of Group Reward & People Processes, are normally invited Extensive consultation with shareholder bodies and a number of large to attend each Committee meeting and provide advice and guidance institutional investors was conducted during the year in connection to the Committee other than in respect of their own remuneration with the changes made to the performance measures under the for which they are not paid a fee in addition to their salaries from the LTIP, as detailed in the Policy Report on page 59.
The Committee Company under their service contracts.
Details of the members of the welcomed the endorsement shown by Shareholders for the Directors Committee who served during the year ended 30 September 2013 Remuneration Report and took steps, wherever practicable, to are set out on page 56. understand Shareholders concerns when withholding their support.
The Committee also has access to detailed external information and At the AGM on 6 February 2014, Shareholders will be invited to vote research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
on the Policy contained in the Policy Report and the Directors During the year, the Company retained  LLP Remuneration Report.
PWC to advise on compensation related matters, including On behalf of the Board undertaking a benchmarking exercise in respect of the roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive, for which they received total fees of 40,650 fees are based on hours spent.
Alithos Limited Alithos provided information for the testing of the TSR performance conditions for the Companys LTIP Awards, for which they received fixed fees of 24,000.
They also provided the TSR performance graph for the Directors Remuneration Report, Sir Ian Robinson for which they received a fixed fee of 500.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Alithos was appointed by the Company in 2002 and PWC was 27 November 2013 appointed in 2007 renewed in 2011.
Both appointments were made with the approval of the Committee following a selection exercise.
Alithos did not provide any other advice or services to the Company during the year.
PWC provided services globally which comprised pension, expatriate, internal audit, merger and acquisition, due diligence, tax and other consultancy advice.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it received during the year was objective and independent, based on the experience of its members generally, including Susan Murray who currently sits on the remuneration committees of two other quoted companies, including one as Chair of the committee.
