Corporate governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance 55 Directors Remuneration Report Annual statement Introduction Perspective On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present our Directors In retrospect and looking ahead, the Companys Remuneration Policy Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013. has been and will continue to be uncomplicated, performance related Shareholders will be invited to approve both our Remuneration Policy and retention focused.
for the year ending 30 September 2014 and beyond which will be a Our objective is to ensure that there is stability in our Remuneration binding vote and the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year Policy and that it is aligned with the business strategy.
Our policy has ended 30 September 2013 which will be a non-binding advisory vote, remained fundamentally unchanged since last year and it is envisaged which together comprise the Directors Remuneration Report, at the that the remuneration elements for Executive Directors for the year Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 6 February 2014. ending 30 September 2014 will be very similar to those in place for The two sections of the Report cover the following matters: the financial year ended 30 September 2013. the Companys intended Executive Remuneration Strategy and The Company has delivered another strong financial performance Policy from 6 February 2014 until 30 September 2014 and beyond, this year driven by the Executive Directors and the senior including each of the components of Directors remuneration management team against the backdrop of a challenging economic the Policy Report environment in some of the Groups geographies.
The delivery of how the Policy has been implemented in the year ended an underlying operating margin of over 7% for the first time reflects 30 September 2013 the Annual Remuneration Report managements focus on growing revenue in a sustainable and profitable manner, mirrored in the use of revenue and profit as key This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared on behalf measures in our annual bonus plan.
This strong financial performance of the Board by the Remuneration Committee the Committee in of the Group is reflected in the variable pay awarded to the Executive accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Directors, none of whom received any increase in their base pay and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts during the year, recognising the tough economic environment.
and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations.
Save for the total shareholder return graph, Group Chief Executives remuneration Cash flow generation is critical to the success of our business in terms history and remuneration percentage change tables, spend on pay of both returns to Shareholders and investments for growth and table, statement of Shareholder voting and details of advice provided consequently is included as a performance measure in both our long to the Committee, the information set out on pages 55 to 70 of this and short term incentive plans.
We have been able to reward both Directors Remuneration Report represents the auditable disclosures Shareholders and our Executive Directors for the excellent referred to in the Auditors report on pages 73 and 74 as specified by performance in this area during the last 12 months.
We were delighted the UK Listing Authority and the Regulations.
at Shareholders strong endorsement of the inclusion of Return on Capital Employed ROCE in The Compass Group PLC Long Term The Committee Incentive Plan 2010 LTIP as this has brought more alignment in our incentive plans on the reinvestment of cash to help the business grow The Board sets the Companys Remuneration Policy and the and for infill acquisitions.
In addition, the inclusion of health, Safety Committee is responsible, within the authority delegated by the Board, and Environment hSE measures in our annual bonus plan for all our for determining specific remuneration packages and the terms and leadership team globally has highlighted the importance of this key conditions of employment for the members of the Executive Board, business metric.
which comprises the Executive Directors and other Senior Executives.
The Committee ensures that the members of the Executive Board Overall, we believe that our policy is structured so that the Executive are provided with the appropriate incentives to enhance the Groups Directors are fairly rewarded, with the aim to keep reward at or around performance and to reward them for their personal contribution median, in line with appropriate benchmarks for the markets in which to the success of the business.
The Committee reviews the Compass operates.
This approach to remuneration has served remuneration arrangements for Group employees whose salaries Shareholders well, as whilst we have been able to attract, retain and exceed a specified level and administers the Companys share incentive motivate the best people in a competitive marketplace, at the same plans.
The Committee also determines the Chairmans remuneration, time we have delivered a total return to our Shareholders of 455% although the Board itself determines the level of fees paid to the since 2005, well above the 66% for the FTSE 100 as a whole.
No Directors are involved in determining their own remuneration.
The Committee maintains an active dialogue with Shareholder representatives and its full Terms of Reference are set out on the Companys website at www.
