O OV VER ERVIE VIEW W STR STRA ATE TEGIC GIC REP REPOR ORT T G GO OVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS FUR FURT THER HER INFOR INFORM MA AT TION ION 75 75 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Committees key role is to determine the reward strategy for the Executive Directors.
Following the resignation of Chris Peacock in April 2013, I was appointed Chairman of the Committee and during the course of the year, my fellow Committee members were Christopher Fisher and Mark Robertshaw.
32.5 per cent over the course of the year.
Against this backdrop, the Bonus payments to the Directors will be between 73 and 83 per cent of their maximum award.
However, the shares under the 2011 LTIP will not vest as the fall in EPS associated with the disposal programme and the write down of non-core assets over the past three years means that neither the EPS nor the TPR performance conditions were met.
During the year, the key activities for the Committee were: t setting the remuneration packages for Andy Gulliford and Phil Redding on their appointment COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN INTRODUCTION asExecutive Directors: and The Committee determines the remuneration t the approval of changes to structure of the structure for Executive Directors and is responsible Executive Directors Bonus.
For 2014, the personal for ensuring that it balances appropriate reward with performance element of the Bonus has been the success of the business and the creation of longreplaced with a rent roll growth component term shareholder value.
Whereas the principles of which the Committee believes is a more objective our remuneration policy have not changed, this is the and measurable target that will ensure that the first report produced under the new requirements calculation of the Bonus will be more transparent to of the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013. shareholders.
The Committee chose rent roll growth This report follows these regulations by splitting the as it felt that with the shift in focus from portfolio information into a Remuneration Policy and an Annual reshaping and business restructuring towards Remuneration Report providing information on pay growth, a rent roll growth measure in the Bonus and benets to the Directors during the year.
Our aim scheme was an appropriate target for the next phase has been to present the information in a simple and in the delivery of our strategy.
transparent way and I hope that shareholders will As Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the nd the new format informative.
The Remuneration Remuneration Committee, I am committed to ensuring Policy is centred around total property return and an open dialogue with our shareholders.
If you total shareholder return, with long and short-term have any questions about remuneration generally performance targets being focused on the drivers or the contents of this report please contact me at ofthese two measures.
As explained in the Strategic Review, during 2013 the Company made further significant progress with its strategic priorities delivering tangible results for BARONESS FORD shareholders: the portfolio has been reshaped in line CHAIRMAN OF THE with strategy: net debt has been signicantly reduced:  the dividend has been maintained notwithstanding the impact of disposals: and the shareprice has increased
