Remuneration report 61 Our policy is to remunerate and incentivise executive directors and management through simple and transparent arrangements which align executive rewards with the Groups long-term business strategy, goals and shareholder returns.
This year we are following the new remuneration reporting regulations cONtEXt FOR tHE gROUpS REMUNERatION appROacH which divide the remuneration report into two sections: The Group has 23 employees, including four executive directors.
Of those four, three have an average length of service of 25 years.
They - the Remuneration Policy Report which sets out the Committees have built up substantial shareholdings in the Group, mainly through policy and framework for executive remuneration.
This section will retaining shares awarded under employee share schemes.
The combined be proposed for a binding vote by shareholders at our 2014 AGM, and holdings of the executive directors stand at just over 2.3 million shares - the Annual Remuneration Report which sets out how the Group has with a current market value of circa 14 million.
The average length of remunerated directors during the year and is proposed for an service below Board level is 11 years.
advisory vote by shareholders at the same meeting.
The Groups small team of executive directors and key staff all have a The Groups remuneration policy has not changed during the year and close involvement in the continuing development of the Groups is as proposed in the policy table.
We have, however, increased the management strategies and their implementation.
Consequently, the level of disclosure in line with the new regulations.
Whilst the policy Committee considers it appropriate that, in setting objectives and below is already being operated, the Committee felt it prudent to measuring performance, emphasis is placed on team rather than consult its major shareholders to ensure that it continues to meet individual performance.
Their responses were reported to, and considered by, the Committee.
We believe our remuneration policy has been successful in remunerating directors fairly, providing stability in the executive management team which is desirable in this long-term business.
We continue to review our remuneration policy and have reviewed in detail all components of remuneration to ensure that they remain appropriate, competitive and are in accord with the new regulations.
Further aspects of this review will be completed in 2014.
If the outcome requires any substantive changes to the remuneration policy we would consult with shareholders as necessary.
Against a background of a buoyant wider West End economy, the Group has performed well this year, meeting or exceeding substantially all the annual objectives set by the Committee, and delivering a good financial performance.
In recognition of this annual performance, the Committee recommended to the Board awards of annual bonuses for each executive director of 50% of base salary.
This compares with a maximum award under our remuneration policy of 125% and an on-target award of 62.5%.
Delivery of long-term growth in shareholder value is rewarded through our LTIP arrangements, which are an important element of the remuneration package we provide.
This year, performance for the three year period ended 30 September 2013 has resulted in the vesting of 50% of performance-related options granted in December 2010.
As a result of changes in the composition of the Board due to the impending retirement of Gordon McQueen, I will step down as Committee Chairman at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
The Board will appoint Sally Walden as Chairman of the Committee at that time.
Jill Little Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE
