Remuneration policy report 62 Set out below is the Groups policy on directors remuneration, which will be proposed for a binding vote at the 2014 AGM.
If approved, the policy will be effective from that date.
EXEcUtIVE DIREctORS ELEMENT LiNk WiTH STRATEGY oPERATioN Salary Fixed remuneration at a Reviewed annually with effect from 1 December, with reference to inflation and other employees, level appropriate to skills, unless there is a change of role or responsibility or a new director is recruited see recruitment policy experience and complexity Sector and other relevant market data eg against constituent companies of the FTSE 350 Real of the role Estate Index may be requested from remuneration advisors as required Annual To incentivise performance Annual performance targets are set by the Committee at the beginning of the year and are linked to the bonus in the reporting year through Groups strategy and key business objectives of long-term growth in rental income and net asset value.
the setting of targets at the The Groups two non-financial KPIs are used in the metrics to align directors interests with strategy beginning of the year.
These At the end of the financial year, the Committee evaluates performance against these objectives annual targets are consistent whilst also taking into account overall financial performance and future prospects.
The Committee with the Groups long-term also satisfies itself that short-term targets have not been met at the expense of long-term interests.
strategy This discretion is, however, only exercised within the limits of the scheme The opportunity to defer the Minimum performance required for any part of the bonus to be earned is calibrated so as to be bonus and take it in shares appropriately stretching and achievable seeks to align directors Where directors take all or part of the bonus in shares, these are held for a minimum of three years interests with those of in a Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme.
No further performance conditions apply.
Dividend shareholders and avoid equivalents are paid at the end of the deferral period short-term decision making The Committee has discretion to exercise malus provisions to reduce the award prior to payment or release of the shares in the event of material misstatement of the financial statements or gross misconduct Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE Remuneration policy report continued 63 CHANGE FRoM MAxiMUM PERFoRMANCE MEASURES PREVioUS PoTENTiAL VALUE AND PERFoRMANCE PERioDS YEAR?
The Committee does not specify a maximum salary or maximum None No salary increase due to unintended consequences such as setting undue expectations.
When deciding salary increases, the Committee considers average increases across the Company, prevailing rates of inflation and, from time-to-time, market data The Committee recognises the importance of setting salaries at levels in the context of market median levels in the real estate sector, but which are not excessive in relation to the Groups particular strategy and features.
The emphasis in the Groups remuneration policies is to place greater weight on performance-based rewards within the overall remuneration package Further details on salary levels and any increases for a given year are provided in the Annual Remuneration Report Directors have the choice to take a bonus in shares or cash, in full Performance is assessed against a set of key financial No or part as follows: and non-financial annual measures which may vary each year depending on the annual priorities of the Up to 125% of salary if taken entirely in shares: business.
These are set by the Committee, for or example: Up to 100% of salary if taken entirely in cash - Gr ow ERVs above the levels assessed by the Groups valuers KPI - Let v acant space on a timely basis in light of market conditions KPI - Maximise oc cupancy of the Groups portfolio - Manage pr operty expenses as a percentage of rental income - Corpor ate responsibility performance - Deliv er projects transactions successfully Performance against the above targets will be assessed in the context of the overriding principle that lettings lease renewals must be in accordance with the Groups strict policies regarding tenant mix Measures will be weighted in alignment with the Groups strategy for each year.
Weightings for each measure can be up to 30% Within the limits of the scheme, the Committee has discretion to adjust bonus outcomes upwards or downwards as it considers appropriate to ensure alignment of pay with overall performance and market conditions Further details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for a given period are provided in the Annual Remuneration Report for that year Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE 64 Remuneration policy report continued ELEMENt LINk WItH StRatEgy OpERatION LtIp To incentivise and reward Operated in accordance with plan rules approved by shareholders at the 2006 AGM performance over the longAward of nil cost options over ordinary shares with performance determined by two separate and term, aligning directors independent performance conditions over a set period.
The Committee reviews the targets prior interests with shareholders tomaking each grant of nil cost options and to encourage the Dividends accrue on any shares which vest and are paid in cash at vesting management of the Groups The Committee has discretion to exercise malus provisions to reduce the award prior to vesting business in accordance with inthe event of material misstatement of the financial statements or gross misconduct its long-term strategy and goals Sharesave Part of overall package for An HMRC approved scheme where employees may save a regular amount over three or five years executive directors, Options granted at a 20% discount to the prevailing share price at the date of grant encouraging share ownership pension Part of overall package for Contribution paid into a personal pension plan or taken as a cash equivalent, reduced for employers executive directors providing national insurance liability comprehensive remuneration and retirement benefits Other Part of overall package for Each executive director receives: benefits executives providing car allowance comprehensive remuneration private medical insurance life insurance permanent health insurance In addition to the above elements of remuneration, the Committee may consider it appropriate to grant an award under a different structure in order to facilitate the recruitment or retention of an individual, exercising the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R. Such discretion would only be used in unforeseeable and exceptional circumstances.
Any commitment made prior to, but due to be fulfilled after, the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this report will be honoured, and is the same as that which is contained in the policy table.
NON-EXEcUtIVE DIREctORS aND cHaIRMaN ELEMENt LINk WItH StRatEgy OpERatION Fees To provide marketFees are reviewed every two years.
Sector and other relevant market data eg constituent companies competitive director fees in the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index may be requested from remuneration advisors where required An additional fee is payable to reflect the additional time commitment required to chair Board committees or act as Senior Independent Director The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the Committee and fees to non-executive directors are set by the Board No director takes part in discussions regarding their own remuneration DIFFERENcE bEtWEEN pOLIcy FOR DIREctORS aND EMpLOyEES Pay and conditions throughout the Group are taken into consideration when setting remuneration policy.
It is the Groups approach that all executive directors and 19 other employees are offered the same remuneration package elements, though not all employees are eligible for all benefits provided to executive directors.
Individual salary levels, percentage levels of awards in the annual bonus and LTIP vary according to the employees level of responsibility and their contribution to the business.
As the same remuneration policy applies to executive directors and all employees, the Committee did not consult employees when drawing up the Groups policy.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE Remuneration policy report continued 65 cHaNgE FROM MaXIMUM pERFORMaNcE MEaSURES aND pREVIOUS pOtENtIaL VaLUE pERFORMaNcE pERIODS yEaR?
Maximum value 150% of salary at date of grant in normal Two equally weighted measures apply to athree-year No circumstances performance period: Maximum value 200% of salary in exceptional circumstances such - TSR versus FTSE 350 Real Estate Index asexecutive recruitment this has not been used to date - NAV growth in excess of RPI Threshold vesting is 10% of maximum award for TSR and 15% of The detailed metrics are set out in the maximumaward for NAV AnnualRemuneration Report Up to 250 savings per month None No 25% of salary None No No executive director received total benefits exceeding 15% of salary None No during the most recent financial year and it is not anticipated that the cost of benefits provided will exceed this level over the next three years The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially eg increases in insurance premiums Notes to the table: Performance measures 1.
The perf ormance measures set by the Committee for the annual bonus scheme reflect Group KPIs and short-term measures which help the Group achieve its strategic goals of long-term growth in rental income and net asset value.
The Committee makes reasonable changes to the measures each year in order to ensure continued alignment with strategy 2.
L TIP performance measures have been selected to align the interests of directors with those of shareholders.
Performance targets are set by the Committee to be appropriately stretching and achievable taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates cHaNgE FROM pERFORMaNcE MEaSURES aND pREVIOUS OppORtUNIty pERFORMaNcE pERIODS yEaR?
As with the policy for the executive directors, the Company does not Not applicable No specify a maximum level of increase Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE 66 Remuneration policy report continued REcRUItMENt pOLIcy Executive directors A new directors remuneration is proposed by the Committee and approved by the Board in line with this policy.
The Group offers salary, benefits, annual bonus and nil cost options in the LTIP on the same basis as existing directors receive, whilst recognising that existing directors have experience and knowledge that a new appointees does not.
As stated on page 64, the Committee has the discretion to implement a one-off arrangement in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R. If the Group considered it appropriate to buy out any pre-existing variable pay arrangements ofan incoming director, it would only be with replacement awards structured on a comparable basis eg in terms of vesting period, performance conditions etc.
In doing so, the Committee would consider relevant factors when structuring such awards, including the likelihood of those pre-existing conditions being met.
External appointment ELEMENT APPRoACH MAxiMUM ANNUAL GRANT VALUE Salary The salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current salary.
Where new appointees have initial salaries set below market, any shortfall will be managed with phased increases within three years subject to the individuals development in the role In line with the policy for other executive directors.
For executive 125% of salary Annual bonus directors joining part way through a year, awards would be pro-rated LTiP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on the same 200% of salary terms as other executives as described in the policy table Sharesave In line with the policy for other executive directors Pension other benefits excludes compensation for variable remuneration lost on leaving a former employer Internal appointment In the event of appointing a new executive director by way of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for external appointees as detailed above.
Further detail on the policy for other employees is set out on page 64.
Non-executive directors Newly appointed non-executive directors are paid fees at a level consistent with existing non-executive directors.
Fees would be paid pro-rata.
LOSS OF OFFIcE payMENt Provisions for payments on termination contained in executive directors service contracts are set out below: DATE oF DATE oF CURRENT APPoiNTMENT CoNTRACT NoTiCE PERioD TERMiNATioN ARRANGEMENTS B Bickell 1.10.2011 6.6.
2011 One years notice One years salary and benefits payable in event of termination without notice.
Directors duty to mitigate loss S J Quayle 8.10.1997 8.10.1997 One years notice Termination by payment of annual salary T J C Welton 8.10.1997 8.10.1997 One years notice Termination by payment of annual salary C P A Ward 9.1.
2012 1.10.2011 One years notice One years salary and benefits payable in event of termination without notice.
Directors duty to mitigate loss Any new executive director would be appointed on the same loss of office terms as Brian Bickell and Christopher Ward, namely 12 months salary and benefits with a duty to mitigate loss.
The terms of appointment of non-executive directors are documented in letters of appointment.
Non-executive directors have a one month notice period and their appointment would terminate without compensation if not re-elected at an AGM.
All contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE Remuneration policy report continued 67 appROacH tO OtHER REMUNERatION payMENtS ON tERMINatION OF EMpLOyMENt aND cHaNgE OF cONtROL In addition to the contractual provisions regarding payment on termination set out above, the Groups incentive plans and share schemes contain provisions for termination of employment.
CoMPoNENT GooD LEAVER BAD LEAVER CHANGE oF CoNTRoL Annual bonus Only eligible to receive award if Outstanding award forfeited At the discretion of the Committee completed a full year and cannot elect to defer pro-rated award into shares Deferred Annual Share Eligible to continue to hold shares Shares forfeited and original cash The scheme permits early Bonus Scheme until end of deferral period bonus amount before uplift is paid exercise LTiP Eligible to receive pro-rata Outstanding awards are forfeited Awards would be made pro-rata payment from outstanding LTIP for time and performance, and awards for time in employment.
would vest as soon as practicable.
Any vesting is calculated and The Committee has discretion to made at the end of performance disapply pro-rating in exceptional period in the normal way.
The circumstances Committee has discretion to Awards may alternatively be accelerate and or disapply exchanged for new equivalent pro-rating in exceptional awards in the acquirer where circumstances appropriate Sharesave In line with HMRC rules In line with HMRC rules In line with HMRC rules Good leaver provisions relate to termination of employment for reason of death, disability, injury, retirement with the agreement of the Company, participants office or employment being with a company or business which ceases to be a member of the Group or, in other exceptional circumstances, at the discretion of the Committee including redundancy.
Bad leaver provisions apply under all other circumstances.
The use of any discretion described above would be disclosed in the Annual Report for the relevant year.
cONSIDERatION OF SHaREHOLDER VIEWS Shareholders, representing almost 50% of the Companys issued share capital, have been given the opportunity to comment and question the Committee on the policy.
The consultation involved written correspondence, conference calls and meetings.
The Chairman of the Committee made herself available to answer questions on the policy, and shareholder responses were reported to, and considered by, the Committee.
SHaREHOLDINg REQUIREMENtS Each executive director is required to build up and maintain a minimum shareholding in the Company equivalent to one years salary at date of appointment to the Board.
Newly appointed executive directors are expected to accumulate a fixed shareholding to this value over a period of five years from the date of their appointment and may include shares held within the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme.
Shares received under the LTIP and Deferred Annual Share Bonus scheme, net of deductions for income tax and national insurance, are retained until the minimum shareholding level is attained.
There are no shareholding requirements for non-executive directors.
EXtERNaL appOINtMENtS Executive directors are permitted to accept external appointments, with the prior approval of the Board, where there is no adverse impact on their role with the Group.
Any fees arising from such appointments may be retained by the executive director where the appointment is unrelated to the Groups business.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE 68 Remuneration policy report continued pOtENtIaL REMUNERatION FOR DIREctORS The charts below set out the potential remuneration receivable by directors for below threshold, on-target and maximum performance.
Potential reward opportunities are based on the policy and applied to salaries as at 1 December 2013.
Note that the projected values exclude the impact of any share price movement or dividend accrual.
B BICKELL 000 S qUAYLE AND T WELTON 000 C WARD 000 1,893 LTIP Annual bonus 36% 1,342 Fixed 1,224 1,088 36% 36% 16% 30% 773 26% 699 16% 628 30% 16% 31% 26% 448 27% 399 58% 100% 34% 100% 58% 34% 100% 57% 33% Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum The minimum scenario reflects salary, pension and benefits ie fixed remuneration which are the only elements of the executive directors remuneration packages not linked to future performance.
The on-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus bonus payout of 62.5% of salary and LTIP threshold vesting at 25% of maximum award ie 10% of maximum for median TSR performance and 15% of maximum for NAV growth in excess of RPI plus 3% pa.
The maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout of all incentives.
