Remuneration Committee Report Steven Esom - Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, Introduction I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees annual report on Directors remuneration.
The report sets out the Groups remuneration policy and gives details of the remuneration paid to Executive and Non-Executive Directors for their services to the Company during the year.
The UK Government has proposed new legislation to reform the way in which directors remuneration is reported and voted upon.
The new legislative requirements will not come into effect until October 2013 and so, whilst not being mandatory for this report, the Remuneration Committee has incorporated a number of the proposed changes in this report to give greater clarity and transparency.
The report is split into two sections.
Firstly, a policy report which: sets out the different elements which make up the Executive Directors remuneration: explains how each component operates: and details the performance metrics which underpin each element of remuneration.
The second section contains an implementation report which discloses how the policy for Executive remuneration has been applied during the year.
Overview of the last financial year As highlighted in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, Cranswick performed strongly, with adjusted operating profit and earnings per share substantially ahead of last year.
The targets set by the Remuneration Committee, which had been based on the Group Budget for the year, anticipated the challenging trading environment with strong inflationary pressures within the supply chain and a highly competitive retail environment.
It was necessary for the management to step change performance in order to meet these targets with emphasis on growing sales through innovation, high operational efficiency, growing volumes in the critical Christmas period and mitigate the rapid increase in raw material price inflation.
The performance was well above the targets set.
Accordingly bonus payments were made at 150 per cent of salary which is the maximum payable under the scheme.
Also, Adam Couch was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 August 2012 and his salary reflects a first step increase from that date, owing to the additional responsibilities following his promotion from Chief Operating Officer.
A second and final step increase was made on 1 May 2013 to align with market rates.
Further details of Adams salary review are set out on page 41.
Highlights for the current financial year No changes are being proposed to the Groups current policy on Executive remuneration.
In accordance with current policy, the Executive Directors, other than the Chief Executive for the reasons set out above and on page 41, were awarded an increase of 3.3 per cent in line with the annualised increase in the Retail Prices Index RPI for the twelve months ending 31 March 2013.
This award is consistent with the benchmark for the review of other senior executives.
The level of pay award across the Group takes into account local practices and regional variations in pay and conditions.
Summary Executive remuneration policy will continue to be monitored to ensure it is correctly aligned with the Groups business strategy.
The Remuneration Committee considers the policy, set out in this report, to be an appropriate one which aims to properly reward performance in line with the Companys business objectives and growth and delivery of shareholder value.
Steven Esom Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 May 2013 36 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 37 Information not subject to audit The Remuneration Committee Advisers to the Committee Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee is responsible The Committee keeps itself fully informed The Groups policy is that the overall to the Board and comprises the three on the developments within the industry remuneration package offered should be Non-Executive Directors chaired by Steven and in the field of remuneration and sufficiently competitive to attract, retain Esom.
The Executive Chairman attends seeks advice from external advisors where and motivate high quality executives and the meetings in an advisory capacity as appropriate.
The Committee reviews and to align the rewards of the Executives with and when requested and the Company benchmarks its remuneration policy through the progress of the Group whilst giving Secretary attends the meetings as secretary external consultants every two to three consideration to salary levels in similar sized to the Committee.
No individual is years: the last such review being carried quoted companies in the sector and in the involved in decisions relating to their own out by AON Hewitt in 2011.
has been retained by the Remuneration Committee for advice throughout the year.
The remuneration package is in two parts: AON Hewitt provides no other services to Role of the Committee the Company though it is now part of the a non-performance part represented AON Corporation group of companies which by basic salary including pension and The role of the Committee is to: also provide insurance broking services to benefits : and the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that a significant performance related review the on-going relevance the provision of such services does not element in the form of a profit related and effectiveness of the Group create any conflicts of interest.
In addition bonus and share-based awards.
remuneration policy:  continue to give determine the remuneration of the advice to the Remuneration Committee The details of individual components of the Companys Executive Directors: on share option awards and other benefit remuneration package and service contracts monitor the remuneration of the schemes.
 has are set out below: Groups senior executives: provided no other services to the Group approve the design of the Executive during the year.
The Committee believes the Directors and the Groups senior advice given during the year from both AON executives annual bonus arrangement: Hewitt and  has and been independent, relevant and objective.
approve the level and appropriateness of the long term incentive plan LTIP for the Executive Directors and senior executives.
Element Purpose and link to Operation Performance Metrics Changes To Policy of Pay strategy Base To provide a market Set competitively to reflect the Any increase is based on There are no planned salary competitive base individuals skills, experience and individual performance, changes to the current salary to attract and responsibilities change in role and the approach in 2013 retain executives Company pay award Periodic reviews of market rates Base salaries are reviewed annually and take into account inflation and performance and any changes take effect from 1 May.
Every three years a review is carried out, with external advisors, to benchmark the salaries and to ensure they remain competitive Pension To provide a Executive Directors are entitled to N A There are no planned framework to save non-contributory membership of changes to the current for retirement the Groups defined contribution approach in 2013 pension scheme with the employers contribution set at 20 per cent of each Executive Directors base salary Alternatively, at their option, Executive Directors may have contributions of the same amount paid to them in cash, in lieu of pension, subject to the normal statutory deductions In some cases there are payments of pension contributions in lieu of salary 38 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Element Purpose and link to Operation Performance Metrics Changes To Policy of Pay strategy Annual To incentivise The bonus scheme in operation is The performance is based There are no planned Bonus executive directors based on the achievement of Group solely on the Groups profit changes to the current and senior profit targets which are set having before tax, with a sliding approach in 2013 executives linked to regard to the Companys budget, scale of targets set around the performance of historical performance and market budget performance the business, on an outlook for the year annual basis, based on key financial A small part of the bonus relates to metrics the achievement of a target profit performance for the first half of the year, where a fixed sum is paid, with the remaining element based on an annual profits target The bonus targets are reviewed every year and changes take effect from 1 April The total bonus is capped at 150 per cent of basic salary and is nonpensionable There is a claw back arrangement in place should the need arise, for example, if the profit on which any bonus is paid is subsequently found to be overstated Benefits To provide market Market competitive benefits include N A There are no planned competitive private medical insurance, life changes to the current benefits as part of assurance, personal tax advice, and approach in 2013 the remuneration pension advice package.
Benefits are not pensionable Share A Save As You Earn SAYE options are made available N A There are no planned based SAYE share scheme to eligible staff, including Executive changes to the current awards is available to all Directors, with the full 20 per cent approach in 2013 eligible employees discount being given to the relevant share price at the time.
Employees can save up to 250 per month in this scheme Long term incentive The LTIP awards are granted by The LTIP maturing in 2013 There are no planned LTIP awards are the Remuneration Committee and will not have achieved the changes to the current available to ensure only vest after three years on the EPS target but has achieved approach in 2013 that executives and achievement of demanding targets 86 per cent of the TSR senior management aligned to Total Shareholder Return measure giving a share are involved in the TSR and earnings per share EPS award of 43 per cent which longer term success will be available to vest in of the Group June 50 per cent are aligned to a total Under the terms of the scheme an award Long Term Incentive Plan shareholder return TSR target to an individual cannot exceed 100 per cent measured against a comparable group of that individuals annual salary except in The Remuneration Committee awards of food companies over a three year exceptional circumstances when up to 200 options under the LTIP scheme in order period.
The TSR target allowed 30 per per cent of the annual salary is permitted.
to ensure that Executives and senior cent of the shares subject to the target The Remuneration Committee, which management are involved in the longer to be issued at nil cost at the 50th decides whether performance conditions term success of the Group.
Options can only percentile and 100 per cent at the 75th have been met, considers EPS and TSR to be be exercised if certain performance criteria percentile with performance between the most appropriate measures of the long are achieved by the Group.
the 50th and 75th percentiles rewarded term performance of the Group.
50 per cent of the options granted are subject to an earnings per share The comparison companies used besides EPS target measured against average Cranswick are: annual increases in the retail price index RPI over a three year period.
Associated British Foods plc, A G Barr plc, The EPS target allows 25 per cent of Britvic plc, Carrs Milling Industries plc, Dairy the shares subject to the target to be Crest Group plc, Devro plc, Greencore Group issued at nil cost at an average annual plc, Hilton Food Group plc, Kerry Group outperformance above RPI of 3 per plc, McBride plc, Premier Foods plc, Robert cent and 100 per cent of the shares at Wiseman Dairies plc to the 2011 offer as an average annual outperformance of 7 no-longer quoted and Tate and Lyle plc.
per cent with outperformance between 3 and 7 per cent rewarded pro rata.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 39 Service contracts Non-Executive Directors Pay and conditions across the Group The Remuneration Committees current Each Non-Executive Director has an policy is not to enter into employment appointment letter - Patrick Farnsworth for The following are the key aspects of how contracts with any element of notice 19 months from 1 January 2012, John Worby pay and employment conditions across the period in excess of one year.
Accordingly, for 31 months from 1 January 2012 and Group are taken into account when setting the following Executive Directors have a Steven Esom for 3 years from 12 November the remuneration of employees including one year rolling contract: Adam Couch 2011.
The continuing appointments the Executive Directors: commencing 1 May 2006 revised 1 August are subject to annual re-election at the 2012, Mark Bottomley from 1 June 2009 Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Group operates within the UK food and Jim Brisby from 26 July 2010.
For early sector and has many employees who termination the Remuneration Committee The remuneration of the Non-Executive carry out demanding tasks within the will consider the circumstances including Directors is determined by the Executive business.
any duty to mitigate loss, and determine Directors and reflects: All employees, including Directors, are compensation payments accordingly.
paid by reference to the market rate.
the time, commitment and Performance is measured and The service contracts for Martin Davey responsibility of their roles: rewarded through a number of and Bernard Hoggarth include one year that their fees are reviewed annually performance related bonus schemes notice periods from 1 May 2006 except with consideration being given to across the Group including LTIP share in the case of a takeover of the Company market rates and the need to attract options for Executive Directors and when the notice period is 2 years for the and retain individuals with the senior executives.
first six months following the takeover.
necessary skills and experience: and Performance measures are cascaded These conditions were incorporated into that they do not participate in the down through the organisation to new contracts several years ago when the Groups incentive bonus arrangement, individual businesses.
Directors changed from contracts which pension scheme, or share based The Group offers employment had notice periods of up to three years.
conditions that are commensurate The contracts also have special provisions with a medium sized quoted company, relating to liquidated damages requiring including high standards of health and that the notice period stipulated in the safety and equal opportunities.
contract will be paid in full.
Whilst these The Group operates Save As You Earn contractual terms differ from the current share schemes which are open to all policy, the Remuneration Committee has eligible employees including Executive concluded that it would not be appropriate, Directors.
It is worth noting that in the circumstances, to seek to further around 20 per cent of the work force amend the contractual terms agreed with holds shares in the Company.
There are no termination or exit payments in any of the service contracts.
Any sums payable up to the point of leaving will be considered by the Remuneration Committee and will take into account earnings, any bonus earned, any share awards due and any pay in lieu of notice.
Performance graph Total Shareholder Return The graph below shows the percentage change from a base of 100 in May 2003 in the total shareholder return with dividends reinvested for each of the last ten years on a holding of the Companys shares against the corresponding change in a hypothetical holding in the shares of the FTSE 350 Food Producers and Processors Price Index FTSE FPP and the FTSE All Share Index FTSE All Share.
The FTSE FPP and the FTSE All Share were chosen as representative benchmarks of the sector and the market as a whole for the business.
300 275 Cranswick FTSE 350 Food Producers 250 FTSE All Share 225 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 40 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Source: Investec Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Information subject to audit Directors remuneration The remuneration of Directors for the year was as detailed below.
The sub-totals shown for 2013 and 2012 represent the requirements of current legislation.
The totals for both years reflect the single figure basis proposed by new BIS requirements.
members of the money purchase pension promotion from Chief Operating Officer The value of the LTIP for the year to 31 scheme during the year was 5 2012: 5. to Chief Executive.
A second and final step March 2013 relates to awards, made in increase was awarded on 1 May 2013 2010, with a performance criteria based and his salary is now considered by the on the three years ending 31 March 2013 Remuneration Committee to be in line with that will vest in June 2013, calculated at the market rates.
closing share price at 31 March 2013 which is deemed to be the best indicator of the Bernard Hoggarth stood down as Chief vesting value.
The value of the prior year Executive in August 2012 but remains on the LTIP awards have been shown based on the Board on a part-time basis as Commercial closing share price as at 31 March 2012.
His salary has therefore been adjusted accordingly.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 41 Total pay of the Chief Executive compared to total shareholder return The graph below presents a comparison of the total pay of the Chief Executive over the last five years against the total shareholder return of the Company: 250 2000 200 1500 150 1000 100 500 50 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Base salary Pension and pay in lieu of pension and benets Total shareholder return Bonus LTIP Share options The interests of the Executive Directors in the LTIP and SAYE schemes were as follows: Long term incentive plan Year of At 1 April Granted Exercised in Lapsed in At 31 March Exercise Market award 2012 in the the year the year 2013 Price price at year grant No.
The range of exercise dates are 1 June 2012 to 1 June 2022.
The LTIP, issued in 2010, that vests in June 2013, will not achieve the EPS target but will achieve 86 per cent of the TSR measure giving a share award of 43 per cent.
Of the original award, as shown above, 57 per cent will therefore lapse.
This is reflected in the remuneration table on page 41.
The options granted in the year are exercisable between 1 June 2015 and 1 June 2022.
The share price at the time of issue was 801p.
42 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 TSR - Value of a 100 unit investment made on 1 April 2008 Chief Executive total pay 000 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance The following Directors exercised LTIP share options during the year: Number Date exercised Exercise Market Notional price Price gain p p 000 Martin Davey 30,225 20 June 2012 nil 796 241 Bernard Hoggarth 30,225 3 August 2012 nil 846 256 Savings related share option scheme At 1 April Granted Exercised Lapsed At 31 March Weighted Range of 2012 in the year in the year in the 2013 average exercise dates year exercise price No.
The following Executive Directors exercised savings related share options during the year: Number Date exercised Exercise Market Notional price Price gain p p 000 Adam Couch 1,277 1 March 2013 471 1,000 7 Market price of shares The market price of the Companys shares at 31 March 2013 was 986 pence per share.
The highest and lowest market prices during the year for each share option that was unexpired at the end of the year are as follows: Highest Lowest pence pence Options in issue throughout the year 1,023.0 732.5 Options issued during the year: - SAYE 1,023.0 849.0 - LTIP 1,023.0 732.5 Directors Beneficial Interests Unaudited At 31 March 2013 Ordinary Shares Mark Bottomley 3,625 Jim Brisby 37,280 Adam Couch 72,371 Martin Davey 200,426 Steven Esom 1,441 Patrick Farnsworth 1,287 Bernard Hoggarth 114,413 John Worby 1,641 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 43 The Remuneration Committee has agreed that Executive Directors should build up a shareholding equivalent to one years net salary over a 3 to 5 year period, following the adoption of this policy in 2012.
The NonExecutive Directors also agreed to build up a holding on the same basis.
All the above interests are beneficial.
There have been no further changes to the above interests in the period from 1 April 2013 to 20 May 2013.
On Behalf of the board Steven Esom Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 May 2013 44 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance T A S T E O U R T R AV E L S Lively Cuquillo and Volos olives shaken up with garlic and a sprinkle of paprika Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 45
