STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Annual Report on Remuneration Unaudited Information This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 of The Key Committee activities during 2013 Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for the Amendment Regulations 2013 and 9.8.
The Annual Executive Directors: Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the Overseeing the Executive led root and branch review of remuneration 2014 AGM.
The information on pages 65 to 71 has been audited.
and incentivisation throughout the Group: The Role of the Remuneration Committee Undertaking a review of Executive remuneration: The Committee reviews and approves the annual salaries, incentive Setting 2014 Executive Director salary levels: arrangements including setting the performance targets and payments Determining annual bonus awards in respect of 2012 performance: vesting events, service agreements and other employment conditions of the Executive Directors and certain members of the Senior Executive Finalising the annual bonus plan terms for 2013: Management team designated by the Board.
The Committee has Testing of performance targets for the Companys 2010 long-term delegated responsibility for setting the remuneration of the Chairman.
The incentive awards: full terms of reference of the Committee are published on the Companys Determining 2013 long-term incentive award levels, the associated website www.
performance targets and granting the awards: Membership and operation Considering the corporate governance environment and the newly The Committee comprises all Non-Executive Directors including the enforced regulatory changes to voting and reporting on Executive Chairman and is chaired by Stanley Musesengwa.
Directors remuneration: and Noting remuneration trends across the Group.
Members and attendance eligibility at meetings held Statement of shareholder voting during the year ended 31 December 2013.
At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report received the Meetings during the year 4 following votes from shareholders: Alan Ferguson 4 4 Votes cast in favour 82,994,568 97.76% Martin Flower 4 4 Votes cast against 1,894,930 2.23% Stanley Musesengwa Chairman 4 4 Discretion to third party 5,840 0.01% Nigel Turner 4 4 Steve Williams 4 4 Total votes cast 84,895,338 100.00% Abstentions 785,408 The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings to provide advice so as to ensure that decisions are informed and take account of pay and conditions in the wider Group.
During 2013 these individuals included other During the year, the Committee engaged with the Companys major directors and employees of the Group, including Steve Foots Group Chief shareholders in relation to the proposed changes to Executive Executive, Samantha Brook VP Human Resources, Graham Myers Group remuneration.
Financial Controller and Tom Brophy Group General Counsel and The feedback received was very supportive of the simplification of our Company Secretary.
However, as a result of feedback from a number of External advisers to the Remuneration Committee investors, the Committee have: New Bridge Street part of Aon plc was retained as the appointed adviser to Introduced a general financial underpin to the PSP to enable them to the Committee during 2013 to provide independent advice on remuneration reduce the EPS and or TSR vesting result in the event that they do not policy and practice.
New Bridge Street has no connection with the Company consider these to be reflective of the underlying financial performance of other than in the provision of advice in relation to Executive remuneration the Group over the performance period: and and Non-Executive fees.
Another subsidiary of Aon plc, the ultimate parent Reduced the percentage of awards that will vest for threshold company of NBS, provides insurance broking services to the Group.
The performance from 30% to 25% with full vesting taking place for equalling, Committee is comfortable that no conflicts arise out of these relationships.
or exceeding, the maximum performance targets no awards vest for The total fees paid to New Bridge Street in respect of its services during the performance below threshold.
New Bridge Street is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct.
The Committee have resolved to keep the incentive plan performance conditions under review and enter into appropriate dialogue should it be The Committee regularly reviews the external adviser relationship and is considered appropriate to refine them as the Groups future strategy comfortable that the advice it is receiving remains objective and evolves during the three-year policy period.
Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 61 Remuneration Report Implementation of Remuneration Policy for year ending 31 December 2014 after 5 April 2006, and if he retires before age 60 a reduction will also be applied to the element of his pension accrued before 6 April 2006, unless Basic Salary in either instance he is retiring at the Companys request.
In the event of The Executive Directors base salaries were reviewed during the final death, a pension equal to two-thirds of the Directors pension would quarter of the financial year ending 31 December 2013.
The Committee become payable to the surviving spouse.
Steve Foots pension in payment took account of progression in the role as well as a consideration of each is guaranteed to increase in line with the rate of inflation up to a maximum individuals developing responsibilities, performance, skills and experience.
of 10% per annum for benefits accrued prior to 6 April 2006, and in line The Committee also considered the wider pay levels and salary increases with inflation up to a maximum of 2.5% per annum for benefits accrued being proposed across the Group as a whole.
Sean Christies Pension Provision Executive Salary as at 1 Salary as at 1 Sean Christie accrues pension benefits under the CPS with an accrual rate Director January 2014 January 2013 Increase of 1 60th and an entitlement to retire at age 65.
From 6 April 2011 onwards, pension benefits accruing are based on a capped salary of 187,500 the Steve Foots 600,000 550,000 9.1% cap will reduce to 150,000 from April 2014.
If Sean Christie retires before age 65 a reduced pension is payable unless retiring at the Companys Sean Christie 369,732 360,714 2.5% request.
In the event of death, a pension equal to 50% of the Directors pension would become payable to the surviving spouse.
Sean Christies Keith Layden 295,610 288,400 2.5% pension in payment is guaranteed to increase in line with the rate of inflation up to a maximum of 2.5% per annum.
The increase in salary for Steve Foots, consistent with the Companys policy, represents part of the phasing of the individuals salary towards an Sean Christie and Steve Foots are both also entitled to death in service appropriate market rate following his promotion to Group Chief Executive benefits from the CPS.
On appointment, his salary was set at around the The above Executive Directors each also receive a cash allowance above a lower quartile of appropriate market benchmarks.
The increase in 2014 is pension benefit cap of 187,500.
This payment relates to a change in the second step in the process of achieving a market competitive level of benefit structure that was made with effect from 6 April 2011 and each base salary with the Committees intention being to review salary each individuals cash supplement above the cap was set to be cost neutral to year, based on performance in post, with a view to achieving an the Company given defined benefit pension benefits are no longer appropriate salary positioning.
provided above the 187,500 cap as was the case prior to 6 April 2011.
The increases awarded to Sean Christie and Keith Layden were consistent From April 2014 the cap will reduce to 150,000. with the typical range of salary increases awarded across the Group and Keith Laydens Pension Provision reflect the individuals continued performance.
Keith Layden withdrew from active membership with effect from 6 April Pension 2011 and has a deferred pension with the entitlement to retire from age 60.
Croda has a number of different pension plans in the countries in which it However, if he retires before age 61 the pension accrued prior to 6 April operates.
Pension entitlements for Crodas executives are tailored to local 2006 would be unreduced from age 60 and the pension accrued between market practice, the length of service and age of the participants.
The 6 April 2006 and 5 April 2011 would have a reduction applied.
The principal pension plan in the UK is a defined benefit scheme which elements of his deferred pension increase each year between the date of provides a pension based on a proportion of final salary with a salary cap his withdrawal and the date he draws his pension by various percentages.
A salary supplement in lieu of pension Once in payment, the pension will increase in line with Retail Price Inflation provision above the salary cap now applies.
RPI to a maximum of 10% per annum for pension accrued prior to April 2006 and a maximum of 2.5% for pension accrued thereafter.
He is able to The Company is flexible in the manner in which pension provision is made draw this deferred pension with Company consent while continuing in for Executive Directors with the aim of balancing the needs of the Director employment.
against the liability of the Company.
Hence, it makes contributions by direct contribution to the Croda defined benefit pension scheme CPS and or by Keith Layden is paid a pension supplement currently 20% of base salary way of a cash supplement in lieu of pension benefits to enable the funding to enable him to make independent provision for his retirement and has an of personal pension arrangements.
agreement with the Company to provide him death in service benefits outside of the CPS.
Steve Foots Pension Provision Steve Foots accrues pension benefits under the CPS with an accrual rate of Other benefits 1 60th and an entitlement to retire at age 60.
From 6 April 2011 onwards, Other customary benefits such as company cars or car allowances, fuel pension benefits accruing are based on a capped salary of 187,500 the allowance and health benefits are made available to Executive Directors.
cap will reduce to 150,000 from April 2014.
If Steve Foots retires before Benefits in kind and bonuses are not pensionable.
The Committee reviews age 61, a reduction will be applied to the element of his pension accrued the individual components and the balance of these components from time to time.
62 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Performance-related annual bonus Furthermore, the 2014 annual bonus is also subject to clawback provisions In 2014, the Executive Directors will be eligible to receive a performancewhich will enable the Committee to recover the value overpaid to an related bonus of up to 125% of salary Group Chief Executive and 100% of Executive Director in respect of 2014 performance in the event of a salary other Executive Directors.
misstatement of the Groups financial results, an error being made in assessing the extent to which performance targets were ultimately achieved The bonus scheme for Executive Directors and senior executives or in the event of serious misconduct.
The clawback provisions will operate incentivises and rewards for the delivery of income growth.
Income for a three-year period following the date on which the bonus is paid.
growth is the growth in underlying profitability defined for bonus purposes as Group EBITDA for continuing operations before exceptional Performance Share Plan PSP items and any charges or credits under IFRS 2 Share based payments Contingent upon shareholder approval of the new scheme at the 2014 less a notional interest charge on working capital employed during the AGM, the new PSP will replace the Companys existing Executive long-term year.
Income is measured after providing for the cost of any bonuses.
incentive plans i. e. the LTIP and BCIP.
2014 Performance Targets 2014 PSP Award Levels For the 2014 financial year, the bonus structure will continue to operate The maximum normal award limit under the PSP is 200% of salary.
The on a similar basis to that operated in prior years.
The targets operate as a quantum of awards for 2014 has been set after taking due account of i the sliding scale with no bonus becoming payable until the previous years need to motivate and retain the Executive Directors and other participants income has been exceeded, through to a maximum bonus becoming and ii the challenging nature of the performance targets set.
payable for delivery of the maximum target.
The targets for 2014 are It is intended that awards will be granted at the following levels during 2014 shown below: as nil-cost options : Level of % of Bonus Executive Director 2014 PSP Award Multiple of Salary Award Income Payable Steve Foots 200% Threshold At least equivalent to 2013 actual 0% Sean Christie 150% Maximum 2013 actual plus CPI plus 10% 100% Keith Layden 150% Once the level of bonus has been determined against the targets set at the start of the year, the Committee will have the flexibility to take health, 2014 Performance Targets safety and environmental performance into consideration when In common with awards made in prior years under the previous LTIP, determining the actual overall level of individual bonus payments and awards under the PSP will be subject to a performance condition which is may reduce the bonus awards if it considers it appropriate to do so e. g. split into two equal separate parts, each with a separate performance if health, safety and environmental performance is not considered condition.
Half will vest dependent on relative TSR measured against the satisfactory during the period over which the bonus was earned.
constituents of the FTSE 350 Index excluding investment trusts and half will vest dependent on challenging EPS growth targets.
The Committee considers the range of income targets set for 2014 to be equally as challenging as the range of targets set for the 2013 annual The targets, each tested over three years, are as follows: bonus.
With regards to the half of the award subject to relative TSR, Crodas TSR As detailed earlier, one of the key conclusions of the 2013 review of performance is compared against that of the constituents of the FTSE 350 Executive remuneration was that the existing approach to deferring Index.
The FTSE 350 Index was chosen as a comparator group as the bonus earned into the Companys shares the excess over 50% of salary Company is a current member and it represents a broad-based index of should be reworked.
From 2014, one-third of any bonus earned will be companies of a similar size and with similar historic volatility of TSR returns the subject of a mandatory deferral into the Companys shares for a to the Company.
This approach is considered to provide a clearer link between the achievement of short-term objectives and long-term alignment with shareholders.
The Committee remains comfortable that the structure of the annual bonus does not encourage the pursuit of strategies that may involve inappropriate risk-taking and that the mandatory deferral of one-third of bonus into shares provides clear alignment with shareholders and fosters a longer-term link between annual performance and reward.
Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 63 Remuneration Report The EPS performance targets, which will operate on a graduated scale, are Sourcing of shares and dilution more stretching than those operated for awards granted in recent years.
Awards under all the Group share schemes may be satisfied using either Furthermore, in relation to both the EPS and TSR targets, a lower proportion newly issued shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the market of the total award will vest for threshold performance 25% as opposed to and held in the Companys employee benefit trusts.
30%, than has been the case historically.
Vesting of each half of the award Awards under the Groups discretionary schemes which may be satisfied is as follows: by new issue shares must not exceed 5% of the Companys issued share capital in a ten year period, and the total of all awards satisfied via new issue shares under all plans must not exceed 10% of the Companys issued TSR Part Vesting % share capital in a ten-year period.
Rank of the Companys TSR Against FTSE 350 As at 31 December 2013, the headroom under the Companys 5% and 10% limits was 1.52% and 2.50% respectively, out of an issued share capital of Below median 0% 139,949,969 shares.
25% Median Service contracts Steve Foots, Sean Christie and Keith Layden have service contracts dated 16 Upper quartile 100% September 2010, 15 December 2006 and 6 February 2012 respectively which are terminable by the Company on one years notice and by the EPS Part Director on six months notice.
Average adjusted EPS growth over the three year period The terms of the Executive Directors contracts are consistent with the policy set out on pages 59 and 60.
0% Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors remuneration The fees paid to the Chairman, to the Non-Executive Directors for 7% p. a.
25% chairmanship of committees and to the Senior Independent Director were reviewed in January 2014, with changes taking effect from 1 February 2014.
50% The fee structure for the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors for 2014 is shown in the Policy Report on page 60.
100% For the Chairman and each Non-Executive Director who served during Straight-line vesting occurs between these points 2013, the effective dates of their letters of appointment are shown in the table below: In addition to the above, a general financial underpin has been introduced that will enable the Committee to reduce the EPS and or TSR vesting result in the event that the Committee does not consider this to be reflective of the Non-Executive Original Expiry date of underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
Director appointment date current term For PSP awards granted in 2014, as a minimum, the after tax number of Martin Flower 16 May 2005 28 September 2015 vested shares must be retained for a one-year holding period.
For awards granted in 2015 and beyond, a two-year holding period will apply to the Alan Ferguson 1 July 2011 30 June 2014 after tax number of vested shares.
Stanley Musesengwa 7 May 2007 6 May 2014 PSP awards granted in 2014 to Executive Directors will also be subject to clawback provisions which will enable the Committee to claw back the Nigel Turner 1 June 2009 31 May 2015 value overpaid to an Executive Director in respect of performance during the three years ending 31 December 2016 in the event of a material Steve Williams 1 July 2010 30 June 2016 misstatement of the Groups financial results or misconduct.
The clawback provisions will operate for a three-year period following the date on which The Chairmans term of office was due to expire in September 2013 after the awards vest.
eight years, but the Board agreed that the Chairmans period of office All-Employee Share Plans should be extended for a further two years to September 2015 at which In line with the wider UK employee population, Executive Directors are time he will retire from the Board.
The discussions were led by the Senior invited, on the same terms, to participate in the HMRC tax approved UK Independent Director who consulted with the other members of the Board.
Sharesave Scheme and the Croda Share Incentive Plan SIP.
