Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy for 2013 The Committee considers that our current remuneration policy of paying competitively against comparable international businesses, with an incentive structure weighted towards long-term performance, continues to serve the business well.
However, executive remuneration has been the subject of a comprehensive review in 2013 as part of a Group-wide review of remuneration.
The Committee considered the conclusions of the wide reaching internal review at the same time as developments in investors best practice expectations and the fact that our current long-term incentive plans are due to expire in 2015.
The key conclusions of the review included that while our model remained broadly fit for purpose with a substantial proportion of the total package weighted towards long-term performance, a number of modifications should be made to bring the package into line with current investors best practice expectations.
These included i toughening our approach to Stanley Musesengwa deferral of annual bonus ii simplifying our long-term incentive structures so that only a single plan will operate in future iii introducing a minimum Dear Fellow Shareholder, holding period for future vested long-term incentive awards and I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees Report providing iv increasing our executive share ownership requirements.
details of the remuneration of the Directors for the financial year 2013 and Clawback provisions remain part of our on-going future policy since this of our future remuneration policy.
aspect of current policy is already fully aligned with investors best practice This is the first time we are reporting to you following the introduction of the expectations and provides alignment between executives and new regulations governing the reporting and approval of directors shareholders.
The format this year will include a Policy Report, setting out In relation to our revised policy, the Committee is comfortable that the our future remuneration policy which will be subject to a binding arrangements motivate the right types of behaviour across the executive shareholder resolution at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM, population and do not inadvertently encourage undue risk taking.
and an Annual Report on Remuneration, setting out how we went about implementing our policy over the year to 31 December 2013 and how we Shareholders views intend to implement our policy in the future which will be subject to an The Committee continues to take an active interest in shareholders views advisory shareholder resolution at the forthcoming AGM.
and developments in best practice guidance.
For example, a number of the changes to be made to our current policy reflect recent developments Performance and reward for 2013 in best practice, such as the adoption of a minimum holding period for As described in the Strategic Report, 2013 was another year of robust profit vested shares and the simplification of the Companys long-term incentive growth, despite continuing demanding economic conditions.
The results demonstrate the ability of our business to continue to deliver In relation to our 2013 remuneration structure, no major issues were raised profit growth in difficult market conditions and, in particular, the strength of by the vast majority of shareholders at last years AGM and the structure the Groups strategy, focusing on innovation and bringing high margin received circa 98% support from the Companys voting shareholders.
products to market, and the effective leadership of our dynamic management team.
The Committee will continue to take the views of shareholders into account when setting remuneration policy in future years.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee consider the remuneration paid to our management team to fairly reflect their performance during the On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank shareholders for their year.
The annual bonus did not pay out for 2013 performance and the 2011 continued support.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Bonus Co-Investment Plan BCIP The Committee looks forward to your support of our revised remuneration awards performance targets were met in full in so far as they related to policy at the forthcoming AGM.
Earnings Per Share EPS, reflecting growth of 50.2% over the three year period ended 31 December 2013.
The 50% of the LTIP awards based on total shareholder return were partially met, with the return of 74.9% Stanley Musesengwa resulting in Croda being ranked 78th out of the 204 comparator Chairman of the Remuneration Committee companies over the same three year performance period, to give an additional 31.8% vesting of the total awards.
