Remuneration report Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Committees report on remuneration for 2013.
In accordance with the new regulations on the reporting of directors remuneration, the report is split into two sections: Directors Remuneration Policy This sets out the policy that the Committee proposes to operate for the three year period commencing from our forthcoming annual general meeting being held on 21 May 2014 and is subject to a binding vote from shareholders at that annual general meeting.
Annual report on remuneration This sets out the remuneration outcomes for 2013 and is subject to an advisory vote from shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Company performance in 2013 2013 was a good year for CSR, where we concentrated on our platform strategy and consolidated our position as a Company, both of which are reflected in our financial results summarized in the Chairmans statement on pages 6 and 7.
As the Chairman mentions, over the course of 2013, the Board sustained the return of capital to shareholders through a combination of the buy back of shares and a progressive dividend policy.
Further information on returns to shareholders, including details of the proposed final dividend for 2013, can be found on page 6.
Remuneration principles The Committees remuneration philosophy provides for a substantial proportion of remuneration earned by the executive directors to be performance related.
The Committee is committed to ensuring that performance measures for CSRs incentive arrangements are suitably challenging and support the Groups strategy for the medium and longer term.
Base salaries are generally set at median level and incentives deliver significant value only when this is justified by performance.
We believe that this ensures that there is an appropriate link between value created for shareholders and amounts paid to the directors.
Key remuneration outcomes for 2013 Annual bonuses for 2013 were based on the achievement of revenue, operating profit and individual objectives linked to the successful implementation of the Companys strategy.
Bonuses of 81% of the maximum will be awarded to the executive directors for 2013 reflecting the positive year for the Company.
Bonus payments are made under the Companys Executive Incentive Plan, with half of the payment made in 2014 and half of the payment deferred in shares of which half is subject to the risk of forfeiture during each of the financial years 2014 and 2015.
Shares granted under the Executive Incentive Plan in March 2012 are due to vest in March 2014.
The grant of these awards was based on the Companys performance in the 2011 financial year and the awards were subject to a risk of forfeiture in 2012 and 2013, unless revenue for each of these financial years reached a pre-determined threshold level.
The revenue generated in 2012 and 2013 exceeded the threshold which means that the shares vest in full subject to continued employment on the vesting date.
The annual report on remuneration on pages 79 to 84 provides further information on the remuneration outcomes for 2013, including the detailed targets applicable to the bonus arrangements for 2013 and the Executive Incentive Plan shares granted in March 2012.
Remuneration in 2014 No material changes are proposed to the directors remuneration for 2014.
The directors will receive a pay increase of 3% from 1 April 2014, in line with the average increase applying to employees in the UK and US below Board level.
The maximum bonus opportunity payable via the Executive Incentive Plan will be set at 250% of salary subject to the achievement of financial measures and personal objectives.
Half of any payment for 2014 will be paid in March 2015 and half will be deferred in shares and subject to the risk of forfeiture during each of the financial years 2015 and 2016.
The directors will receive an award of options under the Long-Term Incentive Plan with a value of 100% of salary.
The options will vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to the achievement of an absolute shareholder return performance target and continued employment on the vesting date.
The Directors Remuneration Policy on pages 69 to 78 sets out in detail the proposed operation of the remuneration policy for 2014.
The remuneration policy In setting the remuneration policy, the Committee has sought to ensure that there is sufficient flexibility for the policy to serve the needs of the business for the next three years.
The Committee recognises that there is a balance between flexibility, which takes the form of providing for the use of discretion in certain areas, and certainty for shareholders through transparent disclosure.
The Committee would seek to use discretion only in exceptional circumstances that could not have been foreseen at the time of setting the remuneration policy and only where the Committee believes that the use of discretion is in the best interests of the Company and it would be disproportionate or impractical to seek or await prior shareholder approval.
Any exercise of discretion would be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year in which the discretion was applied.
The Committee would expect to explain the decision making process that it followed and the factors it took into account.
Where time permitted, and depending on the circumstances in which the discretion was being exercised, the Committee might consult with its major shareholders in advance of exercising any discretion.
Shareholder consultation We continue to appreciate engagement from shareholders in relation to directors remuneration and we are committed to ongoing dialogue as part of supporting and informing our policy.
The policies articulated in the following pages reflect arrangements that have been established in recent years and on which shareholders have been consulted, most recently in 2013 in relation to the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
We have shared the remuneration policy with our principal shareholders ahead of wider publication, recognising the significant change resulting from the new regulations.
I hope you find this report helpful and informative.
Chris Stone, Chairman, Remuneration Committee 25 February 2014 68 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
