CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the remuneration report sets out the proposed remuneration policy for directors.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 May 2014, the policy will apply until the end of the third complete financial year starting after the date of this approval, or until replaced by a new or amended policy, if earlier.
The information provided in this part of the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Element of How it supports the Companys Operation Opportunity Performance Operation of policy for 2014 remuneration short and long term strategic metrics objectives Salary Provides a base level of A directors basic salary is set The Committee wishes to ensure None The directors salaries remuneration to support on appointment and reviewed that fixed costs are minimised and were reviewed in recruitment and retention annually or when there is a accordingly it has set the maximum February 2014, with of directors with the change in position or salary at the median level relative to the decision taken to necessary experience and responsibility.
the current comparator group of increase them by 3% expertise to deliver the companies.
When determining an Salaries for employees appropriate level of salary, the The companies in the comparator in the UK and US Committee considers: group are listed below.
The belowBoard level were remuneration practices Committee intends to review subject to a typical within the Group: the list of companies each year increase of 3%.
the general performance of and may add or remove the Group: companies from the group as it The salaries for the salaries within the ranges considers appropriate.
Any directors are: paid by the companies in changes made in future to the Current Previous the comparator group used comparator group will be J A J 473,800 460,000 for remuneration disclosed to shareholders in van benchmarking: and setting out the operation of the Beurden the economic environment.
policy for the subsequent year.
D D W 332,690 323,000 Gardiner Avanti Blinkx plc Communications C A $340,930 $331,000 Group plc Ladas Dycom Industries Emulex effective from 1 April 2014 Inc.
Corporation Fidessa Group Imagination plc Technologies Group plc Laird plc Micro Focus International plc SunEdison Inc. Plantronics, Inc. Pace plc Quantum Corporation Playtech plc Spansion Inc. SDL plc Synnex Corporation Spirent 3D Systems Communications Corporation plc Systemax Inc.
In the normal course of events, increases in the directors salaries will not typically exceed the increase for employees.
Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on occasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until they become established in their role.
In such cases subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the average until the target positioning is achieved.
indb 69 11 03 2014 21:17 Remuneration report continued Element of How it supports the Companys Operation Opportunity Performance Operation of policy for 2014 remuneration short and long term strategic metrics objectives Benefits Provides a benefits The directors receive private The value of benefits provided in None No change package in line with medical insurance, life 2013 was: standard market practice assurance of four times basic Value of relative to its activities and salary, and personal accident Name Benefits global business to enable insurance and subsistence J A J van 3,473 the Company to recruit expenses.
As the Company Beurden and retain directors with operates internationally it may D D W Gardiner 9,136 the experience and be necessary for the expertise to deliver the Committee to provide special C A Ladas 122,313 Groups strategy.
benefits or allowances to take account of this.
These would The benefits provided to Mr be disclosed to shareholders Ladas comprised private medical in the annual report on insurance and reimbursement of remuneration for the year in medical expenses, which the benefits or accommodation and subsistence allowances were paid.
The in relation to the performance of Committee recognises UK duties and UK taxes paid by theneed to maintain suitable CSR on Mr Ladas earnings flexibility in the determination of relating to UK duties in benefits to ensure it is able to accordance with the Companys support the objective of tax equalisation arrangements.
Accordingly, the Committee would expect to be able to adopt benefits such as relocation expenses, tax equalisation and support in meeting specific costs incurred by directors to ensure the Company and the individuals comply with their obligations in the reporting of remuneration for tax purposes.
The maximum will be set at the cost of providing the benefits described.
Pension Provides a standard UK Employer retirement funding Employer pension contributions None The maximum employer market level of retirement is determined as a in 2013 were: retirement funding will funding to enable the percentage of gross be 14% of salary.
% of Company to recruit and basicsalary, up to a Salary Name retain directors with the maximum limit of 20%.
J A J van Beurden 11.4 experience and expertise Where this exceeds the to deliver the Groups maximum annual pension D D W Gardiner 14 strategy.
contribution that can benefit C A Ladas 8 from tax relief, any excess may be provided in the form of a salary supplement, which would not itself be pensionable or form part of salary for the purposes of determining the extent of participation in the Companys incentive arrangements.
As an international company, from time to time, the Company will, where executives relocate internationally to perform their duties, make compensatory contributions to reflect any loss of pension.
70 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 70 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Element of How it supports the Companys short and Opportunity Performance metrics Operation of policy for 2014 remuneration long term strategic objectives The CSR The EIP provides a significant The Committee will The performance metrics for the Maximum annual plc 2011 incentive to the directors linked to determine the maximum EIP are set individually by the participation in the EIP will Executive achievement in delivering goals that annual participation in the Committee and are based on a be as follows: Incentive are closely aligned with the EIP for each year, which will combination of measures which % of Plan the Companys strategy and the creation not exceed 250% of salary.
presently comprise achievement Name Salary EIP of value for shareholders.
In particular, of revenue, profit and personal J A J van 250% The note on the EIP supports the Companys objectives linked to the Beurden page 73 objectives by: Companys strategy.
These are sets out allowing the setting of annual targets measured over a period of one D D W Gardiner 250% how the EIP based on the business strategic financial year.
C A Ladas 250% operates objectives at that time, meaning that a wider range of performance 1.
Strategic objectives metrics can be used that are In order for the Company to be Performance targets will be relevant and suitably stretching successful, the Committee based on achievement of whilst also providing sufficient recognises that an element of revenue, Profit and incentive linked to potential to be EIP participation should be personal objectives that achievable: and based on achievement of reflect the wider operational linking EIP plan years together and individual objectives linked to targets and strategic aims providing substantial deferral in successful implementation of of the Group.
shares and ongoing risk adjustment the Companys strategy.
The by requiring a threshold level of Companys strategic objectives The weighting between the performance to be achieved during are set out within the Strategic targets will be: the deferral period.
Amounts Report on pages 8 to 15. deferred in shares are also 1.
Revenue 25% forfeitable on a directors voluntary 2.
Profit excluding litigation cessation of employment which Revenue and underlying expense 50% provides an effective lock-in.
Personal Objectives 25% been selected as performance measures as these demonstrate The minimum level of the successful execution of a performance required to number of the Companys trigger participation will be: strategic objectives.
Revenue target 90% The financial measures will satisfaction account for no less than 50% of Profit target 80% the EIP opportunity.
satisfaction The Company operates in a It is the Committees view rapidly changing sector and that detailed disclosure of therefore the Committee may the targets in advance is change the balance of the not in the interests of the measures, or use different Company or its measures, for subsequent shareholders, as they financial years, as appropriate, reflect information about to reflect this.
the Company and its business that is The Committee retains commercially sensitive.
discretion in exceptional circumstances to change the The Committees policy is performance measures and to provide full disclosure of targets and their respective the financial performance weightings part way through a conditions and targets at performance year if there is a the end of the relevant significant and material event financial year unless by which causes the Committee to exception the Committee believe the original measures, considers these to be weightings and targets are no commercially sensitive.
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Committee believes that the bonus outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
indb 71 11 03 2014 21:17 Remuneration report continued Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Operation of policy for 2014 remuneration Companys short and long term strategic objectives Long-Term Awards are designed to Awards are granted Maximum value of The performance Awards granted in 2014 will Incentive incentivise the directors annually to executive 300% of salary p. a. condition for the share have a value of 100% of Plan to maximise total directors in the form of based on the market options is currently salary.
the LTIP shareholder returns by a share option.
The value at the date of absolute total successfully delivering options will vest at the grant set in shareholder return.
The performance condition the Companys end of a three year accordance with the will be based on growth in objectives and to share period subject to: LTIP rules.
The Committee has the absolute total shareholder in the resulting increase the directors power to review the return per annum.
The table in total shareholder continued 400% of salary can be performance condition below shows the threshold value.
employment at the granted where the and may change the growth required for both date of vesting: and Committee determines nature or level of the minimum and maximum satisfaction of the that the circumstances performance condition vesting: performance are exceptional: for subsequent periods condition.
applying the principles according to the rules Threshold Maximum in the rules of the LTIP.
7.50% 10.50% The Committee may % of 25% 100% award dividend The normal maximum Option equivalents on awards aggregate incentive Vesting to the extent that these opportunity i. e. EIP vest.
participation plus Straight line vesting between awards described points.
above that can be provided to any director during any financial period is capped at 500% of salary excluding on recruitment.
All The Company operates an HM Revenue & Customs approved SAYE Share Option Plan in which the directors are eligible to employee participate.
share plans Clawback The CSR plc Share Option Plan, LTIP and the EIP do not contain provisions which allow the Committee to clawback shares once and malus an award or option has vested.
However, up to half of the deferred element of the EIP Element B which comprises 50% of the total available annual reward is subject to an annual risk of forfeiture.
This goes beyond a standard market practice FTSE 250 malus provision.
This forfeiture provision has been part of the EIP since its introduction in 2011.
Non-executive directors Element of How it supports the Operation Maximum Opportunity Performance Operation of policy for 2014 remuneration Companys short and long metrics term strategic objectives NonProvides a level of fees The Board as a whole is The fees for nonNone.
The base fees paid to the nonexecutive to support recruitment responsible for setting the executive directors executive directors were reviewed director fees and retention of nonremuneration of the nonare set at broadly in February 2014, with the executive directors with executive directors, other than the median of the decision taken to increase them the necessary the Chairman whose comparator group.
by 3% from 1 April 2014. experience to advise remuneration is considered by and assist with the Remuneration Committee In general the level The fees payable from 1 April establishing and and recommended to of fee increase for 2014 are: monitoring the Groups the Board.
directors will be set Base fee 48,200 Non-executive directors are taking account of Fee for Committee 2,000 paid a base fee and additional any change in membership fees for chairmanship and responsibility and Fee Audit Chair 11,800 membership of Committees.
will take into The Chairman does not receive account the typical Fee Remuneration Chair 10,900 any additional fees for rise in salaries Senior Independent 10,700 membership of Committees.
across the UK Director fee workforce.
Chairmans fee 192,800 Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent roles in FTSE 250 companies and the comparator group used to review salaries paid to the executive directors.
Fees are set at broadly the median of the comparator group.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any variable remuneration or benefits arrangements.
72 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 72 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note: Operation of the EIP The key elements of the EIP are: maximum annual participation for any single EIP Year is 250% of salary: participation is subject to the satisfaction of performance measures.
Maximum annual participation is split into two elements for each EIP Year: Element A is paid at the end of EIP Year.
Element A is 50% of annual participation maximum 125% of salary.
Directors who have satisfied their individual share ownership requirement at the end of the EIP Year will receive payment in cash capped at a maximum of 100% of basic salary and any balance will be paid in shares.
Alternatively, a participant may elect to receive shares to replace part or all of the cash component.
Directors who have not satisfied their shareholding requirement will receive payment in shares.
Where a payment is made in shares, to a director who has not satisfied his shareholding requirement, the director is permitted to sell sufficient shares to meet associated tax and social security liabilities.
Element B is paid in shares at the end of EIP Year 3 i. e. there is a two year deferral for this element.
Element B is 50% of annual participation maximum 125% of salary.
The vesting of Element B is subject to the following conditions: continued employment within the Group: and forfeiture where the minimum performance requirements set for EIP Years 2 and 3 are not met Forfeiture is on a sliding scale up to a maximum of 50% of Element B per annum as illustrated in the table below.
Maximum Forfeiture Minimum On Target Maximum Performance requirements for EIP Year 2 and or EIP Year 3 Forfeiture Threshold Threshold Performance Performance Percentage of Profit target 80% 100% 120% Percentage of Revenue target 70% 80% 90% 100% 110% Percentage of Element B forfeited 50% 0% Straight line forfeiture between points.
The forfeiture condition for each year of deferral of Element B will be disclosed in full retrospectively with the associated performance targets unless by exception the Committee considers these to be commercially sensitive and their level of satisfaction for the relevant financial year.
The Committee may award dividend equivalents on shares to the extent that they vest.
References to shares are to the Companys Ordinary Shares, par value 0.1p per share, unless otherwise stated.
Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend the policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
It is the Committees intention that commitments made in line with its policies prior to 21 May 2014, being the date of the annual general meeting at which shareholder approval for the policy will first be sought will be honoured, even if satisfaction of such commitments is made post 21 May 2014 and may be inconsistent with the above policies.
Such commitments include but are not limited to share options granted in 2011, 2012 and 2013 and EIP Element B share awards granted in 2012 and 2013.
Such commitments remain subject to the share plan rules and terms and conditions under which they were granted.
The Committee also reserves the right in exceptional circumstances to make payments outside of the policies where it believes that this is in the best interests of the Company and where, in the opinion of the Committee it would be disproportionate or impractical to seek or await prior shareholder approval or could cause material detriment to the Company.
Consistent policy across the Company and consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Committee ensures that the remuneration policy and philosophy of the Company is consistent throughout the organisation by: taking into account the increase in employee salaries across the Group and in relevant locations when reviewing director salaries: applying the same financial performance measures to the EIP as are used for the employee annual bonus plans: and operating the same performance targets for all employees who receive an award of performance related share options in a particular financial year.
The Company has not expressly sought the views of employees when drawing up the directors remuneration policy.
