Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements 67 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Introduction to Remuneration Committee Embracing transparent remuneration reporting Dear shareholder Remuneration Committee: On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present our remuneration Main activities during the year report for 2013.
The new remuneration reporting regulations do not apply to Reviewed revised reporting Debenhams until 2014.
However, the Committee decided to include a number of the regulations and prepared a new look required disclosures this year to improve transparency and enhance the quality of our directors remuneration report communication with shareholders.
We hope shareholders find this new format useful.
Reviewed performance against We have made good progress this year in implementing our four pillar strategy targets for the executive directors to build a leading international, multi-channel brand: 2013 bonuses Modernised and new stores are performing well Reviewed the executive remuneration We have grown or maintained market share in all key categories strategy for 2014 Online sales grew by 46.2% Approved the executive directors International sales increased by 3.7% and six new franchise stores opened in the year bonus plan for 2014 including two new markets Reviewed its terms of reference The retail marketplace, however, remains highly competitive and the profit before tax Reviewed the Company pension PBT target set for the 2013 annual bonus was not met.
Threshold levels of like-for-like contribution for the Chief Executive sales and gross margin performance were met, however, in light of the overall profit performance, the executive directors elected not to receive any bonus for 2013.
The annual bonus criteria PBT and like-for-like sales growth and gross margin performance will remain unchanged but any pay-out in respect of the like-for-like sales growth and gross margin percentage matrix will be subject to meeting threshold levels of PBT performance.
The executive directors have elected not to take a pay increase this year and the Committee concurred.
PSP awards for 2014 will be made once targets have been finalised.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Chief Executives pension allowance and determined that the current pension allowance of 15% of base salary was at the lower end of market practice compared to our retail peers and practice for the FTSE 250.
The Committee therefore considered that it was appropriate to increase his pension allowance to 20% of base salary.
The Committee continues to believe that executive remuneration arrangements are structured to support the delivery of our four pillar strategy and no changes are proposed at this time.
The Committee will continue to keep the structure of remuneration arrangements under review.
Dennis Millard Chairman, Remuneration Committee
