Dear Shareholder Directors As the Chairman of the remuneration committee, I am pleased to present the directors remuneration report remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2013 and to highlight some of the key aspects of the committees work during the report financial year.
As I noted in the 2012 remuneration report, the committee took the opportunity this year to undertake a detailed review of our remuneration arrangements with the main focus being our long term incentive plans.
The aim of the review was to ensure that the plans continue to incentivise the delivery of our performance goals through straightforward and transparent links to our strategic objectives.
Recognising the increasingly global nature of Diageos business, part of the review included an independent report into global executive pay practices.
Following the review, the committee and I are satisfied that the current arrangements remain appropriate, both in terms of design and quantum, to ensure that we are able to attract and retain the highest quality global talent for Diageo.
I value the continued dialogue with our shareholders.
I have engaged directly with them and their representative bodies at the earliest opportunity to set out Diageos remuneration policy and approach, proposed base salary increases for the executive directors, targets for the 2013 long term incentive plan awards and transition arrangements for the outgoing chief executive.
As described in the Business review, the company has delivered good year on year organic top line growth despite a slowdown in markets such as Korea, Brazil and Nigeria.
The companys commitment to the delivery of efficient growth has led to considerable margin expansion leading to strong organic operating margin growth and double digit eps growth.
In addition the company has sustained its robust free cash flow.
The financial performance the company has delivered in the year ended 30 June 2013 positions the business well for the future.
The overall level of performance achieved resulted in an annual incentive plan award equating to 101% of base salary for Paul Walsh, 91% of base salary for Ivan Menezes and 96% of base salary for Deirdre Mahlan in respect of 2012 13.
Despite the significant progress we have made during the year the bonus paid is lower than last year reflecting the challenging nature of the targets set by the committee.
The company has delivered exceptionally strong three-year total shareholder return performance relative to its peer group for the performance period that ended on 30 June 2013, resulting in Diageo achieving third place out of 16 global consumer packaged goods companies.
As a result, 95% of the performance shares awarded in September 2010 will vest in September 2013.
For share options awarded in September 2010, three year compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per share was 12.2% equivalent to total growth over three years of 41.2% which has exceeded the maximum target of 7% and, consequently, the options will vest in full in September 2013.
Over the same period, Diageos share price grew by 80%, from 1042 pence to 1880 pence, and the company paid a total dividend of 125.5 pence per share.
I am delighted that Diageo provides the opportunity for all employees to share in the companys success through our global all-employee share ownership schemes.
Employees will also benefit from the significant share price growth over the last three years.
In 2013, the schemes will deliver shares to individuals that will provide an estimated gain of 40 million to participants which equates to an average gain in the region of 4,000 for each participating employee.
As announced on 7 May 2013, Ivan Menezes, previously Chief Operating Officer, succeeded Paul Walsh as Chief Executive on 1 July 2013.
The committee carefully considered the remuneration package for the new chief executive as well as the transition arrangements for the outgoing chief executive and I shared these with our major shareholders at the start of the shareholder consultation process.
Details of the arrangements can be found in the section of the remuneration report headed chief executive arrangements.
Paul Walsh will step down from the board on 19 September 2013 and will act as Advisor to the Chairman and the Chief Executive until June 2014 to ensure a smooth and carefully managed hand-over.
His main focus will be transitioning critical partner and external relationships and supporting strategic activities that will drive the future growth of the business.
Finally, this year we have maintained the improvements that we made to the structure and layout of the directors remuneration report in 2012, including the early adoption of a single remuneration figure and other relevant disclosures, to provide year-on-year consistency and transparency in our disclosure practices.
Following the final publication of the new reporting regulations by the government in June 2013, the committee will now be focusing on the changes required to implement the new regulations, with the structure and content of our 2014 report fully reflecting them.
We look forward to receiving your support at the AGM in September 2013.
Lord Davies of Abersoch Senior independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the remuneration committee Directors remuneration report 91 Governance Executive directors remuneration summary for the year ended 30 June 2013 89 Performance highlights Board of directors and executive committee Short term performance 91 Annual incentive plan targets were higher than the previous year.
The 2013 annual bonus payout is lower than in 2012, based on the Directors remuneration report years performance, despite delivering organic top line growth of 5% and profits up by 8%.
112 Corporate Long term performance governance report Over the three year performance period 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2013, Diageo delivered outstanding total shareholder return TSR 122 performance.
Diageo ranked third in its peer group for TSR for the first time ever and met its commitment to achieve double digit Directors report eps growth.
In summary, over this period: The share price has increased by 80% resulting in an increase in Diageos market capitalisation of over 20 billion to 47 billion.
Diageo has paid a total dividend of 125.5 pence per share to shareholders.
Adjusted eps increased from 74.5 pence to 104.4 pence equivalent to growth of 12.2% per annum.
As a result, this will be the first year in which both long term incentive plans will vest together almost in full.
Paul Walsh Chief Executive until 30 June 2013 Base salary will remain flat for the outgoing chief executive in the annual salary review for the year ending 30 June 2014.
No remuneration to be received as a result of termination of employment as chief executive.
For details on arrangements for the year ending 30 June 2014, go to section headed chief executive arrangements.
83% of Paul Walshs total remuneration in the year ended 30 June 2013 is linked to share price performance.
2013 % of 2012 % of Paul Walsh 000 total pay 000 total pay Commentary Total fixed pay 1,276 9% 1,278 12% Representing base salary and benefits earned in the year ended 30 June 2013.
Base salary held flat since 2011.
Annual bonus 1,245 8% 1,821 16% Based on overall company performance in F13: 80% company financial measures and 20% individual business objectives.
Sub total short term 2,521 17% 3,099 28% remuneration cash Long term incentive 4,508 31% 3,060 27% Driven by exceptionally strong three year TSR performance plan performance and delivery of double digit eps growth.
Both plans vest a element together almost in full for the first time.
Long term incentive 7,762 52% 5,055 45% Represents the impact of the significant increase in Diageos plan share share price of 80% since the award in 2010. b appreciation element Sub total long term 12,270 83% 8,115 72% share price based remuneration non-cash TOTAL 14,791 100% 11,214 100% Ivan Menezes Chief Operating Officer until 30 June 2013, Chief Executive from 1 July 2013 From 1 July 2013, following promotion to Chief Executive, Ivan Menezes will receive an annual salary of $1,520,000 1,000,000.
This represents an 8.6% increase to his salary when he was Chief Operating Officer.
72% of Ivan Menezes total remuneration is linked to share price performance.
2013 % of Ivan Menezes 000 total pay Commentary Total fixed pay 943 12% Representing base salary and benefits earned in the year ended 30 June 2013.
The base salary increase of 8.6% on appointment is effective 1 July 2013. c Pension 397 5% Annual bonus 838 11% Based on overall company performance in F13: 80% company financial measures and 20% individual business objectives.
Sub total short term 2,178 28% remuneration cash Long term incentive 1,943 25% Driven by exceptionally strong three year TSR performance plan performance and delivery of double digit eps growth.
Long term incentive 3,751 47% Represents the impact of the significant increase in Diageos plan share share price of 80% since the award in 2010. b appreciation element Sub total long term 5,694 72% share price based remuneration non-cash TOTAL 7,872 100% 92 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Deirdre Mahlan Chief Financial Officer Base salary to be increased by 5% in the annual salary review for the year ending 30 June 2014.
76% of Deirdre Mahlans total remuneration is linked to share price performance.
2013 % of 2012 % of Deirdre Mahlan 000 total pay 000 total pay Commentary Total fixed pay 700 10% 642 20% Representing base salary and benefits earned in the year ended 30 June 2013.
The base salary increase of 5% effective 1 October 2013 recognises her contribution to date and the size and complexity of her role.
d Pension 238 4% 245 8% Annual bonus 652 10% 912 28% Based on overall company performance in F13: 80% company financial measures and 20% individual business objectives.
Sub total short term 1,590 24% 1,799 56% remuneration cash Long term incentive 1,761 26% 517 16% Driven by exceptionally strong three year TSR performance plan performance and delivery of double digit eps growth.
Long term incentive 3,384 50% 891 28% Represents the impact of the significant increase in Diageos plan share share price of 80% since the award in 2010. b appreciation element Sub total long term 5,145 76% 1,408 44% share price based remuneration non-cash TOTAL 6,735 100% 3,207 100% Notes to tables a Performance element The performance shares due to be released in September 2013 at the grant price after applying the performance condition.
b Share appreciation element The estimated additional value generated through share price growth for options vesting and performance shares due to be released in September 2013 at the average market value of Diageo shares between 1 April and 30 June 2013 of 1968 pence.
c The value of the pension amount accrued in the Diageo North America Inc. pension plans over the year.
This figure has been calculated in line with the single total figure of remuneration methodology under the incoming remuneration reporting requirements.
d 2012: Cash allowance in lieu of pension 40% of base salary.
2013: The value of the pension amount accrued in the Diageo North America Inc. SERP over the year.
Proportion of LTIPs vesting attributable to share price appreciation Paul Walsh Ivan Menezes 3,632 1,971 Options Options 4,508 4,130 1,943 1,780 Shares Shares 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 Thousands Thousands Performance element Share appreciation element Performance element Share appreciation element Deirdre Mahlan 1,772 Options 1,761 1,612 Shares 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 Thousands Performance element Share appreciation element Directors remuneration report 93 Governance Performance graph The graph below shows the total shareholder return for Diageo and the FTSE 100 Index since 30 June 2008 and demonstrates 89 Board of directors and the relationship between pay and performance for the chief executive using current and previously published single total executive committee remuneration figures.
The FTSE 100 Index reflects the 100 largest quoted companies by market capitalisation in the United Kingdom 91 and has been chosen because it is a widely recognised performance benchmark for large companies in the United Kingdom.
Directors Diageo has substantially outperformed the Index over this period.
remuneration report 112 Total shareholder return value of hypothetical 100 holding Corporate Chief executive governance report total remuneration million 122 250 25 Directors report 200 20 150 15 100 10 50 0 June 08June 09June 10June 11June 12 June 13 FTSE 100 Diageo Chief executive total remuneration Chief executive total remuneration 000 4,449 11,214 14,791 Annual bonus actual award compared to maximum 77% 74% 51% SESOP vesting compared to maximum opportunity 100% 100% 100% PSP vesting compared to maximum opportunity 0% 65%95% Appointment of new chief executive The remuneration committees principal responsibilities are: As announced on 7 May 2013, the company has appointed Ivan making recommendations to the board on remuneration Menezes, formerly Diageos Chief Operating Officer, as Chief policy as applied to the executive directors and the executive committee: Executive of Diageo with effect from 1 July 2013.
Ivan Menezes will be paid a base salary of $1,520,000 1,000,000 per annum.
setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration No other changes are proposed to Ivan Menezes current arrangements for the chairman of the board, executive remuneration arrangements, which are set out in the section directors and executive committee members including chief executive arrangements.
terms and conditions of employment: determining arrangements in relation to termination of employment of each executive director and other designated Governance senior executives: and What is the role of the remuneration committee?
making recommendations to the board concerning the The remuneration committee consists of the following introduction of any new share incentive plans which require independent Non-Executive Directors: Peggy Bruzelius, Laurence approval by shareholders.
Danon, Lord Davies, Betsy Holden, Philip Scott, Todd Stitzer and Ho KwonPing since 1 October 2012.
Lord Davies is the Chairman Full terms of reference for the committee are available at of the remuneration committee.
The chairman of the board www.
com and on request from the company secretary.
and the chief executive may, by invitation, attend remuneration committee meetings except when their own remuneration What has the remuneration committee done during the year?
The remuneration committee met five times during the year to consider and, where applicable, approve key remuneration items including the following: 94 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Governance and forward planning Pay Incentive plans Reviewed AGM outcomes and feedback Approved methodology and approach Considered and approved plan design, from institutional shareholders, giving to pay review and identified any performance measures and targets to consideration to implications for future benchmarking requirements.
be used in short and long term incentive remuneration policy.
Reviewed and approved proposals for plans to ensure measures are aligned Reviewed the updated UK governance salary reviews and any adjustments to with strategy and that targets are requirements, including the other remuneration elements e. g. levels appropriately stretching.
government consultation on narrative of share award, pension and benefits.
Tracked performance for annual bonus reporting and executive remuneration Established remuneration and long term incentive measures and assessed Diageos compliance.
arrangements for chief executive during the year.
Detailed review of remuneration approach and extended invitation arrangements with particular focus on for key shareholders to meet long term incentive plans to ensure they with Diageos chairman of the continue to incentivise performance remuneration committee.
goals through simple, transparent links Reviewed and approved the to strategic objectives.
directors remuneration report Reviewed year-end business taking into account feedback performance and performance linked from shareholder meetings.
Determined bonus payouts and vesting of long term incentives.
Reviewed global executive pay practice, recognising the increasingly global nature of Diageos business and the need to compete for the best talent in the key developing markets.
Further information on meetings held and director attendance is disclosed in the corporate governance report.
Directors remuneration report 95 Governance Who provides advice to the remuneration committee?
What was the outcome of the vote on the 2012 directors During the year ended 30 June 2013, the remuneration remuneration report at the companys AGM?
89 Board of directors and The 2012 directors remuneration report received a majority for committee received advice from the following independent executive committee consultants: vote of 92.5% 2011 80%.
91 Deloitte LLP appointed by the committee provided advice Directors on remuneration best practice and senior executive How has the remuneration committee responded to remuneration report shareholder feedback during the year?
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration 112 Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under The committee actively considered feedback received from Corporate the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration shareholders prior to and following the 2012 AGM and also governance report consulting in the United Kingdom.
Further details can be found closely monitored guidance and directional themes emerging 122 from institutional shareholder bodies and the UK government at www.
Deloitte LLP Directors report also provided a range of non-related tax, corporate finance during the year on the subject of executive remuneration.
and consulting services during the year.
The committee is On the basis of this, the committee has taken the following actions: comfortable that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and An in-depth review of the long term incentive arrangements to ensure that both the quantum and the design are appropriate.
team, that provide remuneration advice to the committee, do not have connections with Diageo that may impair their As a result of the review, the committee determined that the independence.
The committee reviewed the potential for current remuneration arrangements are fit for purpose and conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate appropriate, and no changes to the framework were proposed.
Early consultation on proposed salary increases for executive Kepler Associates appointed by the committee reviewed directors and the targets for the long term incentive plans.
and confirmed the TSR of Diageo and the peer group companies for the award under the September 2009 The remuneration committee also provided the opportunity for Performance Share Plan for which the performance cycle some of Diageos major shareholders and their representative ended on 30 June 2012 and provided periodic performance bodies to meet with the remuneration committee chairman updates on all outstanding performance cycles.
After 30 June during the year to discuss remuneration matters generally.
2013, they also reviewed and confirmed the TSR outcome for the award under the September 2010 Performance Share Plan What will the remuneration committee be focused on for the for which the performance cycle ended on 30 June 2013. year ending 30 June 2014?
They provided no other services to Diageo during the year.
Implementing legislative changes on reporting requirements Kepler is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group and shareholder voting rights.
Reviewing and assessing the ongoing appropriateness of  LLP PwC appointed by the current executive remuneration plan design and target stretch.
committee provided an independent review of Ensuring that remuneration arrangements continue to attract compensation in some of Diageos new high growth markets.
and retain talent, and reward company performance with PwC is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group a focus on maintaining the link between performance Code of Conduct.
Understanding and responding to shareholder feedback and Additional remuneration survey data published by Aon Hewitt, fostering continuous open dialogue.
Towers Watson, and PwC were presented to the remuneration committee during the year: Clifford Chance provided advice on the operation of share plans.
Diageos human resources director and director of performance and reward were also invited by the remuneration committee to provide their views and advice.
The human resources director was not present when his own remuneration was discussed.
The chief financial officer may also attend to provide performance context to the committee during its discussions about target setting.
96 Diageo Annual Report 2013 What is the philosophy underpinning executive remuneration?
The plans in which Diageos executive directors and senior management participate are designed to reflect the principles detailed below: What Why How Performance-related It influences and supports Short and long term incentives conditional upon achieving compensation performance and the creation of stretching performance targets.
Rewarding sustainable It is at the heart of Diageos A combination of absolute and relative performance performance corporate strategy and is vital to measures for short and long term incentives that meeting stakeholder interests.
reflect sustainable profit growth and underlying financial performance.
The majority of the total remuneration package is delivered in shares.
Shareholding requirements that align the interests of senior executives with those of shareholders and that are a condition of full participation in long term incentive plans.
Measuring performance over It aligns with the time cycle over Long term incentives that comprise a combination of share three years which management decisions option grants and share awards in each year and vary with are reflected in the creation of three year eps, TSR, organic net sales and organic operating value in the business.
Providing a balanced mix of It enables focus on long term Base salary, benefits, retirement savings, short term cash incentives and long term equity incentives.
remuneration value creation while avoiding disproportionate risk-taking.
Providing a competitive total It helps Diageo attract and retain Reward levels considered in the context of total remuneration opportunity the best global talent.
remuneration packages paid in relevant global comparators, reflecting the size, complexity and global scope of Diageos business.
Simplicity and transparency It allows targets to be motivating Targets that are within a sphere of direct influence and that and demonstrably linked to align with the companys short and long term goals.
How does executive remuneration link to business strategy?
Diageos strategy is to drive top line growth and margin expansion in a sustainable and responsible way and to deliver consistent value creation for its shareholders over the long term.
To do this Diageo will use its broad brand range, category depth and geographic reach to deliver on consumer needs.
Key to achieving its strategy is the expertise of its people who share the same values.
The remuneration structures and performance measures used in executive incentive plans are designed to support Diageos business strategy as follows: Focused on sustainable As a public limited company, Diageo has a fiduciary responsibility to maximise long term growth drivers value for shareholders.
Thus, variable elements of remuneration are dependent upon the achievement of performance measures that are identified as key sustainable growth drivers for the business and that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
Variable with performance A significant proportion of total remuneration for the executive directors is linked to individual and business performance so that remuneration will increase or decrease in line with performance.
The fixed versus variable pay mix is illustrated on the following page.
Share ownership Full participation in incentives is conditional upon building up a significant personal shareholding in Diageo to ensure the companys leaders think and act like owners.
Cost effectiveness Fixed elements of remuneration are determined by reference to the median of the market, individual experience and performance, and other relevant factors to ensure competitiveness while controlling fixed costs to maximise efficiency.
Directors remuneration report 97 Governance How do the incentive plan measures link to business strategy?
89 The following table describes the performance measures that are used in the companys short and long term executive incentive plans Board of directors and and the business performance that they drive: executive committee 91 Short term incentive plan measures Long term incentive plan measures Directors remuneration report Net sales year-on-year net sales growth is a key Net sales sustained year-on-year organic net sales growth is 112 performance measure.
Corporate Profit before exceptional items and taxation stretching profit Operating margin organic operating margin measures the governance report targets drive operational efficiency and influence the level of efficiency of the business.
122 returns that can be delivered to shareholders through increases Directors report in share price and dividend income.
Free cash flow positive cash flow is an indicator of the financial Earnings per share eps reflects profitability and is a key health of the business and critical to enabling infrastructure measure for shareholders: an adjusted measure of eps is used investment, marketing investment, capital expenditure and in the share option plan.
acquisition opportunities in line with Diageos strategy.
A proportion of this metric is focused on average cash performance to enhance focus on sustained cash generation throughout the year.
Individual business objectives these are measurable Relative total shareholder return TSR reflects the value of deliverables that are specific to the individual and are focused share price growth plus dividends, thus measuring the value on supporting the delivery of key strategic objectives.
returned on shareholder investments: Diageos performance relative to its selected peer group determines how much reward is delivered to plan participants.
How is pay for performance achieved?
All incentives are capped to ensure that The board of directors sets stretching goals for the company and inappropriate risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded.
its leaders, framed by Diageos performance culture and business strategy.
The combination of strong top line growth with What is the proportion of fixed to variable pay?
continuing improved efficiency, delivered through the operating The balance between fixed and variable elements of remuneration margin target, is designed to add significant shareholder value.
Based on expected values at target Diageo delivers the highest margin in the spirits sector and and the average of remuneration elements for the executive among the highest in the broader alcoholic beverages industry.
directors, the mix between fixed and variable remuneration for Based on its double digit eps growth target, Diageo is among the executive directors is that for 100 of remuneration earned, 32 most ambitious companies in its sector.
will be fixed remuneration and 68 will be performance-related The annual incentive plan aims to reward the delivery of remuneration, excluding pensions and other benefits.
At short term financial and individual business performance goals maximum, the mix increases the weighting on variable pay with commensurate levels of remuneration.
Long term incentive and in particular, long term variable pay so that for 100 of plans aim to reward long term sustained performance and create remuneration earned, 14 will be fixed remuneration and 86 alignment with the delivery of value for shareholders.
Under both will be performance-related remuneration, excluding pensions sets of plans, if the demanding targets are achieved, high levels of and other benefits.
This mix is illustrated in the following charts.
Fixed vs variable pay mix Target Maximum Fixed base salary Fixed base salary 32% 14% Variable long term Variable long term 36% 58% Variable short term Variable short term 32% 28% 98 Diageo Annual Report 2013 How is risk managed in the incentive plans?
The remuneration committee considers the management of risk to be important to the process of designing and implementing sustainable remuneration structures and to setting appropriate performance targets for incentive plans.
The members of the remuneration committee also constitute the membership of the audit committee, thus ensuring full oversight of any risk factors that may be relevant to remuneration arrangements and target setting specifically.
Before agreeing bonus payments and approving the vesting under long term incentive plans, the remuneration committee, in conjunction with the audit committee, considers the underlying performance of the business during the relevant period to ensure that the level of reward is appropriate and aligned with shareholder interests.
In 2012 a clawback condition was introduced to both short term and long term incentive plan awards.
Summary of current remuneration policy for executive directors A breakdown of the reward programmes in which Diageos executive directors participate, the remuneration strategy that they support and the policy governing their execution is detailed in the table below: What Why How Base salary Reflects the value of the Reviewed annually with changes usually taking effect from individual, their skills and 1 October.
Benchmarked against the top 30 companies in the FTSE 100 by market capitalisation excluding companies in the financial services sector.
Generally positioned at the median of the relevant market or, in certain circumstances, positioned above median if justified by the requirement to recruit or retain key executives.
Annual incentive plan Incentivises year on year delivery Targets set by reference to the annual operating plan.
Level of award determined by Diageos overall financial of short term performance goals.
Provides focus on key financial performance.
metrics including profit growth Annual incentive plan awards based 80% on financial and cash performance.
measures net sales, profit and cash flow and 20% on specific individual business objectives related to business strategy and operational targets.
Up to 100% of salary earned for on target performance with a maximum of 200% of salary payable for outstanding performance.
Share options Incentivises three year earnings A discretionary annual grant of market price share options subject SESOP 2008 growth above a minimum to a performance test based on annual compound growth in threshold.
Provides focus on adjusted eps over three years.
increasing Diageos share price Stretching growth targets set annually by the remuneration over the medium to longer term.
Maximum annual grant of 375% of salary.
Threshold vesting level of 25% with pro rata vesting up to 100% maximum.
Performance share Incentivises three year total A discretionary annual award of shares subject to a three year awards shareholder return relative performance test.
PSP 2008 to a selected peer group of Maximum annual award of 375% of salary.
companies and the achievement Threshold vesting of 25% up to a maximum of 100%.
of organic net sales and organic Based on three equally weighted measures: TSR performance operating margin targets that against a peer group of companies, organic net sales growth support the delivery of the compound annual growth and total organic operating margin improvement.
companys medium term growth ambitions.
Provides Threshold vesting for median TSR performance ninth position, focus on delivering superior up to 100% vesting equivalent to 33.3% of the total award for returns to shareholders.
achieving third or above in the peer group.
Organic net sales and organic operating margin targets set annually by the remuneration committee for each new award.
Notional dividends accrue on awards, delivered as shares or cash at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Benefits Provides market competitive Provision of benefits such as company car and driver, product non-cash benefits.
allowance, medical insurance and financial counselling.
Pension Provides competitive postProvision of market competitive pension arrangements or a cash retirement benefits or cash alternative based on a percentage of base salary.
Bonus and other benefits excluded from calculation of cash supplement.
Flexible pension access allows individuals whose benefits exceed the Lifetime Allowance and who are over the age of 55 to draw their pension early while remaining in employment.
Directors remuneration report 99 Governance Base salaries apply from 1 October 2013.
In determining these salaries, the How are base salaries determined?
remuneration committee took into consideration a number 89 Board of directors and of factors including general employee salary budgets and The previous summary table sets out the policy on base salary for executive committee the executive directors.
In addition to market data, base salaries employment conditions, individual performance and experience, 91 are determined with reference to individual experience and and salary positioning relative to internal and external peers.
Directors performance, and the level and structure of remuneration for The overall pay budget in the year ending 30 June 2014 is 3.75% remuneration report of base salary for the business in the United Kingdom and 3% in other employees in the group and the external environment.
Corporate How is benchmarking used?
Following his appointment as Advisor to the Chairman and governance report Benchmarking is primarily referenced if there is a perceived gap the Chief Executive, the base salary for Paul Walsh will be held flat.
122 Upon appointment to the Chief Executive role, Ivan Menezes will between the individuals base salary positioning and relevant Directors report market peers, where there is a known retention risk or where receive an annual salary of $1,520,000 1,000,000, with effect an individual is newly appointed to the role.
This represents an 8.6% increase to his salary benchmarking data is considered holistically, looking at salary when he was Chief Operating Officer.
Ivan Menezes salary has been positioned below median to reflect the fact that he is new in the context of total package value, and is referenced as a guide to support the committees judgement taking into account a to the Chief Executive role.
number of other factors including the importance of the role Deirdre Mahlan was appointed to the board on 1 October in delivering the companys strategy, the performance of the 2010.
As outlined in the 2011 and 2012 directors remuneration reports, on her appointment, Deirdre Mahlans salary was initially individual, and the pay and employment conditions of the general employee population.
set at below typical market levels for comparable roles reflecting The peer group that is referenced comprises the top 30 her level of experience at the time.
In setting this initial salary companies in the FTSE 100 by market capitalisation, excluding level, the remuneration committees intention was to allow scope companies in the financial services sector.
Benchmarking also for future increases to both recognise performance and bring makes reference to other relevant global comparators where her closer in line with the market with increasing experience.
appropriate recognising the global mobility of the senior The remuneration committee has awarded an increase talent pool.
that recognises her increasingly strong performance since appointment as well as the size and complexity of her role: with What increases have been applied during the year?
effect from 1 October 2013, the base salary for the chief financial In July 2013, the remuneration committee reviewed base salaries officer will increase by 5% to 714,000. for senior management and agreed new salaries which will Paul Walsh Ivan Menezes Deirdre Mahlan Salary at 1 October 000 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Base salary 1,231 1,231 1,231 $1,520 $1,400 n a 714 680 625 % increase over previous year 0.0% 0.0% 4.5% 8.6% n a n a 5.0% 8.8% 8.7% How did the company perform against annual incentive plan Annual incentive plan How does the annual incentive plan work?
targets in the year ended 30 June 2013?
The annual incentive plan is designed to incentivise year on year In the year under review, the company has delivered organic top delivery of short term performance goals that are determined line growth of 5%, and organic operating profit growth of 8% as a result of 80 basis points of operating margin improvement.
by pre-set stretching targets and measures agreed by the remuneration committee with reference to the annual operating The weaker economic environment in some markets adversely plan.
The remuneration committee determines the level of impacted net sales and operating profit compared to plan targets.
performance achieved based on Diageos overall financial Average cash was very strong and free cash flow was in line with expectations.
The companys performance resulted in a below performance after the end of the financial year.
Since 1 July 2012 the annual incentive plan has been subject to a clawback target outcome against stretching targets under the net sales and arrangement for executive directors.
Under this arrangement, profit measure used in the annual incentive plan and an above the remuneration committee has discretion to clawback a target outcome in respect of the cash flow measures used in the annual incentive plan.
The remuneration committee assessed the bonus if exceptional circumstances, such as gross misconduct or gross negligence, are discovered to have occurred during performance of Paul Walsh, Ivan Menezes and Deirdre Mahlan the performance period that applied to the bonus award.
against their specific IBOs and concluded that the objectives were The targets for the year ended 30 June 2013 were a broadly met and in some cases exceeded.
The overall level of performance achieved resulted in an annual incentive plan award combination of measures including net sales, profit before exceptional items and taxation and free cash flow.
As discussed equating to 101% of base salary for Paul Walsh, 91% of base salary earlier in the report, these measures focus on key drivers of for Ivan Menezes and 96% of base salary for Deirdre Mahlan.
The Diageos growth strategy while supporting sustainability and following charts illustrate how the outcomes for the different the underlying financial health of the company.
The executive bonus measures contribute to the overall bonus payout and directors were also measured against a number of individual compare this to the target and maximum potential outcome business objectives IBOs considered to be key imperatives based on an average of the IBOs for the executive directors.
supporting the delivery of the business plan and that were The actual awards received by the executive directors are shown relevant to their specific area of accountability.
in this report in the table directors remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2013.
100 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Unweighted outcome 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0 Net sales Pro t before exceptional Free cash ow Average cash Individual business items and tax objectives On target vs actual bonus outcome vs potential maximum as % of target opportunity 60%60% 26% 14% 40% Potential maximum 21%23% 15%14% 24% Actual outcome 30%30% 13% 7% 20% On target 0255075 100 125 150 175 200 Net sales Average cash Pro t before exceptional items and tax Individual business objectives Free cash ow before reorganisation spend The business results for the year ended 30 June 2013 are described in the Business review.
Long term incentive plans LTIPs Senior executive share option plan 2008 SESOP 2008 How do the companys LTIPs work?
Options granted under the SESOP 2008 are subject to a Long term incentives are a combination of share options under performance condition based on compound annual growth the SESOP and performance share awards under the PSP and are in adjusted eps over a three year period, with growth targets designed to incentivise executive directors and senior managers set by the companys remuneration committee for each grant.
to strive for long term sustainable performance.
These awards are For the purpose of the SESOP, an adjusted measure of eps is used made on an annual basis with the level of award considered each to ensure that items such as exceptional items and the impact year in light of individual and business performance.
Awards of movements in exchange rates are excluded from year on made under both sets of plans are subject to performance year comparisons of performance.
Options will only vest when conditions normally measured over a three year period.
The stretching adjusted eps targets are achieved.
Vesting is on a pro regular review of the performance measures and the vesting rata basis currently ranging from a threshold level of 25% to a maximum level of 100%.
The remuneration committee reviewed schedule used in each plan are designed to ensure that the LTIPs continue to support business objectives and are in line with the targets for the SESOP awards to be made in 2013 and decided current best practice.
All of Diageos share plans operate within to moderate the performance schedule to align with the the Association of British Insurers dilution guidelines for companys objectives over the next three years in light of the challenging business environment.
Directors remuneration report 101 Governance What are the targets, award levels and vesting profile for SESOP awards?
The adjusted eps growth targets for the current outstanding awards are set out below: 89 Board of directors and Award 2013 % Award 2012 % Award 2011 % Award 2010 % executive committee 1 Jul 2013 1 Jul 2012 1 Jul 2011 1 Jul 2010 91 Performance period 30 Jun 2016 30 Jun 2015 30 Jun 2014 30 Jun 2013 Directors Compound annual growth remuneration report Threshold 7 8 6 3 112 Max 11 12 10 7 Corporate governance report Equivalent total over three years 122 Threshold 23 26 19 9 Directors report Max 37 40 33 23 Percentage of award vesting Threshold 25 25 25 25 Max 100 100 100 100 Compound annual growth rate to date 11.7% 11.9% 12.2% On the basis of this performance, the 2010 award, which is due Performance share plan PSP 2008 to vest in September 2013, has met the performance condition Under this plan, participants are granted a discretionary, conditional right to receive shares.
All conditional rights awarded and consequently, the shares under award will vest at 100% of the initial award.
The committee has assessed the underlying vest after a three year period subject to the achievement of performance of the business at the end of the performance specified performance tests.
Notional dividends accrue on awards period and is satisfied that this level of vesting is warranted.
and are paid out either in cash or shares in accordance with the vesting schedule.
2013 award For the 2013 award, 62.5% of the award the vesting midpoint will What performance measures are used in thePSP?
vest for achieving compound annual growth of 9% in adjusted For outstanding awards made up to and including eps, representing almost 30% growth over the three year period.
September 2010 The maximum annual grant under the plan is 375% of base salary.
The primary performance test is a comparison of Diageos However, the remuneration committee has the discretion to three year TSR the percentage growth in Diageos share grant awards in excess of the maximum limit in exceptional price assuming all dividends and capital distributions are circumstances.
It is intended that awards equivalent to 375% of re-invested with the TSR of a peer group of international base salary will be made to Ivan Menezes and Deirdre Mahlan in drinks and consumer goods companies.
As he has stepped down from the role of Chief are converted to a common currency US dollars.
The second Executive, Paul Walsh will not receive an award under the SESOP in performance test requires that there has been an underlying 2013.
The remuneration committee also has discretion to extend improvement in Diageos three year financial performance, the option exercise period from 12 to 18 months for share options typically measured by an adjusted eps measure, for the awarded to qualifying leavers.
The remuneration committee did remuneration committee to recommend the release not exercise this discretion during the year ended 30 June 2013. of awards.
102 Diageo Annual Report 2013 For awards made from September 201 1 onwards For any of the award apportioned to the TSR condition to be The primary performance test is split equally between three released, there must be an improvement in the underlying performance measures: performance of the company.
In addition, the remuneration 1 TSR, as defined above: committee requires a minimum level of performance in both 2 growth in organic net sales on a compound annual basis: and organic net sales and organic operating margin before any of the 3 total organic operating margin improvement.
award apportioned to these measures can be released.
What are the targets, award levels and vesting profile for PSP awards?
The targets and vesting profile are shown in the following tables: Organic net sales Organic operating Total shareholder return CAGR margin improvement Vesting profile 2012 award Threshold Median ranking ninth 5.0% 100bpts 25% Mid-point 6.5% 150bpts 62.5% Maximum Upper quintile third or above 8.0% 175bpts 100% 2013 award Threshold Median ranking ninth 5.0% 75bpts 25% Mid-point 6.5% 100bpts 62.5% Maximum Upper quintile third or above 8.0% 125bpts 100% There is straight line vesting between 25% and 100% for both the How does the remuneration committee use discretion to ensure net sales measure and the operating margin measure.
vesting profile for TSR is shown below: The remuneration committee will review the vesting outcome of an LTIP award to ensure that it fairly reflects the companys From 2011 awards actual underlying performance and may adjust vesting levels TSR ranking % vesting if it considers it appropriate.
Additionally, for awards made from 1st 100% September 2012 onwards, the plan rules for both SESOP and PSP 2nd 100% provide the remuneration committee with the discretion to apply 3rd 100% a clawback condition in order to reduce the number of shares 4th 95% under award in the event of a material performance failure for 5th 75% example a material restatement to the accounts.
6th 65% 7th 55% What happens in the event of a change of control?
8th 45% In the event of a change of control and at the remuneration committees discretion, outstanding PSP awards would be 9th 25% released and outstanding share options would become 10th or below 0% exercisable based on the extent to which the relevant performance conditions had been met and, if the remuneration TSR peer group committee determines, the time elapsed since the initial award There are 16 other companies in the peer group for awards made or grant, respectively.
from 2011 onwards: All employee share plans Kraft Foods Mondelez International Paul Walsh and Deirdre Mahlan are eligible to participate in AB InBev from Oct 2012 the United Kingdom HM Revenue & Customs approved share Brown-Forman Nestl incentive and sharesave plans that Diageo operates on the same Carlsberg PepsiCo terms as for all eligible employees.
Ivan Menezes participates in Coca-Cola Pernod Ricard the US employee stock purchase plan which provides a long Colgate-Palmolive Procter & Gamble term savings and investment opportunity for all US employees.
Groupe Danone Reckitt Benckiser Heineken SABMiller What is the shareholding requirement for the HJ Heinz Unilever executive directors?
Senior executives are currently required to build up significant The maximum annual award under the plan is 375% of salary.
holdings of shares in Diageo from their own resources over a However, the remuneration committee has discretion to grant defined period of time.
Full participation in the share option and awards in excess of this maximum in exceptional circumstances.
share award plans is conditional upon meeting this requirement.
It is intended that awards equivalent to 375% of base salary will This policy reflects Diageos belief that its most senior leaders be made to the chief executive, and an award equivalent to should also be shareholders.
The holding requirement and the 300% of base salary will be made to the chief financial officer status of that requirement as at 30 June 2013 is shown in the in September 2013.
As he has stepped down from the role of following table.
Under the companys shareholding requirement Chief Executive, Paul Walsh will not receive an award under the policy, executive directors have five years from their appointment PSP in 2013. to the board in which to build up their shareholding to meet and maintain the new requirement.
Directors remuneration report 103 Paul Ivan Deirdre Governance What are the service contracts and terms of Walsh Menezes Mahlan 89 employment for the executive directors?
Value of shareholdings 000 14,230 9,330 2,461 Board of directors and executive committee Minimum shareholding The executive directors have rolling service contracts which requirement as % of salary 300% 300% 250% provide for six months notice by the director or 12 months notice 91 Actual shareholding as % of salary 1,157% 1,046% 370% Directors by the company and contain non-compete obligations.
In the remuneration report event of early termination by the company without cause, the 112 agreements provide for a termination payment to be paid This information is based on the share interests disclosed in the Corporate in respect of that part of the notice period not provided to the table Share and other interests in this report, base salary earned governance report director by the company to Paul Walsh equivalent to 12 months in the year ended 30 June 2013, and an average share price for the 122 base salary for the notice period and an equal amount in respect same period of 1849 pence.
Directors report of all benefits, and to Ivan Menezes and Deirdre Mahlan equivalent to 12 months base salary for the notice period and the cost to the What pension provision is made for executive directors?
company of providing contractual benefits excluding incentive Paul Walsh was a member of the UK Scheme the Scheme until plans.
The service contracts also entitle the executive directors to 31 March 2011, at which point he stopped accruing pension rights.
compensation if they are terminated following a takeover or other From 1 May 2011, Paul Walsh began to receive his pension benefits change of control of Diageo plc.
Any such payments would be under the companys policy of flexible pension access.
The rules subject to tax and other statutory deductions.
The remuneration of the Scheme at the time that Paul Walsh began to receive his committee may exercise its discretion to require half of the benefits required pensions in payment to be increased each year termination payment to be paid in monthly instalments and, in line with increases in the RPI, subject to a maximum of 5% per upon the executive commencing new employment, to be year and a minimum of 3% per year.
If the board determines that the executive In the event of death in service, a lump sum of four times has failed to perform his or her duties competently, the pensionable pay plus a spouses pension of two-thirds of the remuneration committee may exercise its discretion to reduce the members pension before commutation would be payable.
Upon termination payment on the grounds of poor performance.
death after leaving the company, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pension before commutation is payable.
Executive Directors Date of service Ivan Menezes Since 1 July 2012 Ivan Menezes has been Ivan Menezes 7 May 2013 a member of the Diageo North America Inc.
Supplemental Deirdre Mahlan 1 July 2010 Executive Retirement Plan SERP with an accrual rate of 40% of Paul Walsh 1 November 2005 base salary.
The SERP is an unfunded, non-qualified supplemental retirement programme.
Under the plan, accrued company contributions are subject to quarterly interest credits based on the What happens to share awards when interest rate set out in the US internal revenue code.
Under the executive directors leave?
rules of the SERP, Ivan Menezes can withdraw the balance of the On cessation of employment, outstanding awards under share plan in the form of five equal annual instalments or a lump sum incentive arrangements will be treated in accordance with the upon reaching age 55 and having left service with Diageo within relevant plan rules approved by shareholders in 2008. six months of separation from service.
Upon death in service, a life insurance benefit of $3 million is payable.
Ivan Menezes was also What external appointments are held by the a member of the UK Scheme between 1 February 1997 and 30 November 1999.
Under the Rules of the UK Scheme this benefit executive directors?
is payable unreduced from age 60.
Executive directors may accept external appointments as Deirdre Mahlan Until 30 June 2012 Deirdre Mahlan had not non-executive directors of other companies and retain any been a member of any Diageo group company pension scheme related fees paid to them, subject to the specific approval of since her appointment to the board and had received a cash the board in each case.
supplement in lieu of pension provision equivalent to 40% of base Paul Walsh During the year ended 30 June 2013, Paul Walsh salary.
With effect from 1 July 2012 the company contribution served as a Non-Executive Director of Unilever NV and PLC, was reduced to 35% of base salary and the benefit is delivered in FedEx Corp and Avanti.
He retained the fees paid to him for his the form of a contribution into the SERP.
Under the plan, accrued services.
At the governments request, he also served as lead company contributions are subject to quarterly interest credits Non-Executive Director and deputy chair on the board of the based on the interest rate set out in the US internal revenue code.
Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC.
Paul Walsh Under the rules of the SERP, Deirdre Mahlan can withdraw the has committed to donating all fees that he receives for this balance of the plan in the form of five equal annual instalments directorship to a charitable educational trust.
The total amounts or a lump sum upon reaching age 55 and having left service with of such fees paid in the year ended 30 June 2013 are set out in the Diageo within six months of separation from service.
in service, a lump sum of four times base salary is payable.
Paul Walsh 000 a Unilever 109 a FedEx Corp 62 DECC 10 Avanti 35 216 Notes a Fees paid in currencies other than sterling are converted using average exchange rates for the year ended 30 June 2013.
104 Diageo Annual Report 2013 In line with the FedEx Corp policy for outside directors, Paul Walsh 31December 2013, he will be eligible to be considered for an is eligible to be granted share options.
During the year ended annual bonus entitlement of 100% of pro-rated base salary at target 200% at maximum.
From 1 January 2014 until 30 June 30 June 2013, he was granted 4,720 options at an option price of $84.71.
He exercised 7,000 FedEx options, during the year, which 2014, any bonus earned will be capped at target.
Paul Walsh will were granted at an option price of $64.38 and sold at an average not receive any lump sum compensation payment in connection price of $97.70.
with the termination of his employment.
Paul Walsh began to receive his pension benefits under Ivan Menezes During the year ended 30 June 2013, Ivan Menezes served as a Non-Executive Director of Coach Inc and the companys policy of flexible pension access from 1 May 2011. earned fees of 61,000.
In line with the Coach Inc policy for outside There has been no further accrual of pension and no directors, Ivan Menezes is eligible to be granted share options enhancement of his pension benefits.
Upon retirement, Paul Walsh will be provided with private medical insurance for his and restricted share units RSUs.
During the year ended 30 June 2013, he was granted 4,419 options at an option price of $56.95 spouse and himself until he attains age 70.
The cost of this and 1,317 RSUs at a fair market value of $56.95.
He exercised 10,000 provision has been assessed based on an external quote and will Coach options during the year, which were granted at an option be paid by Paul Walsh personally.
Paul Walsh holds outstanding awards under both the PSP price of $19.35 and sold at an average price of $57.33.
1,163 RSUs vested in the same time period with a fair market value of $56.97 and the SESOP.
He will not receive any further PSP or SESOP at vesting date.
awards, including the awards he would ordinarily have received Deirdre Mahlan During the year ended 30 June 2013, in September 2013.
The following section outlines how these Deirdre Mahlan served as a Non-Executive Director of Experian awards will be treated.
The committee has decided to enable vesting of PSPs granted to the chief executive from 2011 to be based entirely on the delivery of that performance.
Accordingly, PSP awards will be Chief executive arrangements capable of vesting in full at the end of the performance period, Appointment of new chief executive if performance goals are delivered in full, without providing Ivan Menezes remuneration arrangements are in line with time pro-rating to the point of retirement.
This is in line Diageos remuneration policy for executive directors.
with the approach previously disclosed to shareholders His base salary is $1,520,000 1,000,000 with effect from in the companys 2011 and 2012 remuneration reports.
1 July 2013 and has been positioned below median to reflect The committee has also decided to apply the same treatment the fact that he is new to the role.
No other changes are to awards made under the SESOP.
As a result, subject to proposed to Ivan Menezes current remuneration arrangements achievement of the stretching performance targets under both set out below.
these plans, he will remain entitled to all his shares under his Annual Incentive Plan AIP : Ivan Menezes participates in 2011 and 2012 PSP awards and his 2011 and 2012 SESOP awards.
Up to 100% of salary can be earned for on target performance with a maximum of 200% Given his unique experience, it has been agreed that of salary payable for outstanding performance.
Paul Walsh will be retained in a role with the Scotch whisky Performance Share Plan PSP : Ivan Menezes is eligible for an industry on behalf of Diageo, for a period of up to five years.
annual award under the PSP in line with the remuneration He will receive a starting fee of 80,000 per annum from 1 July policy.
The maximum award that can be made is 375% of 2014.
It is anticipated that any subsequent increase would be base salary.
in line with the progression of non-executive director fees.
Senior Executive Share Option Plan SESOP : Ivan Menezes is Full details of any amounts paid to Paul Walsh will be eligible for an annual award under the SESOP in line with the disclosed in the 2014 directors remuneration report.
The maximum award that can be made is 375% of base salary.
Chairman of the board and Pension: Diageo makes annual contributions of 40% of base salary into the Diageo North America Inc.
Supplemental non-executive directors Executive Retirement Plan SERP.
What is the policy on chairman of the board and non-executive directors fees?
Ivan Menezes retains interests in awards that were granted to him The fees should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain prior to joining the board under below board plans, two-thirds of world-class talent.
which are subject to performance conditions.
These vest over Fee practice should be consistent with recognised best varying periods up to 2019 subject to continued employment.
practice standards for such positions.
The chairman and non-executive directors should not Termination arrangements for outgoing chief executive participate in any of the companys incentive plans.
Paul Walsh will step down from the role of Chief Executive Part of the chairmans fees should be used for the purchase from 1 July 2013.
He will remain employed until 30 June 2014 of Diageo shares.
supporting the new chief executive and the board to ensure an Fees for non-executive directors should be within the limits efficient and comprehensive transition.
The following section set by the shareholders from time to time, currently 1,000,000, provides further information relating to decisions that the as approved by shareholders at the October 2005 AGM.
committee has taken around his remuneration arrangements: The limit excludes remuneration paid for special services During the period from 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014, Paul performed by directors.
Walsh will receive his current base salary and benefits.
There willbe no increase in October 2013 when salaries are normally reviewed.
During the first six months of transition up to Directors remuneration report 105 Governance What terms and conditions apply to the chairman of the board?
As a result of this review, the base fee The Chairman of the Board, Dr Franz B Humer, commenced paid to non-executive directors was increased by 2,000 from 89 Board of directors and 78,000 to 80,000 per annum and the fee for the chairman of the his appointment on 1 July 2008.
Dr Humer had a letter of executive committee appointment for an initial five year term from 1 July 2008 which remuneration committee was increased by 5,000 from 15,000 91 has been extended to 30 June 2016.
It is terminable on six months to 20,000 per annum to reflect market practice in comparable Directors notice by either party or, if terminated by the company, by companies.
It was decided after this last review that fees for remuneration report non-executive directors would be reviewed every two years payment of six months fees in lieu of notice.
112 The chairmans fee is normally reviewed every two years.
Therefore, the next review Corporate As recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, any of the non-executive director fees is anticipated to take place in governance report changes to this fee have to be approved by the remuneration December 2013 with any changes expected to take effect on 122 1 January 2014.
A full summary of the current non-executive committee.
The chairman waived the right to a fee review in Directors report December 2012 and the next review is anticipated to take place in directors fees is shown in the following summary table.
December 2014 with any changes taking effect on 1 January 2015.
Fees are reviewed in the light of market practice in large Chairman of the board and non-executive directors remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2013 companies in the United Kingdom and anticipated workload, tasks and potential liabilities.
In line with Diageos policy, a Per annum fees effective from January 2013 January 2012 proportion of the chairmans annual fee is used for the monthly Chairman of the board 500,000 500,000 purchase of Diageo ordinary shares, which have to be retained Non-executive directors until the chairman retires from the company or ceases to be Base fee 80,000 80,000 a director for any other reason.
The chairmans current fee is Senior non-executive director 20,000 20,000 shown in the following summary table.
Chairman of the audit committee 25,000 25,000 What terms and conditions apply to the Chairman of the remuneration committee 20,000 20,000 non-executive directors?
All non-executive directors have letters of appointment.
The emoluments received by the chairman of the board and A summary of their terms and conditions of appointment is the non-executive directors in the year ended 30 June 2013 are available at www.
shown in the table Directors remuneration for the year ended The last scheduled review of fees for non-executive directors 30 June 2013. was undertaken in December 2011.
At this time, fees were benchmarked against market practice in large companies in the United Kingdom and reviewed in light of anticipated workload, Directors remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2013 Annual Share incentive incentive Cash in lieu Other 2013 2012 Base salary plan plan of pension benefits Total Total b 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Emoluments Chairman fees a Dr Franz B Humer 500 5 505 507 Executive Directors Deirdre Mahlan 666 652 3 31 1,352 1,799 Ivan Menezes 892 838 51 1,781 Paul Walsh 1,230 1,245 3 43 2,521 3,099 Sub-total 2,788 2,735 6 125 5,654 4,898 Non-Executive Directors fees Peggy Bruzelius 80 1 81 80 Laurence Danon 80 1 81 80 Lord Davies 120 1 121 106 Betsy Holden 80 1 81 80 Ho KwonPing 60 1 61 Philip Scott 105 1 106 105 Todd Stitzer 80 1 81 80 Former Non-Executive Directors fees Lord Hollick retired 19 October 2011 33 Paul Walker retired 19 October 2011 23 Sub-total 605 7 612 587 Total 3,893 2,735 6 137 6,771 5,992 Notes a 200,000 of Dr Franz B Humers remuneration in the year ended 30 June 2013 was used for the monthly purchase of Diageo ordinary shares, which must be retained until he retires from the company or ceases to be a director for any other reason.
b Other benefits may include company car and driver, product allowance, financial counselling and medical insurance.
106 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Long term incentive plans Payments and gains In the year ended 30 June 2013, the executive directors received payments and made gains under long term incentive plans as follows: 2013 2012 Executive share option exercises PSP award Total Total 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors a Deirdre Mahlan 408 1,056 1,464 126 a Ivan Menezes 2,931 2,615 5,546 Paul Walsh 10,197 5,954 16,151 3,208 Total 13,536 9,625 23,161 3,334 Note a The awards were made in the form of American Depository Shares ADS and the gain value was converted from US dollars into sterling using the exchange rate as at 30 June 2013.
Directors share options over ordinary shares The following table shows the number of options held under all executive share option plans and savings-related schemes for the directors who held office during the year.
b US options were granted over ADSs at dollar prices one ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares : the option holdings and prices in the table are stated as ordinary share equivalents in pence.
The option price is the historic ordinary share option price at date of grant.
c The performance condition in respect of this SESOP grant was measured after 30 June 2013.
The compound annual growth in Diageos adjusted eps over the three years ended 30 June 2013 exceeded the performance condition and 100% of these options will become exercisable in September 2013. d Options granted under the UK savings-related share option scheme.
e Options granted under the US savings-related share option scheme.
Directors remuneration report 107 Governance A summary of the performance criteria in relation to the SESOP 2008 is provided in the Summary of current remuneration policy for executive directors earlier in this report.
89 Board of directors and The mid-market price for ordinary shares at 30 June 2013 was 1880 pence 2012 1641 pence: 15 July 2013 2016 pence.
executive committee The highest mid-market price during the year was 2085 pence and the lowest mid-market price was 1649 pence.
91 Directors Directors interests in PSP awards remuneration report The following table shows the directors interests in the PSP.
Details of executive share options are shown separately above.
In accordance with the plan rules, the number of shares awarded is determined based on the average of the daily closing price for the last six months of the preceding financial year.
Of this number of shares initially awarded, threshold vesting will release 25% of the initial award and maximum vesting will release 100% of the initial award.
The performance conditions and vesting profile that determines the proportion of shares that is eventually released is described in the Summary of current remuneration policy for executive directors earlier in this report.
b The three year performance period for the September 2009 PSP award ended on 30 June 2012.
The number of shares released in October 2012 was 65% of the initial award.
This was based on a relative TSR ranking of position five in the peer group at the end of the performance period.
Kepler Associates independently verified the TSR increase and ranking.
Notional dividends accrue on awards: for the 2009 award these were paid out in shares with a gross value of 433,000 for Paul Walsh and 75,000 for Deirdre Mahlan.
c The price on 26 September 2012, the release date.
The market price was 975 pence when the award was made on 17 September 2009. d The directors interests at 15 July 2013 were the same as at 30 June 2013. e The three year performance period for the September 2010 PSP award ended on 30 June 2013.
The number of shares that will be released in September 2013 is 95% of the initial award.
This was based on a relative TSR ranking of position three in the peer group at the end of the performance period.
In addition to the release of the initial award, notional dividends that have accrued on the award to the extent that it has vested will be settled in the form of shares.
The gross value of the accrued notional dividends is equivalent to 596,000 for Paul Walsh, 256,000 for Ivan Menezes and 232,000 for Deirdre Mahlan.
The value for Ivan Menezes is based on the ADS dividends converted to ordinary shares at a ratio of one ADS to four ordinary shares.
f The market price on 1 October 2012 was 1772 pence.
g US share awards were granted in ADS one ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares : the share holdings in the table are stated as ordinary share equivalents.
h Ivan Menezes retains interests in awards that were granted to him prior to joining the board under below board plans Discretionary Incentive Plan, totalling 188,172 ADS 752,688 ordinary shares equivalent.
Two-thirds of these awards are subject to performance conditions and will be released, subject to achievement of the performance conditions and continued employment, in phased tranches between September 2014 and March 2019.
Details of this plan can be found in note 29 of the consolidated financial statements.
108 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Executive directors pension benefits Paul Walsh started receiving his pension from the Scheme on 1 May 2011 and therefore has not earned any more pension benefits over the year ending 30 June 2013.
The only reason for his pension changing is the guaranteed standard pension increase awarded on 1 April 2013.
He has not received any discretionary pension increases since he started receiving his pension.
The transfer values of the accrued pensions calculated at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2013 are also shown below.
The accrued pension figures at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2013 for Ivan Menezes represent the annual UK pension to which he would be entitled at Normal Retirement Age.
The transfer values are broadly the cost to Diageo if it had to provide the equivalent pension benefit.
The transfer values shown in the table have been calculated as set by the Trustees of the Scheme.
Additional Change in Pensionable Accrued pension Accrued Transfer transfer Transfer Age at service at pension at accrued in pension at value at value during value at a b, c d, e, f 30 June 2013 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 the year 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 the year 30 June 2013 Years Years 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 Paul Walsh 58 29 578 19 597 19,179 693 18,486 Ivan Menezes 53 3 65 1 66 1,372 111 1,483 Notes a The pensions for Paul Walsh and Ivan Menezes are provided from the Diageo Pension Scheme DPS.
b Paul Walshs pension is higher at 30 June 2013 than at 30 June 2012 by 19,000 due to receiving a standard pension increase as at 1 April 2013.
The pension increase was 3.3% which was in line with the guaranteed pension increase as outlined in the Scheme Rules and which was awarded to all other pensioner members of that section of the Scheme.
No discretionary pension increase was awarded to Paul Walsh.
c Ivan Menezes pension is higher at 30 June 2013 than at 30 June 2012 by 1,000 due to deferred revaluations.
d Paul Walshs transfer value is lower at 30 June 2013 than at 30 June 2012 by 693,000 for the following reasons: 647,000 less due to allowing for market conditions changing between June 2012 and June 2013.
649,000 more due to allowing for pension increases awarded and the expected interest in excess of the pension increases awarded.
583,000 less due to allowing for the pension payments Paul Walsh has received during the year.
112,000 less due to changes made by the Trustees of the Scheme to the way transfer values are calculated.
e Ivan Menezes transfer value is higher at 30 June 2013 than at 30 June 2012 by 111,000 for the following reasons: 76,000 more due to allowing for known deferred revaluations and the expected interest in excess of the deferred revaluations.
37,000 more due to allowing for market conditions changing between June 2012 and June 2013.
2,000 less due to changes made by the Trustees of the Scheme to the way transfer values are calculated.
f During the year, Paul Walsh and Ivan Menezes made pension contributions of nil 2012 nil.
Ivan Menezes and Deirdre Mahlan are both accruing pension benefits in the US.
The pension benefits being accrued are of a similar design to a UK defined contribution plan, but with a pre-determined investment return.
The balance of the plan can be withdrawn in the form of five equal annual instalments or a lump sum upon reaching age 55 and having left service with Diageo within six months of separation from service.
The transfer values of the accrued benefits calculated at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2013 are shown, and are equal to the accrued benefits at the respective dates.
The transfer value as at 30 June 2013 has changed for the reasons set out in note b for Ivan Menezes and c for Deirdre Mahlan below.
Additional Change in Pensionable Accrued benefit Accrued Transfer transfer Transfer Age at service at benefit at accrued in benefit at value at value during value at a b, c b, c, d 30 June 2013 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 the year 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 the year 30 June 2013 Years Years 000 000 000 000 000 000 Ivan Menezes 53 16 2,744 562 3,306 2,744 562 3,306 Deirdre Mahlan 51 1 420 268 688 420 268 688 Notes a Deirdre Mahlan joined the non-qualified SERP plan with effect from 1 July 2012 and has accrued one year of service to 30 June 2013.
The benefit of 420,000 shown at 30 June 2012 was in respect of benefits Deirdre Mahlan earned in the qualified Cash Balance plan and the non-qualified BSP plan up until 30 June 2010 when she opted out of these plans.
During the year ended 30 June 2013, Ivan Menezes accrued one year of additional service in the non-qualified SERP plan, and an additional two months of service in the qualified Cash Balance plan and the non-qualified BSP plan.
b Ivan Menezes accrued benefit and hence transfer value is higher at 30 June 2013 than at 30 June 2012 by 562,000 for the following reasons 371,000 more due to allowing for additional pensionable service over the year.
85,000 more due to allowing for the increase due to interest earned on the accrued balance over the year.
106,000 more due to allowing for the movement in exchange rates over the year.
c Deirdre Mahlans accrued benefit and hence transfer value is higher at 30 June 2013 than at 30 June 2012 by 268,000 for the following reasons: 231,000 more due to allowing for additional pensionable service over the year.
15,000 more due to allowing for the increase due to interest earned on the accrued balance over the year.
22,000 more due to allowing for the movement in exchange rates over the year.
d During the year, Deirdre Mahlan and Ivan Menezes made pension contributions of nil 2012 nil.
There are no pension provisions for non-executive directors.
Directors remuneration report 109 Governance Share and other interests 89 The beneficial interests of the directors in office at 30 June 2013 in the ordinary shares of the company are shown in the table below.
Board of directors and executive committee Ordinary shares 91 30 June Directors 15 July 30 June 2012 or remuneration report 2013 2013 appointment 112 Chairman Corporate Dr Franz B Humer 47,295 46,883 40,533 governance report Executive Directors 122 a, b Deirdre Mahlan 133,118 133,109 95,275 Directors report a, b Ivan Menezes 504,605 504,605 439,246 a Paul Walsh 769,660 769,651 651,579 Non-Executive Directors Peggy Bruzelius 5,000 5,000 5,000 Laurence Danon 5,000 5,000 5,000 Lord Davies 5,052 5,052 5,052 b Betsy Holden 17,400 17,400 17,400 Ho KwonPing 4,000 4,000 Philip Scott 10,000 10,000 10,000 Todd Stitzer 8,319 8,319 8,319 1,509,449 1,509,019 1,277,404 Notes a At 30 June 2013, there were 4,685,321 shares 30 June 2012 7,231,200: 15 July 2013 4,598,439 held by trusts to satisfy grants made under Diageo incentive plans and savings-related share option schemes.
Paul Walsh, Ivan Menezes and Deirdre Mahlan are among the potential beneficiaries of these trusts and are deemed to have an interest in all these shares.
b Ivan Menezes, Deirdre Mahlan and Betsy Holden have share interests in ADS one ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares : the share interests in the table are stated as ordinary share equivalents.
Senior management options over ordinary shares Additional information At 15 July 2013, the senior management had an aggregate Emoluments and share interests of senior management beneficial interest in 2,173,299 ordinary shares in the company The total emoluments for the year ended 30 June 2013 of the and in the following options over ordinary shares in the company: executive directors, the executive committee members and the company secretary together, the senior management of Diageo Weighted average comprising base salary, annual incentive plan, share incentive exercise plan, termination payments and other benefits were 16,311,231 Number price of options in pence Option period 2012 17,918,855.
Deirdre Mahlan 696,875 1241 Sep 2010Sep 2022 The aggregate amount of gains made by the senior management from the exercise of share options and from the Ivan Menezes 615,304 1333 Sep 2013Sep 2022 vesting of awards during the year was 56,715,400.
In addition, Paul Walsh 1,505,182 1196 Sep 2012Sep 2022 they were granted 1,258,751 options under the SESOP during the Other 3,554,874 1267 Oct 2006Sep 2022 year at a weighted average share price of 1744 pence, exercisable 6,372,235 by 2022 and 20,254 options under the Diageo Executive Long Term Incentive Plan DELTIP, which will vest in three years.
They Other members of the executive committee and the company secretary.
were also initially awarded 1,368,202 shares under the PSP in October 2012, which will vest in three years subject to the performance tests described above as well as 463 restricted stock units under the DELTIP, which will vest in three years.
110 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Key management personnel related party transactions The board has followed and complied with the requirements of Key management personnel of the group comprises the the Companies Act 2006 with reference to Schedules 5 and 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts executive and non-executive directors, the members of the executive committee and the company secretary.
As previously and Reports Regulations 2008 and section D of the UK Corporate disclosed, Paul Walsh and Gareth Williams have informed the Governance Code in preparing this report and in designing company that they have purchased seasonal developments at performance-related remuneration for senior executives.
KPMG Audit Plc has audited the report to the extent required Gleneagles from a subsidiary of the company, Gleneagles Resort Developments Limited.
The transactions were priced on the by the Regulations, being the sections headed Directors same basis as all the external seasonal development transactions remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2013, Long term and were at arms length.
The values of the transactions at the incentive plans, Directors share options over ordinary shares, Directors interests in PSP and TSR plan awards, Executive date of purchase were as follows: Paul Walsh 43,000 and Gareth Williams 19,400.
Each director continued to hold directors pension benefits.
In addition, the following sections these seasonal developments at 30 June 2013. form part of the audited financial statements: Share and other Diageo plc has granted rolling indemnities to the directors interests and Key management personnel related party transactions.
and the company secretary, uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur in the course Terms defined in this remuneration report are used of acting as directors or company secretary as applicable of solely herein.
Diageo plc or of one or more of its subsidiaries.
These indemnities continue to be in place at 30 June 2013.
Definitions Other than disclosed in this report, no director had any Adjusted eps for the purpose of the SESOP, an underlying interest, beneficial or non-beneficial, in the share capital of the measure of eps is used, calculated as reported eps adjusted company.
Save as disclosed above, no director has or has had any to exclude exceptional items and the impact of changes in interest in any transaction which is or was unusual in its nature, or exchange rates, to apply a tax rate before exceptional items for which is or was significant to the business of the group and which each year and to exclude the impacts of IAS 19, 21 and 39 from was effected by any member of the group during the financial net finance charges.
year, or which having been effected during an earlier financial Average cash for the purpose of the AIP, average cash is a metric year, remains in any respect outstanding or unperformed.
There where free cash flow delivery in each month is weighted by time.
have been no material transactions during the last three years to Organic net sales growth for the purpose of the PSP, the which any director or officer, or 3% or greater shareholder, or any growth in the groups sales net of excise duties calculated on spouse or dependent thereof, was a party.
There is no significant a constant currency basis excluding the impact of acquisitions outstanding indebtedness to the company from any directors or and disposals.
officer or 3% or greater shareholder.
Organic operating margin improvement for the purpose of the PSP, the movement in the groups organic operating margin.
Statutory and audit requirements Organic operating margin is the ratio calculated by dividing This report was approved by a duly authorised committee of the organic operating profit by organic net sales expressed as a board of directors, on 29 July 2013 and was signed on its behalf by percentage.
Organic operating profit is calculated on a constant Lord Davies of Abersoch who is Senior Non-Executive Director currency basis excluding the impact of exceptional items, and Chairman of the remuneration committee.
As required by acquisitions and disposals.
the Companies Act 2006, a resolution to approve the directors TSR for the purpose of the PSP, total shareholder return is the remuneration report will be proposed at the AGM and will be percentage growth in Diageos share price assuming all dividends subject to an advisory shareholder vote.
and capital distributions are re-invested.
