50 Remuneration report For the year ended 31 October 2013 During these continuing difficult times, it remains a core objective of our Remuneration Policy that we can attract, retain and motivate high quality individuals to execute our business strategy within the prevailing economic conditions.
We believe that our Remuneration Policy and the focus we place on linking remuneration to individual and business performance, through salaries and our incentive based structures, continue to be appropriate and are in the interests of shareholders.
The Committee and the Executive Directors alike are evermindful of the need to temper reward with restraint.
In that context, it is noteworthy that, notwithstanding the Groups operational and strategic achievements during the year, Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert waived their 2013 salary increases.
Garry Havens, the third of the three Executive Directors, retires on 31 December 2013 so was not eligible for a 2013 salary review.
A key part of our Remuneration Policy is that our Annual Bonus Plan and our Long-Term Incentive Plan are underpinned by challenging performance conditions.
In respect of the Annual Bonus Plan, this year Sir David Brown the Group profit and cash targets were not achieved.
For Nigel Bond Remuneration Committee Chairman and Andrew Herbert this resulted in no bonus payments being made to them for 2013 despite their having made considerable achievements against their personal objectives.
To ensure a smooth handover on his retirement, the Annual Bonus Plan targets for Garry Havens were specific to the development and growth of the Groups USA business and therefore did not include Group profit and cash, and he was awarded a bonus of 90.5 per cent of salary.
The vesting level under the Long-Term Incentive Plan was 100 per cent reflecting the Groups performance over the period December 2009 to December 2012.
Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman In documenting the Directors Remuneration Policy, which will be put to a binding vote at the forthcoming AGM, the Dear Shareholder, Committee has sought to strike a sound balance between flexibility, discretion and judgement consistent with the guidance On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Directors published by the GC100 and Investor Group, such that the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 October 2013.
This policy is likely to be properly responsive to the dynamic markets report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and in which the Group operates for fully three years ahead.
I look forward to receiving your support for the resolutions seeking The Committee is supportive of the spirit of the UK Department approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration at our forthcoming for Business, Innovation & Skills drive to improve the transparency AGM and of the Remuneration Policy applicable to our Executive and clarity in the reporting of Directors remuneration.
In our 2012 Directors which will apply from the date of the AGM.
report we made changes to improve the quality of disclosure made and were very pleased with the level of shareholder support for the 2012 Remuneration Report, for which we received 97.7 per cent votes in favour.
Our aim this year has been to maintain these high standards of remuneration disclosure, augmented by our Sir David Brown compliance with the new remuneration reporting regulations.
Remuneration Committee Chairman Global trading conditions in the year have remained difficult, but despite this, the Group has grown year-on-year, delivering sales of 335.7 million, underlying profits of 53.0 million and net cash inflow from operating activities before taxation of 54.9 million.
Also, good overall progress has been made during the year towards the delivery of the Groups major strategic priorities.
The results which have been achieved are testimony to the calibre of leadership and the commitment of our employees in tough conditions.
These factors have been taken into account by the Committee and are reflected in the remuneration awarded to the Executive Directors in 2013.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 51 Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of how the Companys Remuneration Policy for Directors was implemented during the financial year ended on 31 October 2013.
Single total figure of remuneration Executive Directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director paid in the 2013 financial year.
Comparative figures for 2012 have also been provided.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the new remuneration disclosure regulations The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Therefore their salaries were unchanged throughout 2013 at 417,000 and 257,000 respectively.
2 Long-term incentives shows the value at vesting of awards granted in 2010 where the performance period ended in the 2013 financial year.
The figures shown for 2012 have been restated on the same basis as how the 2013 figures have been prepared and, therefore, may be different from those figures included in our 2012 annual report.
3 Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert joined the supplementary pension plan with effect from 6 April 2011.
Cash payments are included in the Company contribution of 25.5 per cent of salary.
Income tax and National Insurance is deducted from cash payments made under this supplementary plan.
Payments are also reduced by the amount of the Companys additional employers National Insurance cost arising in respect of the payments.
Taxable benefits consist of the cost of providing a car benefit, life assurance, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, dental insurance and, in respect of Garry Havens, US accommodation costs.
Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director in relation to the 2013 financial year.
Taxable 1 Fees benefits Total Non-Executive Director Roles 000 000 000 2 Peter Byrom Chairman 172 172 Chairman of Nomination Committee Peter Byrom 2012 As above 167 167 Philip Ruffles Non-Executive Director 42 42 Philip Ruffles 2012 As above 41 41 Sir Mark Wrightson Senior Independent Director Chairman of Audit Committee Member of Remuneration and Nomination Committees 42 42 Sir Mark Wrightson 2012 As above 41 41 Sir David Brown Chairman of Remuneration Committee Member of Audit and Nomination Committees 42 42 Sir David Brown 2012 As above 41 41 Chris Brinsmead Member of Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees 42 42 Chris Brinsmead 2012 As above 41 41 1 No Chairman or Non-Executive Director fee increases were made in November 2013.
2 Fees totalling 68,470 2012: 66,800 were paid to Stockbridge Limited, a company of which Mr Byrom is a Director.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 52 Annual report on remuneration continued 2.
Additional details on variable pay in single figure table In order to execute its business strategy, the Company needs high-quality Directors and the remuneration packages need to be able to attract, retain and motivate such individuals.
The annual bonus and the Long-Term Incentive Plan are used to ensure that, when merited by performance, an opportunity is offered to earn total remuneration at the upper quartile of the market.
The Committee considers that performance conditions for all incentives are suitably demanding, having regard to the business strategy, shareholder expectations and external advice regarding the market benchmarks.
To the extent that any performance condition is not met, the relevant part of the award will lapse.
There is no retesting of performance.
The main components of the Remuneration Policy, and how they are linked to and support the Companys business strategy, are summarised in each of the following sections.
Annual bonus plan awards In respect of the year under review, the Executive Directors performance was carefully reviewed by the Committee, in consultation with the Group Managing Director in respect of the other Executive Directors, and performance as against the annual bonus plan measures in relation to Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert was as follows: Actual Annual bonus Threshold Maximum Annual bonus value for performance value achieved performance performance threshold and maximum Weighting required required performance % salary N Bond A Herbert N Bond A Herbert Group profit Underlying pre-tax 30% 53.7m 60.5m 0%30% 53.0m 53.0m 0% 0% profit Group cash Operating cash flow 20% 58.5m 62.5m 0%20% 54.9m 54.9m 0% 0% before taxation Personal 50% Personal objectives in the year Minimum 0% 58% 73% 0% 0% were a combination of divisional Maximum is 100% sales and profit targets, business of the total % process improvement targets achieved under and strategic objectives.
Given the Group Profit and commercial sensitivity and individual Group Cash nature of these targets, we have not performance disclosed the precise measures here.
conditions Total 100% 0% of 0% of salary salary Total 000 0 0 The Group profit and cash components operate separately and payments are made on a straight-line basis between the threshold and maximum levels.
If an Executive Director achieves his personal objectives, a multiplier is applied to the amount earned under the financial conditions.
The value of the multiplier is dependent on the level of achievement, with the maximum that can be earned under this element being 50 per cent of salary by means of a multiplier of 2.
However, the personal objectives multiplier will only be applied if the Executive Director has reached and maintained his shareholding requirement, as set by the Committee.
If the Executive Director meets his personal objectives but the financial conditions are not achieved, then no bonus payment will be made.
This ensures that any bonus payments are aligned to the strategic objectives of the Group and that payments are made only when the Groups financial performance justifies this.
No part of these bonuses was deferred as the Committee believes that the Executive Directors have sufficient long-term alignment with the interests of shareholders through the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the shareholding requirements imposed.
However, the Committee reviews the structure of the annual bonus on a regular basis and considers its appropriateness both in terms of the Companys strategy as well as market practice and corporate governance principles.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 53 Corporate governance 2.
Additional details on variable pay in single figure table Long-Term Incentive Plan 1997 continued The last awards made under this plan were granted in 2007.
Annual bonus plan awards for Garry Havens Conditional awards of shares were granted annually to all the To ensure a smooth handover from Mr Havens on his retirement from Executive Directors and certain senior managers.
There was no the Company on 31 December 2013, Mr Havens was set a different maximum award value stated in the plan but in practice a limit was set of targets for his annual bonus compared to the other Executive adopted of 60 per cent of the individuals base salary.
Vesting of the Directors during this performance year, focused around the award was subject to the satisfaction of objective performance development and growth of the USA business.
conditions relative TSR 50 per cent and growth in EPS 50 per cent.
Awards vested subject to the satisfaction of these conditions at The table below provides the breakdown of the 2013 performance the end of the three year performance period.
measures for Mr Havens annual bonus.
The detailed targets set for the sales and profit measures have not been disclosed as they are The resulting shares were then held in trust for a further three years.
specific to the operation of the USA business and, in the view of the During this period, additional awards were made annually based on Committee constitute commercially sensitive information particularly the number of shares allocated based on performance levels achieved in relation to our positioning against our competitors who operate in at vesting in 2010, giving a possible maximum addition of 72 per cent the same markets and territories.
The Committee expects these of the original award.
This deferred element was included in assessing specific detailed targets to remain commercially sensitive indefinitely the value of the original conditional award up to the point of vesting.
and so makes no commitment to disclosing them at any time in the At the end of this deferral period, the Executive is free to deal with future.
Intending not to disclose detailed targets in the future is not a the shares as he or she wishes.
The value of these shares has not been Committee Policy and the Committee feels that in these particular included in the single total figure of remuneration as they vested in circumstances only is it justified.
2010 and the performance period ended in 2010.
Annual bonus All shares held in trust in relation to the 2007 awards which vested in value for threshold and 2010 were released in January 2013.
The table below details the maximum Annual shares released from the trust.
performance bonus value Number of shares Performance condition Weighting % salary achieved Director released from trust Sales 50% 0%50% 40.5% Nigel Bond 38,139 50% 0%50% 50.0% Profit Andrew Herbert 23,252 Total 100% 90.5% Garry Havens 20,178 Total 000 207 The payments for sales and profit operate independently with straight-line allocation of the bonus between the achievement of threshold and maximum targets.
It is vital that the USA business is equipped to continue its sales and profit growth in future years.
Therefore, in determining the final bonus payable the Remuneration Committee has taken into account the following factors: w the organisational capability at the end of the year in respect of sales team competence and other factors: w a smooth transfer in US leadership succession: and w overall performance of the USA business.
No adjustment was made to the bonus award in respect of these factors.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 54 Annual report on remuneration continued 2.
Additional details on variable pay in single figure table continued Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards The awards granted under the LTIP are subject to performance conditions to be met over a performance period of three years or more.
For awards made in 2008 and subsequent years, including 2013, the performance period is three years.
At the end of the performance period the awards will vest to the extent the performance conditions have been satisfied.
There is no retesting of performance conditions and if they are not satisfied, the awards will lapse.
The LTIP was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 19 March 2008.
The performance conditions applicable to the LTIP are set out below.
The Committee assessed the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied for the 2010 award which were tested in 2013, with the following results: Threshold Maximum LTIP value for meeting performance performance threshold and maximum Performance Vesting Condition Weighting required required performance % salary achieved % EPS growth 50% RPI 12% RPI 30% 12.5%50% RPI 38% 50% Relative TSR 50% Median of the Upper quartile of the 12.5%50% Upper quartile 50% FTSE 250 FTSE 250 Total 100% 100% Between threshold and maximum, vesting will take place on a straight-line basis.
Long-term incentives awarded in the 2013 financial year The table below sets out the details of the LTIP awards granted in the 2013 financial year where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods.
Percentage of Maximum award vesting percentage of Face value at threshold face value that Performance 1 2 Director Award type LTIP awarded of award performance could vest period end date Performance conditions Nigel Bond 417,000 EPS growth 100% of salary LTIP annual 17 December Relative TSR see below 100% of maximum 25% 100% cycle of awards 2015 for further details of award Andrew Herbert 257,000 the 2013 conditions 1 Mr Havens was not granted an LTIP award in the 2013 financial year.
2 Maximum number of shares multiplied by 566.50p share price at date of grant, 18 December 2012.
The performance conditions applicable to awards granted in the 2013 financial year are set out below: LTIP value for meeting Threshold Maximum threshold and maximum Condition Weighting performance required performance required performance % salary Basis for measurement EPS growth 50% RPI 12% RPI 30% 12.5%50% Underlying EPS figure reported in the audited results of the Group for the last complete financial year ending before the start of the performance period and the last complete financial year ending before the end of the performance period will be used.
RPI is as published by the Office for National Statistics.
Relative TSR 50% Median of the Upper quartile of the 12.5%50% Average of the Groups closing mid-market FTSE 250 FTSE 250 share price over the three months preceding the start of the performance period and preceding the end of the performance period will be used.
Data is taken from the Return Index produced by Thomson One.
Total 100% Between threshold and maximum, vesting will take place on a straight-line basis.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 55 Corporate governance 3.
Long-term incentives awarded in 2013 financial year continued Save As You Earn SAYE and Share Incentive Plan SIP The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the SAYE and SIP schemes.
On 6 September 2013, Andrew Herbert exercised a SAYE option over 4,308 Domino shares at an exercise price of 2.27.
Each Executive Director has contributed 125 per month to the SIP.
Pension entitlements The Executive Directors are entitled to be members of the defined contribution scheme that is available to all Domino UK employees.
They do not participate in any defined benefit scheme.
For the year commencing 1 November 2012, the Company contribution was 25.5 per cent of salary for the Executive Directors, a portion of which was taken as a cash supplement by Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert under the terms of the supplementary pension plan which they joined with effect from 6 April 2011.
The value of the cash supplement was 95,000 and 58,000, respectively.
The value of such cash supplement is not taken into account when calculating annual bonus and LTIP award levels, which are determined by reference to base salary only.
Statement of Directors shareholding The Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a holding of at least 40,000 Domino shares.
The table below summarises the Directors interests in shares and the extent to which the shareholding requirement applicable to Executive Directors has been achieved as at 31 October 2013.
In each case, the shareholding requirement has been achieved, excluding unvested LTIP share: Interests counted towards Interests not counted shareholding requirement towards shareholding requirement Shares Shareholding Beneficial Interests Unvested Vested but Total of all interests required to requirement interests in LTIP interests subject to in Share SAYE unexercised in shares held at 1 2 Director be held met?
shares performance conditions Incentive Plan options SAYE options 31 October 2013 Nigel Bond 40,000 Yes 82,777 224,330 130 2,825 310,062 Andrew Herbert 40,000 Yes 45,388 138,527 130 4,255 188,300 Garry Havens 40,000 Yes 50,378 81,255 130 3,830 135,593 1 Beneficial interests include shares held directly or indirectly by connected persons.
This may include unrestricted shares held in the Share Incentive Plan.
2 This column shows the quantity of shares held under the Share Incentive Plan which were subject to forfeiture as at 31 October 2013.
Other shares held in the Share Incentive Plan are shown in the Beneficial interests column.
On 6 September 2013, Andrew Herbert exercised a SAYE option UNAUDITED INFORMATION over 4,308 shares at an exercise price of 2.27.
Performance and pay date of exercise was 6.795, resulting in a gain on exercise of 19,508.
The graph below shows the Groups performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE Mid 250 Total Return Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding index for the period 1 November 2008 to 31 October 2013.
Details of their interests in shares are set out below Committee considers that the FTSE Mid 250 is the appropriate index and all interests are beneficial interests, unless otherwise stated: because the Company has been a member of this index throughout the period.
Shares held Shares held 31 October 31 October Director 2013 2012 Five year total shareholder return performance 1 Peter Byrom 302,000 302,000 400 Sir David Brown 10,000 10,000 350 Chris Brinsmead 10,000 10,000 Philip Ruffles 30,000 30,000 300 2 Sir Mark Wrightson 40,935 40,935 250 200 1 Mr Byrom has a non-beneficial interest in a further 36,000 shares.
2 Sir Mark Wrightson has a non-beneficial interest in a further 1,050 shares.
150 100 50 0 Oct 08 Oct 09 Oct 10 Oct 11 Oct 12 Oct 13 Five year period from 1 November 2008 to 31 October 2013 Domino Printing Sciences plc FTSE Mid 250 Total Return Index Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 TSR % from 1 November 2008 56 Annual report on remuneration continued 6.
Performance and pay continued The table below shows the single figure total remuneration and the levels of pay out and vesting under the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP 1 respectively for the Group Managing Directors remuneration over the past five years.
Group MD Single Annual bonus LTIP vesting rates figure of total pay out % against maximum Year remuneration 000 against maximum opportunity % 2013 1,188 0% 100% 2012 1,395 0% 100% 2011 1,452 25% 100% 2010 943 90% 68% 2009 675 33% 77% 1 LTIP shows the value of awards vesting in each year.
The figures have been restated on the same basis as how the 2013 figures have been prepared and, therefore, may be different from those figures included in previous annual reports.
Percentage increase in the Group Managing Directors remuneration The table below compares the percentage increase in the Group Managing Directors pay including salary, fees, benefits and annual bonus with 1 the wider UK employee population.
The Company considers the UK employee population employees and managers to be an appropriate comparator group for a UK-based Group Managing Director and is a stable point of comparison rather than a comparison against an aggregate of increases across our worldwide employee base.
Methodology: per cent increase in Group Managing Directors remuneration compared with UK employee population average pay and bonus per capita of all UK employees, excluding the Group Managing Directors salary and bonus.
2013 2012 000 000 % change Group MD Salary 417 411 1.46% Benefits 112 108 3.70% Annual bonus 0 0 0% UK employees Salary 35.8 35.2 1.56% 2 per capita Benefits 5.0 5.3 7.5% Annual bonus 0.5 0 N A 1 The Group Managing Directors salary is reviewed annually in May.
The salary of UK employees is reviewed annually in July.
2 The UK employees benefits figure is sensitive to the benefit-in-kind value of the healthcare scheme.
The aggregate value of healthcare claims reduced year on year, thus reducing the benefit-in-kind value determined by the healthcare scheme provider.
Since the scheme benefits are unchanged, this year on year reduction in the benefit-in-kind value is to the employees advantage.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2013 financial year and 2012 financial year compared with other 1 disbursements from profit including distributions to shareholders and retained profit.
Disbursements from Disbursements from profit in 2013 financial year profit in 2012 financial year % total % total % m spend m spend change 2 Profit distributed by way of dividend 23.5 20% 21.5 15% 9% 3 Overall spend on pay including Directors 102.0 85% 90.0 61% 13% 4 Corporation tax paid for year 12.0 10% 16.6 11% 28% 5 Loss profit retained in the Group 17.6 15% 17.2 13% 192% 1 An holistic view on profit allocation during the 2013 financial year has been taken in considering the disbursements disclosed.
2 Refer to note 13 of the financial statements.
3 Refer to note 6 of the financial statements.
4 Refer to note 33 of the financial statements.
Corporation tax is the amount paid by all Group companies.
5 Being profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement less dividend distributions.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 57 Corporate governance 9.
Implementation of policy in coming year The Remuneration Policy and its implementation for the forthcoming financial year is summarised below: Package structure The main elements of executive remuneration effective from 19 March 2014 being the date of the AGM at which shareholder approval for this report will be sought are: w Base salary w Annual bonus plan with maximum opportunity of 100 per cent of base salary based on Group profit 30 per cent, Group cash 20 per cent and personal objectives 50 per cent.
w Long-Term Incentive Plan with maximum opportunity of 100 per cent of base salary delivered in shares based on EPS growth 50 per cent and relative Total Shareholder Return 50 per cent.
Under the EPS growth element, 25 per cent of the element 12.5 per cent of the total award vests for EPS growth of RPI 12 per cent over the performance period, increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting 50per cent of the total award for EPS growth of RPI 30 per cent.
Under the Relative Total Shareholder Return element performance is measured against the FTSE 250.
25 per cent of the element 12.5 per cent of the total award vests at median performance of the index, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting 50 per cent of the total award for upper quartile performance.
Pay for performance w Key principle for the shortand long-term incentives is to provide a strong link between reward and individual and Group performance to align the interests of Executives with those of shareholders.
w When merited by performance, an opportunity is offered to earn total remuneration at the upper quartile levels of remuneration paid, against companies of a similar market capitalisation and with similar revenues to the Company.
The details of the targets applicable to the annual bonus plan for the coming year are considered by the Committee to be commercially sensitive as they are the key metrics which are critical to the operation of the Company, so they have not been disclosed as the Committee feels it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to do so.
However details of the targets and the extent to which they have been satisfied will be disclosed in the 2014 annual report on remuneration.
Composition and terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee This Committee deals with all aspects of remuneration of the Executive Directors, Group HR Director and Company Secretary, including: w Setting salaries w Agreeing conditions and coverage of annual incentive schemes and long-term incentives w Policy and scope for pension arrangements w Determining targets for performance related schemes w Scope and content of service contracts w Deciding extent of compensation if any on termination of service contracts.
The Committee is also responsible for recommending and monitoring the level and structure of senior management remuneration and setting the Chairmans fees.
From a broader employee perspective, the Committee determines the issue and terms of all share-based plans available to all employees and is aware of and advises on any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
The Remuneration Committees Terms of Reference are available on the Company website www.
The Committees members are currently Sir David Brown Committee Chairman, Sir Mark Wrightson and Mr Chris Brinsmead.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 58 Annual report on remuneration continued 10.
Composition and terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee continued The Chairman, the Group Managing Director, the Group HR Director and Mr Philip Ruffles are invited to attend the Committee meetings but do not participate in decisions.
These attendees were present when the Committee considered matters relating to the Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 October 2013.
The Committee met five times during the year.
The Committees activities for the 2013 financial year have included: Meeting Standing agenda items Other agenda items November 2012 w Assess achievement of objectives and determine annual bonus for Executive Directors conditional on auditors confirmation of underlying pre-tax profit figure w Discuss objectives and bonus targets for the 2013 financial year w Approve LTIP award allocation schedule w Review executive share options w Review and approve Remuneration Committee report for the 2012 financial year w Review expenses policy for Chairman and Directors December 2012 w Approve bonus payment for Executive Directors now underlying pre-tax profit figure confirmed by auditor w Approve objectives and bonus targets for the 2013 financial year w Approve revised schedule for grant of executive share options w Review performance conditions for 2010 LTIP awards and approve vesting levels June 2013 w Executive Directors salary review w Salary review for HR Director and Company Secretary w Review level and structure of remuneration for senior executives w Review Remuneration Committee terms of reference September 2013 w Executive management team salary review w 2013 draft Remuneration Report w Executive Directors total remuneration benchmarking data October 2013 w 2013 draft Remuneration Report w Executive Directors total remuneration benchmarking data 11.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee Mrs Sanderson, the Group HR Director, has provided advice to the Committee on salaries and benefits for the Executive Directors and senior management.
In doing this she has relied upon remuneration data provided by a number of third party providers, including PwC.
In addition, PwC has provided advice to the Committee on the preparation of this report as well as on market practice and trends.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is satisfied that advice received from PwC during the year was objective and independent.
Fees in relation to Adviser Appointed by Services provided to the Committee remuneration advice 000 PwC Remuneration Committee in 2012 Advice on market practice and trends.
37 Preparation of the 2013 Remuneration Report.
Shareholder context The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2012 Remuneration report at the AGM held on 19 March 2013.
Votes Votes for % Votes Against % withheld 2012 Remuneration report 93,455,474 97.74% 1,850,233 1.94% 102,594 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 59 Corporate governance Directors remuneration policy This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of the In order to execute this strategy, the Company needs high-quality Companys Directors Remuneration Policy that will govern the Directors and the remuneration packages need to be able to attract, Companys future remuneration payments.
retain and motivate such individuals.
Salary and benefit packages for Executive Directors are linked to both individual and business The policy described will be applicable from the date of the AGM performance and are designed to ensure that the Group is managed and is subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM in the interests of shareholders.
Whilst salaries are generally set in March 2014. by reference to the median of the market, the annual bonus and Long-Term Incentive Plan are intended to give Executive Directors an The Companys business strategy is to provide industrial customers opportunity to earn total annual remuneration at the upper quartile of with a full suite of products to meet their coding and marking and the market in terms of payments made when merited by performance.
The objective is to enable Domino to continue to grow its market share in this industry and deliver a sustained increase The main components of the Remuneration Policy, and how they in profitability, cash flow and shareholder value.
To achieve these are linked to and support the Companys business strategy, are objectives, it is vital that the Remuneration Policy devised and applied summarised below: by the Committee supports this strategy.
Policy table Executive Directors Objective and Operation Maximum Performance link to the potential value conditions and strategy assessment Base Reflects level of Base salary is set annually on 1 May.
N A Broadly pitched around the salary responsibility and median level for comparable achievement of Salary levels are reviewed on an positions, without tracking it individual annual basis by reference to the mechanistically.
median for comparable positions in FTSE 250 companies of a similar When considering any increases market capitalisation and with to base salaries in the normal similar revenues to the Company.
course as opposed to a change in Broadly, the Company seeks to role or responsibility, the pitch base salary around the median Committee will take into level for such comparable positions, consideration: without tracking it mechanistically.
w Reference to the increases provided to executives in the Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert comparator group waived their 2013 salary increases and their salaries for the coming w Pay and employment conditions year are unchanged at 417,000 of employees throughout the and 257,000 respectively.
Group, including increases provided to the employee A salary increase of 2.62 per cent population was awarded to the Groups UK w Inflation.
employees and managers in July 2013.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 60 Directors remuneration policy continued 1.
Policy table continued Objective and Operation Maximum potential value Performance link to the conditions and strategy assessment Annual The annual bonus Cash payments.
Maximum 100 per cent of base Bonus performance Bonus aligns reward to key salary.
At threshold levels of conditions: Plan Group strategic Executive Directors participate in performance, 0 per cent of base objectives and an annual performance related salary can be earned, with a Group profit drives short-term bonus scheme.
The performance straight-line pro-rate allocation underlying pre-tax performance.
period is one financial year.
profit before discretionary bonus 1 Taken together with the Long-Term provision Incentive Plan, it is intended to provide an opportunity to earn Group cash an upper quartile level of total operating cash flow 1 remuneration as compared to before taxation actual remuneration earned by the comparator group.
Personal objectives The Committee has discretion not to pay a bonus even if performance conditions are met.
Maximum 100 per cent of base Total Shareholder 2 Term Incentive Plan aligns salary and minimum vesting is Return TSR Incentive Executive Director Awards are made annually to the 25per cent of salary upon relative to Plan interests with those Executive Directors and certain achievement of the threshold comparator group of shareholders and senior managers who are in a performance levels.
with vesting subject drives superior position to influence significantly to satisfactory long-term the performance of the Group.
The awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan are Cumulative earnings 2 subject to performance conditions per share EPS.
to be met over a performance period of three years.
Taken together with the Annual Bonus, it is intended to provide an opportunity to earn an upper quartile level of total remuneration as compared to actual remuneration earned by the comparator group The performance conditions have been chosen to align the LTIP with the performance of the business.
Awards granted prior to the 2014 AGM will vest in accordance with the provisions of the LTIP rules, as approved by shareholders at the date of adoption of the plan.
1 Group profit and Group cash together provide alignment with shareholders and balance the incentive to drive short-term performance with the delivery of the conditions necessary to achieve key strategic objectives.
2 TSR provides focus on improving profitability and driving up growth in shareholder value.
It also provides alignment with shareholders.
EPS provides focus on improving profitability, which in turn drives up growth in shareholder value.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 61 Corporate governance 1.
Policy table continued Objective and link to Operation Maximum Performance the strategy potential value conditions and assessment Pension To provide competitive Salary supplement of 25.5 per cent of N A N A levels of retirement base salary in lieu of pension benefit.
Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert pay this salary supplement into a supplementary pension plan with 1 effect from 6 April 2011 Other To provide competitive Benefits include: Cost of providing a car N A benefits levels of employment benefit, life assurance benefits.
private medical insurance and w Private medical insurance.
permanent health w Permanent health insurance.
w Life assurance of four times base salary.
The level of benefits provided is reviewed annually to ensure they remain market competitive.
Shareholding To ensure that Executive Requirement to build and maintain a N A N A policy Directors and other senior holding of at least 40,000 Domino shares.
executives interests are aligned with those of Executive Directors may be required shareholders over a longer to forfeit up to 50 per cent of their time horizon.
annual bonus if the shareholding requirement is not met.
1 Participants who have pension savings at or close to the lifetime pension allowance may choose to stop contributions to the Company scheme and receive the amounts that would otherwise have been made by the Company as a cash payment.
Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert have chosen to pay this amount into the supplementary pension plan.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 62 Directors remuneration policy continued 1.
Policy table continued Chairman Objective and link Operation Maximum potential value Performance to the strategy conditions and assessment Fees To attract a Chairman Fee levels are set at the level paid Fee levels are set by reference to the N A with the requisite skills for the comparable role at median of this peer group and to and experience to companies of a similar size and reflect the value contributed by the perform the role.
complexity to Domino within the Chairman to the Company.
When considering any increases to Fee levels are reviewed annually fee levels in the normal course, the in November.
Committee will take into consideration: The Chairmans fees are determined by the Remuneration w Increases provided to comparable Committee which decided that roles in the comparator group: the fees would not be increased w Pay and employment conditions of in November 2013. employees throughout the Group, including increases provided to the employee population: and w Inflation.
Non-Executive Directors Objective and link Operation Maximum potential value Performance to the strategy conditions and assessment Fees To attract NonFee levels are set at the level paid Fee levels are set by reference to the N A Executive Directors for comparable roles at median of this peer group.
Fee levels with the requisite skills companies of a similar size and are reviewed annually in November.
and experience to complexity to Domino within the When considering any increases to perform the role.
FTSE 250. fee levels in the normal course, the Board will take into consideration: The Non-Executive Director w Increases provided to comparable fee structure is a matter for the roles in the comparator group: full Board.
w Pay and employment conditions of employees throughout the Group, The Non-Executive Directors including increases provided to the fees were not increased in employee population: and November 2013. w Inflation.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 63 Corporate governance 2.
Recruitment Remuneration Policy Our principle is that the pay of any new recruit would be determined following the same principles as for the Executive Directors disclosed in the policy table, unless specific circumstances arise, such that the Committee deems it appropriate and necessary to respond to a clear business case for securing the desired candidate by making remuneration arrangements specific to that candidate.
The Committee will not pay more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred candidate and is mindful of guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced shortor long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance conditions associated with an award.
The table below summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration: Salary w Set by reference to market and taking into account individual experience and expertise in the context of the role.
Maximum variable incentive w Annual bonus and long-term incentive of 100 per cent of base salary each i. e. 200 per cent total in line with our current policy for Executive Directors.
Sign-on payments w Payments made to a Director upon joining the Company e. g. by way of a one-off bonus payment or share award may be made on a case-by-case basis.
w Where deemed appropriate we will provide a payment via a cash and or share award.
Such payment award may be subject to performance conditions.
Share buy-outs w Any previous outstanding share awards which the executive holds may be compensated.
Where this is the case, the general principle is that the outstanding award will be valued using a recognised valuation methodology by an independent party and the equivalent fair value may be awarded as a combination of cash and shares.
w To ensure effective retention of the executive upon recruitment, any new award may be granted subject to performance conditions and vesting may be over the same period as those forfeited from the previous employer or a new three year period.
The exact terms will be determined by the Committee on a case-by-case basis taking into account all relevant factors.
Relocation policies w In instances where the new executive is non-UK domiciled, the Company may provide, as a one-off or ongoing as part of the Directors relocation benefits, compensation to reflect the cost of relocation for the executive in cases where they are expected to spend significant time away from their country of domicile as determined appropriate and on a case-by-case basis.
w The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case-by-case basis but will take into consideration any cost of living differences, housing allowance and schooling.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 64 Directors remuneration policy continued 3.
Service contracts The Companys policy on directors service contracts is that they should be on a rolling basis without a specific end date.
Director Effective term Notice period Nigel Bond Rolling with no fixed expiry date 12 months by the Company, 6 months by Executive Director Andrew Herbert Rolling with no fixed expiry date 12 months by the Company, 6 months by Executive Director Under their letters of appointment, the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are entitled to receive six months notice of the termination of their appointment.
Termination payments Approach Application of Remuneration Committee discretion Base salary Salary is paid in lieu of notice.
None Benefits Benefits are also provided in lieu of notice, None including pension, medical, permanent health insurance, life assurance, travel cover, car allowance.
Annual bonus plan If the individual is a good leaver, bonus will None be paid on a pro-rata basis in respect of the period from the start of the financial year in which the period of absence from work commenced to the date such period of absence commenced.
A good leaver is defined as a participant ceasing to be in employment by reason of death, injury, ill health, disability, pregnancy, redundancy or retirement.
A bad leaver is a participant who does not fall within the category of good leaver and bad leavers will forfeit any entitlement to a bonus payment.
Long-Term Incentive Plan A bad leaver is defined as a participant On cessation of employment the ceasing to be in employment by reason of Committee has the ability to waive or incompetence, misconduct or resignation.
The Where employment terminates for a bad Committee also has discretion not to apply leaver reason, all unvested awards lapse time pro-rating to awards in the case of immediately.
The Committee would only use this discretion in exceptional A good leaver is defined as a participant circumstances.
whose employment ceases for any reason other than a bad leaver reason.
Awards held by a good leaver will vest immediately on cessation of employment to the extent that performance conditions as waived, varied or amended by the Committee are satisfied and time pro-rated unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Other contractual obligations None None Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 65 Corporate governance 3.
Service contracts continued Other Committee discretion In certain circumstances, the Committee will be required to exercise its discretion, taking into consideration the particular circumstances of the executives departure and or the recent performance of the Company in determining the specific level of payments to be made.
Under the terms of the annual bonus, on a change of control, the Committee has discretion as to whether or not to pro-rate the resulting payment under the annual bonus to reflect the portion of the financial year which has been completed up to the date of the change of control.
Whether or not such discretion would be exercised will depend upon the particular circumstances at the relevant time.
Under the terms of the LTIP, on a change of control, the Committee has the ability to waive or amend performance conditions.
The Committee also has discretion not to apply time pro-rating to awards.
The Committee would only use this discretion in exceptional circumstances.
Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy The graph below seeks to demonstrate how pay varies with performance for the Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director based on our stated Remuneration Policy.
Element Description Fixed Total amount of salary, pension and benefits.
Annual variable Money or other assets received or receivable for the reporting period as a result of the achievement of performance conditions that relate to that period i. e. annual bonus payments.
Maximum annual bonus opportunity is 100 per cent of base salary for Executive Directors.
Multiple period variable Money or other assets received or receivable for multiple reporting periods as a result of the achievement of performance conditions over a given period ending in the year ended 31 October 2013 or shortly after i. e. LTIP payments.
Maximum LTIP opportunity is 100 per cent of base salary for Executive Directors.
Fixed element Annual variable 1,600 Multiple period variable 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Group MD Group FD Assumptions used in determining the level of pay out under given scenarios are as follows: Scenario Description Minimum Fixed pay only no variable payments under annual bonus and Companys LTIP.
On-target This has been based on 50 per cent of base salary annual bonus award being paid and 50percent vesting of the LTIP.
Maximum This has been based on 100 per cent of base salary annual bonus award being paid and 100per cent vesting of the LTIP.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Remuneration 000 66 Directors remuneration policy continued 5.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company in developing policy The Remuneration Policy for all employees is determined in terms of best practice and ensuring that the Company is able to attract and retain the best people.
This principle is followed in the development of our Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
However, employee views are not specifically sought in determining this policy.
Salary and benefit packages are linked to both individual and business performance.
All employees participate in bonus schemes, which, together with salary reviews linked to business performance, enable all employees to share in the success of the Group.
All employees are eligible to participate in the SAYE and SIP, with subsidiary general managers and other senior managers also eligible to participate in the Executive share option schemes as outlined below.
Save As You Earn SAYE share option schemes All UK-based employees including Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the SAYE scheme.
This is not subject to any performance conditions.
Since this is a standard, HMRC approved scheme open to all employees it was not considered appropriate to include such conditions.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The Company operates a HMRC approved SIP to enable employees to invest in the Companys shares in a tax efficient way.
This plan is open to all UK-based employees.
Executive share option schemes The Company has operated Executive share option schemes since 1985.
Executive Directors and other senior executives do not participate in these schemes.
Executive share options are currently granted to subsidiary general managers and other senior managers.
The exercise of executive options granted after 2003 is conditional on EPS growth exceeding the level of growth in the RPI plus 9 per cent.
For options granted before 2005, basic EPS was used for the performance condition.
For options granted in 2005, and subsequent years, underlying EPS is used.
Achievement of EPS performance conditions is assessed by reference to earnings per share as reported in the Groups audited results and the RPI published by the Office for National Statistics.
Consideration of shareholder views The views of our shareholders are very important to us and the Committee is happy to receive constructive feedback with respect to our remuneration policies or structure which we take on board to formulate our arrangements.
Based on feedback received, last year we made some key changes to the service contracts for our Executive Directors whereby we subsequently received 97.7 per cent of votes in favour of our Remuneration Report.
In preparing this report, we have had regard to comments provided over the year by shareholders and institutional investor representative bodies.
Any future consultations with shareholders and institutional investors will be led by Sir David Brown Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
