Directors remuneration report for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 Chairmans summary statement Remuneration policy for 2014 During 2013 the Committee completed a review of the current Dear Shareholder Executive remuneration policy.
This review concluded that the I am pleased to present our Directors remuneration report for overall policy to pay base salaries at, or below, appropriate the year ended 29 December 2013 for Dominos Pizza Group plc comparative median benchmarks but with the opportunity to earn the Company.
upper quartile incentives based on performance, remained fit for In line with the new reporting requirements, we have made some purpose.
However, cognisant of market practice, and with a view further changes to the structure and layout of our Directors to better managing future share plan dilution, we are proposing remuneration report which includes the forward-looking Directors a number of modifications to our existing arrangements.
remuneration policy report and implementation of the policy during The proposed key changes are: the year as described in the Directors remuneration report.
introduction of compulsory deferral of one-third of the As described in the Strategic report the year end results illustrate annual bonus: the ability to continue growing the business despite the tough replace current annual award of market value options with economic conditions in the United Kingdom, Ireland and in annual awards of performance shares.
The increase in sales achieved during the year under policy of granting annual awards of market value share options review once again demonstrates the strength of our business model at up to 300% of salary will be replaced with annual awards and brand, the strong and effective leadership of our management of performance shares of up to 175% of salary: team, the talents of our franchisees and the commitment of both corporate and franchisee staff.
performance share awards which will be split into two halves so that half will be subject to a challenging range of earnings per Performance and reward share EPS growth targets, with the remaining half subject to Despite strong UK financial performance during the year, a relative total shareholder return TSR condition measured the performance of the German businesses was such that the against the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts : and Remuneration Committee the Committee determined seek shareholder approval to remove the 5% in 10-year dilution that the target set for annual growth in adjusted profit before limit and operate all plans within a 10% in 10-year limit.
Longertax PBT had not been achieved.
The individual personal term, the intention is to reintroduce a 5% in 10-year dilution limit performance objectives were met in part, and therefore the with the removal of the limit at the 2014 AGM reflecting the annual bonus entitlement for Lee Ginsberg was 12.5% of salary.
depth into the organisation that the Company has historically With regard to the Companys longer-term performance, reflecting operated a Company Share Option Scheme CSOP i. e. the the Companys successful implementation of its growth strategy over Company has used a discretionary share plan that sits within the the last three financial years, the 2011 reversionary interest awards 5% in 10-year dilution limit on a broadly all-employee basis with measuring performance from 26 December 2010 to 29 December 2013 such plans typically only subject to a 10% in 10-year limit.
Since are expected to vest at 92.5% as a result of delivery against the the Company is ceasing to use the CSOP in this manner, and performance targets set, and which the Committee considered replacing it with wider use of an HMRC approved sharesave plan suitably challenging.
SAYE, it will be a number of years until the historic CSOP awards work their way through the Companys dilution limits The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration paid to the and the Company is able to reintroduce the 5% in 10-year Executive Directors in the year fairly reflects both corporate dilution limit.
and individual performance during the year.
There will be no base salary increases to the Chief Executive Remuneration policy for 2013 Officer or Chief Financial Officer noting their resignation and The remuneration policy for 2013 operated on broadly similar terms to retirement respectively during the course of the year under review.
the 2012 policy save for the introduction of a personal performance The Chief Financial Officer Designate, appointed on 18 November objective in the annual performance bonus as disclosed in last years 2013, will not receive a salary increase with effect from 1 January report.
The Committees activities during the year are described in 2014 with his salary remaining at 275,000 until 1 January 2015 more detail in this Directors remuneration report.
when he will be first eligible for a salary review.
Unless otherwise stated in this Diretcors remuneration report, adjusted profit before tax means profit before tax and before operating and non-operating exceptional items.
56 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements There has been no change to annual bonus maximum opportunity Introduction with LTIP policy to be revised as detailed above.
This report sets out the Companys policy on Directors remuneration for the forthcoming year, and, so far as practicable, While the above changes detail the key developments to the for subsequent years, as well as information on remuneration paid Companys ongoing remuneration policy, as detailed in the to Directors in the financial year to 29 December 2013.
The report Corporate governance report, the temporary restructuring of the complies with the requirements of The Large and Medium-sized PLC Board has necessitated a number of short-term remuneration Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment structures being implemented.
Recognising the temporary Regulations 2013 the Regulations and has been prepared in line appointment of a Interim Chief Executive for the period until with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code two months after a successor to Lance Batchelor is appointed, the and the UKLA Listing Rules.
Interim Chief Executive is to be paid a monthly salary of 50,000.
This includes an allowance for pension and benefits and the The report has been divided into two sections with the Directors individual will not be eligible to participate in the annual or remuneration report being subject to an advisory vote at the 2014 long-term incentive plan as a result of the role being for a temporary AGM.
The Directors remuneration policy report will be subject period only.
In addition, reflecting the enhanced responsibilities of to a binding vote at the 2014 AGM and, subject to shareholder the Chairman, his fee will increase to 390,000, which reflects an approval, the policy contained in this report will be effective from approximate anticipated doubling of his current time commitment.
the date of the AGM and shall remain in place for three years hence.
The Committee has also sought to apply the principles of its Shareholder views policy for the period from 1 January 2014 until the AGM.
The parts The Remuneration Committee continues to take an active interest of the report which have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP have in shareholder views.
Given the changes noted above, we consulted been highlighted as required by the Regulations.
with our major shareholders in late 2013 and early 2014 and enjoyed a constructive dialogue which has helped form the final policy set Remuneration policy report unaudited out in the Directors remuneration policy report.
On behalf of the This part of our Directors remuneration report sets out the Committee, I wish to thank our shareholders for their comments remuneration policy for the Company as it applies from the and look forward to maintaining an open and transparent dialogue date of the 2014 AGM for a period of three years.
We hope to receive your continued support at our 2014 AGM.
Policy overview In setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the following: John Hodson the need to set appropriate remuneration policies and packages Chairman of the Remuneration Committee which will attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and 28 February 2014 senior management but avoid paying more than is necessary: to weight a significant proportion of the remuneration towards variable pay with at or below relevant market rate salary vis--vis comparable benchmarks and above market incentive opportunity linked to the delivery of superior performance: to have demanding shortand long-term performance targets that are specific, measurable and fully aligned with the Companys business objectives to provide strong linkage between remuneration and performance: to create a strong alignment between the interests of senior managers and the delivery of value to shareholders: to avoid creating excessive risks in the achievement of performance targets: internal pay and benefits practice and employment conditions both within the Group as a whole and within the particular national contexts in which it operates: and periodic external comparisons to examine current market trends and practices and equivalent roles in similar companies taking into account their size, business complexity, international scope and relative performance.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 57 Directors remuneration report continued The table below summarises our 2014 policy and the changes to apply for the current financial year.
2014 Executive Director policy table This policy is anticipated to apply to current Executive Directors from 1 January 2014 albeit with the effective date of the policy for the purposes of the Regulations being the AGM date.
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Base salary Reects the value of the individual and their role Reviewed annually, effective 1 January Reect skills and experience over time Agreed when results for the previous year have been nalised Provide an appropriate level of basic xed income avoiding excessive risk arising from over-reliance on Takes periodic account against companies with similar variable income characteristics and sector comparators Set in the context of pay and employment conditions in the Group Targeted at below the relevant market rate Pension Provide market competitive, yet cost-effective Dened contribution or cash supplement retirementbenets HMRC approved salary sacrifice arrangement Opportunity for Executive to contribute to their own Salary sacrifice for employee contribution retirement plan Other benets Provide cost-effective insured benets to support the Benets are provided through third-party providers and individual and their family include medical and life insurance Access to company car to facilitate effective travel Company cars or cash equivalents provided The Committee may offer Executive Directors other employee benets from time to time on broadly the same terms as provided to the wider workforce Annual Performance Incentivise annual delivery of financial and operational Two-thirds paid as cash Bonus goals linked to the Companys strategy One-third deferred into shares which will vest after two years Relatively high potential rewards for achieving and are subject to forfeiture demanding targets Dividends which accrue on vested share may be payable Not pensionable Clawback provisions apply Stretching targets drive operational efficiency and inuence the level of returns that should ultimately be delivered to shareholders through share price and dividends Long-Term Incentive Plan Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering Annual grant of market value options or performance shares LTIP sustained profitable growth Subject to performance conditions measured over As primary long-term incentive, aids retention threeyears ofseniormanagement Clawback provisions apply Creates alignment with shareholders and provides Dividends which accrue may be paid on vested shares focuson increasing the Companys share price over themedium term Share ownership To provide alignment between Executives Executives are expected to build and maintain a guidelines andshareholders shareholding equivalent to the guideline multiple of salary within five years of joining To encourage a focus on sustainable long-termperformance 58 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Maximum Performance targets The salaries as at 1 January 2014 are set out on page 65 of this Broad assessment of the Company and individual performance as part Directors remuneration report of the review process Salaries will be eligible for increases on an annual basis with the rate ofincrease in percentage terms typically linked to those of the widerworkforce significant changes in responsibility, a change of scope in a role, amaterial sustained change in the size and or complexity of the Company or very strong performance may merit base salary increases beyond those of the wider workforce On appointment, if pay is set at a discount to the Companys normal policy, it may be appropriate to phase an individual towards an appropriate rate using increases above those of the wider workforce based on performance and experience Monthly employer contribution to a pension arrangement or payment N A of a cash allowance in lieu of pension up to 15% of basic salary Family level private medical insurance cover provided N A Life insurance cover of 4x multiple of salary Company car or cash allowance The value of insured benets will vary from year-to-year, based onthecost from third-party providers CEO maximum 150% of salary Bonuses will be subject to a combination of financial and strategic targets which are set by the Committee on an annual basis CFO maximum 125% of salary The majority of the bonus will be measured against financial metrics CFO-Designate maximum 125% of salary e. g. adjusted PBT with a graduated scale set around the target One-third of any amount will be deferred and payable in shares A minority of the bonus will be set based on strategic targets which aftertwo years arealigned to the key objectives from year to year A minority of each element will be payable for achieving the threshold performance level.
In relation to financial targets, 20% of this part of the bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold performance target.
In relation to the strategic targets, it is not always practicable to set a sliding scale for each objective.
Where it is, a similar proportion of the bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold performance level as for financial targets Details of the bonus measures operated each year will be included each year in the relevant Directors remuneration report Maximum opportunity of 500% of salary market value share options Long-term incentive awards vest based on three-year performance or200% of salary performance shares against a challenging range of financial targets and relative TSR performance set and assessed by the Committee in its discretion The normal policy is to grant annual awards of performance shares atup to 175% of salary to each Executive Director Financial targets will determine vesting in relation to at least 50% ofaperformance share award A maximum of 15% of any target vests for achieving the threshold performance level with 100% of the awards being earned for maximum performance there is graduated vesting between these points The performance period for financial targets and relative TSR targets isthree financial years 150% of salary holding for Executive Directors N A www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 59 Directors remuneration report continued Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Non-Executive Reects the value of the Chairmans fee set by the Fees for 2014 are: Director fees individuals skills and experience Committee.
Non-Executive Chairman 390,000 Directors fees set by the Board Recognises expected time Non-Executive Vice Chairman 265,000 commitments and Reviewed biannually, effective Base fee 41,000 responsibilities 1January Audit Committee Chairman fee 7,000 Takes into account periodic Remuneration Committee Chairman fee7,000 external review against companies with similar Nomination Committee Chairman fee 5,000 characteristics and sector Senior Independent Director fee 5,000 comparators The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, Set in the context of time with reference to the time commitment of the commitments and role and market levels in companies of responsibilities comparable size and complexity A base fee is provided to all The above fee levels will be eligible for increases Non-Executive Directors with during the three-year period that the remuneration supplemental fees payable for policy operates from the effective date to ensure chairing the Audit and they appropriately recognise the time commitment Remuneration committees and for of the role, increases to fee levels for Non-Executive the Senior Independent Director Directors in general andfee levels in companies Non-Executive Directors do not of a similar size andcomplexity participate in any annual bonus, Flexibility is retained to go above the above share incentive plans, or pension feelevels if necessary to do so to appoint arrangements anewChairman or Non-Executive of an appropriate calibre The fee of the Chairman, Stephen Hemsley, has been enhanced from 195,000 to 390,000 with effect from 1 February 2014.
This increase in fee reects the additional time commitment anticipated to be required of his enhanced role supporting the Interim Chief Executive which took effect from that date.
It is expected that following the appointment of anewChief Executive officer replacing the current Interim Chief Executive, after an appropriate period oftransition of the enhanced responsibilities to the Chief Executive officer, thatthefee of the Chairman will revert to a level reecting his responsibilities at that time 195,000.
Colin Halpern, the Non-Executive Vice Chairman, is seconded to the Company from HS Real LLC under the terms of a management agreement originally entered into in 1999.
ColinHalpern has played an integral part for 20 years in building our business and continues to provide regular advice and assistance to the Executive Directors, and as an international ambassador for the Company was closely involved in securing the acquisition opportunity for Germany.
As disclosed in previous years, the management fees are reviewed annually.
The gure for 2014 was agreed as a basic fee of 265,000 plus expenses and life insurance 2013: 265,000.
Operation of the annual bonus plan and LTIP policy conditions achieve their original purpose, are appropriate in their The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and LTIP in revised circumstance and, in any event, are not materially less accordance with their respective rules and in accordance with the difficult to satisfy.
Listing Rules and HMRC requirements where relevant.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be Within these rules, the Committee is required to retain a number explained in the Directors remuneration report and may, as of discretions to ensure an effective operation and administration of appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys these plans.
These discretions are consistent with standard market major shareholders.
practice and include but are not limited to : The outstanding share incentive awards which are detailed on pages who participates in the plans: 68 to 70 of the Directors remuneration report and any arrangements agreed prior to the effective date of this policy will remain eligible when awards are granted and or paid: to vest or pay out based on their original award terms.
In addition, the size of an award and or a payment subject to the limits stated all arrangements previously disclosed in prior years Directors in the policy table above : remuneration reports will remain eligible to vest or become payable on their original terms.
how to determine the level of vesting: Balance between fixed and variable pay how to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: The variable elements of remuneration are dependent upon the how to determine a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes: achievement of performance measures that are identified as important sustainable growth drivers for the business and that how to determine any adjustments required in certain are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
The balance circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, events achieved in the packages is typically more performance related than and special dividends : and that operated in comparatively sized leisure companies and FTSE reviewing the performance conditions range of targets, measures All-Share companies of a comparative size more generally, and weightings for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from year particularly at high levels of performance.
Choice of performance metrics If certain events occur, such as material acquisition or divestment As detailed in the Chief Executive Officers review on page 12, of a Group business, the original performance conditions may be no the Group remains fully aligned with delivering profitable growth longer appropriate.
Therefore, the Committee retains the discretion through targeting organic growth and the desire to be the market to make adjustments to the targets and or set different measures leader in each of its territories.
For incentive purposes this results and alter weightings as they deem necessary to ensure the in adjusted profit before tax being used as the primary performance metric in the annual bonus plan and adjusted EPS growth being used as a performance metric within the LTIP with adjusted EPS 60 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements measuring the Companys success in delivering long-term profitable How employees pay is taken into account growth on a per share basis which is a key contributor to the Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group were considered Companys valuation.
The Board sets stretching financial when finalising the current policy for the Executive Directors.
performance targets for the business and its senior managers, based In particular, the Committee is kept updated throughout the on internal forecasts with the aim of driving optimal delivery of the year on salary increases for the general employee population, Companys strategy in return for commensurate levels of Company-wide benefit provision, level of annual bonuses and staff remuneration.
All incentives are capped in order that inappropriate participation in long-term incentive schemes, so the Committee is risk taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded.
For financial targets aware of how the total remuneration of the Executive Directors a sliding scale is applied, with a minority of the bonus being payable compares with the average total remuneration of employees.
for threshold levels of performance.
There will be no increases to the base salary levels of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2014 given the resignation A number of the Companys non-financial strategic objectives have and retirement of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial been incorporated into the annual bonus and will be applied on an Officer respectively.
individual basis for a minority of the overall bonus potential.
These objectives will also be measured on a sliding scale of performance.
The Committee does not formally consult directly with employees Noting the encouragement received from a number of shareholders on executive pay but does receive periodic updates from the Group the Committee has introduced a second performance metric into HR Director.
The Committee is also informed of the results of the LTIP.
Relative TSR is to determine vesting of part of future employee engagement surveys, which do not contain any specific long-term incentive awards with this metric clearly aligned with questions related to Executive Director remuneration, but the most the interests of shareholders in that Executives will only be recent of which indicated that most employees show high levels of rewarded to the extent that the Company outperforms the median engagement and feel that reward is an important attribute of their job.
company of comparable size with full vesting on this measure How the Executive Directors remuneration policy relates dependent on achieving top quartile performance.
This measure to the Group will be used in tandem with adjusted EPS which is considered to be The remuneration policy described above provides an overview the most appropriate measure of long-term financial performance of the structure that operates for the most senior Executives in the as noted above.
It is also aligned with our objective of operating a Group with a significant element of remuneration dependent on progressive dividend policy and is a measure that is assessed by the Company and individual performance.
Board on a continuous basis to determine how successful we are at executing our strategy.
Lower aggregate incentive quantum operates at below executive level with levels driven by market comparatives, internal relativities The Committee will review the continued appropriateness of both and the impact of the role.
The vast majority of our employees the annual bonus and LTIP performance conditions on an annual participate in an annual bonus plan, although the limits and basis to ensure they remain aligned to the Companys strategy at performance conditions vary according to job level.
The Committee will make necessary changes to the weightings of measures and or introduce new measures which they The Committee believes that broad-based employee share believe would provide a closer link to the business strategy within ownership provides a key element in retention and motivation the confines of the policy detailed above.
Shareholder dialogue in the wider workforce and therefore long-term incentives are would take place, as appropriate, should there be any material provided outside of the most senior Executives, with most staff in change of emphasis in relation to current practices.
all territories eligible to participate in market value share option plans.
The Company operates HMRC approved savings-related Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors share option schemes for all UK-based employees who have The chart below shows how the composition of each of the achieved more than six months service and who wish to participate, Executive Directors remuneration packages varies at different including Executive Directors.
levels of performance under the policy set out above, as a percentage of total remuneration opportunity and as a total value.
We have All newly appointed employees, including Executive Directors, are applied the policy for the current Chief Executive Officer, Chief eligible to join a defined contribution pension plan, whereby they Financial Officer and Chief Financial Officer Designate.
are required to make a contribution to a nominated plan and the Company contribution depends on job level.
29% 30% 22% 2 Be low Threshold Fixed pay only.
Below Threshold Maximum Below Threshold Maximum Below Threshold Maximum 4 Ma ximum Fixed Pay Maximum bonus Threshold Threshold Threshold Full vesting of LTIP award.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer Designate 5 No share price growth has been assumed.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 61 Directors remuneration report continued How is risk managed in relation to short and Directors service contract may be terminated without notice and long term incentives?
without any further payment or compensation, except for sums The Committee believes that the consideration and management accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain of risk is very important when formulating and then operating events such as gross misconduct.
If the Company terminates appropriate remuneration structures notably the performance the employment of an Executive Director in breach of contract, criteria for senior management.
The majority of the Committee are compensation is limited to salary due for any unexpired notice also members of the Audit Committee and liaison between the two period and any amount assessed by the Committee as representing is frequent, so the Committee has an excellent understanding of risk the value of other contractual benefits which would have been factors in the business that may be relevant to the remuneration received during the period.
strategy and more particularly the setting of the short and longer The contract of the Chief Executive Officer as Deputy Chief term performance targets.
Executive Officer is dated 27 June 2011 and 13 May 2008 for the In line with the Association of British Insurers ABI Guidelines Chief Financial Officer.
Both contracts operate on a rolling basis on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee ensures with a 12-month notice period.
The service contract for the Chief that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior Financial Officer Designate is dated 9 December 2013 with management will not raise environmental, social or governance a six-month notice period.
ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The policy for a new hire would be based on terms that are More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, consistent with these provisions but will also include the ability there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from for Dominos to make a payment in lieu of notice limited to a taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters and maximum value of 12 months base salary, pension and benefits.
it takes due account of issues of general operational risk when Payments in lieu of notice may be made in monthly instalments structuring incentives.
and would reduce proportionately to the extent that alternative The introduction in 2012 of the clawback provision in respect employment income was received i. e. phased payments would of annual bonuses and share plans also provides the Committee be subject to mitigation.
with a mechanic to recover monies in certain circumstances, The Chief Financial Officer Designate s service contract includes e. g. misstatement.
Share ownership guidelines ensure Executive a payment in lieu of notice provision as per the policy details above Directors have a focus on long-term sustainable performance which for a new hire.
is aligned to the shareholder experience.
Payments in lieu of notice are not pensionable.
In the event of a How shareholders views are taken into account change of control of the Group, there is no enhancement to The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation contractual terms.
to the AGM each year immediately following the AGM.
This In summary, the contractual provisions for the Executive Directors feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings are as follows: from time to time, is then considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
The Committee also Provision Detailed terms undertakes a consultation exercise with its largest shareholders as Notice period 12 months or less appropriate.
A full consultation exercise was undertaken during late Maximum termination Base salary plus benets and pension, 2013 and early 2014 with shareholders views being reflected in the payment subjectto mitigation for new directors final policy set for 2014.
Remuneration A pro rata bonus may also become payable for The Committee values feedback from its shareholders and seeks entitlements the period of active service along with vesting for outstanding share awards in certain to maintain a continued open dialogue.
circumstances see below Service contracts and policy on exit In all cases performance targets would apply The Committee reviews the contractual terms for new Executive Change of control As on termination Directors to ensure that these reflect best practice.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Directors under the Companys LTIP or bonus entitlement under the APB agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
Notice periods given by the employing company are limited to 12 months or less.
Should notice be served by either party, the Executives can continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period during which time the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign a period of garden leave.
An Executive 62 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements With regard to the circumstances under which the Executive Directors might leave service, these are described below with a description of the anticipated payments: Departure on agreed terms e. g. asked to leave due to revised Reason for leaving payment Bad leaver e. g. resignation skill sets required for role Good leaver e. g. ill health, retirement Salary in lieu of Salary for proportion ofnotice Treatment will normally Up to a maximum of 100% of salary noticeperiod periodserved fall between Good Leaverand Bad Leaver Pension and benets Provided for proportion ofnotice Up to one years worth of pension and benets treatment, subject to periodserved e. g. redundancy thediscretion of the Possible payment of pension and insured benets Remuneration Committee triggered by the leaver event this would be and the terms of any governed by the terms of the benets provided.
termination agreement Bonus If resigns, reduced pro rata to reect Reduced pro rata to reect proportion ofbonus year proportion of bonus year employed elapsed provided performance conditions met.
provided performance conditions met atthe discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Ifdismissed for cause, nonepayable Long-term Lapse Up to full vesting, based on performance tested incentive entitlements over the full performance period or to the date 2012 LTIP ofcessation at the discretion of the Committee.
Where awards are granted as market value options, the award may also be reduced pro rata at the discretion of the Committee to reect the proportion of the performance period elapsed tothe date of cessation Where awards are granted as performance shares awards will be subject to a pro rata reduction unless the Committee determines otherwise Other payments None Disbursements such as legal costs, outplacement, redundancy entitlements Non-Executive Director remuneration The Non-Executive Directors are not employed under service contracts and do not receive compensation for loss of office, but with the exception of Colin Halpern are appointed for fixed terms of three years renewable for further three-year terms if both parties agree and subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The following table shows details of the terms of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors: Appointment date Date most recent term commenced Expected date of expiry of current term Stephen Hemsley Chairman 1 January 2008 as Executive 30 March 2013 as Non-Executive 30 March 2016 Chairman Chairman Colin Halpern Vice Chairman 15 November 1999 Rolling annual N A Michael Shallow SID 1 January 2006 1 January 2012 1 January 2015 Nigel Wray 15 November 1999 8 May 2011 8 May 2014 John Hodson 14 February 2005 14 February 2011 14 February 2014 Syl Saller 20 September 2011 20 September 2011 20 September 2014 Helen Keays 20 September 2011 20 September 2011 20 September 2014 David Wild 14 November 2013 14 November 2013 14 November 2016 as Non-Executive Director Ebbe Jacobsen 31 January 2014 31 January 2014 31 January 2017 David Wild was appointed as Non-Executive Director on 14 November 2013 and subsequently appointed as Interim Chief Executive on 31 January 2014.
John Hodson has agreed to temporarily stay on as a Non-Executive Director whilst a Chief Executive officer is recruited.
The Company will re-visit this at a later stage.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 63 Directors remuneration report continued Recruitment and promotion policy When facilitating an external recruitment or an internal promotion the Committee will apply the following principles: Remuneration element Policy Base salary Salary levels will be set based on the experience, knowledge and skills of the individual and be set in the context of market rates for equivalent roles in companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Committee will also consider Group relativities when setting base salary levels The Committee may set initial base salaries below the perceived market rate with the aim to make multi-year staged increases to achieve the desired market position over time.
Where necessary these increases may be above those of the wider workforce, but will be subject to continued development in the role Benets Benets will be as provided to current Executive Directors The Committee will consider meeting the cost of certain reasonable relocation expenses and legal fees as necessary Pension A dened contribution or cash supplement at a level no more as a percentage of salary than current Executive Directors Annual bonus The annual bonus would be operated in line with that set out in the policy table for current Executive Directors with the maximum limited to 150% of base salary For a new joiner, the bonus would be prorated for the period of service Due to the timing or nature of the appointment, the Committee may determine it necessary to set different modied performance conditions for the first year of appointment Long-term incentives Ongoing Long-Term Incentive Plan awards may be made on the same terms as current Executive Directors, with the maximum award limited as per the plan rules 200% of salary of performance shares or 500% of salary in market value options Awards may be made shortly after an appointment, subject to prohibited periods Any new appointment would be eligible to participate in the all-employee share options arrangements on the same terms as all other employees For internal promotions, existing awards will continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant Additional incentives The Committee will assess whether it is necessary to buy out remuneration which would be forfeited from a previous employer onappointment The Committee will, where possible, seek to offer a direct replacement award taking into account the structure, quantum, time horizons and relevant performance conditions which would impact on the expected value of the remuneration to be forfeit The Committee will use the existing remuneration plans where possible, although it may be necessary to grant outside of these schemes using exemptions permitted under the Listing Rules In addition, in certain limited circumstances, for example, where a previous employer has offered a higher ongoing incentive structure, they may make a one-off sign on award as part of the initial package In aggregate, the total of such awards, plus ongoing remuneration incentive pay, would be limited in all cases to 500% of salary excluding buyout awards with the Long-Term Incentive element granted as performance shares While the above is included in the policy to provide exibility, the Committees expectation is that variable pay on recruitment excluding buyouts would not exceed 350% of salary with the Long-Term Incentive element granted as performance shares External appointments The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited The role of the Committee is set out in its terms of reference which to become Non-Executive Directors in other companies and that are reviewed annually and can be found on the Groups website these appointments can enhance their knowledge and experience www.
The Committee meets at least to the benefit of the Company.
Subject to pre-agreed conditions, twice each year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
and with prior approval of the Board, each Executive Director is permitted to accept one appointment as a Non-Executive Director During the year the members of the Committee and their in another listed company.
The Executive Director is permitted attendance at the meetings were: to retain any fees paid for such service.
Lee Ginsberg is currently a Name Member since Attendance Non-Executive Director of Mothercare plc, having been appointed to its board on 2 July 2012 and was permitted to accept an invitation John Hodson Chairman 14 February 2005 3 out of 3 to join the board of Trinity Mirror as a Non-Executive Director Michael Shallow 1 January 2006 3 out of 3 from 1 January 2014, due to him standing down as an Executive Syl Saller 22 November 2011 3 out of 3 Director of the Company at the 2014 AGM.
External advisers Annual report on remuneration During the year, New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of AON plc NBSs parent company, was engaged by the Committee Role and membership to provide it with remuneration consultancy services.
The terms The Committee is responsible for the Chairmans and the Executive of engagement between the Company and NBS are available from Directors remuneration and also oversees the remuneration the Company Secretary on request.
NBS is a signatory to the packages of other senior management.
The remuneration and terms Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct.
NBS and AON of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by plc did not provide any other services to the Company except in the Board as a whole.
relation to senior management remuneration matters.
The total The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are consulted on fees for NBS services in the year were 66,412 excluding VAT.
The proposals relating to the remuneration of the Chief Financial Committee reviews it relationship with external advisers on a regular Officer and designated senior management and, when appropriate, basis and, noting that AON plc does not provide any other services are invited by the Committee to attend meetings but are not to the Group, continues to believe there are no conflicts of interest.
present when their own remuneration is considered.
64 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements What has the Remuneration Committee done during In light of the resignation of the Chief Executive Officer who is to the year?
leave the Board with effect from 16 March 2014 and the retirement The Committee met three times during the year to consider and, of the Chief Financial Officer with effect from the AGM, their where appropriate, approve key remuneration items including salary levels will not be increased from their 2013 levels and will the following: remain at 451,000 and 278,000 respectively.
The salary of the Interim Chief Executive, who has been appointed A Pay and incentive plan reviews from 31 January 2014 and will remain in post until two months Reviewed and approved Executive Directors and senior after a successor to the current Chief Executive Officer commences management base salaries and benefits.
employment, has been set at a flat rate of 50,000 per month.
Reviewed and approved overall remuneration policy for Executive This rate of pay has been set inclusive of benefits and pension Directors and senior management for FY2014, including and reflects the calibre, and experience, of the individual.
He will performance measures for the annual performance bonus and not be eligible to participate in any of the Groups incentive plans 2014 share plan awards to ensure measures are aligned with given the interim nature of the appointment with the intention strategy and that targets are appropriately stretching.
being, that he will return to his previous role as Senior Independent Director following completion of his temporary executive duties.
Reviewed year end business performance and performance-linked reward in order to determine annual bonus payouts and vesting of In relation to the Chief Financial Officer Designate, his salary was long-term incentives.
set, on appointment on 18 November 2013 at a rate of 275,000 with the next review date set at 1 January 2015.
The salary was set in line Approved the terms of the Chief Financial Officers retirement.
with the Companys policy at or below lower quartile comparative Approved the terms of appointment of the Chief Financial benchmarks having had due regard to the individuals experience.
Annual Performance Bonus APB B Governance The APB provides a focus on the delivery of the stretching targets Reviewed and approved the Directors remuneration report.
that are set by the Committee following consideration of the Companys annual operating plan by the Board each year and Reviewed final reporting regulations changes and assessed the there is a threshold performance below which no award is paid.
Also, closely monitored guidance and directional themes from institutional The performance conditions for the APB for the financial year shareholder bodies.
ended 28 December 2014 will be based both on achieving and exceeding the Groups adjusted PBT growth targets set by Reviewed 2013 AGM results and feedback from institutional the Board 80% of bonus and on achieving individual business shareholders as a result of the consultation on modifications objectives 20% of bonus that were derived from a set of common to the remuneration policy for the forthcoming year.
Confirmed goals considered to be key imperatives supporting the delivery of that the proposed 2014 remuneration proposals are not the business plan.
The targets applying to the bonus will operate anticipated to inadvertently encourage any undue risk taking.
on a banded bonus scale commencing at 20% through to 50% Going forward, the Committee will be focused on: of bonus at target levels of performance through to 150% for the Chief Executive Officer following appointment or 125% for Chief Agreeing terms for the new Chief Executive Officer.
Financial Officer Designate of salary based on the proportion of Understanding and responding to any shareholder feedback the bonus year each Executive is in employment at maximum on remuneration issues.
In light of his retirement, as a good leaver for the purposes of the annual bonus plan, the Chief Financial Officer Assessing whether the current remuneration policy is will participate in the bonus plan pro rata to a maximum of 125% appropriate and targets in short and long-term incentives of his pro rata salary for the part-year he is employed until his are sufficiently stretching.
retirement from the Board on 2 April 2014.
The current Chief Executive Officer, following his resignation, will not be eligible to Implementation of remuneration policy participate in the APB in the period to his cessation of employment.
for 2014 The adjusted PBT measure is based on internally set targets Base salary and pays out at threshold 95% of target rising on a pro rata basis As detailed in the policy report, salaries for the Executive Directors to target and maximum 110% of target.
and senior managers are reviewed annually by the Committee, although not necessarily increased.
Salary increases are determined For 2014 strategic business objectives will be set by the Committee after taking into account an individuals performance and linked to the Companys strategic goals.
The Committee believes experience, any change in the size and nature of the role as well a second performance measure provides an appropriate balance of as both the Groups own salary structures and salary budget.
On focus between annual profitability objectives and driving changes a biannual basis, the Committee will consider independent market which underpin the Groups strategy.
However, no individual data on salary rates for similar positions in comparative companies objective component of the bonus may be earned unless a threshold and from across all FTSE sectors more generally although this data level of Group adjusted PBT has been achieved.
Individual is reviewed with caution to avoid the ratcheting of pay.
objectives are also set on a sliding scale based around a target.
This approach is consistent with previous years, with the 2014 Given that the financial targets require significant growth from salary levels continuing to be set below the median benchmarks a 2013 actual adjusted PBT base point which in itself was a considered for each position.
substantial growth from 2012, the Committee believes these targets to be extremely challenging.
As detailed in the Corporate governance report, there have been a number of changes to the PLC Board during the year and in the period since the end of the year under review.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 65 Directors remuneration report continued The Committee considers that the performance targets in relation The above adjusted EPS targets are considered to be appropriately to the annual bonus are commercially sensitive and therefore will demanding given the quantum of the awards proposed, current not be disclosed on a prospective basis.
The Companys intention market expectations of the Company and internal long term is for the targets and outcomes to be disclosed in the annual report planning.
Furthermore, given the reliance placed on long term on remuneration once they are no longer considered sensitive.
incentives in our overall remuneration policy, the proposed targets are considered to provide an appropriate range of stretching but Two-thirds of any bonus payments will be made in cash, with the achievable targets that will both retain and motivate the executive remaining third deferred into Company shares, which will vest team to deliver the Boards strategy.
after two years during which they remain subject to forfeiture.
A clawback provision has applied to bonus awards since 28 March In retaining the above range of targets, the Remuneration 2012 which will enable the Committee to claw back any value which Committee was also mindful that maintaining consistent year was overpaid in the event of a misstatement of the Companys on year adjusted EPS growth becomes more challenging as i the Report and Accounts.
business grows e. g. as the contribution from individual new store openings falls as the overall Group becomes larger and ii the impact Any bonuses paid are non-pensionable and are not taken into account on earnings growth of our continued investment in our international when determining base salary for performance-related remuneration.
The range of targets set is also more demanding, both in terms of the absolute levels of growth required over three years for Long-term incentives vesting and in that a lower proportion of this part of the award vests Long-Term Incentive Share Plan at the threshold performance level, than the adjusted EPS targets The Companys long-term incentive plan for the Executive set for the most recent grant under the Plan in 2012.
Directors and other members of the Executive Committee is the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan the Plan, which was approved by 50%: TSR performance shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
Awards made under the Plan can be The remaining half of future awards will vest based on the in the form of market value share options or performance shares.
following vesting schedule based on the Companys TSR performance measures against the constituents of the FTSE 250 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for selecting eligible Index excluding investment trusts over three financial years.
employees to participate and for granting conditional awards of a specified number of shares in the Company under the Plan.
Ranking of the Companys TSR Vesting % of TSR part of award No payment is required on grant, vesting or exercise of an award.
Below median 0% Until an option is exercised or a performance share award vests, Median 15% a participant has no voting, dividend or other rights in respect Upper quartile 100% of the shares.
Straight line vesting occurs between these points Participants are eligible to be considered for awards annually.
The In choosing adjusted EPS and TSR as the metrics to apply to future aggregate market value of awards made under the Plan in any one awards, the Committee has sought to provide a balance between financial year may not exceed 500% of basic salary for market value incentivising delivery against our key measure of success in delivering share options or 200% of basic salary for performance shares.
profitable growth adjusted EPS and aligning the executives with The Committee intends to make an award of performance shares shareholders through the introduction of a relative total shareholder with a value equal to 175% of salary to the Chief Financial Officer return condition.
Designate in 2014 and retains discretion, in line with its policy, to make a similar award to a newly appointed Chief Executive A clawback provision will apply to all awards made under the LTIP Officer following an appointment in due course.
Neither the Chief Plan which will enable the Remuneration Committee to claw back Executive Officer nor the Chief Financial Officer will receive any value which was overpaid in the event of a misstatement of the awards in 2014 in light of their employment with the Company Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
ceasing with effect from 16 March 2014 and 2 April 2014 respectively.
Benefits and supplements In terms of performance targets, the Remuneration Committee Benefits in kind provided for the Executive Directors are principally intends to grant future awards subject to two independent company car provision or an allowance in lieu of company car, performance metrics.
mobile telephone, life insurance cover and private health cover for the Executive Director and his family.
Benefits in kind are 50%: EPS performance not pensionable and are not taken into account when determining Half of future awards will vest subject to growth in the Companys base salary for performance-related remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee continues to consider the existing range of adjusted earnings per share growth Pension targets to be stretching and, as a result, the following range of The Committee reviews the pensions arrangements for the targets will continue to apply to future long-term incentive awards.
Executive Directors to ensure the benefits provided are consistent with those provided by other similar companies and take account Three year adjusted earnings per share EPS Vesting % of EPS part of award of changes in relevant legislation.
Below 30% 0% The Company does not offer a defined benefit pension scheme.
30% 10% Instead, the Company contributes to the Executive Directors 40% 45% personal pensions or provides a cash supplement, at a rate of 50% 80% up to 15% of basic salary.
60% 100% Straight-line vesting in between the performance points The Committee approves the pension arrangements and contributions made by the Group on behalf of the Executive Directors.
The Company does not contribute to any pension arrangements for the Non-Executive Directors.
66 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Statement of shareholding voting at AGM At last years AGM, the Directors remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders: Total number of votes % of votes cast For 115,007,832 95.38% Against 5,576,128 4.62% Total votes cast for and against 120,583,960 100% Votes withheld 2,165,489 1.76% Total votes cast including a withheld votes 122,749,449 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast For and Against a resolution.
Single total remuneration figure for each Director audited Performance- 52 Weeks ended 29 December 2013 Fixed pay related pay Deferred Total 1 Benets and interest remuneration 5 000 Salary Supplements Pension Subtotal Bonus vesting Subtotal in 2013 Executives Lance Batchelor 451 17 64 532 532 2 Lee Ginsberg 278 35 41 354 35 376 411 765 Sean Wilkins 32 2 34 34 Non-Executives Stephen Hemsley 195 1 196 196 3 Colin Halpern 265 31 296 296 Michael Shallow 51 51 51 4 Nigel Wray 40 40 40 John Hodson 46 46 46 Syl Saller 39 39 39 Helen Keays 39 39 39 David Wild 5 5 5 Total 1,441 86 105 1,632 35 376 411 2,043 Single total remuneration figure for each Director Performance- 53 Weeks ended 30 December 2012 Fixed pay related pay Deferred Total 1 Benets and Interest remuneration 6 000 Salary Supplements Pension Subtotal Bonus vesting Subtotal in 2012 Executives Lance Batchelor 438 17 65 520 332 332 852 Lee Ginsberg 270 34 37 341 205 445 650 991 Non-Executives Stephen Hemsley 198 1 199 199 3 Colin Halpern 265 31 296 296 Michael Shallow 52 52 52 4 Nigel Wray 40 40 40 John Hodson 47 47 47 Syl Saller 40 40 40 Helen Keays 40 40 40 Total 1,390 83 102 1,575 537 445 982 2,557 1 The value of benets relates primarily to the provision of a company car or equivalent allowance.
2 In relation to the retirement of Lee Ginsberg, announced on 29 July 2013 and effective 2 April 2014: a he will receive a payment of 69,750, being the balance of his 12 month notice period: b in relation to his LTIP awards he as a retiree will be treated as a good leaver under the terms of the plans with performance tested over the original performance period and his 2012 LTIP award pro-rated for time: and c as a result of his retirement instead of any 2013 LTIP he will receive a pro-rated payment representing one-third of a normal LTIP award based on historic LTIP policy which represents 100% of salary worth of share options on which he will receive the growth in value over 5.28 per share to the date of his retirement, subject to satisfaction of a number of individual objectives set by the Committee.
3 Colin Halpern is not remunerated by the Company and a management fee of 265,000 was paid to HS Real Company LLC in respect of his services.
A further benefit of 31,000 relating to life insurance premiums was paid to HS Real Company LLC during the year.
The same structure of payment of fees operated in 2012.
4 Nigel Wray was not soley directly remunerated by the Company and from April 2013, 55% of Nigels management fee was paid directly to Nigel and 45% of the management fee was paid to Brendon Street Investments Limited, a company of which Nigel Wray isadirector and has a controlling interest, in respect of his services.
This structure of payment of fees operated in 2013 following discussions and subsequent agreement with HM Revenue & Customs to revise the pay structure.
5 The value of the deferred interest in respect of 2013 is calculated by taking the number of options expected to vest which are dependent on the 2013 year performance and multiplying by the difference between the exercise price and the average share price over the final three months ending 29 December 2013.
6 The value of the deferred interest in respect of 2012 is the actual value on vesting received by Lee Ginsberg.
This differs from the 347,000 published in the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts which was based on the average share price over the final three months ending 30 December 2012 as the vesting date had not been reached by the date of publication of the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 67 Directors remuneration report continued Defined contribution pensions audited Executive Directors receive up to 15% of salary from the Company: in 2013 totalling 64,000 2012: 65,000 in the case of the Chief Executive Officer and 41,000 2012: 37,000 in the case of the Chief Financial Officer.
Details of variable pay earned in the year Annual bonus plan The incentive for the financial year ended 29 December 2013 was in the form of a cash bonus based on a requirement for a significant increase in the Groups adjusted PBT.
The targets applying to the bonus operated on a banded bonus scale commencing at 20% through to 50% of bonus at target levels of performance through to 150% for Chief Executive Officer or 125% for Chief Financial Officer of salary at maximum performance levels.
In relation to the year under review, bonuses remain payable to the Chief Financial Officer on the basis that he was employed for the duration of the year under review.
Performance hurdle Total bonus available Target set for year Actual performance achieved Resulting bonus out-turn Growth in adjusted profit before 150% of salary for CEO Target adjusted PBT Actual adjusted PBT 0% of salary tax of between 95% of target was 50.2m was 47.6m 125% of salary for CFO 20%payout and 110% or more fullpayout The individual objectives were used to determine 20% of the maximum bonus for each Executive, subject to achieving a threshold level of adjusted PBT which was satisfied in the opinion the Committee.
Whilst the overall bonus was capped at 20% of maximum for this element, there is the ability to outperform any of the three criteria used as shown in the table below.
Performance hurdle Total bonus available Target met?
Resulting bonus out-turn Cash ow: Net debt between 90% Up to 12.5% of salary for CFO Yes CFO 12.5% of salary 0% of target and 110% or more full payout PBT losses for Germany between Up to 10% of salary for CFO No CFO 0% of salary 90% 0% of target and 110% or more full payout Store opening weeks for the year Up to 10% of salary for CFO No CFO 0% of salary between 90% 0% of target and 110% or more full payout Total CFO capped at 25% of salary CFO 12.5% of salary This resulted in bonuses being paid at 12.5% 34,869 of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
No bonus was payable to the Chief Executive Officer in light of his resignation.
Long-term incentive plans audited Awards vesting based on performance ended 29 December 2013 Prior to the implementation of the current LTIP in 2012, the Executive Directors and senior management had been eligible, at the discretion of trustees of the EBT that holds shares for the purpose of operating the Companys share plans, to be awarded an interest in the growth in value of a specific sub-fund of the EBT reversionary interests, represented by the increase in value of the Companys shares.
The economic impact of the arrangement from a participants perspective is such that, subject to achieving the performance targets, the increase in value of the said sub-fund may be settled on vesting in the form of shares.
The performance condition that applied to the grant of reversionary interests required the following challenging adjusted EPS growth excluding for this grant only, as previously disclosed, the international business condition to be met over the three years: Average annual compound EPS growth Level of vesting Less than 9% RPI 0% RPI 9% 25% Between RPI 9% and RPI 12% Straight-line vesting between 25%and 100% RPI 12% or better 100% The condition is only tested at the end of the three years with the award lapsing if the condition is not met at that time.
In each year that awards were made, the Committee reviewed the adjusted EPS growth conditions prior to making any awards and retained the same range of targets since 2009.
As disclosed in prior years, awards granted prior to 2009 were granted under a similar reversionary interests structure but with performance conditions tested over a five-year period.
As a result of delivering annualised adjusted EPS growth of 15.2% over the performance period, the performance conditions for the reversionary interests granted during 2011 as represented by 336,307 ordinary shares to Lee Ginsberg and will vest at 92.5%.
Based on the average share price over the last financial quarter of 2013 of 558.2p, the increase in value of the reversionary interests from the share price at grant of 437.1p is 376,000 and this value has been recorded in the total single figure table for 2013.
Excluding the international business 68 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements As a result of delivering annualised adjusted EPS growth of 19.2% over the performance period, the performance conditions for the reversionary interests granted during 2010 as represented by 211,009 ordinary shares were significantly exceeded and were capable of vesting from February 2013.
Based on the share price on vesting of 537.5p, the increase in value of the reversionary interests from the share price at grant of 327p was 445,174 and this value has been recorded in the total single figure table for 2012.
% vesting estimated Award Performance measure Basis of calculation Threshold Maximum Actual vesting Annual Growth in EPS to 9 August 2011 29December 2013 EPS growth against RPI RPI 9% RPI 12% 15.2% 92.5% Annual Growth in EPS to 17 February 2010 30December 2012 EPS growth against RPI RPI 9% RPI 12% 19.2% 100% Excluding the international business The market price of the Companys shares on 29 December 2013 was 495.7p per share and the high and low share prices during the year were 708.5p and 469p respectively.
As at 29 December 2013, the Interim Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer Designate had not been awarded any reversionary interests during the year under review.
The following is a summary of the reversionary interests granted to Lee Ginsberg: At At 25 December Vested during 30 December 2012 the year 2013 No.
shares represented by represented by award vesting represented by Lee Ginsberg Grant date 17 February 2010 211,009 211,009 100% 9 August 2011 336,307 336,307 Total 547,316 336,307 Weighted average initial value of the awards 394.65p 327.0p 437.1p The total aggregate estimated value of awards that will vest in relation to performance measured to 31 December 2013 is 376,000 2012: 445,174.
In line with the discretions afforded to the Remuneration Committee, with regard to Lee Ginsbergs retirement from the Board, he will be treated as a good leaver in relation to his 2012 LTIP.
The performance period for this award will be completed on 31 December 2014 and his award will vest, subject to performance measured over the full performance period, on 2 April 2015.
The number of shares comprising this award will be prorated for the proportion of the vesting period between the grant date 2 April 2012 and the date of retirement 2 April 2014 relative to the original three-year vesting period.
The award was made on 2 April 2012.
Scheme Basis of award Face value Vesting period Performance conditions Lee Ginsberg 2012 LTIP 400% of salary, 1,060,000 2 April 2015 100%: EPS growth of 9% market value options comprising options over to 2 April 2022 14% vesting to15% 245,597 shares at an 100% vesting p. a. exercise price 431.6p 3 years performance period, no retesting, straight-line vesting between the points Share Options Recruitment Award audited The following is a summary of the market value share option awards made to Lance Batchelor under a special recruitment incentive Recruitment Award, details of which were disclosed in the 2011 Directors remuneration report: Options held at Options Options Options held at Exercise price Dates Dates 30 December granted during exercised 29 December for options exercisable exercisable Grant date 2012 the year during the year 2013 granted from to Performance conditions 28 July 2011 1,000,000 1,000,000 386.8p 28 July 2014 28 July 2021 100%: EPS growth of RPI 9% 25% vesting to RPI 12% 100% vesting p. a.
3 years performance period, no retesting, straight-line vesting between the points.
5 years performance period, no retesting, vesting schedule as per target described on p66.
In light of his resignation, the Chief Executive Officers awards detailed above will lapse on his cessation of employment.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 69 Directors remuneration report continued Long-term incentive plan awards granted in the year audited No awards were granted to Executive Directors during the year.
Dilution limits audited We ensure that the aggregate of all share-based awards does not exceed the best practice all share plan guideline set by the ABI.
The guideline provides that outstanding awards granted to employees over new issue shares under the Companys employee share schemes when aggregated to new shares issued in relation to exercised historic share awards should not exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital in any 10-year rolling period.
Shares issued or to be issued under awards or options granted before the Company was admitted to trading on AIM in 1999 are excluded from this limit.
A resolution in relation to discretionary share plan dilution is being tabled at the AGM on 2 April 2014, with full details included in the Notice of AGM which will be available on our website www.
co. uk Termination payments No Director left in the year and no compensation for loss of office was paid.
The principles governing compensation for loss of office payments are set out on page 63.
Payments to former Directors Chris Moore retired as Chief Executive Officer on 26 December 2011 and, as such, was eligible to be treated as a good leaver under the terms of the LTIP.
On 25 February 2013, following the vesting of 288,991 reversionary interests, an amount of 609,326 was paid to him on the sale of the vested shares.
Directors shareholdings audited To reinforce the linkage between senior executives and shareholders, the Committee has adopted a shareholding policy that applies to Executive Directors under its long-term incentive arrangements.
The Executive Directors are required to build up and retain a personal shareholding worth an equivalent of a minimum of 150% of their prevailing base salary.
It is expected that the required shareholding will be built up over a maximum of five years.
The Committee has discretion to waive the requirement in exceptional circumstances.
Once attained, a subsequent fall below the required level may be taken into account by the Committee when determining the grant of future awards.
Subject to Subject to Subject to performance performance Subject to performance conditions conditions performance conditions under under conditions % of salary Legally owned Legally owned under 2012 revisionary recruitment under shareholding no.
Market price on date of award 431.6p 2 Awarded on 9 August 2011, vesting date 9 August 2014.
Market price on date of award 437.1p.
3 Awarded on 28 July 2011, vesting date 28 July 2014.
Exercise price on date of award 386.8p.
4 Awarded on 2 April 2012, vesting date 2 April 2017.
Exercise price on date of award 398.0p.
5 Based on share price at end of year, number of legally owned shares and salary as paid in year.
6 21,775 ordinary shares 2012: 21,775 are held by Lance Batchelor personally.
7 31,800 ordinary shares 2012: 27,748 are held by Lee Ginsberg personally.
18,000 ordinary shares are held in Lees self-invested pension plan 2012: 88,000.
8 600,000 ordinary shares 2012: 2,890,462 are held by The Stephen Hemsley Trusts Nos.
1 to 5, discretionary trusts of which Stephen Hemsley and his family are potential beneciaries.
HS Real LLC is owned by a discretionary trust, the beneciaries of which are the adult children of Colin and Gail Halpern.
10 48,000 ordinary shares 2012: 48,000 are held by Michael Shallow personally.
These shares were held by Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited on behalf of Michael Shallow.
11 Nigel Wray through companies which are wholly owned by Nigel Wray disposed of 5,675,000 shares on 28 February 2013 and through companies which are wholly owned by Nigel Wray and trusts which are beneficially owned by the family of Nigel Wray disposed of 4,910,179 shares on 2 August 2013.
12 48,000 ordinary shares 2012: 48,000 are held in John Hodsons self-invested pension plan.
13 Sean Wilkins was appointed as an Executive Director on 18 November 2013.
70 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Total Shareholder Return TSR Percentage increase in the remuneration of the The following graph illustrates the performance of the Company Chief Executive Officer not audited measured by TSR for the last five years to 29 December 2013 against % Change the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 Index over the same period.
Chief Executive % TSR is the product of movements in the share price plus dividends Salary 3% reinvested on the ex-dividend date.
As required by the Regulations, Benets 0% the Companys TSR performance is required to be shown against Bonus -100% a recognised broad-based share index.
The FTSE 250 Index Average employee excluding Investment Trusts has been selected for this comparison Salary -11.8% because this is the index in which the Companys shares have been Benets -21.7% quoted since admission to the Official List.
TSR provides a useful, Bonus -26.6% widely used benchmark to illustrate the Companys performance over the last five years.
The graph shows the value, at 29 December The table above shows the movement in the salary, benefits and 2013, of 100 invested in the Company on 28 December 2008 annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index and previous financial year compared to the average employee excluding Investment Trusts.
The other points plotted are the cost.
The composition of employees changed between 2012 and 2013 values at intervening financial year ends.
with a 48% increase as a result of growth in corporate store employees in the German business.
Total Shareholder Return TSR Relative importance of spend on pay not audited 2013 2012 % change This graph shows the value, by 29 December 2013, of 100 invested Staff costs 000 32,042 26,064 22.9% in Dominos Pizza plc on 28 December 2008 compared with the Distributions to shareholders m 24,609 21,746 13.2% value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Adjusted PBT m 47.6 46.7 1.9% Trusts.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
On behalf of the Board 400 350 John Hodson 300 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 250 28 February 2014 200 150 100 50 0 December 08 December 09 December 10 December 11 December 12 December 13 Dominos Pizza Group plc FTSE 250 Excl.
Inv Trusts Source: Thomson Reuters Chief Executive remuneration Total remuneration Annual bonus LTIP vesting Year ending Executive 000 % of max % of max 29 12 13 Lance Batchelor 532 0% 30 12 12 Lance Batchelor 852 50% 25 12 11 Lance Batchelor 256 60% 25 12 11 Chris Moore 630 60% 100% 26 12 10 Chris Moore 809 100% 100% 27 12 09 Chris Moore 672 100% 100% www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 71
