Drax Group plc 78 Annual report and accounts 2013 Remuneration Committee report Membership and process Role of the Committee Committee Chairman Tony Thorne The Committees principal responsibilities are: Chirman of the recommending to the Board the remuneration strategy and framework Remuneration Committee for the executive directors and senior managers: determining, within that framework, the individual remuneration packages for the executive directors and senior managers: approval of the design of annual and long-term incentive arrangements for executive directors and senior managers, including agreeing the annual targets and payments under such arrangements: Committee members Attending by invitation determining and agreeing the general terms and conditions of service and the specific terms for any individual within the Committees remit, Charles Berry, Tim Cobbold, Melanie Chief Executive, Head of Human either on recruitment or on termination: Gee and David Lindsell.
Tim Barker Resources, External remuneration formerly Senior Independent advisers.
determining the policy for, and scope of, executive pension Director had been a member of the arrangements: and Committee until his retirement to oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout on 24 April 2013. the Group and review remuneration trends across the Group.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Terms of reference The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Number of meetings held in 2013 Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
com 7 Annual statement to shareholders from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This is my first year as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and I would first like to thank my predecessor, Tim Barker, for his contribution as Chairman and his assistance during the handover period.
In last years report we adopted a number of the improved reporting measures which are now legislative requirements under the Large and Medium sized Companies Accounts and Reports Amendments Regulations 2013.
This year we have made further changes to reflect both the final Regulations and published investor guidance.
The remuneration report is in two parts: the Directors Remuneration Policy sets out the proposed policy for three years between the 2014 Annual General Meeting and the 2017 Annual General Meeting: the annual report on remuneration sets out payments and awards made to the directors and details the link between company performance and remuneration for the financial year ending on 31 December 2013.
Tim Barker noted in last years report that we would be reviewing executive remuneration to ensure that it properly reflects changes to the business and directors roles.
The Committee has undertaken this review during 2013.
We are grateful for the support and assistance from shareholders received during our consultation on the proposed changes to directors remuneration and on the proposed remuneration policy.
The context for this years review of executive remuneration is the progress in the implementation of Draxs biomass strategy, which is transforming the business from a position of having a limited life, to one with a sustainable long-term future with opportunities to develop.
Since 2008 the executive team has led the way in the UK in the fuelling of coal plants with sustainable biomass.
The Committee reviewed with careful consideration the extent to which the scope and dimensions of the executive director roles have increased, namely: 1 Biomass strategy Consistent with positioning itself as a major player in renewables generation, Drax is well advanced with its programme to invest around 700 million to transform Drax into a predominantly renewable generator through biomass.
One of Draxs six generating units has been converted to biomass, and the significant construction and engineering project at Drax will provide the infrastructure to enable the plant to receive, process and handle biomass to fuel its converted units.
Providing cost effective biomass fuel to these units will be an essential element of Draxs long-term success.
To this end, management is leading the establishment of an international supply chain involving long-term biomass supply contracts, rail and port facilities, shipping arrangements and the development of biomass processing facilities.
This development already includes a US subsidiary business which is constructing biomass pelleting plants and port facilities, and international expansion can be expected to continue.
Sustainability of biomass sources is crucial.
Drax has taken a leading position in pressing for the implementation of robust sustainability standards.
Drax Group plc 79 Annual report and accounts 2013 2 Trading strategy As a result of implementing the biomass strategy the business has the potential for much enhanced returns as compared to coal but it has introduced a greater dimension into its trading.
Drax has moved from a position of hedging the three legs of the dark green spread the difference between the revenue from electricity generation and the costs of buying coal and carbon allowances on a short to medium-term basis, to a position where, because of the need for long-term contracting to develop the biomass market, most of it in jurisdictions outside the UK, a more complex trading strategy is being operated.
This involves treasury and commodity trading activities to manage risks associated with long-term contracting of biomass, foreign exchange, freight, and oil, together with the management of collateral risk to ensure that the business remains robust to a sub-investment grade debt rating.
In addition, Drax is managing the increasing compliance obligations associated with financial regulation.
3 Haven Power Haven Power joined the Group in 2009, and has developed from a relatively small supplier to small and medium sized businesses, into a business with a significant industrial and commercial customer base playing an increasingly important and integrated role in the Groups trading strategy.
4 Market regulation Renewable plant is currently made economically viable through the Renewables Obligation RO.
Drax management has, for many years, been actively engaged with government in promoting reforms which will achieve increased certainty to support investment in renewables, particularly biomass.
To date, this has been achieved through the setting of RO bands and grandfathering of the RO.
The UK governments Electricity Market Reform package includes other measures, particularly in relation to contracts for differences and capacity payments, which will be critical to Draxs strategy and commercial choices.
Active engagement in the development and implementation of these measures, and the commercial decisions arising from them, will continue to be central to Draxs strategy and future success.
Change to executive directors terms The review led the Committee to conclude a need to reflect these changes in the executives remuneration.
The strategic complexity of the business is high at this point in our development, and the decisions made by our executive directors in the coming years will be critical for the long-term future of the Company.
Following consultation with our ten largest shareholders, the Committee decided to make a number of changes to the structure of the executive directors remuneration.
Annual bonus potential will be increased from 2014 so that the Chief Executives target annual bonus will increase from 65% to 75% of salary, and the target annual bonus of the other executive directors will increase from 60% to 70% of salary.
Maximum bonus will continue to be capped at twice the target bonus, i. e. 150% and 140% respectively.
The proportion of the annual bonus to be deferred into shares for three years will be increased from 25% to 35%.
We have also decided to increase directors shareholding requirements.
The Companys guidelines currently require executive directors to build up a shareholding to the value of their annual salary.
The Committee has decided to increase this to 175% of salary for the Chief Executive and 125% of salary for the other executive directors.
The Committee is confident that we have a strong executive team, and the new remuneration arrangements are designed to retain the team to deliver the opportunities that have been created for shareholders and to reward the executives for that delivery.
During the year the Committee also reviewed the terms of executive directors service agreements, following which the Company entered into new service agreements with all four of the executive directors.
The main changes to the contracts were to amend notice provisions so that all directors contracts are terminable on 12 months notice from either party, to enable the Company to make phased payments in lieu of notice and to ensure that there are appropriate restrictions on the directors ability to work for competitors or solicit staff after leaving the Company.
Wider employee population In respect of the wider employee population in the Group, a two year pay agreement was implemented for employees in the collective bargaining unit, resulting in annual basic pay increases of RPI plus 0.4% for 2013 and 2014, plus any annual incremental progression for employees not yet at the top of their pay scale.
Executive director basic pay increased by 3.50% during 2013, whilst the average annual change in basic pay for all other Group employees employed continuously from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 was 5.02%.
Last years report noted that the Committee had agreed that additional steps should be taken to make employees aware of the likely level of their retirement benefits and to encourage them to review their contributions.
It also noted that additional contributions by the Group may be needed dependent upon the terms applicable to the relevant schemes.
I am pleased to report that the awareness sessions have been very effective.
We have now successfully implemented pension auto-enrolment for our UK employees.
93.50% of all Group employees in the UK are now members of a Drax occupational pension scheme.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 80 Annual report and accounts 2013 Remuneration Committee report Assessment of remuneration relating to 2013 and 2014 targets At its meeting in February 2014 the Committee considered a number of matters on remuneration either paid in or relating to 2014.
The Annual report on remuneration includes details of the Committees assessment of 2013 performance.
As expected, 2013 profits were lower than in 2012 due to the additional cost of carbon.
Nevertheless it was a significant year of achievement for the Company.
In particular, the conversion of the first generating unit to burn sustainable biomass, the associated supply chain developments, the regulatory developments towards contracts to determine the earnings of further biomass units, and the volume growth of the retail business are all major steps towards securing the Companys long-term future.
The Committees assessment of the Scorecard was at 1.52, which means that the cap of 1.5 applies.
We also assessed the executive directors performance against their performance objectives as being towards the upper end of the range between target and maximum.
As a result of the combination of the corporate and personal scores, annual bonuses for 2013 to be paid in March 2014 will be capped at the maximum level.
The details of the scoring are set out on page 90 of the Annual report on remuneration.
The Committee also considered targets for 2014.
These have been established to be at least as challenging as those for 2013.
A description of the 2014 corporate targets is set out in the Annual report section of this report, with such detail as can be provided whilst safeguarding commercial confidentiality.
The Committee also considered the vesting of the Bonus Matching Plan awards made in 2011, which were conditional upon performance over the three years from the start of 2011 to the end of 2013.
As described in the Policy section of this report, the awards are 50% based on the Companys relative Total Share holder Return TSR performance and 50% on the three year average of the Balanced Corporate Scorecard.
The Companys TSR over the period was 107%, which was in the upper quartile of the comparator group, and the Committee therefore confirmed vesting of the whole of the TSR element of the award.
The average scorecard score over the same period was 1.48.
As a result, the Committee determined that 97.16% of the Scorecard Award element would vest.
The Committee also agreed to the grant of 2014 Bonus Matching Plan awards to the executive directors to the value of 150% of their 2013 annual bonus, and subject to the same performance conditions as described in the policy section of this report.
Directors remuneration policy This remuneration policy, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM, will be effective from immediately after the AGM on 23 April 2014 and binding upon the Group until the close of the 2017 AGM.
There are no planned changes to the policy over the three year period to which it relates.
The core principles of the remuneration policy are to: give effect to existing remuneration commitments in accordance with directors contracts of employment: pay market rates of total remuneration: ensure that there is an appropriate link between performance and reward: award annual bonuses which are linked to the delivery of the annual Business Plan targets including the achievement of strategic objectives and personal performance: ensure that long-term incentives are linked to TSR and to the delivery of Business Plan strategic objectives: ensure that payments on termination of employment are linked to performance and the exercise of good faith: and allow the Committee an element of discretion to enable recruitment or termination situations to be managed in the best interest of the Group.
Drax Group plc 81 Annual report and accounts 2013 Remuneration policy report Section 1 Key components of remuneration The remuneration policy for executive directors has been designed to support the delivery of business performance and creation of shareholder value.
We set out in the table below the remuneration policy, and in the notes following the table we provide a commentary on differences between this policy and that of the remuneration of employees generally.
The following table sets out the policy relating to the key components of executive director remuneration: Remuneration How this component Performance measures and component relates to Group strategy How this component operates in practice maximum potential value Base salary helps to Base salary reflects the role, the executives skills and experience, The base salaries of executive directors i Base salary attract, reward and retain and market level.
in post at the start of the policy period the right calibre of and who remain in the same role To determine market level, the Committee reviews remuneration executive to deliver the throughout the policy period will not data on executive positions at companies which the Committee leadership management usually be increased by a higher consider to be appropriate comparators.
needed to execute the percentage than the average annual The comparator companies are selected, with advice from the Groups vision and percentage increase in salaries of all Committees remuneration advisers, taking into account relevant business plan.
other employees in the Group.
comparator factors such as, but not limited to, sector, size, and The only exceptions are where: international presence.
i an executive director has been On appointment, an executive directors base salary is set at the appointed at below market level to market level, or below if the executive is not fully experienced reflect experience.
In this case, the at this level.
maximum annual increase to base salary Where base salary on appointment is below market level to reflect will be 5% over the normal maximum: or experience, it will over time, be increased to align with the market ii there is a particular reason for a higher level, subject to performance.
increase, such as a change in the scope Base salaries of all executive directors are generally reviewed or nature of responsibilities.
In the case of the Production Director Reviews cover: individual performance: experience: development and the Retail and Trading Director, in role: and market comparisons.
some further adjustment is envisaged to reflect increasing scope of roles and increasing experience.
The maximum increase to base salary in any year will be 5% over the normal maximum.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 82 Annual report and accounts 2013 Remuneration Committee report Remuneration How this component Performance measures and component relates to Group strategy How this component operates in practice maximum potential value Maximum bonus The award of annual Strategic and Business plan targets are set by the Board as part of ii Annual potential %age of bonuses is directly linked the Business Plan approval process.
bonus Role base salary to personal performance The Committee determines Group performance measures using and to the achievement a Scorecard.
Chief Executive 150% of the annual Business The Scorecard shows executive directors annual targets Finance Director 140% Plan targets.
and measures of performance low, target and stretch, The multiplicative Production Director 140% and weightings.
formula is designed to Score is zero if performance is below the low measure.
Retail and Trading ensure that bonus Director 140% Maximum score is attributed to the stretch measure.
payments for high The Scorecard is amended each year in line with business strategy personal performance Group performance measures and objectives.
are moderated where Group performance measures include business performance Summary Scorecard and performance results are published financial, production, strategic and other is below target, or in the Annual report on remuneration.
To determine the actual bonus awards, the following formula is used: These measures and weightings are determined by the Board and adopted Chief Executives bonus by the Committee.
Target bonus is 75% of base salary Actual bonus basic salary x 75% x company score Individual performance measures x personal score The Remuneration Committee Bonus is capped at 150% of salary determines the personal objectives for the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive Other directors bonus proposes personal objectives for the Target bonus is 70% of salary other executive directors, which are Bonus basic salary x 70% x company score x personal score reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Generally, Bonus is capped at 140% of salary all executive directors will be awarded a Clawback single score based on their collective performance in providing effective day to The Committee may require a director to repay to the Company such day leadership of the Group as a unified amount of any annual bonus payment as it considers appropriate leadership team.
Personal scores may in circumstances of financial misstatement, misconduct or if differ in circumstances of exceptional assessment of a performance condition is found to have been over or under performance.
based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision..
In these circumstances, Bonus Matching Plan BMP clawback provisions may also apply see BMP below.
This is the deferred 35% of any annual bonus is settled in shares deferred for three years.
100% of the shares will vest subject to iii Deferred portion of annual bonus.
No performance conditions are used other than continued service.
continued employment up to the date annual The aim of deferral is to of vesting.
If the executive leaves the Group before the normal vesting day, bonus further align executives the shares will vest pro-rated to the date of leaving only if the to the interests of termination is for a specified reason including redundancy, shareholders, by linking retirement or death in service, or, if for any other reason, at the share based reward to discretion of the Committee.
In any other circumstances the award long-term sustainable is forfeited.
Drax Group plc 83 Annual report and accounts 2013 Remuneration How this component Performance measures and component relates to Group strategy How this component operates in practice maximum potential value This is the long-term The Bonus Matching Plan BMP is a long-term performance Maximum number of shares granted iv Bonus incentive plan for share plan.
equals shares to the value of 1.5 x annual Matching executives.
Under the BMP, executive directors receive an annual grant Plan BMP It links long-term share of conditional shares to a value of up to 1.5 times the amount of Maximum vesting of shares three years based incentives to Total the executives annual bonus for the prior year.
later is subject to performance.
Shareholder Return It is the Committees policy to grant BMP awards to executive There are two vesting performance TSR and to the directors at 1.5 times the amount of the annual bonus unless the measures vesting threshold is 15% in achievement of Business performance of the director or of the business makes an award both measures : Plan strategic targets.
No payment is made for the shares.
i Up to 50% of shares vest subject to Vesting is conditional upon service and performance conditions, TSR performance over three years and shares vest on the third anniversary of the grant subject to the relative to FTSE51150 as follows: achievement of performance conditions determined by the Below median 0% vesting Committee.
To the extent that vesting is determined by reference At median 15% vesting threshold to Company Scorecard performance, at the end of the three year Upper quartile 100% vesting.
performance period, the Committee will review each of the annual ii Up to 50% of shares vest subject to results going into an average Scorecard calculation and has the Company Scorecard performance discretion to adjust the final outcome based on events over the averaged over the three year period to ensure that the result is consistent with the underlying performance period, as follows: performance progression of the business.
In exercising its discretion the Committee will have particular regard to progress Score 1 0% vesting against the strategic objectives incorporated in the Scorecard.
Score 1 15% vesting threshold score If the executive leaves the Group before the normal vesting day, Score 1.5 100% vesting the shares will vest pro-rated to the date of leaving and phased The three year average company over the normal cycle of the performance periods only if the performance score is capped at 1.5. termination is for a specified reason including redundancy, Example: retirement or death in service, or, if for any other reason, at the discretion of the Committee.
In any other circumstances the award Year 1 Score 1.8 is forfeited.
Year 2 Score 1.4 Year 3 score 1.4 Performance condition override Three year BMP performance score 1.5 The Committee will include an override provision in each grant under the BMP.
This will give the Committee discretion to For both the TSR and Scorecard determine that no vesting shall occur or vesting shall be reduced conditions vesting between 15% if there are circumstances relating to the Companys overall and 100% is on a straight-line performance or otherwise which make vesting as calculated by interpolation.
reference to the performance conditions alone inappropriate.
In accordance with the rules of the BMP, Dividend Shares are awarded at the time Clawback and in the event that shares vest.
They If a repayment of bonus is required see annual bonus above the are calculated based on the dividends Committee shall also make an appropriate reduction in the number paid following the initial award until the of shares that may vest under the BMP in respect of an award award vests.
made pursuant to the annual bonus payment subject to the clawback.
The Committee may also reduce the number of shares under a BMP award in circumstances of financial misstatement, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision.. Pension provision is one Executive directors are entitled to non-contributory membership of Maximum is 20% of base salary.
v Pension of the components to the Groups defined contribution pension plan.
The employers attract, reward and retain contribution for executive directors is 20% of base salary.
the right calibre of Alternatively, at their option, executive directors may either have executive in order to contributions of the same amounts made to their personal pension ensure delivery of the schemes or cash in lieu of pension at the stated rate and subject leadership and to normal statutory deductions: or a combination of pension management needed to contributions up to the HMRC Annual Allowance with the execute the Groups remainder as cash in lieu of pension.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 84 Annual report and accounts 2013 Remuneration Committee report Remuneration How this component Performance measures and component relates to Group strategy How this component operates in practice maximum potential value In general, other benefits Executive directors receive a car allowance, life assurance x4 salary, vi Other aim to align directors the opportunity to participate in all-employee share plans on the benefits total remuneration same basis as other employees, annual private health assessment broadly with the market.
and annual private medical cover.
In particular, all-employee Relocation expenses and or second base expenses are paid where share plans incentivise appropriate in individual cases.
Directors relocation expenses are sustained long-term determined on a case by case basis.
The policy is designed to assist performance and the director to relocate to a home of similar standing.
strengthen teamwork by enabling all employees to share in the success of the business.
The plans are vehicles for aligning staff remuneration with TSR performance.
The Groups share The share ownership guideline is that the Chief Executive should vii Share ownership guidelines retain shares to the value of 175% of base salary and other directors ownership align the interests of should retain shares to the value of 125% of base salary.
Until this executives with level is reached, directors who receive shares by virtue of share plan shareholders.
awards or who receive deferred bonus shares must retain 50% of the shares received net i. e. after income tax and national insurance contributions.
Only shares that have actually vested count towards the threshold.
Differences between the policy and that of the remuneration of employees generally The following differences apply between the remuneration of directors and the policy on the remuneration of employees generally: executive directors and a number of senior employees are eligible for BMP.
However, there are differences in terms of levels of grant.
annual bonus levels vary across the workforce, and the requirement to defer a portion of annual bonus applies only to executive directors.
employees in the collective bargaining unit have a contractual right to receive an annual bonus subject to Company performance and continued employment, whereas directors and all other UK based employees participate in a discretionary bonus scheme.
hourly paid employees qualify for overtime payments.
Drax Group plc 85 Annual report and accounts 2013 Non-executive directors Remuneration component How this component operates in practice Annual fee The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Committee whilst that of the other non-executive directors is determined by the Chairman and the executive directors.
These are determined in the light of: fees of chairmen and non-executive directors of other listed companies selected for comparator purposes on the same basis as for executive directors: the responsibilities and time commitment: and the need to attract and retain individuals with the necessary skills and experience.
The Chairman receives an annual fee.
Non-executive directors receive an annual base fee.
Additional annual fees are paid: to the Senior Independent Director which includes the fee for chairing a Board Committee other than the Audit Committee : to the Chair of the Audit Committee: to the Chair of the Remuneration Committee: and to the Chair of any other Committee this is not paid to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee if he or she is also the Chairman of the Board.
Non-executive directors fees are reviewed periodically against market comparators.
They were last reviewed in July 2013.
Current fee levels are shown in the annual report on remuneration.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any performance related remuneration arrangements.
Travel expenses Reimbursement of reasonable travel and accommodation expenses as applicable.
Non-executive directors do not receive any benefits in kind, nor are they eligible for any annual performance bonus, pension or any of the share-based reward plans.
The Chairmans notice period is six months whilst the other non-executive directors have a notice period of one month.
Section 2 Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committee will apply the core principles on page 80 and the remuneration components set out in the table on pages 81 to 84 determine the remuneration of newly appointed directors.
Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the director being appointed.
Where this is below the market level, it will be adjusted over time to align with the market level, subject to good performance.
In relation to directors appointed from outside the Company, where the Committee considers it to be necessary to secure the appointment of the director, the Committee may: pay sign-on compensation for loss of benefits on resignation from a previous employer, such as loss of long-term share incentives subject to the right to phase any payment to reflect performance, the requirement to mitigate loss and the right of the Company to clawback any amount which is subsequently paid to the executive by the former employer, and to clawback an appropriate proportion of the payment if the executive leaves soon after appointment.
make appropriate payments in circumstances where a director is relocated from outside the UK.
Section 3 Service agreements Executive directors service agreements are of indefinite duration, terminable at any time by either party giving 12 months prior notice.
Under each of the executive directors service agreements the Company has the right to make a payment in lieu of notice of termination, the amount of that payment being the salary and benefits that would have accrued to the executive director during the contractual notice period.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 86 Annual report and accounts 2013 Remuneration Committee report Section 4 Remuneration scenarios The composition and value of the executive directors remuneration packages at below threshold, target and outperformance scenarios under the Drax Group remuneration policy are set out in the charts below: m % Salary, benets and pension Bonus BMP Salary, benets and pension Bonus BMP Chief Executive 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m 2.0m 2.5m 3.0m Chief Executive 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Outperformance Outperformance Target Target Below threshold Below threshold Finance Director Finance Director Outperformance Outperformance Target Target Below threshold Below threshold Production Director Production Director Outperformance Outperformance Target Target Below threshold Below threshold Retail and Trading Director Retail and Trading Director Outperformance Outperformance Target Target Below threshold Below threshold Notes: 1 Annual bonus threshold is assumed at 25% of maximum, target at 50% of maximum and outperformance at 100% of maximum bonus.
2 The BMP award threshold is assumed at 15% of maximum award and outperformance 100% of maximum, with target representing the average of the two.
3 The award of conditional shares under the BMP is based on the individuals prior year annual bonus and therefore it is assumed that corresponding threshold, target and maximum bonus is earned for calculating threshold, target and maximum BMP award under each scenario.
Section 5 Policy on loss of office If an executive directors employment is brought to an end by either party and if it is necessary to determine a termination payment, the Committees policy, in the absence of a breach of the service agreement by the director, is to determine a directors termination payment in accordance with his her service agreement.
The termination payment will be calculated based on the value of base salary and contractual benefits that would have accrued to the director during the contractual notice period.
The Committee will seek mitigation to reduce the amount of any termination payment to a leaving director when appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances and the law governing the agreement.
It may, for example, be appropriate to consider mitigation if the director has secured another job at a similar level.
Mitigation would not be applicable to a contractual payment in lieu of notice.
In addition, the director may be entitled to a payment in respect of his her statutory rights.
No service agreement includes any provision for the payment of compensation upon termination.
Any compensation payable in those circumstances would need to be determined at the time and in the light of the circumstances.
All bonus payments are discretionary benefits.
The Committee will consider whether a departing director should receive an annual bonus in respect of the financial year in which, and or immediately preceding which, the termination occurs, pro-rated to reflect the period of the performance year completed at the date of termination.
The Committee will take into account performance: co-operation with succession: and any breach of goodwill and adherence to contractual obligations restrictions.
If the termination is by the Company on less than the specified notice in the directors service agreement, the Committee will also consider whether the director should receive an annual bonus in respect of any period of the financial year following termination for which the director has been deprived of the opportunity to earn annual bonus.
If the employment ends in any of the following circumstances, the director will be treated as a good leaver and the director will be eligible for a bonus payment: redundancy: retirement: ill-health or disability proved to the satisfaction of the Company: and death.
Drax Group plc 87 Annual report and accounts 2013 If the termination is for any other reason a bonus payment will be at the discretion of the Committee.
It is the Committees policy to ensure that any such bonus payment properly reflects the departing directors performance and behaviour towards the Company.
Therefore the amount of any such payment will be determined as described in the table on page 82, taking into account i the directors personal performance and behaviour towards the Company and ii the Group performance.
If a bonus payment is made, it will normally be paid as soon as is reasonably practicable after the Group performance element has been determined for the relevant period.
There may be circumstances in which the Committee considers it appropriate for the bonus payment to be made earlier, for example, on termination due to ill-health, in which case, on-target Group performance score shall be assumed.
No element of any such bonus payment shall be deferred.
The Committee will consider the extent to which deferred and conditional share awards held by the director under the BMP should lapse or vest.
Any determination by the Committee will be in accordance with the rules of the BMP as approved by shareholders.
In summary, the rules of the BMP provide that awards will vest pro-rated to the date of employment termination if employment ends for any of the following reasons: redundancy: retirement: ill-health or disability proved to the satisfaction of the Company: change of ownership: and death.
If employment ends for any other reason, the rules of the BMP require the Committee to exercise its discretion.
In doing so it will take account of all relevant circumstances, in particular the performance of the Company: the directors performance and behaviour towards the Company during the performance cycle of the relevant awards: as well as a range of other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date.
The rules of the BMP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, deferred bonus shares vest as soon as reasonably practicable following termination.
Awards, which vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions, will be time pro-rated and will be phased over the performance cycle of the relevant awards.
The Committee will consider whether the overall value of any benefits accruing to a leaving director is fair and appropriate taking account of all relevant circumstances.
Examples of circumstances in which the Committee may be minded to award an annual bonus payment and or permit the vesting of BMP awards include: the directors continued good performance up to and following the giving of notice: and the director accommodating the Company in the timing of his her departure and handover arrangements.
Conversely, the Committee may be minded not to allow such payments if the reason for the departure is: poor performance: or the director does not continue to perform effectively following notice: or the director is departing to join a competitor.
Section 6 Context Wider employee population In determining executive remuneration, the Committee also takes into account the level of general pay increases within the Group.
It is the Committees policy that annual salary increases for executive directors should not exceed the average annual salary increase for the wider employee population unless there is a particular reason for a higher increase, such as a change in the nature or scope of responsibilities.
Views taken from the employee population In the course of discussions on pay with employee representatives, the Group discusses executive remuneration policy and provides details of the process by which the Committee establishes executive remuneration packages.
The information provided includes details of the benchmarking of executive director remuneration as well as information benchmarking the pay of employees in the collective bargaining unit with pay elsewhere in the industry.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 88 Annual report and accounts 2013 Remuneration Committee report Environmental, social and governance issues The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors.
Specific measures can be included in the balanced Corporate Scorecard.
The Committee is able to consider those issues in considering whether to exercise its discretion to adjust the overall score, and in considering the performance conditions override under the BMP, as described on page 83.
Shareholder engagement The Company holds regular meetings with its largest shareholders, and the Committee takes into account any views or representations of shareholders relating to executive remuneration.
The Company has consulted its ten largest shareholders in relation to the formulation of its directors remuneration policy.
Annual report on remuneration The differences between the remuneration policy for 2013 and the policy on which shareholders will vote at the 2014 AGM are set out below: How this component relates to Performance measure and maximum Remuneration component Group strategy How this component operates in practice potential value Base salary No difference.
No difference N A Annual bonus No difference.
The target bonus levels in 2013 were Details of the metrics for the 2013 and 65% and 60% of salary respectively 2014 annual bonus are provided later for the Chief Executive and other in this report.
The maximum potential values in 2013 No clawback provisions for 2013 were 130% and 120% of salary bonus.
respectively for the Chief Executive and other directors.
The amount of the annual bonus bonus deferred was 25% in 2013.
No clawback provisions for 2013 deferred bonus.
Bonus matching plan No difference.
No clawback provisions for 2013 No difference.
In 2013 the share ownership guidelines required directors to retain shares to the value of their base salary.
Base salaries The base salaries of the executive directors as at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 are shown in the following table: Base salary 000 Base salary 000 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Percentage increase Peter Emery 306 296 3.5% Tony Quinlan 372 359 3.5% Paul Taylor 257 248 3.5% Dorothy Thompson 546 528 3.5% Drax Group plc 89 Annual report and accounts 2013 Annual fees The Chairmans fees were last reviewed in March 2011.
Non-executive directors fees were increased with effect from 1 August 2013.
Fee rates as at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 are shown in the following table: Fees 000 Fees 000 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Percentage increase Chairman 220 220 0% NED base fee 54 52.5 2.9% 1 Senior Independent Director 10 10 0% Audit Committee Chair 10 10 0% Remuneration Committee Chair 10 7.5 33% 2 Nominations Committee Chair 7.5 7.5 0% Notes: 1 This includes the fee for chairing a Board Committee other than the Audit Committee.
2 This is not paid if the Chairman of the Nominations Committee is also the Chairman of the Board.
Single total figure of remuneration for each director Audited information The table below sets out the single figure of remuneration and breakdown for each executive director for 2013, together with comparative figures for 2012: 1 2 Salary Fees Pension Bonus BMP Other benefits Total Name 000 000 000 000 000 000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Peter Emery 303 293 62 59 367 355 997 18 18 1,747 725 Tony Quinlan 368 356 74 71 446 431 1,211 20 86 2,119 944 Paul Taylor 255 246 51 49 309 298 609 17 17 1,241 610 Dorothy Thompson 542 523 108 105 710 686 1,929 71 92 3,360 1,406 Notes: 1 Bonus is the cash value of the annual bonus payable in respect of performance in the relevant year, including the value of bonus deferred and paid in shares after three years subject only to continued service.
2 BMP is the value of the BMP Matching Awards vesting in March 2014, together with the Dividend Shares in relation to those vested shares.
The value is calculated based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2013.
The table below sets out the single figure of remuneration and breakdown for each non-executive director for 2013 together with comparative figures for 2012: Board fee Other fees Total 000 000 000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Charles Berry Chairman of Board 220 220 220 220 Chairman of Nominations Committee 1 Tim Barker 17 53 20 63 Senior Independent Director Chairman of Remuneration Committee 3 10 Tim Cobbold 53 53 53 53 4 Melanie Gee 53 53 David Lindsell 53 53 70 63 2 Senior Independent Director 7 Chairman of Audit Committee 10 10 Tony Thorne 53 53 60 53 3 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 7 Notes: 1 Tim Barker retired from the Board on 24 April 2013.
2 David Lindsell was appointed as Senior Independent Director on 24 April 2013.
3 Tony Thorne was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 24 April 2013.
4 Melanie Gee was appointed 1 January 2014.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 90 Annual report and accounts 2013 Remuneration Committee report Details of performance against metrics for variable pay awards Annual bonus plan outcome A summary of the Committees assessment in respect of the 2013 Scorecard is set out in the following table: Target weighting Performance assessment Score Financial 1 Underlying earnings per share 20% Earnings per share was above the stretch target.
Interest cover ratio and 10% Interest cover ratio of 4 times was above the target but below the stretch controllable costs target of 5 times.
Controllable costs were marginally greater than the target of 195 million.
Total financial 30% 1.73 Safety and production Safety 7.5% Total recordable injury rate was 0.3, below the target and ahead of the low target.
The number of RIDDOR occurrences was 11 below the low target.
Plant and operations 12.5% Targets relate to availability and outage rates with a specific target related to the first converted biomass unit availability.
The coal forced outage rate is determined as appropriate to plant and operations characteristics in the year, and based on a long-term target of 5%.
Specific biomass targets remain confidential.
Overall outage rates and availability were slightly below target.
Total safety and production 20% 0.95 Retail Sales volume 10% The target was for a specified volume of contracted sales for 2014.
2.00 Strategic Regulatory objectives 10% Targets related to progress towards achieving support for biomass generation under the Contract for Differences CfDs structure on appropriate terms and on progress towards sustainability requirements that are appropriately robust and manageable.
At the end of the year two Drax generating units had been ranked first equal in the application process for investment CfDs, and governments position on sustainability standards 1.75 reflected many of the Companys recommendations.
Accordingly the Committee assessed the score as between target and stretch.
Conversion facilities 10% Targets were against the budget and schedule for the capital works associated with the biomass conversion and biomass burnt during the year.
The Committee assessed performance as between target and stretch based on actual performance.
1.20 Biomass supply 10% The target related to the overall volume of biomass contracted for supply with a view to securing volume for three converted units.
The specific targets remain confidential.
The Committee assessed performance as having achieved the stretch target.
2.00 US asset investment 10% Targets related to the schedule and budget for construction of assets in the US and for O&M mobilisation.
The Committee assessed performance between target and stretch.
1.13 Total strategic 40% Total weighting 100% 1.52 Note: 1 Calculated using underlying earnings, being profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude the after tax impact of unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts, and exceptional items see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
Following this process, and based on the relative weightings and scores as set out in the table, the Committee assessed the corporate score for 2013 at 1.52.
The Committee did not exercise its discretion to adjust the overall score.
For the purpose of calculating annual bonus, the corporate score was capped at 1.50 in accordance with plan rules.
Drax Group plc 91 Annual report and accounts 2013 Personal objectives Each executive director is primarily assessed based on their performance in delivering the Companys strategy, enhancing shareholder value, their overall leadership of the Group and their respective divisions and in implementing the Companys values.
In addition, each executive director has specific personal objectives covering the following key areas.
The specific details remain confidential.
Director Objective Peter Emery Safety, environmental and plant performance: Strengthening and broadening the scope of safety management process to incorporate US business: The Industrial Emissions Directive compliance proposal: Technical development of biomass conversion project: and Development of the carbon capture and storage project consistent with agreed objectives.
Strategic developments: Tony Quinlan Effective investor communications: Efficient cash flow and balance sheet management: Maintenance of core financial controls and system improvements: and US governance, reporting and execution support.
Paul Taylor Commodity trading performance: Retail sales operations and strategy: Logistics and optimisation: and Commercial contribution to regulatory development.
Development of strategy and clear strategic objectives: Dorothy Thompson Optimisation of Group performance leadership on vision, values and employee engagement: Regulatory and external communications: Leadership for biomass transformation: and Financial performance.
The Committee assessed the performance of each of the executive directors against the general and specific objectives.
The executive directors, as members of the Executive Committee, were assessed as providing effective day to day leadership of the Group as a unified leadership team.
All of them exceeded the specific personal targets.
Accordingly, each was assessed with a personal score of 1.40.
For 2013 bonus awards, the target bonus for the Chief Executive and the other executive directors was 65% and 60% of base salary respectively.
Their maximum bonus was 130% and 120% respectively.
75% of any bonus award is paid in cash and 25% is deferred in shares that vest after three years and are forfeited if the executive leaves the Group other than as a good leaver before the shares vest.
Actual bonus awards for 2013 Value of bonus 2013 bonus payment Executive director 000 as a % of base salary Peter Emery Production Director 367 120% Tony Quinlan Finance Director 446 120% Paul Taylor Retail and Trading Director 309 120% Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive 710 130% Note: 1 The value of bonus shown in the table above is made up of 75% paid in cash and 25% deferred into shares.
Details of deferred bonus share awards Audited information The following deferred bonus shares awarded in respect of the 2010 annual bonus vested in 2013.
Value of vesting Executive director 000 Number of shares Peter Emery Production Director 105 16,983 Tony Quinlan Finance Director 128 20,538 Paul Taylor Retail and Trading Director 78 12,496 Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive 216 34,719 Detail of BMP incentive outcomes Audited information No awards under the BMP which were subject to performance conditions vested in 2013.
No Dividend shares are awarded where the initial awards lapse.
The number of Dividend shares awarded is calculated based on the actual dividends paid to ordinary shareholders in the period following the initial award up until the award vests.
2 The Deferred Awards referred to above are the share awards made in respect of the deferral of cash bonus awarded each year.
Those share awards operate under the rules of the BMP.
3 Details of the conditions subject to which the above awards will vest are given on page 83.
4 The face value of the awards is calculated based on the share price on 31 December 2013.
Drax Group plc 93 Annual report and accounts 2013 Total pension entitlements for defined contribution schemes audited information Executive directors are entitled to non-contributory membership of the Groups defined contribution pension plan with either an employer contribution of 20% of base salary, or have contributions to a personal pension, or cash in lieu of pension, or a combination of any of these up to a maximum contribution of 20% of base salary.
No director was a member of the defined benefit scheme.
Payments for loss of office No executive directors left the business during the year and therefore no payments for loss of office were made to directors during the financial year.
Tim Barker, a non-executive director, retired from the Board on 24 April 2013.
No payment for loss of office was made.
Shareholder voting The table below shows the voting outcome for the Remuneration report at the Annual General Meeting held on 24 April 2013.
For % Against % Abstain % Total Approval of Remuneration report 280,377,944 85.63% 13,262,002 4.05% 33,782,677 10.32% 327,422,623 Statement of directors shareholding and share interests Audited information During the year the shareholding guidelines required executive directors who receive shares by virtue of share plan awards or who receive deferred bonus shares to retain 50% of the shares received net i. e. after income tax and national insurance contributions until the value was equal to their annual salary.
From 2014 the requirement has been increased so that the value to be built up is 175% and 125% of salary respectively for the Chief Executive and other executive directors.
The following table shows the executive directors shareholdings and share interests at 31 December 2013.
2 SIP awards operated until 2009 which are held by a Trustee, are shown above under the Beneficial ownership section.
3 The deferred share awards not subject to performance are the annual bonus deferred shares.
There is no shareholding requirement for non-executive directors.
The table below shows the shareholding of the non-executive directors and their connected persons and the value as at 31 December 2013.
Name Number of shares Value Charles Berry 1,730 13,849 Tim Cobbold 1,000 8,005 Melanie Gee 7,900 63,240 David Lindsell 7,500 60,038 Tony Thorne 7,500 60,038 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 94 Annual report and accounts 2013 Remuneration Committee report Provision of shares for share plans dilution In accordance with the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers, the Company can satisfy awards under all its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10-year period to employees under all its share plans.
Within the 10% limit, the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury 5% of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under the discretionary or executive plans.
The current estimated dilution from subsisting awards, including executive and all employee share awards, is less than 0.5% of the shares in issue at the date of this report.
Service agreements The following table shows for each person who was a director of the Company at 18 February 2014 or who served as a director of the Company at any time during the year ended 31 December 2013, the commencement date and term of the service agreement or contract for services, and details of the notice periods.
Unexpired term at the date of Notice period by the Notice period by the Director Contract start date Contract term years publication months Company months director months Retired on Tim Barker 14 February 2012 3 years 24 April 2013 1 1 1 Charles Berry 17 April 2011 3 years 2 months 6 6 Tim Cobbold 27 September 2013 3 years 2 years and 7 months 1 1 Melanie Gee 1 January 2013 1 year and 10 months 1 1 Peter Emery 3 September 2013 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 David Lindsell 14 February 2012 3 years 1 year 1 1 Tony Quinlan 3 September 2013 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Paul Taylor 3 September 2013 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Dorothy Thompson 3 September 2013 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Tony Thorne 29 June 2013 3 years 2 years and 4 months 1 1 Notes: 1 A new Letter of Appointment was executed in February 2014 which has an effective start date of 17 April 2014 with a contract term of three years.
Value of 100 invested The following graph shows how the value of 100 invested in the Company on 31 December 2008 has changed and compares that performance with the changing value of the same amount invested at the same time in the FTSE100 and FTSE250 indices.
These indices have been chosen as suitable broad comparators against which the Companys shareholders may judge their relative returns given that, in recent years, the Company has been a member of both the FTSE100 and FTSE250 indices.
The graph reflects the TSR determined according to usual market practice for the Company and each of the indices referred to on a cumulative basis over the period from 31 December 2007 to 31 December 2013.
TSR performance Drax versus FTSE100 and FTSE250 Drax FTSE100 FTSE250 300 250 200 150 100 Dec 08 Mar 09 Jun 09 Sep 09 Dec 09 Mar 10 Jun 10 Sep 10 Dec 10 Mar 11 Jun 11 Sep 11 Dec 11 Mar 12 Jun 12 Sep 12 Dec 12 Mar 13 Jun 13 Sep 13 Dec 13 Drax Group plc 95 Annual report and accounts 2013 Chief Executives pay in last five financial years Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Dorothy Thompsons total single figure 000 903 1,155 1,196 1,406 3,360 Bonus % of maximum awarded % 77.38% 100% 100% 100% 100% BMP Matching Award % of maximum vesting 98.58% Percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration compared with the wider employee population The table below shows how the percentage change in the Chief Executives salary, benefits and bonus between 2012 and 2013 compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for a group of employees.
The Committee has selected all Group employees below executive director level based in the UK, as these are the vast majority of Group employees and provide the most appropriate comparator.
It excludes employees based in the US, which is a newly established business with only 33 employees at the end of 2013.
1 2 Salary Taxable benefits Bonus Percentage Percentage Percentage 000 increase 000 increase 000 increase 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Dorothy Thompson 541.7 523.4 3.5% 63.3 47.4 33.5% 710.2 686.2 3.50% 3 Average for UK employees 42.3 40.4 4.7% 5.8 6.2 6.4% 8.8 7.6 15.79% Notes: 1 CEO taxable benefits include car allowance, second base allowance and private health care.
Other UK employee taxable benefits include private health care, overtime payments, work pattern e. g. shift allowances and other taxable allowances e. g. abnormal conditions payments, fire and first aid payments.
2 Bonus includes 25% of total bonus which was deferred for three years and paid in shares subject to continued service.
It excludes the value of deferred shares awarded in respect of the 2010 bonus which vested in 2013 and the comparative of 2009 awards which vested in 2012.
3 The number of UK employees on which the average is calculated is 914.
The data includes all UK employees below executive director who were continuously employed between 1 Jan 2012 and 31 December 2013.
It excludes executive directors and anyone employed for part-year periods.
Relative importance on spend on pay The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared to other disbursements from profit, i. e. distributions to shareholders and capital expenditure.
These were the most significant outgoings from the Company in the last financial year, other than normal operating costs.
Relative importance on spend on pay m 287,041,163 224,205,542 95,630,050 93,278,341 85,245,967 78,834,170 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Dividends m Capital expenditure m Remuneration m Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 96 Annual report and accounts 2013 Remuneration Committee report Statement of implementation of the Remuneration Policy in the following financial year The Remuneration Policy will be implemented following the AGM in 2014 as follows: Salaries will be reviewed by the Committee in accordance with the Policy and will take account of the increase in base pay of the collective bargaining group and other salary reviews in the Group.
Balanced Corporate Scorecard The Scorecard measures, targets and weightings will be as set out below: Specific targets that are considered commercially sensitive have not been disclosed.
These will be disclosed in the 2014 Annual Remuneration Report so far as possible whilst maintaining commercial confidentiality.
KPI Low Target Stretch Financial Group underlying EPS Confidential Confidential Confidential Interest cover ratio and controllable costs Confidential Confidential Confidential Total Finance 30.0% Biomass Supply Generation constrained due to biomass supply and logistics excluding planned constraints Confidential Confidential Confidential Total Biomass Supply 5.0% Production Safety TRIR 0.60 0.35 0.20 Safety RIDDOR occurrences 12 8 2 Coal FOR % Confidential Confidential Confidential Converted units FOR % Confidential Confidential Confidential Total Production 10.0% Retail Cumulative 2015 volume NBP 5.0% Confidential Confidential Confidential Total retail 5.0% Corporate Confidential Confidential Confidential Development of capital structure and dividend policy Behind Ahead of Biomass supply Drax US On schedule schedule and schedule and Gulf Cluster Completion budget and budget under budget New developments Confidential Confidential Confidential Biomass supplies secured and deliverable 2015 Confidential Confidential Confidential Audit findings Audit findings Audit findings Sustainability: UK mandatory compliance readiness acceptable good excellent Production Unit Conversion Units performance Confidential Confidential Confidential Retail Forecast value added 2015 onwards Confidential Confidential Confidential Total Strategic 50.0% Total weighting 100.0% Performance measures for Bonus Matching Plan The performance measures to be used in 2014 BMP Awards are as described on page 83 in the Remuneration policy report.
Non-executive directors fees No change will be made to non-executive directors fees.
Drax Group plc 97 Annual report and accounts 2013 Committee activity and key decisions in 2013 Matters considered and decisions reached by the Committee in 2013 are shown in the table below: January The meeting had been convened as an additional meeting of the Committee to enable a discussion as to whether the existing remuneration arrangements were meeting the policy requirements in the light of changes to the business.
The Committee considered all aspects of the executive directors remuneration in detail and as a whole, and concluded that a review was necessary.
The meeting also considered the 2012 Balanced Corporate Scorecard and decided not to exercise its discretion to adjust the score, and adopted the score for the purpose of determining relevant aspects of 2012 remuneration.
It also adopted the 2013 Balance Corporate Scorecard for the purpose of determining relevant aspects of 2013 remuneration.
February Approved executive director and senior staff personal scores and annual bonus awards.
Considered and approved the 2012 Annual Remuneration report.
Considered an executive director remuneration benchmarking review by PwC.
Approved awards under the Bonus Matching Plan and all employee SAYE Share Plan.
March Considered possible adjustments to executive director remuneration with the assistance of a review and advice from PwC.
An initial proposal was presented to the meeting and it was agreed that it required further development.
Agreed to offer a cash alternative at no additional cost to the Company in lieu of pension contributions for employees affected by changes in the pension lifetime allowance.
Reviewed advisers fees and independence.
Reviewed and decided to make no change to the Chairmans remuneration.
June Agreed 3.5% increases in base salary for the executive directors.
Considered and agreed in principle revised proposals for adjustments to executive director remuneration.
Considered the draft remuneration policy.
Agreed the basis and principles upon which shareholder consultation material should be prepared in respect of proposed remuneration adjustments and the remuneration policy.
July Considered and agreed upon: i proposed adjustments to executive directors remuneration: and ii the draft remuneration policy And agreed that the Chairman of the Committee should lead a consultation with shareholders on both matters.
September Agreed remuneration packages for Andrew Koss and Matthew Rivers on appointment to the Executive Committee.
November Received a report upon the consultation with shareholders and agreed upon the changes to the structure of executive directors remuneration and the remuneration policy.
Agreed to changes to the rules of share plans to comply with legislation.
Agreed to the specific inclusion of clawback and malus provisions in executive incentive schemes.
In 2013, the Remuneration Committee comprised Tim Barker, Chairman of the Committee until his retirement on 24 April 2013 : Tony Thorne, who was appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 24 April 2013: Charles Berry, Chairman of the Company: Tim Cobbold: David Lindsell: and Melanie Gee, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The Company Secretary acted as Secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive was invited to attend meetings of the Committee except when her own remuneration was discussed.
The Committee met on seven occasions during the year and its members attendance record is set out on page 67 along with details of other attendees.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 98 Annual report and accounts 2013 Remuneration Committee report Advisers to the Committee The adviser to the Committee for the year was  LLP PwC.
PwC is an independent adviser appointed by the Committee in October 2010, following a competitive tender process, to advise on market practice and remuneration of executive and non-executive directors.
From time to time the Group engages PwC to provide financial, taxation and related advice on specific matters.
The Committee will continue to monitor such engagements in order to be satisfied that they do not affect PwCs independence as an adviser to the Committee.
PwC was paid 105,000 during 2013 in respect of advice given to the Committee.
The Committee also considers the views of the Chief Executive regarding the performance and remuneration of the other executive directors and senior staff.
The Committee is also advised by Philip Hudson, the Company Secretary and by Richard Neville, the Head of Human Resources.
Other matters Wider employee population The average pensionable pay of an executive director is 8.48 times the average of pensionable pay for all UK employees within the Group.
External appointments Remuneration received by executive directors for service as a non-executive director elsewhere is retained.
Dorothy Thompson is a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc and received 55,000 in fees for that appointment during 2013.
Tony Quinlan is a non-executive member of the Port of London Authority board and received 27,750 in fees for that appointment during 2013.
Peter Emery is a non-executive director of NG Bailey Limited and received 38,750 in fees for that appointment during 2013.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 18 February 2014.
Tony Thorne Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
