DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT SUMMARY STATEMENT A statement to shareholders from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Remuneration Committees focus is on ensuring that the way we manage remuneration for Executives rewards them for delivering what we see as being their central responsibility to increase the value of the business to shareholders consistently and over a long period of time.
The main focus of the Committees work is to manage the various aspects of the remuneration package of Executive Directors at Aggreko which comprises: salary: annual bonus: the Companys Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP : pension and life assurance: and other benefits, including healthcare and expatriate benefits for Directors seconded away from their home country.
Although our approach to remuneration policy and its implementation is consistent with previous years, as you will see below, after consulting with some of our largest shareholders we have made a number of changes to the details of our remuneration policy.
The Committee met five times during 2013: details of members attendance are set out in the table on page 71.
PERFORMANCE OUTCOMES FOR 2013 As the Chairman notes in his statement on page 4, 2013 proved to be a challenging year for the Company.
Aggreko started the year facing weaker market conditions in the Power Projects business, following a strong 2012 which included the London Olympics as well as peak revenues from both Military work in Afghanistan and postFukushima Japan reconstruction, and weakening exchange rates.
Despite these headwinds, Aggreko delivered what the Committee believes is a creditable performance, with reported revenue at similar levels to 2012, with the decline in reported trading profit contained to 8%.
Reported D-EPS also declined by 8% from 100.4p to 92.03p.
Although trading profit and D-EPS declined, the Executive Directors received bonuses ranging from 42% to 99% of salary.
So I thought it would be helpful to explain here how variable pay is set and measured, and why the Committee believes that the actual bonus and Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP awards for 2013 are consistent with Company performance.
The main performance measure we use for the annual bonus is diluted earnings per share or D-EPS.
We believe it is one of the most effective ways to measure Company performance, and that therefore basing annual bonuses on D-EPS growth is one of the best ways to align Executive Director pay with the interests of shareholders.
Each of the Executive Directors therefore has a D-EPS growth target as an element of his bonus.
We set bonus targets in the context of expected market conditions and external forecasts, rather than, say, historic performance.
After such a strong 2012, which included the London Olympics as well as peak revenues from military work in Afghanistan and post-Fukushima Japan reconstruction, it would have been unrealistic to expect the business to repeat that performance, and there would have been little point in setting a budget that would have been seen within the business as unattainable.
So after a rigorous process, the Board set a budget which included adjusted D-EPS for bonus purposes of 90.63p compared with the actual adjusted D-EPS for 2012 of 102.14.
The actual outcome for 2013 was 96.45p beating budget by 6.4%.
The Committee has discretion to make further adjustments when calculating bonuses if they think that it would better reflect the actual performance of the Company, and in this instance we used our discretion to reduce the outcome adjusted D-EPS to 95.47p solely for the purpose of Executive Directors bonuses, resulting in adjusted D-EPS beating budget by 5.3%.
This reduced bonuses from what they would otherwise have been and in turn, this meant that Executive Directors received 83.4% of the D-EPS element of their bonus as against the 90% they would have been due had the Committee not exercised its discretion.
You will note that we refer to adjusted D-EPS.
This is because when we set the annual bonus, we calculate D-EPS on a constant currency basis, using exchange rates fixed at the beginning of the year: in this way the bonus reflects the true performance of the business, and not currency movements.
Diluted earnings per share is just one of a number of metrics we use for the annual bonus we also use operating cashflow, regional trading profit and regional debtor days but in each case the outcome is measured against a budget rigorously tested and approved by the Board at the beginning of the year, set by reference to a background of reasonable expectations.
Further, the Executive Directors will receive shares under Aggrekos LTIP in April equivalent to between 22% and 42% of their basic salaries.
These awards were granted in 2011, subject to demanding performance conditions based on real Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED i. e. excluding inflation D-EPS growth and return on capital employed, measured over a three year period.
Full details of those conditions are set out on page 93, but in summary, during that period real D-EPS grew by a compound 5% per annum, and as a result 28% of the shares subject to the D-EPS growth criterion will vest: none of the shares subject to the ROCE condition will vest: and in aggregate 21% of the basic LTIP will vest.
In calculating the value of these shares, we have used the average share price during the last quarter of 2013, as required by the appropriate regulations.
CONSULTATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND CHANGES TO REMUNERATION During 2013 we consulted a number of our largest shareholders on proposed changes to Executive Director remuneration.
These included: providing an additional bonus opportunity to the Chief Executive and CFO: introducing a new complementary measure of net cashflow from operating activities: and deferring 25% of any bonus earned into shares which vest after three years: increasing the Performance Share Plan PSP grant for the CFO from 75% to 85% of salary: straightening the LTIP vesting schedule by removing the discontinuity between 10% and 13% p. a. D-EPS growth: revising ROCE targets for the PSP and the Co-Investment Plan CIP : and increasing shareholding guidelines.
All those consulted supported our proposals, and we therefore put them into effect.
Further details of our revised arrangements are set out in the Policy Report on page 83 and in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 89 to 101.
We will keep remuneration policy under review during the forthcoming year, and, in doing so, will continue to give full consideration to the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to Directors remuneration and to the guidance of investor representative bodies.
In particular, the Companys current LTIP schemes expire in 2014, and no new awards can be made under those schemes after April 2014.
We will review all aspects of the Companys incentive arrangements at that stage to ensure it continues to be aligned with the Remuneration Policy and Company strategy.
The Committee will consult with major shareholders before making any significant changes.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE We have announced that Rupert Soames has resigned as Chief Executive.
Rupert will leave the Group on 24 April 2014 and at that date Angus Cockburn, currently Chief Financial Officer, will be appointed Interim Chief Executive.
He will be paid his basic salary and benefits up to that date, but will receive no bonus for 2014.
He will receive the cash element only of his bonus for 2013 but will not receive the deferred share element.
His 2011 LTIPs will vest on 19 April 2014 but his other outstanding LTIPs will lapse, in each case, in accordance with the rules of the Schemes.
He will receive no compensation for loss of office or other payment in connection with his resignation.
In setting the remuneration for his successor the Committee will follow the approach set out in the Approach to Recruitment Remuneration on page 86.
Meanwhile details of Angus Cockburns remuneration as Interim Chief Executive are set out on page 101.
CHANGES IN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS In October 2013 new reporting requirements for Directors remuneration were introduced for companies such as Aggreko.
This report is our first to be made under the new regulations although shareholders may recall that last year we opted to incorporate a number of the proposed changes to enhance transparency.
The following report now comprises two distinct sections: a Policy Report and an Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Policy Report outlines Aggrekos remuneration policy, setting out the role of each element of pay, how the structure of the package helps reinforce the achievement of Aggrekos strategy, and details of reward opportunities available to the Companys Executive Directors.
The Annual Report on Remuneration details how the policy was implemented in 2013, and includes a table for the single figure of total remuneration for all Directors.
There will be two votes proposed at our Annual General Meeting.
The first, on the Policy Report will be a binding vote, which means that no payments can be made under the policy unless the vote is passed.
The Policy Report must be put to shareholders for approval in this way whenever there is a change in policy or otherwise at least once every three years.
The second vote, on the Annual Report on Remuneration, as in previous years, is advisory.
We hope you will find this report clear and informative, and would welcome any feedback.
Russell King Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 6 March 2014 82 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT COMPLIANCE STATEMENT This Report covers the period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 and provides details of the Remuneration Committees role and the remuneration policy we apply in decisions on executive remuneration.
The Company has complied with the principles and provisions relating to Directors remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code, and this Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
In accordance with Section 439 and 439A of the Companies Act 2006, a binding resolution to approve the Policy Report and an advisory resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2014.
In accordance with the Regulations, the following sections of the Remuneration Report are subject to audit: the Single total figure of remuneration for each Director page 90, total pension entitlements pages 92 and 93, Scheme interests awarded during the financial year page 96, Vesting of LTIP Awards to Former Directors page 98 and the statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests page 99.
The remaining sections of the Remuneration Report are not subject to audit.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committees principal function is to determine Aggrekos policy on executive remuneration and to approve specific remuneration packages for its Executive Directors, Company Secretary and such senior members of the executive management, for example the Executive Committee, as it is asked by the Board to consider, including their service contracts with the Company.
The Committees remit includes, but is not restricted to, basic salary, benefits in kind, performance related awards, share options and share awards, long-term incentive schemes, pension rights, and any compensation or termination payments.
The Committee also has responsibility for making a recommendation to the Board in respect of the remuneration of the Chairman.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on our website at http: ir.
POLICY REPORT Key principles of the remuneration policy The Committee has adopted a number of principles which it applies to the way it sets, balances and adjudicates different elements of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
As a general policy, we aim to ensure that our remuneration policy rewards executives for delivering what we see as being their central responsibility to increase the value of the business to shareholders over a long period of time.
More specifically, our policy is to have a reward package for Executive Directors which is structured such that: the fixed element of pay i. e. salary, pension and benefits is around the median for companies of similar size and complexity: the majority of executive remuneration is linked to Aggrekos performance, with a heavier weighting on long-term performance than on short-term performance: and the remuneration packages reward a balanced portfolio of measures which deliver value for shareholders, which can be independently verified, and which give clear line-of-sight to the Executives.
In determining the Companys remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee takes into account the particular business context of Aggreko plc, the industry in which we operate, the geography of our operations, the relevant talent market s for each of our Executives, as well as the best practice guidelines published by institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
We also consult our major shareholders in developing policy: see Consultation with shareholders and changes to remuneration on page 82.
The policy is intended to take effect from 24 April 2014, being the date of the Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SUMMARY OF AGGREKOS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS This section of our report summarises the key components of Aggrekos remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
This policy is consistent with the policy that applied to 2013.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Base salary Base salaries are generally reviewed annually: in determining the appropriate level of adjustment, Any base salary increases are applied in line with the outcome of the annual review.
To attract and retain talent by ensuring we take into account: Company performance: the individuals responsibilities and contribution to The Chief Executive will have the highest base salary of all Executive Directors, and the maximum base salaries are competitive in the talent the business: salary levels for comparable roles at relevant comparators: and salary increases salary for the Chief Executive may be within the top quartile of Chief Executive salaries for the market s relevant to each individual.
more broadly across the Group.
We aim to pay the market median for In the case of the Chief Executive and the CFO, the benchmark we use is the 20 companies standard performance and within the market either side of Aggreko in the FTSE based on the average market capitalisation over the previous top quartile for top quartile performance, 12 months.
For other Executive Directors, we use a similar benchmarking approach but recognise or to recruit outstanding candidates.
that comparability is harder to gauge and less formulaic for these roles.
Pension A defined-contribution pension applies to all Executive Directors, with the exception of Angus Contributions of between 20% and 30% of salary p. a. except where limited by local practice.
To provide relevant statutory benefits and Cockburn.
Executives can opt to take a cash payment in lieu of all or part of their pension.
be competitive in the market in which the Angus Cockburn, who joined the Company in 2000, when the Groups defined benefit scheme was Cash payment equates to 46% of salary p. a.
The amount payable was set at 177,000, individual is employed.
In certain cases, open to new joiners, opted in 2011 to receive a cash sum in lieu of further accruals in the defined in July 2012.
Henceforth it will increase at CPI subject to a minimum of 25% of salary.
we need to take account of Executives benefit scheme.
The cash sum is based on the estimated cost to the Company had he continued participation in defined-benefit schemes whose to accrue benefits under the defined benefit pension arrangements, net of his own contributions.
costs may be in excess of normal contribution rates to defined contribution schemes.
Benefits Includes health-care benefits, life assurance cover, and, in some cases, a Company car and Benefits vary by role and local practice, and are reviewed periodically relative to market.
Designed to be competitive in the expatriate package.
Where appropriate the Company will bear the cost of any local taxes Ongoing benefits i. e. excluding expatriate benefits and relocation allowances payable to market in which the individual is employed.
payable on any expatriate benefits.
The Company will also bear any UK tax that Executive Executive Directors did not exceed 10% of salary during the most recent financial year, and Expatriate and relocation packages Directors resident overseas incur as a result of carrying out their duties in the UK.
expatriate benefits and relocation allowances did not exceed 63% of salary, and it is not anticipated designed to ensure a geographically that in normal circumstances the cost of benefits provided will exceed this level over the next 3 years.
mobile management population related The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances to business needs.
e. g. relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially e. g. increases in insurance premiums.
Variable pay Annual Bonus Scheme Performance measures and targets are set at the start of the year and are weighted to reflect the The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 175% of salary.
To-date this level has been used Performance is assessed annually based on Aims to focus Executive Directors on balance of Group and regional responsibilities for each executive.
only for the Chief Executive.
Bonuses start to be earned for threshold performance for which no challenging budget and stretch targets for achieving demanding annual targets bonus is paid, rising on a straight-line to deliver 50% of maximum 55% for Regional Directors Group and regional financial performance.
At the end of the year, the Remuneration Committee determines the extent to which these have been relating to Company performance.
The current measures are EPS and operating achieved.
The Remuneration Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to adjust for factors cashflow at Group level and trading profit and outside management control.
regional debtor days at regional level, but may Bonus payments are typically delivered in cash, although for the Chief Executive and CFO 25% vary each year depending on business context of any bonus is deferred into shares for three years unless, at the discretion of the Remuneration and strategy.
All measures will be weighted Committee, the individual leaves with the Companys consent.
The Remuneration Committee has appropriately according to business priorities discretion to reduce the number of shares that can vest in the event of gross misconduct or material with generally more weighting on earnings misstatement of the accounts.
In line with current practice, annual bonus payments will be determined solely by financial performance.
Further details of the performance measures used for the 2013 annual bonus are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 92.
LTIP The LTIP comprises a Performance Share Plan PSP and Co-investment Plan CIP.
The PSP provides for a nil-cost conditional award of shares worth up to a normal aggregate limit The vesting of awards is usually subject to: Aims to align the interests of management of 100% of salary per annum.
This can be increased to up to 200% where the Remuneration Award levels and performance conditions are reviewed from time to time to ensure they remain continued employment: with those of shareholders in growing the Committee determines that exceptional circumstances exist, for example in order to recruit or appropriate and aligned with shareholder interests.
the Companys performance over a 3-year value of the business over the long term.
To date this discretion has not been exercised.
Vesting of awards is subject to performance The CIP is a Co-investment plan under which selected executives can voluntarily purchase Aggreko 75% of the LTIP performance is measured conditions based on the long term financial shares up to a value of 30% of their salary, which are then subject to a maximum match by the against growth in real compound Diluted performance of the Group: the value of the Company up to 2 shares for every 1 subscribed.
Within this, 1 share for every 2 subscribed the Earnings per Share, and 25% against Return awards is based on both the proportion minimum match is not subject to a performance condition, but is subject continued employment on Capital Employed.
Under each measure, vesting i. e. the Companys financial through the vesting period.
The Committee believes that this small element which is not subject to threshold performance results in nil vesting performance and the movement in the performance conditions encourages employees and in particular those less senior participants, with the exception of the CIP minimum match share price over the vesting period.
A who may have limited experience of incentive schemes to participate in the CIP.
of 1 share for every 2 subscribed.
small element of the Co-investment Plan There are two performance steps for the CIP and PSP.
The basic performance step covers both ROCE Further details of LTIP award sizes and is dependent solely on retention of shares, and D-EPS, and covers a range of normalised performance.
In terms of D-EPS, the basic performance targets for the 2013-2015 cycle are provided and the value therefore driven solely by range is 3-year compound growth in real i. e. inflation adjusted D-EPS of 3-10%.
No shares vest under in the Annual Report on Remuneration on share price performance.
this element if performance is less than 3% and awards then increase from nil to maximum at 10% pages 93 to 96.
D-EPS on a straight line basis.
In terms of ROCE, the targets are set by the Remuneration Committee each year, with no shares vesting at the threshold level and awards then increase from nil to maximum on a straight line basis.
In addition, if real D-EPS growth exceeds 10% compound, the basic award is multiplied by a factor of 1x at 10% up to 2x at 20%.
Accordingly, if both the basic and super performance conditions are satisfied in full, an Executive receiving the maximum number of shares granted under normal circumstances in the PSP 100% of salary, could receive 200% of salarys worth of shares under the PSP and a 4:1 match on investment shares under the CIP.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to make such adjustments as are necessary to ensure that the published performance figures are consistent and represent a fair measure of performance.
This would include any adjustment to rectify any material misstatement of the accounts.
Other Sharesave This is an all-employee scheme whereby all employees including Executive Directors with at least Savings capped at 250 a month.
The Committee may consider raising this figure to up to 500 None.
To align the interests of employees three months continuous service may save up to 250 per month over a period of two to five years.
a month to reflect the proposed increase in the statutory limit for UK schemes.
and shareholders by encouraging all Options under the Sharesave Option Schemes and the US Stock Purchase Plan are granted at a employees to own Aggreko shares.
84 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT SUMMARY OF AGGREKOS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS This section of our report summarises the key components of Aggrekos remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Committee is satisfied that the above remuneration policy is in the best interests of shareholders and does not promote excessive risk-taking.
The Committee retains discretion to make non-significant changes to the policy without reverting to shareholders.
Payments from outstanding awards Executive Directors remain eligible to receive payment under any contractual arrangement agreed prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy, i. e. before 24 April 2014.
However, there are no such arrangements in place for the current Executive Directors.
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting The measures used under the Annual Bonus Plan reflect the Companys key financial objectives for the year.
The Committee considers that EPS used in both the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP is an objective and well-accepted measure of the Companys performance which reinforces the strategic objective of achieving profitable growth.
The additional use of Group cashflow for the Chief Executive and CFO rewards the effective management of working capital.
Targets for the Annual Bonus Scheme are tied to the Annual Budgets set by the Board and have due regard to external forecasts.
Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable and take into account the economic environment in a given year.
Generally, bonuses will start to be earned at performance levels a few percentage points below Budget, increase sharply to Budget, and then increase until they reach capped levels, which will generally be around 10% above Budget.
Under the LTIP, Group D-EPS is complemented by ROCE to reflect the need to balance growth and returns.
Targets applying to the LTIP are reviewed annually, based on a number of internal and external reference points to ensure they remain appropriately stretching.
SUMMARY OF AGGREKOS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND CHAIRMAN The table below summarises our policy on the remuneration paid to our Non-executive Directors and Chairman.
Purpose and Performance link to strategy Operation Opportunity metrics To attract and retain Fee levels for Non-executive Directors are generally reviewed by Any fee increases are applied Continued good Non-executive the Board annually, with any adjustments effective 1 January in in line with the outcome of the performance.
Directors with an the year following review.
Remuneration comprises an annual fee annual review.
appropriate degree for acting as a Non-executive Director and serving as a member Currently the maximum aggregate of skills, experience, of any Committees.
Additional fees are paid in respect of service annual fee for all Directors independence and as Chairman of a Committee or the Senior Independent Director.
provided in the Companys knowledge of the Remuneration for the Chairman comprises an annual fee for Articles of Association is Company and its acting as Chairman, and serving as Chairman or as a member 750,000 but at the Annual business.
The Remuneration Committee sets the General Meeting a resolution To attract and retain Chairmans remuneration, subject to review when appropriate.
will be put to shareholders to a Chairman to provide When reviewing fees, reference is made to fees for the same increase it to 900,000. effective leadership comparator group as used for Executive Directors, information for the Board.
provided by a number of remuneration surveys, the extent of the duties performed and the size of the Company.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in incentive arrangements or, receive other remuneration in addition to their fees.
However, where appropriate the Company may provide additional benefits in kind, which are not expected to exceed 20% of the annual fee in any year.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION The Companys approach to remuneration for newly appointed Directors is identical to that for existing Directors.
As a matter of practicality, it is recognised that it may be necessary to pay within the market top quartile salaries in order to attract candidates of the quality the business needs.
New Executive Directors will be invited to participate in incentive plans on the same basis as existing Executive Directors.
However, the Committee may alter the performance measures, performance period, reference salary and vesting period of the annual bonus or LTIPs, subject to the rules of the Plans, if the Committee determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit the alteration.
The Committee will explain the rationale for any such changes.
Where appropriate the Company will offer to pay reasonable relocation expenses for new Executive Directors in line with the Companys policies described above.
It is not the Companys policy to offer sign-on payments, but where the Remuneration Committee considers it is necessary to do so in order to recruit a particular individual, it may offer compensation for amounts of variable remuneration under previous employment being forfeited.
In doing so, the Committee will consider all relevant factors including time to vesting, delivery vehicle cash vs. shares vs. options, any performance conditions attached to the awards and the likelihood of the conditions being met.
In order to facilitate such compensation the Committee may rely on the exemption contained in Listing Rule 9.4.
2, which allows for the grant of awards in exceptional circumstances to facilitate the recruitment of a Director.
86 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT Where the Company is considering the promotion of senior management to the Board, the remuneration Committee may, at its discretion, agree that any commitments made before promotion will continue to be honoured whether or not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time the commitment is fulfilled.
In recruiting a new Non-executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on page 95.
A base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for acting as a Non-executive Director and serving as a member of any Committees, with additional fees payable for acting as Chairman of a Committee or as Senior Independent Director.
In recruiting a new Chairman of the Board, the fee offered would be inclusive of serving on any Committees.
PAY-FOR-PERFORMANCE: SCENARIO ANALYSIS The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunities for Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum.
We have not included opportunities for Rupert Soames who resigned with effect from 24 April 2014.
For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2014.
For the CIP, the award opportunities assume full voluntary investment in Aggreko shares.
It should be noted that the LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The projected value of LTIP amounts excludes the impact of share price movement.
"In illustrating potential reward opportunities the following assumptions are made: Annual bonus LTIP Fixed pay Minimum No annual bonus payable Threshold not achieved but minimum Latest base salary, amount vesting under the CIP pension, ongoing benefits Target On target annual bonus Performance warrants 25% vesting "" Maximum Maximum annual bonus Performance warrants full vesting "" Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of senior executives below the Board is consistent with that for the Executive Directors."
Senior executives participate in the LTIP with the same performance measures applied.
In 2013, 155 individuals about 2.6% of employees were invited to join one or both of the Plans.
In making remuneration decisions, the Remuneration Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, and is informed of changes to broader employee pay.
The Remuneration Committee does not specifically consult with employees over the effectiveness and appropriateness of the remuneration policy or use any remuneration comparison measurements, although as members of the Board they receive the results of the Companys periodical employee satisfaction survey which includes questions covering remuneration.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE It is the Companys policy to provide for 12 months notice for termination of employment for Executive Directors, to be given by either party.
For Executive Directors who have been newly recruited from outside the Group, the period would normally be six months, increasing to 12 months after 12 months service.
The Companys policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements: if the Company believes it appropriate to protect its interests, it may also make additional payments in exchange for non-compete non-solicitation terms which are above and beyond those in the Directors contract of employment.
Typically, these will serve to extend the non-compete period for up to three years from the date of termination.
The Committee has discretion to contribute towards the legal fees for any departing Director to the extent it considers appropriate.
Under normal circumstances, the Company may terminate the employment of an Executive Director by making a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to basic salary and benefits for the notice period at the rate current at the date of termination.
In case of gross misconduct, a provision is included in the Executives contract for immediate dismissal with no compensation payable.
TREATMENT OF LONG TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS ON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT In the event an Executive Director leaves for reasons of death, ill-health, injury, redundancy, retirement with the agreement of the Company, or his employing Companys ceasing to be a member of the Group or other such event as the Remuneration Committee determines, then Performance Share Plan awards held for less than one year will lapse: those held for more than one year will be pro-rated for time and will vest based on performance over the performance period as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Co-investment Plan awards held for less than one year will give the Minimum Match only: those held for more than one year will vest over the Minimum Match and will be pro-rated for time and vest as soon as practicable after the date of leaving, based on performance up to that date.
Upon the occurrence of a takeover, scheme of arrangement, winding-up or a demerger a Corporate Event, Performance Share Plan awards held for less than one year will lapse: Co-investment Plan awards held for less than one year will vest in part in respect only of the Minimum Match i. e. on a 1:2 basis.
LTIP awards granted at least 12 months prior to the date of the relevant Corporate Event will vest to the extent that, in the opinion of the Committee, the Performance Conditions have been or would have been satisfied on the date of the relevant Corporate Event.
For all other leavers, outstanding LTIP awards will normally lapse.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to vary the extent to which awards vest on a case-by-case basis, following a review of circumstances, to ensure fairness for both shareholders and participants.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other quoted companies.
Any such directorships must be formally approved by the Chairman of the Board.
Details of external directorships held by Executive Directors, together with fees retained during the year are as follows: Executive Director Company Role s held Fees retained Rupert Soames Electrocomponents plc Senior Independent Director and 55,000 Chairman of Remuneration Committee Angus Cockburn Howden Joinery Group plc Non-executive Director 35,567 GKN plc Non-executive Director 55,000 Fee was for the period 1 January 2013 to date of resignation, 18 September 2013.
88 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The following section provides details of how the remuneration policy was implemented during the year.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP IN 2013 The Remuneration Committee is composed of four independent Non-executive Directors, together with the Chairman of the Company who was an Independent Non-executive Director before his appointment as Chairman.
The Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, Peter Kennerley, is Secretary to the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee met five times during the year.
Attendance at meetings by individual members is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 71.
The Committee consulted the Chief Executive, Rupert Soames, and the Group Human Resources Director, Siegfried Putzer, and invited them to attend meetings when appropriate.
No Director is present when his own remuneration is being discussed.
Committee members: Russell King Chairman David Hamill Ken Hanna Robert MacLeod Rebecca McDonald THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEES MAIN ACTIVITIES FOR 2013 The main tasks for the Committee during 2013 were: Reviewed and approved the Executive Directors bonuses for 2012.
Set targets for Executive Directors bonuses for 2013.
Reviewed performance and approved the vesting of 2010 LTIP awards.
Reviewed and approved targets for the 2013 LTIP grant.
Approved the proposed remuneration packages for the new Regional Director for EMEA.
Consulted with major shareholders on proposed changes to remuneration policy.
Reviewed the changes in reporting requirements and ensured that Aggreko was compliant.
CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Committee re-appointed Kepler Associates and New Bridge Street which is part of Aon plc as the principal external advisers to the Committee for 2013.
The fees paid to advisers in respect of work that materially assisted the Committee in 2013 are shown in the table below.
Fees paid by the Company Adviser Appointed by Services provided to the Committee for the services Other services Kepler Appointed by Russell Review of LTIP award calculations 56,120 Provided the Board Associates King on behalf of with specific data on Advice on DRR disclosure Charged on a the Committee Non-executive Director time cost basis Advice on matters on benchmarking current market practice Benchmarking of Executive pay New Appointed by Peter Advice on amendments to 29,165 General advice on Bridge Kennerley, Company LTIP performance conditions LTIP and Sharesave Charged on a Street Secretary, on behalf Schemes Advice on DRR disclosure time cost basis of the Committee Simmons Appointed by Peter Advice on amendments to 12,865 & Simmons Kennerley, Company LTIP performance conditions Charged on a LLP Secretary, on behalf time cost basis of the Committee Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Except as provided above, none of these advisers provides any other services to the Group.
Kepler Associates and New Bridge Street are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and signatories to its code of conduct and Simmons & Simmons LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
Taking these factors into account, the Committee is satisfied as to the impartiality and objectivity of their advice.
The advisers were also chosen because of their existing knowledge of the Groups remuneration arrangements.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012.
Rupert Soames forfeited the 25% deferred element following his resignation.
2 This total bonus includes the 25% deferred share element.
3 This is paid in local currency and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average year to date exchange rate of 1 SG$1.9577.
4 This is paid in local currency and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average year to date exchange rate of 1 US$1.5648.
5 Appointed to the Board on 11 March 2013.
7 Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2012.
8 Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2012.
9 Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2013.
The figures have been calculated as follows: Base salary fees: amount earned for the year.
See Base salary on page 91 below.
Benefits: the value of benefits received in the year.
See Benefits on page 91 below.
Annual bonus: the total bonus earned on performance during the year.
See Annual Bonus Scheme on page 92 below.
2013 remuneration from LTIPs refers to share awards subject to a performance period ended 31 December 2013 which were granted on 19 April 2011 and so are referred to in this report as 2011 LTIPs and are due to vest on 19 April 2014.
The value is based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2013 of 1565p.
See Long-term Incentive Plan 2011 LTIP awards on pages 94 to 95.
2012 remuneration from LTIPs refers to share awards subject to a performance period ended 31 December 2012 which were granted on 15 April 2010 and so are referred to in this report as 2010 LTIPs and vested 90 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT on 15 April 2013.
The value is based on the share price on 15 April 2013 of 1789p.
See Long-term Incentive Plan 2010 LTIP awards on page 94.
Sharesave: Asterios Satrazemis and David Taylor-Smith were granted Sharesave options on 8 October 2013.
The value is based on the market price of an Aggreko share on the date of grant, of 1472p, less the option price of 1303p, multiplied by the number of options.
See the Scheme Interests Awarded in 2013 table on page 96 for details.
Pension: the amount of any Company pension contributions and cash in lieu.
See Pensions on pages 92 to 93 below.
Base salary Annual salaries for Executive Directors are generally reviewed each year by the Committee.
Salaries are determined by a combination of Company performance, the individuals responsibilities and contribution to the business, salary levels for comparable roles at relevant comparators, and salary increases more broadly across the Group.
We aim to pay the market median for standard performance and within the market top quartile for top quartile performance or to recruit outstanding candidates.
In setting Executive Director salaries, as with other elements of their remuneration, the Committee has discretion to consider all relevant factors, including performance on environmental, social and governance issues.
The appropriate market rate is the rate in the market place from which the individual is most likely to be recruited.
The Company operates in a number of market places throughout the world where remuneration practices and levels differ.
This can result in pay and benefit differentials between the Executive Directors.
In arriving at an appropriate market rate, we commission studies from our advisers, who carry out in-depth research on the practices of Aggrekos peer group to establish accurate benchmarks.
The same approach is taken for expatriate and overseas salaries where reference is made to the appropriate data for the geographical location.
During the year the Committee decided to defer the salary review date for Executive Directors from 1 July to 1 January in order to conform with the Companys financial year.
On 1 January 2014 each Executive Director received an increase of 3% in base salary, although Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn declined the increase.
The base salaries for Executive Directors as at 1 January 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 are shown below: Executive Director Position 1 January 2014 Increase 31 December 2013 Increase 31 December 2012 Rupert Soames Chief Executive 675,000 675,000 675,000 Angus Cockburn Chief Financial Officer 400,000 400,000 400,000 1 3 Debajit Das Regional Director, Asia Pacific 315,677 3% 306,482 2 4 Asterios Satrazemis Regional Director, Americas 329,116 3% 319,530 David Taylor-Smith Regional Director, Europe, Middle East & Africa 350,000 3% 340,000 1 This is paid in local currency SG$618,000 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average year to date exchange rate of 1 SG$1.9577.
2 This is paid in local currency US$515,000 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average year to date exchange rate of 1 US$1.5648.
3 This is paid in local currency SG$600,000 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average year to date exchange rate of 1 SG$1.9577.
4 This is paid in local currency US$500,000 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average year to date exchange rate of 1 US$1.5648.
Benefits All the Executive Directors receive health-care benefits, life assurance cover, income protection and accident insurance.
Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn receive the benefit of a Company-funded car and David Taylor-Smith, receives a car allowance.
Debajit Das receives an overseas secondment package to cover housing, travel allowance, Company-funded car, fuel allowance, utilities allowance, a contribution to school fees and re-imbursement of certain taxes.
Asterios Satrazemis is entitled to a repatriation allowance to cover the cost of returning to the USA from Australia which includes an accommodation allowance and contribution to school fees: he is also entitled to receive a car allowance and re-imbursement of certain taxes.
The following table identifies those benefits that the Committee considers significant.
Car fuel Housing School fees Travel Tax Other Total Rupert Soames 27,271 18,828 46,099 Angus Cockburn 17,104 7,075 24,179 David Taylor-Smith 9,692 4,059 13,751 Debajit Das 22,674 98,074 29,380 21,733 40,218 9,682 221,761 Asterios Satrazemis 17,221 51,125 12,781 8,368 10,505 100,000 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Bonus Scheme The purpose of the Annual Bonus Scheme is to align Executive Directors with performance during the year, and to motivate them to meet and beat demanding annual performance targets.
The targets for the Annual Bonus Scheme are tied to the Annual Budgets set by the Board and have due regard to external forecasts.
Executive Directors with regional management responsibilities have half of their bonus related to the performance of their region as measured by trading profit and debtor days and half related to Diluted Earnings Per Share D-EPS.
The Chief Executives and Chief Financial Officers bonuses are measured three quarters against D-EPS with the balancing quarter being measured against operating cashflows.
This element was introduced in 2013 to provide a more complete assessment of performance by linking a proportion of the bonus to cashflow.
Bonus payments are typically delivered in cash, although for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 25% of any bonus is deferred into shares for three years unless, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, the individual leaves with the Companys consent.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to reduce the number of shares that can vest in the event of gross misconduct or material misstatement of the accounts.
In 2013 the on-budget and maximum bonus earnings for the Executive Directors were: D-EPS Operating cashflow Regional trading profit Regional debtor days Total max On budget On budget On budget On budget bonus Max bonus bonus Max bonus bonus Max bonus bonus Max bonus bonus % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary Rupert Soames 175 131 65.5 44 22 Angus Cockburn 150 112.5 56.3 37.5 18.8 Debajit Das 100 50 25 40 20 10 10 Asterios Satrazemis 100 50 25 40 20 10 10 David Taylor-Smith 100 50 25 40 20 10 10 Growth in D-EPS and operating cashflow are calculated on a constant currency basis, using exchange rates fixed at the beginning of the year, so that the bonus reflects the true performance of the business, and not currency movements.
For 2013, the Budget D-EPS for bonus purposes was set at 90.63.
The cut-in point, at which bonus started to be earned, was 98% of budget 88.82p and the maximum bonus would have been reached at 108% of budget 97.88p.
The actual outcome on the adjusted basis set out above was 96.45p, representing 106.4% of Budget.
The Committee then used its discretion to adjust D-EPS downward to 95.47p, representing 105.3% of Budget as the Committee believes that this better represents performance against targets.
For the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer the Budget operating cashflow for bonus purposes was set at 663.2 million.
The cut-in point, at which bonus started to be earned, was 92.5% of budget 613.5 million and the maximum bonus would have been reached at 107.5% of budget 713 million.
The actual outcome on the adjusted basis set out above was 628.4 million, representing 95% of Budget.
The table below sets out the total bonus entitlement for each Executive Director for 2013: D-EPS Operating cashflow Regional trading profit Regional debtor days Total max Max % of Max Max Max Total bonus bonus budget bonus % of bonus % of bonus outcome Total % % achieved % % budget % % budget % % Actual % % outcome Executive Director salary salary adjusted salary salary achieved salary salary achieved salary salary days salary salary 1 Rupert Soames 175 131 105.3 109 44 95 7 116 781,637 2 Angus Cockburn 150 112.5 105.3 93 37.5 95 6 99 397,608 Debajit Das 100 50 105.3 42 40 94 0 10 61 10 52 158,378 Asterios Satrazemis 100 50 105.3 42 40 92 0 10 60 0 42 133,168 3 David Taylor-Smith 100 50 105.3 42 40 107 33 10 78 10 85 287,300 1 Of the bonus 781,637, 75% 586,228 is payable in cash: the balance is subject to the deferred share arrangement referred to above.
As Rupert Soames resigned with effect from 24 April 2014, the deferred share element will lapse.
2 The total bonus includes the 25% deferred share element.
3 For David Taylor-Smith, who was appointed on 11 March 2013, total payable was calculated based on a full year salary of 340,000 in accordance with his letter of appointment.
Pensions Executive Directors participate in pension schemes or receive cash in lieu with a value appropriate to the median practice in their home countries.
In 2002 the Company closed its Defined Benefits scheme for UK employees to new joiners, and as a consequence Angus Cockburn is the only Director who is a member of this scheme.
Of the other Executive Directors, Rupert 92 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT Soames, Debajit Das and David Taylor-Smith are members of the Aggreko Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a defined contribution scheme.
Rupert Soames is entitled to a pension contribution from the Company of 30% of his basic salary 25% prior to 1 July 2012 and other Executives are entitled to a Company contribution of 20%.
With effect from April 2011 no further contributions are being made to the Plan for Rupert Soames and he receives a cash payment in lieu of 30% of his basic salary.
Other Executive Directors have elected to take part of the Company contribution into the Group Personal Pension Plan and part as a cash payment.
These cash payments are shown as Cash payments in lieu of pension in the table below.
Asterios Satrazemis is entitled to participate in the Employees Savings Investment Retirement plan and the Supplemental Executive Retirement plan of Aggreko LLC, which is governed by the laws of the United States.
These plans allowed contributions by the employee and the Group to be deferred for tax.
Contributions paid by the Company under the defined contribution plans during the year are as follows: 2013 2012 Executive Director Paid to pension Paid cash Total Paid to pension Paid cash Total Rupert Soames 202,500 202,500 178,752 178,752 Angus Cockburn 183,876 183,876 178,494 178,494 1 Debajit Das 10,503 51,136 61,639 2 Asterios Satrazemis 25,563 25,563 David Taylor-Smith 11,333 43,590 54,923 1 This is paid in local currency SGD100,109 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average year to date exchange rate of 1 SG$1.9577.
2 This is paid in local currency US$40,000 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average year to date exchange rate of 1 US$1.5648.
Angus Cockburn joined the Company before 1 April 2002 and is a member of the Aggreko plc Pension Scheme which is a funded, defined benefit scheme approved by Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
The key elements of his benefits are: a normal retirement age of 60: for service up to 31 December 2006, a benefit accrual rate of 1 30th on a final salary basis for each years service final salary is subject to the earnings cap for service to 5 April 2006 : for service after 1 January 2007 and up to 30 April 2011, a benefit accrual rate of 1 30th on a career average basis for each years service: for service from 1 May 2011, no further defined benefit pension is accrued: an employee contribution rate of 6% of Pensionable Earnings.
Employee contributions ceased on 30 April 2011: a spouses pension on death.
As a result of opting out of making further contributions to the Aggreko plc Pension Scheme with effect from 30 April 2011, Angus Cockburn now receives a cash payment in lieu of the pension he would otherwise have built up.
This cash payment is paid net of the member contributions he would have been required to pay to the scheme and is broadly an estimate of the cost to the Company of providing the benefits being given up.
The amount will be adjusted by CPI growth each year subject to a minimum of 25% of salary.
This is shown in the pension column of the Single Figure Table column on page 90.
Angus Cockburn is also entitled to a pension of 2,162 per annum payable from age 60 from the Aggreko plc Pension Scheme resulting from benefits transferred in from the scheme of a previous employer.
This benefit is not included in the above disclosure.
Long-term Incentive Plan The LTIP was first introduced in 2004, and each year senior executives are invited to join.
It consists of two distinct elements: the Performance Share Plan PSP and the Co-investment Plan CIP.
The PSP and CIP are both measured against performance over three financial years and they share the same performance criteria.
These are the real compound annual growth rate of Diluted Earnings per Share D-EPS, and Return on Capital Employed ROCE.
This directly aligns both elements of the LTIP with Group strategy and measures performance against what the Board believes are Key Performance Indicators.
The PSP is a nil-cost conditional award of shares which vest depending on performance against the targets: the number of shares conditionally awarded is related to the salary of the individual concerned and his or her level within the Company.
The PSP provides for annual awards of performance shares up to an aggregate limit of 100% of salary in normal circumstances and 200% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The CIP is a Co-investment plan, whose purpose it is to encourage executives to buy and hold shares in the Company.
Participants can subscribe to purchase Aggreko shares up to a value of 30% of their salary, each year that they are invited to join the CIP: if they hold those shares for three years, or, if earlier, the date that their CIP award vests, they will be entitled to receive a minimum award of one share for every two they subscribed the Minimum Match, plus a performance-related award of a further three shares for every two they subscribed.
The Minimum Match is not subject to performance conditions.
The performance criteria for the LTIP are set annually.
2010 LTIP awards Awards granted in 2010 vested on 15 April 2013.
The performance criteria for the 2010 LTIP were as follows: 75% of the award was based on CPI inflation-adjusted compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance measurement period in a range of 3% to 10%.
No performance shares would be awarded against this element if performance was less than 3% and awards would increase straight-line to the maximum at 10% growth.
25% of the award was based on average ROCE over the performance period in a range of 25% to 27%.
No performance shares would be awarded against this element if performance was less than 25% and awards would increase straight-line to the maximum at 27% ROCE.
In addition to the above, and to reward truly exceptional performance, the number of shares awarded to participants in both elements of the 2013 LTIP might be increased by between 1.3 and 2 times if the real compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance measurement period was in a range of 13% to 20%.
The performance period for the 2010 LTIP awards ended on 31 December 2012.
Over the period: Aggrekos aggregate D-EPS was 266.1p, which is the equivalent of a real compound annual growth rate of 14.5%.
This exceeded the upper limit of the performance range and accordingly all 75% of the award vested under this criterion.
Aggrekos actual average ROCE for the period was 28.3%, which exceeded the upper limit of the performance range and accordingly all 25% of the award vested under this criterion.
This combined performance resulted in the 2010 LTIP awards which were subject to performance conditions, vesting at a level of 100%.
Further, as real compound annual growth in D-EPS was 14.5%, the number of shares increased by 1.45 times.
2011 LTIP awards Awards granted in 2011 are due to vest on 19 April 2014.
The performance criteria for the 2011 LTIP awards were as follows: 75% of the award was based on CPI inflation-adjusted compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance measurement period in a range of 3% to 10%.
25% of the award was based on average ROCE over the performance period in a range of 26% to 28%.
No performance shares would be awarded against this element if performance was less than 26% and awards would increase straight-line to the maximum at 28% ROCE.
The performance period for the 2011 LTIP awards ended on 31 December 2013.
Over the period: Aggrekos aggregate D-EPS was 279.2p, which is the equivalent of a real compound annual growth rate of 5%.
This would indicate 28.5% of the award would vest under this criterion: however, the Committee exercised its discretion to adjust the D-EPS growth to take account of the effect of the Return of Capital made in 2011, which reduced the proportion to 28%.
Aggrekos actual average ROCE for the period was 24.5%.
Since this was less than the threshold of 26%, no part of the award vested under this criterion.
The combined performance will result in the 2011 LTIP awards which were subject to performance conditions, vesting at a level of 21%.
As real compound annual growth in D-EPS was 5%, and so below 13%, there was no increase in the number of shares vested.
94 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT The following table shows details of LTIPs vested in 2013 or due to vest in 2014.
Therefore the value of the award to participants in the 2010 LTIP and 2011 LTIP derived from share price accretion during the period was 50% and 2% respectively.
The value of the 2011 LTIP on vesting is based on the average price of Aggreko shares over the last quarter of 2013 of 1565p.
2012 LTIP awards The performance criteria for the 2012 LTIPs were identical to those for 2011.
Sharesave Plans The Board believes that Sharesave schemes are valuable in aligning the interests of employees and shareholders, and the Company seeks to make it possible for as many employees as practicable to join the scheme or its various proxies.
In 2013, there were 1,722 employees in Aggreko subscribing to Sharesave Plans.
The Aggreko Sharesave Plans are normally offered annually to employees and Executive Directors who have at least three months continuous service, and allow a maximum of 250 per month to be saved and converted into Aggreko shares at the end of either two, three or four year periods, depending on local legislation.
The options under the Sharesave Option Schemes have been granted at a 20% discount on the share price calculated over the three days prior to the date of invitation to participate, mature after three years and are normally exercisable in the six months following the maturity date.
The options under the US Stock Purchase Plan have been granted at a discount of 15% on the closing share price on the date of grant, mature after two years and are normally exercisable in the three months following the maturity date.
Non-executive Directors including the Chairman The Board determines the remuneration policy and level of fees for the Non-executive Directors, within the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
The Remuneration Committee recommends remuneration policy and level of fees for the Chairman of the Board.
Remuneration comprises an annual fee for acting as a Chairman or Nonexecutive Director of the Company.
Additional fees are paid to Non-executive Directors in respect of service as Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and as Senior Independent Director.
When setting these fees, reference is made to information provided by a number of remuneration surveys, the extent of the duties performed, and the size of the Company.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, retirement benefits or to participate in any share scheme operated by the Company.
The current fees are: Role Fee Chairman fee 310,000 Non-executive Director base fee 60,000 Committee Chairman additional fee 20,000 Senior Independent Director additional fee 20,000 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Chairmans fee was set in March 2012 with effect from his date of appointment, 25 April 2012 for a period of two years, and the additional fees for Committee chairmen and the Senior Independent Director were increased from 10,000 to 20,000 with effect from 1 July 2012.
The basic fee for Non-executive Directors was increased from 55,000 to 60,000 per annum, with effect from 1 January 2014.
The dates of the Chairmans and Non-executive Directors appointments who served during the reporting period were as follows: Non-executive Director Position Effective date of contract Ken Hanna Chairman 25 April 2012 David Hamill Non-executive Director 1 May 2013 Russell King Non-executive Director 2 February 2012 Diana Layfield Non-executive Director 1 May 2012 Robert MacLeod Non-executive Director 10 September 2013 Rebecca McDonald Non-executive Director 1 October 2012 Ian Marchant Non-executive Director 1 November 2013 Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, subject to three months notice from either party.
They are also subject to annual re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED IN 2013 2013 LTIP awards In August 2013 each of the Executive Directors was granted awards of shares under the PSP and CIP ranging from 75% to 100% of salary.
The three year performance period over which D-EPS and ROCE performance will be measured began on 1 January 2013 and will end on 31 December 2015.
None of the awards granted under the 2013 LTIP are eligible to vest until 5 August 2016 except in certain circumstances where a CIP participant ceases to be an employee of the Group, as described on page 88.
The performance conditions attached to awards are as follows.
75% of the award is based on CPI inflation-adjusted compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance measurement period in a range of 3% to 10%.
No performance shares will be awarded against this element if performance is less than 3% and awards will increase straight-line to the maximum at 10% growth.
25% of the award is based on average ROCE over the performance period in a range of 20% to 25%.
No performance shares will be awarded against this element if performance is less than 20% and awards will increase straight-line to the maximum at 25% ROCE.
In addition to the above, and to reward truly exceptional performance, the number of shares awarded to participants in both elements of the 2013 LTIP may be increased by between 1 and 2 times if the real compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance measurement period is in a range of 10% to 20%.
Sharesave plans During the year Asterios Satrazemis and David Taylor-Smith were also granted options under the Companys Sharesave Plans.
Summary table of 2013 grant The table below shows details of interests awarded to Executive Directors under the LTIP and Sharesave during 2013: PSP CIP Sharesave % vesting % vesting % vesting Face value on minimum Face value on minimum Face value on minimum Executive Director Shares performance Shares performance Shares performance Rupert Soames 82,166 1,349,166 49,300 809,506 25% Angus Cockburn 41,388 679,591 29,216 479,727 25% Debajit Das 29,064 477,231 23,248 381,732 25% Asterios Satrazemis 30,042 493,290 24,032 394,605 25% 690 1,166 100% David Taylor-Smith 31,040 509,677 24,832 407,741 25% 23 39 100% 1.
Face value of PSP and CIP is the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance targets are met multiplied by the market price of Aggreko shares on 5 August 2013, being the date of grant, of 1642p.
Face value of Sharesave is the market price of Aggreko shares on 8 October 2013, being the date of grant 1472p, less the option price multiplied by the number of options granted.
96 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT SUMMARY OF INTERESTS IN THE GROUPS LTIPS AND SHARESAVE PLANS The following table shows the interests of the Directors who served during the year in the Groups LTIP and Sharesave plans.
2 The International Sharesave Plan is set in local currency AUD option price $20.23.
3 The US Stock Purchase Plan is set in local currency USD option price $20.14.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED VESTING OF LTIP AWARDS TO FORMER DIRECTORS Each of Kash Pandya, Bill Caplan and George Walker stepped down from the Board in 2012 but retained interests under Aggrekos LTIPs.
Awards subject to a performance period ended 31 December 2012 145% vesting were granted on 15 April 2010 and vested on 15 April 2013.
The value of is based on the market price on 15 April 2013 of 1789p.
Kash Pandyas position became redundant and subsequently he resigned from the Board on 31 December 2012 but continued to be employed by the Company until 15 September 2013, under the terms of his current contract, except that no annual bonus was paid in respect of 2013.
He signed an extended non-compete agreement beyond that required by his contract of employment in return for which the Committee agreed, pursuant to the LTIP rules, that his awards under the LTIPs would not lapse but, in the case of 2011 and 2012 awards, be pro-rated in the proportions 32 36 and 20 36 respectively and, in the case of 2011 and 2012 awards, remained subject to performance conditions.
Bill Caplans position became redundant and subsequently he resigned from the Board on 13 November 2012 but continued to be employed by the Company until 30 September 2013, under the terms of his current contract, except that no annual bonus was paid in respect of 2013.
He signed an extended non-compete agreement beyond that required by his contract of employment in return for which the Committee agreed, pursuant to the LTIP rules, that his awards under the LTIPs would not lapse but, in the case of 2012 awards, be pro-rated in the proportion 24 36 and, in the case of 2011 and 2012 awards, remained subject to performance conditions.
George Walker resigned from the Board on 31 December 2012, but continues to be employed by the Group as Group Marketing Director.
No compensation for loss of office or other payment in connection with their redundancy was made during the year to Kash Pandya, Bill Caplan or George Walker.
DETAILS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS The Executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with Aggreko plc.
The Remuneration Committee sets notice periods for the Executive Directors at 12 months or less, which reduces the likelihood of having to pay excessive compensation in the event of poor performance.
The principal terms of the Executive Directors service contracts which have no fixed term are as follows: Notice period Executive Director Position Effective date of contract From Company From Director Rupert Soames Chief Executive 1 July 2003 12 months 12 months Angus Cockburn Chief Financial Officer 1 May 2000 12 months 12 months Debajit Das Regional Director, Asia Pacific 1 January 2013 12 months 12 months Asterios Satrazemis Regional Director, Americas 1 January 2013 12 months 12 months David Taylor-Smith Regional Director, Europe, 11 March 2013 6 months 6 months Middle East & Africa increasing to increasing to 12 months 12 months after 12 months after 12 months continuous service continuous service Rupert Soames resigned with effect from 24 April 2014.
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES The Committee has a policy of encouraging Executive Directors to acquire and retain a material number of shares in the Company, with the objective of further aligning their long-term interests with those of other shareholders.
Under this policy, Executive Directors should hold at least 50% of the net proceeds from any shares vesting until their aggregate shareholding is equivalent to at least the following proportions of their salaries: Chief Executive 200%: Chief Financial Officer 150%: and other Executive Directors 100%.
The Committee retains the discretion to grant dispensation from these requirements in exceptional circumstances.
Current Executive Director shareholdings are included in the table in the following paragraph.
98 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS Total shareholdings of Directors As at 31 December 2013, the shareholdings of the Directors were as follows: Shareholding Shares held: Share interests Share interests Options held: Options held: Current requirement owned held: subject to held: subject not subject to subject to shareholding Guideline 1 2 3 4 Director % salary outright performance to deferral performance deferral % salary met?
Rupert Soames 200 333,759 344,880 726 845 Yes Angus Cockburn 150 84,906 174,414 714 363 Yes Debajit Das 100 37,461 101,188 209 Yes Asterios Satrazemis 100 46,250 112,306 736 247 Yes David Taylor-Smith 100 6,252 55,872 690 31 n a Ken Hanna 20,188 David Hamill 3,875 Russell King 3,875 Diana Layfield Robert MacLeod 19,525 Rebecca McDonald Ian Marchant 3,500 1 This includes shares held by connected persons.
2 Shares held subject to performance comprise LTIP awards over shares.
These are detailed on page 97 of the Remuneration Report.
3 Options held under the Sharesave Scheme.
4 Share price used 1709p as at 31 December 2013.
Salaries paid in local currency have been converted as shown in Notes 3 and 4 t o the table of salaries on page 85.
Of these, interests representing 219,800 shares will lapse on 24 April 2014 upon Rupert Soames resignation.
David T aylor-Smith was appointed to the Board on 11 March 2013.
His first LTIP Award was granted in August 2013, therefore, under this policy he will then be required to hold at least 50% of the net proceeds from any shares vesting in August 2016.
Diana Layfield purchased 3,000 shares on 3 January 2014.
Rupert Soames, Angus Cockburn, Debajit Das, Asterios Satrazemis and David Taylor-Smith as employees of the Company, have an interest in the holdings of the Aggreko Employee Benefit Trust the EBT as potential beneficiaries.
The EBT is a trust established to distribute shares to employees of the Company and its subsidiaries in satisfaction of awards granted under the Aggreko Share Performance Plan and Aggreko Co-investment Plan and Sharesave Schemes.
At 31 December 2013, the trustees of the EBT held a total of 1,331,750 Aggreko plc ordinary shares 2012: 2,176,628 and the holding at the date of this report is 1,138,642.
The dividend has been waived on these shares.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The graph below shows Aggrekos profit after tax, dividend, and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013, and the percentage change.
D ividends are the interim and final dividends paid in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012 and the interim dividend paid and the final dividend recommended in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
COMPARISON OF COMPANY PERFORMANCE The graph overleaf shows the value, at 31 December 2013, of 100 invested in Aggrekos shares on 31 December 2008 compared with the current value of the same amount invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE 100 Index is chosen because Aggreko is a constituent member of this group.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Company performance Aggreko FTSE 100 Index 450 400 382 350 300 250 200 150 152 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 For comparative purposes, the pay of Rupert Soames, Chief Executive, for the same financial years is set out below: Long term incentive Single figure of Annual bonus payout vesting rates against total remuneration against maximum maximum opportunity Year % % 2009 2,555,850 63.2% 100% 2010 5,839,209 100% 100% 2011 8,501,865 82.4% 100% 2012 2,685,840 6.4% 100% 2013 1,787,849 49.6% 72.5% The data in this table was taken from the Remuneration Reports for the relevant years.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE The change in Chief Executives remuneration from 2012 to 2013 in comparison to employees within the Group central functions is shown in the table below.
Percentage change of Chief Executive Percentage change of employees Salary fees 2 Benefits 7.5 7.8 Bonus 1,056 1,700 Total single figure see page 90 -33 n a The total remuneration of the Chief Executive for 2013 was 1,787,849 which is 33% less than the previous year which is 2,685,840.
The comparator group relates to the employees within the Group central functions in the UK 94 employees rather than all Group employees.
This group was used because the Committee believes it provides a sufficiently large comparator group to give a reasonable understanding of underlying increases, based on similar annual bonus performance measures utilised by Group central functions, whilst on the other hand reducing the distortion that would arise from including all of the many countries in which the Group operates, with their different economic conditions.
STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2012 Remuneration Report at the 25 April 2013 AGM.
Total number of votes % of votes cast For 163,992,672 95.43% Against 7,855,097 4.57% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 171,847,769 100% Votes withheld 5,358,881 Total votes cast including withheld votes 177,206,650 A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2014 The Committee intends to implement the Remuneration Policy in 2014 in line with its implementation in 2013, and more specifically as follows: 100 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT Base salaries and fees Base salaries for Executive Directors will be reviewed by the Committee in December 2014 and fees for Non-executive Directors will be reviewed by the Board in December 2014.
The Chairmans fee will be reviewed by the Committee in April 2014.
Angus Cockburn was awarded a salary supplement of 200,000 with effect from 1 March 2014 to reflect the additional requirements resulting from his appointment as Interim Chief Executive.
Pensions and benefits Pensions and benefits will continue in line with policy.
Annual bonus On 3 March the Committee set annual bonus targets for the Executive Directors as follows: D-EPS Operating cashflow Regional trading profit Regional debtor days Total max On budget On budget On budget On budget bonus Max bonus bonus Max bonus bonus Max bonus bonus Max bonus bonus % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary 1 Angus Cockburn 150 112.5 56.3 37.5 18.8 2 Angus Cockburn 175 131 65.5 44 22 Debajit Das 100 50 25 40 20 10 10 Asterios Satrazemis 100 50 25 40 20 10 10 David Taylor-Smith 100 50 25 40 20 10 10 1 During the period as Chief Financial Officer.
2 During the period as Interim Chief Executive with effect from 1 March 2014.
We have not disclosed the budget numbers in this report, as we consider them to be commercially sensitive.
It is, however, our intention to disclose numbers based on Group performance in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Long-term Incentive Plan The Committee has also approved the grant of 2014 LTIP awards as follows: PSP CIP Face value % vesting on Face value % vesting on Executive Director Shares minimum performance Shares minimum performance Angus Cockburn 38,216 599,991 30,572 479,980 25 Debajit Das 27,778 436,115 22,224 348,917 25 Asterios Satrazemis 29,592 464,594 23,672 371,650 25 David Taylor-Smith 33,440 525,008 26,752 420,006 25 The face value is calculated using the share price of 4 March 2013.
The performance criteria for the 2014 LTIP are as follows: 75% of the award is based on CPI inflation-adjusted compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance measurement period in a range of 3% to 10%.
In addition to the above, and to reward truly exceptional performance, the number of shares awarded to participants in both elements of the 2014 LTIP may be increased by between 1 and 2 times if the real compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance measurement period is in a range of 10% to 20%.
Awards are expected to be granted in April 2014.
The Directors Remuneration Report, including both the Policy and Annual Remuneration Report, has been approved by the Board on 6 March 2014.
Russell King Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 6 March 2014 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101
