Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Directors remuneration report Chairmans annual statement on remuneration Directors roles have increased considerably.
Our market Introduction capitalisation has increased by more than threefold from the time I am pleased to introduce the Directors remuneration report for 2013 of the last review to the end of 2013 and the performance of the which has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Remuneration CEO has been critical to this improvement.
The Committee has therefore awarded David Dutro a salary increase of 10.8 per cent with effect from January 2014, to bring his salary As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, the Board is undergoing closer to market levels against other US-listed specialty chemicals a refreshment process that will likely lead to a review of our Group strategy companies with a broadly similar level of turnover and market and how executive remuneration should be aligned with this strategy.
The increased salary is also within the range for Accordingly, the Committee has decided to make only limited changes CEOs of comparable UK companies.
this year, following a 3 yearly review flagged in last years remuneration Based on our review, the Committee also decided to award report and carried out with assistance from New Bridge Street.
The Brian Taylorson an increase also for 2014 of 3 per cent which changes that are being implemented in 2014 concern mainly salaries is in line with the increase for the workforce as a whole.
and pensions, whilst variable remuneration annual bonus scheme and For the Chief Executive, variable pay opportunity is below market long term incentive plan LTIP will be reviewed in 2014 and any change against comparable US companies.
However, in the light of the in policy will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the 2015 pending Board changes mentioned, at this time the structure and AGM, after consultation with major shareholders and shareholder operation of the annual bonus scheme and LTIP for 2014 will remain consultative bodies.
LTIP awards to be made will be subject to the same mix of Remuneration policy challenging EPS and TSR based performance conditions as the The over-riding objective of the Committee in determining the Companys awards made in 2013. remuneration policy is to ensure that the Company can attract and retain The annual bonus scheme will also operate on the same basis as in individuals of the highest calibre who individually and collectively 2013 except that a H1 bonus based on H1 performance will no longer contribute to the long term success of the Group and the creation of be included.
In addition, the AWC metric 25 per cent weighting, shareholder value.
We are very aware that as an international company 75 per cent being EPS will be simplified for 2014, with a single target with our operational headquarters in the US and operations throughout figure for 100 per cent vesting under this metric as opposed to the the world, we are very often competing for talent in a global market where sliding scale that applied in previous years.
The single target figure remuneration practices may be different from the UK.
This is especially will be based on prior year performance.
The Committee has set the true for our US-based employees.
The principles and values that underpin target at a level that is consistent with the 2014 operating plan and our remuneration policy are applied on a consistent basis for all Group to encourage achievement of growth objectives.
employees, whilst recognising geographic differences in such an During 2013 Brian Taylorson opted out of future pension accrual under international organisation.
the UK defined benefit pension scheme and, instead, received a cash salary supplement.
Following a review later in the year, the Committee There is a strong link between the remuneration policy and our business decided to simplify his pension provision and from 2014 he receives strategy.
In particular, the performance metrics used for the annual bonus an annual single cash supplement equivalent to the value of his scheme and long term incentive plan are a subset of the Companys key previous pension arrangements 74 per cent of his salary.
commitment will last until the end of November 2015.
Further details are given on page 42.
2013 overview A 3 yearly review of fees for the Chairman and other non-executive The Group delivered another year of solid financial performance in directors was also carried out last year which resulted in an increase challenging market conditions which will result in the executive directors to the total amount of fees payable in 2014.
This increase brings fees receiving bonus payments equal to 55.91 per cent of their basic salaries.
up to a level commensurate with market practice, the size of Elementis and the responsibilities and time commitment of the roles.
The last Under the LTIP, performance periods for the awards granted in 2011 review was carried out in December 2010. ended in 2013 and the EPS and TSR measures were met in full.
Elementis delivered shareholder return over the three year period of The Committee consulted with its major shareholders, the ABI and 131 per cent, ranking the Company amongst the top 15 per cent of ISS on changes to remuneration.
companies in the FTSE All Share Index excluding investment trusts.
EPS growth over the same period was 67 per cent.
The Committee Your directors were very pleased to receive a significant level of support believes that this reward outcome is fully justified based on the for our Remuneration report from shareholders at last years AGM.
We Companys performance over the period.
hope you will vote for the two resolutions on the Directors remuneration report being a binding vote on the remuneration policy and an advisory 2014 policy changes vote on the rest of this report and thank you for your continuing support.
The following summarises the application of our remuneration policy in the current year: A remuneration review was carried out last year to examine whether our executive remuneration levels remain market competitive.
For our Chief Executive, who is a US national and is based in the US, this required examining remuneration levels and practices in both the US Andrew Christie and the UK.
Since the last review was carried out in 2010, the size of Chairman, Remuneration Committee the Company and the complexity of both the CEOs and Finance 25 February 2014 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 33 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report Effective date and duration of remuneration policy This part of the Directors remuneration report the Remuneration policy report sets out the remuneration policy for the directors of the Company that is being put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
Subject to receiving majority shareholder support, this Remuneration policy report will be effective from the date of approval at the AGM on 24 April 2014 and apply until shareholders next consider and vote on a new Remuneration policy report which may be as early as the 2015 AGM as noted above.
Link between policy, strategy and structure Our remuneration policy is principally designed to attract, motivate and retain the executive directors and business presidents to execute effectively our corporate and business strategies in order to deliver our annual operating plans and sustainable year on year profitable growth, as well as to generate and preserve value for our shareholders over the longer term, without encouraging excessive levels of risk taking.
The principles and values that underpin our remuneration strategy are applied on a consistent basis for all our Group employees.
It is our policy to reward all employees fairly, responsibly and by reference to local market practices, by providing an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
The Committees policy is to adequately reward the directors if they meet or exceed the targets set under the variable components of their remuneration packages.
The remuneration structure for executive directors is made up of two elements: fixed remuneration consisting of basic salary, benefits including for example non-contributory health insurance and life assurance and pension provision and variable remuneration annual bonus scheme and long term share incentives.
Policy table The information in the table below sets out the remuneration policy for the different elements that make up total remuneration applying to directors.
Basic salary Purpose and link to Companys strategy Targeted at a level to attract and retain the world class executives who are essential to drive the business forward and deliver the Companys strategic goals.
How it operates in practice Formal salary review normally every three years, with benchmarking analysis utilised for reference purposes against relevant market comparators as appropriate, taking into account the size of the Company revenue and market capitalisation, complexity of the roles including changes to both size and roles and individual performance.
Annual salary increases that are broadly in line with the local workforce in percentage of salary terms, subject to Committee approval.
Increases beyond the average of those granted to the local workforce in percentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as where there is a material change in responsibility or experience of the individual, to recognise exceptional performance over a sustained period or a significant increase in the complexity, size or value of the Company.
Where new joiners or recent promotions have been placed on a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases above those granted to the local workforce in percentage of salary terms may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Salaries are normally reviewed in December and any changes are effective from 1 January in the following year.
Maximum potential value There is no prescribed maximum for salary increases.
The Committee will be guided by the general increase for the local workforce and or broader workforce as a whole, as well as the circumstances listed above.
Salaries for 2014: Chief Executive $850,000 Finance Director 328,364 34 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Benefits Purpose and link to Companys strategy To aid retention and to remain competitive in the marketplace.
Healthcare benefits in order to minimise business disruption.
Executive directors may also participate along with other employees in the Groups HMRC approved SAYE, or other equivalent savings based, share schemes to share in the success of the Group.
How it operates in practice Life assurance and private medical health insurance are provided.
Provision of either a company car for business and personal purposes or a car allowance, in both cases having a value that is consistent and commensurate with the executives status and seniority.
Participation in all employee savings based share option schemes as above.
In addition benefits in the US, where it is standard, include cover for dental costs, accidental death and disablement, long term disability and club membership.
Maximum potential value SAYE savings-based schemes are subject to individual limits.
These are $2,000 per month in the US and in the UK up to the HMRC prescribed limit currently 250 per month and from April 2014 500 per month.
Other benefits: the Committee will determine the level of benefit it considers as appropriate, taking into consideration local market practice.
Annual cash bonus scheme Purpose and link to Companys strategy To incentivise the senior management team to exceed the annual operating plans approved by the Board at the start of each financial year.
To ensure that a significant proportion of an executives total remuneration is based on corporate business financial performance that is linked to the Companys annual operating plan.
How it operates in practice An annual cash bonus is earned based on over-performance against selected performance measures which are linked to the Companys key performance indicators.
Bonus payments are paid following the approval of full year results.
Payments are based on salaries at the time of payment.
The Committee may claw back bonuses paid that are later found to have been based on performance that was mis-stated or incorrectly calculated.
Maximum potential value 1 times basic salary.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 35 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Annual cash bonus scheme continued Framework used to assess performance Bonus is based on the achievement of challenging financial targets which are set relative to the annual operating plan, taking into account general GDP factors, consensus brokers forecasts and current and past performance of the businesses, together with any organic or acquisitive growth plans.
The Companys bonus is determined on performance against key performance indicators.
The bonus measures may include and are not limited to : Earnings per share EPS or other measures of profitability.
Group average trade working capital to sales ratio expressed as a percentage AWC or other cash flow performance measures.
For profit related performance measures, targets are set at threshold, plan and stretch level with bonus accruing from 0 per cent to 100 per cent increasing on a straight line basis for performance between threshold and stretch.
The Committee keeps performance metrics under review on an annual basis to ensure they continue to remain appropriate and has the discretion to amend the weighting.
The precise metrics chosen and weighting ascribed to each may vary, as detailed in the policy above, in line with the Companys evolving strategy.
The profit related element of annual bonus shall not be less than 50 per cent of total bonus opportunity.
Long term incentives Purpose and link to Companys strategy The LTIP is the sole long term incentive mechanism and is intended to align the interests of the executives with the Groups long term performance, business strategy and broader interests of shareholders.
When granting awards under the LTIP the Committee generally takes into consideration the need to motivate and retain the executive directors and other participants.
The number of options conditional shares awarded, up to the maximum limit, is based on the average mid-market closing price of a share on the date preceding the date of award.
How it operates in practice Nil cost options or conditional shares are awarded annually.
Options are exercisable 3 years rd from, and within 10 years of, the date of award.
Share awards vest on the 3 anniversary of the date of award.
Awards are subject to the achievement of challenging performance conditions and normally subject to continued service over the vesting period.
Tax rules mean US participants will generally exercise and sell at least part of any options shares that vest on the date of vesting, in order to meet tax liabilities.
Maximum potential value In the case of the Chief Executive, the maximum award is limited to 150 per cent of his basic salary at the time of the award.
For other executive directors, the maximum value of any award under the LTIP is 1 times an individuals basic salary, plus up to 50 per cent of the Chief Executives basic salary fixed at its 2010 level but this base level is re-valued annually on a compound basis by the same percentage increase each participant receives on his own basic salary in each subsequent year.
36 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Long term incentives Framework used to assess performance Awards are subject to achievement of financial EPS, ROCE or any other relevant company financial KPI and or relative TSR performance conditions measured over 3 financial years beginning with the financial year in which the award is made.
TSR will be measured against a broad equity index, or a bespoke group of appropriate comparator companies.
In determining the target range for any financial measures that may apply, the Committee ensures they are challenging by taking into account current and anticipated trading conditions, the long term business plan and external market expectations.
For any financial performance condition, threshold vesting will start from 0 per cent and for any relative TSR performance condition, threshold vesting will start at 3.85 per cent.
In both cases this will increase on a straight line basis with 100 per cent vesting for achieving the stretch targets, which for the TSR performance condition will require at least upper quartile performance.
Pension Purpose and link to Companys strategy To aid retention and remain competitive in the marketplace.
To provide appropriate retirement benefits commensurate with local market practice, seniority of the role and tenure with the Company together with giving the executives an opportunity to contribute to their own retirement.
How it operates in practice Policy for new recruits is for a pension contribution and or cash in lieu.
The policy for the current Chief Executive and Finance Director is set out below.
Group Chief Executive David Dutro receives an annual salary supplement of 20 per cent of his basic salary as part of his contractual entitlement and as a US employee he also participates in two defined contribution schemes being: i a US 401 k Plan, which is similar to a money purchase scheme, and ii a Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan the Defined Contribution plans.
The latter plan mirrors the 401 k Plan except it allows for contributions in respect of pensionable remuneration over an annual compensation limit set by the US Internal Revenue Service 2013: $255,000.
The employer match under these two plans includes a regular match of up to 4 per cent of total pensionable remuneration and a supplemental match of up to 4 per cent, based on age and length of service.
Finance Director Brian Taylorson receives a single annual salary supplement which broadly matches the value of his previous pension provision.
Maximum potential value The policy for new executives is for a company contribution of up to 30 per cent of salary.
Under the policy the maximum for the CEO is 20 per cent of his salary and up to 8 per cent of pensionable remuneration depending on the amount of personal contributions made into the Defined Contribution plans.
The maximum for the Finance Director, under the policy, is a salary supplement of 74 per cent of his salary until he reaches his 60th birthday.
Thereafter, the Committee will consider, as appropriate, a new arrangement in line with market practice at the time.
Legacy arrangements exist for existing employees.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 37 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Share ownership guidelines Purpose and link to Companys strategy To align an executives interests with those of shareholders and to encourage executives to participate and share in the success of the Group.
How it operates in practice Executive directors are expected to build up a stake in the Company that is equal in value to one times their basic annual salary.
The Committee monitors compliance with these guidelines and can make changes to them from time to time.
Non-executive Chairman and directors fees Purpose and link to Companys strategy To attract individuals with the relevant skills, knowledge and experience that the Board considers necessary in order to maintain an optimal mix that ensures the effectiveness of the Board as a whole in carrying out its duties and responsibilities.
How it operates in practice Non-executive directors fees are determined by the Chairman and the executive directors, having regard to fees paid to non-executive directors in other UK quoted companies and the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
In the case of the Chairman, the fee level is determined by the Committee.
As well as taking into consideration the above factors, the Committee sets the fee at an appropriate level necessary to attract a role holder qualified to effectively lead the board of a company of a similar size and prestige as Elementis.
Fees are normally reviewed every 3 years with changes taking effect from 1 January in the following year.
Fees are payable in cash and non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any pension, bonus or share incentive schemes.
No individual is allowed to vote on his her own remuneration.
38 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting Differences in executive remuneration policy compared to The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and other employees long term incentive plans are a subset of the Companys key The Committee is made aware of pay structures across the wider performance indicators.
Company when setting the remuneration policy for executive directors.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the In terms of annual performance targets, EPS is a clear measure of the broader Company and, in particular the UK and US based employees, Companys earnings growth, AWC encourages the most efficient use when determining salary increases for the executive directors.
of working capital and cash flow ensures earnings are turned into cash.
These metrics are aligned with the Companys objectives and strategy.
The same principles and values behind the design of remuneration for the executive directors and business presidents apply to other senior With regards to long term performance targets, EPS growth or managers and employees throughout the rest of the Group, with ROCE targets may be used and these are aligned with the long term modifications to reflect local market practice and the level of seniority levels of profitability and growth of the Company.
A relative TSR and ability to influence Group performance.
Overall, the remuneration condition ensures that there is clear alignment between shareholders policy for executive directors is more heavily weighted towards variable and executives.
pay than for other employees.
This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration Where appropriate, targets are set based on sliding scales that take received by the executive directors given it is the executive directors account of internal planning and external market expectations for who are considered to have the greatest potential to influence the Company.
Only modest rewards are available for delivering shareholder value creation.
performance at threshold levels or above with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of our challenging plans The level of variable pay varies by level of employee within the approved at the start of each year.
Company and is informed by the specific responsibilities of each role and local market practice as appropriate.
The intended targets for awards to be granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan in 2014 are consistent with the policy set out in the policy How the views of employees are taken into account table and are set out in the Annual report on remuneration on page 42.
The Company does not actively consult with employees on executive remuneration.
The Group has a diverse workforce operating in nine The Committee does not incorporate corporate or business performance different countries, with various local pay practices, which would in environmental, social and governance matters when setting targets make any cost effective consultation impractical.
However, as noted in the variable parts of remuneration.
The safety and environmental above, when setting the remuneration policy for executive directors, performance of Group businesses is accorded high importance and the the Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions Committee considers that management should aspire to achieving high for other employees in the Group.
This process ensures that any annual standards in both safety and environmental performance without the need increase to the basic pay of executive directors is not out of proportion for incentives.
Governance standards are set by the Board as a whole.
with that proposed for other employees.
Reward scenario analysis Chief Executive Of cer Finance Director 000 000 2,500 2,500 2,089 2,000 2,000 39% 1,489 1,408 1,500 1,500 29% 1,039 38% 26% 1,000 1,000 19% 27% 726 22% 591 16% 500 52% 500 100% 35% 40% 100% 57% 0 0 Fixed On-Target Maximum Fixed On-Target Maximum The tables above illustrate the potential pay opportunities for the executive directors under three different scenarios for 2014.
The CEOs remuneration has been converted into pounds sterling using the average exchange rate for 2013 $1.56:1.
Fixed: Comprises fixed pay being the value of salary, benefits and pension benefits and, for the CEO, the employers matching contribution to Defined Contribution plans are included at their 2013 level.
On-Target: The amount receivable assumes performance in which 50 per cent of annual bonus is payable and 50 per cent of long term incentive awards vest.
Maximum: the maximum amount receivable should all stretch targets be met and vesting under both the annual bonus scheme and LTIP is 100 per cent.
When valuing the LTIP options under the On-Target and Maximum scenarios, no account of any share price appreciation is taken into account.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 39 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Recruitment policy For executive director recruitment and or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the policy outlined below.
Element Policy Basic salary Basic salary levels will be set in accordance with the Companys remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual eg typically around market rates prevalent in companies of comparable size and complexity or salary levels may be set below this level eg if the individual was promoted to the Board.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Benefits New directors may be entitled to benefits such as life assurance, private medical health insurance, cover for dental costs, accidental death and disablement, long term disability, club membership and provision of either a company car for business and personal purposes or a car allowance or any other appropriate benefit.
Where necessary the Committee may approve the payment of reasonable relocation expenses for a maximum period of 12 months to facilitate recruitment.
Pension A company contribution into a pension plan and or cash supplement of up to 30 per cent of salary.
Legacy pension arrangements for promotees which may include defined benefit or US style arrangements may continue to operate on their existing terms.
Annual bonus The annual bonus would operate as outlined for current executive directors, with the respective maximum opportunity, albeit pro-rated for the proportion of the year served.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set different performance measures and targets initially.
Long term incentives Awards under the LTIP will be granted in line with the policy outlined for the current executive directors on an annual basis.
An award may be made shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period.
For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
In addition, if the grant of awards for that individual precedes his or her appointment as a Board director for that financial year, the Committees policy would include flexibility to top up awards for that year subject to the overall individual salary limit based on the executives new salary.
Buy-out awards In the case of external hire, if it is necessary to buy-out incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares and timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards may be granted using the Companys LTIP up to the individual limit or outside of the LTIP if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Outside board appointments Policy on payment for loss of office The Companys policy is to support an executive should they wish to take on For the existing executive directors, the terms covering termination were an external board appointment, provided that there is no conflict of interest agreed at the date their contracts were made.
The Finance Director is and any role does not interfere with the executives commitment or duties.
required, however, to mitigate his loss in the event of loss of office by If an executive does take on an external appointment they may retain any fees making efforts to secure a new position.
Payments in lieu of notice to paid and will be restricted generally to only one such external appointment.
both the Chief Executive and Finance Director may be reduced or ceased if they secure a new position.
In the case of the Chief Executive, the Service contracts payments will only be ceased if his salary in his new position is equal to Executive directors service contracts contain a termination notice or more than his salary on termination: if not his monthly payments will period not exceeding 12 months.
be reduced by the gross salary earned by the Chief Executive in his new position each month.
Name Date of contract Notice period For any new appointments, it is the Companys policy to follow current market David Dutro, CEO 16 January 2007 12 months practice and preclude the inclusion of any payment benefits, bonus or Brian Taylorson, Finance Director 5 June 2005 12 months pension other than basic salary in the calculation of termination payments 40 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 being one years salary and a notice period of 12 months.
Payments will If an executive director resigns or is dismissed LTIP awards lapse be phased on a monthly basis over the remaining notice period and the and the Committee has no discretion under the rules.
Committees position is to ensure a director mitigates the loss to the Company.
The Company operates an annual cash bonus scheme in which Termination payments participation and payments are made subject to the discretion of the Group Chief Executive Committee.
However, under his service contract, the Chief Executive The maximum amount payable under David Dutros contract is basic may be eligible to receive a bonus relating to the Companys financial salary during his notice period 12 months and any bonus he may be performance during his 12 month notice period, provided all performance eligible to receive for the period he was employed, subject to performance.
Where the Committee has any discretion, its policy is to exercise any discretion in the Companys best interests and Alternatively the Company may pay compensation in lieu of the notice depending on the individual circumstances of each case.
period of a lump sum of 50 per cent of his basic salary, with up to a further 50 per cent payable in six monthly instalments after six months Legacy matters in both cases pro-rated for the actual notice period.
This would apply Once adopted, this Remuneration policy report will apply from the date if the Company terminates his contract for any reason other than for of approval by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
However, legacy awards cause or if he invokes a good leaver reason for terminating his contract or other commitments, including those made prior to 27 June 2012 but ie, upon a change of control in which the successor company is not not modified or renewed after that date, to current or former directors bound to honour his service contract.
may still be paid notwithstanding that they have only been incorporated by reference and not been fully described in this Remuneration policy Finance Director report.
These legacy awards and commitments comprise the LTIP awards The maximum amount that would be payable to Brian Taylorson for made in 2012 and 2013, as more fully described in the Annual report payment in lieu of notice by the Company for any reason other than for on remuneration.
cause is an initial lump sum of 50 per cent of his basic salary and other benefits described below and up to a further 50 per cent payable in a Non-executive directors terms of appointment lump sum after six months, subject to the Committee being satisfied that Non-executive directors are appointed for a three year term, subject to reasonable efforts to secure a new position have been made during the annual re-election by shareholders.
For non-executive directors who have six months following termination.
Other benefits comprise: i the sums served for nine years or more, they may be appointed for a further year at a that would normally be payable to him in respect of his pension benefits time.
Each letter of appointment provides that the directors appointment pro-rated according to notice period being given served, ii the cost of can be terminated by the Company on six months notice on any grounds providing private medical insurance for him, his spouse and any children without claim for compensation.
under 21 for the 12 months following termination and iii his monthly car allowance for a 12 month period.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any pension, bonus or share incentive schemes.
No individual is allowed to vote on The above summary only addresses contractual rights to payments in his her own remuneration.
lieu of notice, or during the relevant directors notice period, and may not reflect any settlement or compromise sums which are separately agreed The table below provides further details of the letters of appointment at the point of termination.
that the non-executive directors held with the Company during 2013.
Committee discretion with regard to incentive plans Date of Date of last Date of For any outstanding LTIP awards, these are governed by rules of the plan Name appointment reappointment expiry and only in limited circumstances is discretion permitted.
In such Non-executive directors circumstances, the Committee retains the use of discretion in its 1 I Brindle 06 06 05 06 06 11 05 06 14 administration of the LTIP as contained in the plan rules.
A Christie 11 08 08 11 08 11 10 08 14 A Hyland 01 06 13 N A 31 05 16 In the specific event of loss of office any discretion exercised would 2 K Matthews 16 02 05 16 02 14 15 02 15 depend on the circumstances at that time and the performance achieved Past directors during the performance period.
In the event of the death of an executive 3 R Beeston 21 09 06 21 09 12 N A director and an award has not yet vested the Committee, acting in its 3 C Girling 29 04 05 29 04 11 N A absolute discretion, may determine vesting from maturity rather than date of death.
If an executive director ceases employment due to injury, 1 ill health, disability, redundancy, transfer out of the Group sale of S ubject to his re-election at the 2014 AGM, it is intended that Ian Brindle will be reappointed for another year from 6 June 2014. business or retirement with employers consent and an award has not 2 Ke vin Matthews letter of appointment expired on 15 February 2014 yet vested the Committee, acting in its absolute discretion, may allow and he was reappointed for a further 1 year term.
early vesting at the date of cessation rather than at date of vesting.
All such awards would still be subject to performance conditions, which the Committee may not waive, as well as pro-rating for time which the Copies of the executive directors service contracts and all letters of Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, may waive in part or in full if appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection it considers acting fairly and reasonably it is appropriate to do so.
at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Similar provisions apply in the event of a change of control, with performance measured up to the date of the relevant event and Shareholder engagement normally scaling back pro rata for time.
The Committee encourages dialogue with the Company's shareholders and would consult with major shareholders ahead of any significant future It is the Committees policy to exercise these discretions in a way that changes to remuneration policy.
Major shareholders and shareholder would be in the best interests of the Company and depending on the representative bodies were consulted on the changes summarised in individual circumstances of each case.
the Chairmans annual statement on remuneration.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 41 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration This Annual report on remuneration shows how the Companys policies Annual bonus and practices on directors remuneration will be applied in 2014 and For the year to 31 December 2014, the maximum bonus opportunity how they were applied in relation to payments in respect of the financial for executive directors will remain unchanged at 100 per cent of basic year ended 2013.
This report and the Chairmans annual statement on salary.
The following describes how the scheme is applied to the remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2014 Any bonus will be payable dependent on the achievement of EPS 75 per cent and AWC targets 25 per cent.
For the EPS condition, This first section of the Annual report on remuneration describes how the the targets are set at threshold, plan and stretch level, with threshold Committee intends to implement the remuneration policy for the financial being previous year actual and the plan and stretch targets set at a level year ending 31 December 2014. considered to be sufficiently challenging above the prior year out-turn.
Bonus accrual as a percentage of basic salary is linear between Basic salaries threshold and stretch.
The Committee considered carefully salary increases for 2014 and it was decided to increase David Dutros salary to $850,000.
The increase The AWC condition for 2014 has a single target figure based on prior reflects the significant increase in size and complexity of the business, year performance which if met results in 100 per cent of the bonus the strong performance of our Chief Executive and his criticality to the subject to that condition vesting, except that the AWC condition success of the Company.
Reflecting the global workplace from which we would only be operative if the EPS target at plan level has been met.
recruit our top talent, particularly the US influence, the new salary brings David Dutro closer to market levels.
The Committee also decided to award Bonus payments are based on salaries at the time of payment and will Brian Taylorson with a salary increase of 3 per cent which is in line with be determined by reference to performance against the full year targets.
the levels of increases across the Group as a whole.
The Committee considers that the targets themselves are commercially sensitive and therefore plans to disclose them only on a retrospective Salary as at Salary as at 1 January 2014 1 January 2013 Increase basis.
Full details of the targets and actual out-turn will be disclosed in next years Directors remuneration report.
David Dutro $850,000 $767,112 10.8% Brian Taylorson 328,364 318,800 3.0% All employee share plans Executive directors will be entitled to participate in any all employee share Pension and benefits plans on the same terms as any other eligible employee.
For the year to 31 December 2014, David Dutro will continue to participate in the pension arrangements and receive the same benefits as for 2013 as LTIP set out in the Remuneration policy report.
For the year to 31 December 2014, the CEOs award will be 150 per cent of basic salary.
The Finance Directors award will be 100 per cent of Brian Taylorson will receive a salary supplement of 74 per cent of his basic salary plus 50 per cent of the CEOs 2010 salary uplifted for any annual salary in lieu of any other pension benefits.
His other benefits for 2014 will salary increases that he has received since then which in total for his be the same as that for 2013 as set out in the Remuneration policy report.
2014 awards will be approximately 174 per cent of his salary.
Background to changes to Brian Taylorsons pension provision The performance targets that are intended to apply to the awards to be During 2013 the Committee agreed to changes in Brian Taylorsons granted in the current year are the same as for 2013 as set out below.
In making the changes, the Committee considered the commitment that was made to him when he became For the EPS condition, the chart shows that awards will vest on a linear Finance Director in 2002 and sought to maintain a benefit that is broadly scale from 0 per cent to 100 per cent for average annual EPS growth of comparable, whilst fixing the liability of the Company.
From 2014 onwards RPI 4 per cent to RPI 10 per cent, respectively.
For the TSR condition, his provision was replaced with a single cash salary supplement of the chart shows that awards will vest on a linear scale from 3.85 per cent 74 per cent of his basic salary which is equivalent to the value of the to 100 per cent for median to upper quartile performance, respectively.
The TSR condition will be measured against the companies comprising the FTSE All Share Index excluding investment trusts.
The new arrangement will run for less than two years, in line with his previous arrangements, until the end of November 2015 when he reaches his 60th birthday.
Shareholders are asked to support this change Vesting schedule: EPS performance condition because the new arrangement is more transparent, clearer and simpler Percentage of award subject to EPS performance vesting to understand and removes any element of risk or uncertainty as to how the previous salary supplements were to be calculated.
100 90 Relevant to the above is that the Committee had agreed to an interim 80 adjustment to Brian Taylorsons pension provision during 2013.
From 70 1 September 2013 he voluntarily opted out of future accrual under the 60 UK defined benefit pension scheme and instead received a monthly 50 40 salary supplement equivalent to the pro-rated annual IAS 19 cost to the 30 Company of funding his accrued pension reduced for employer NIC 20 had he remained in the pension scheme.
This change was cost neutral 10 No vesting at or below 4% p. a. to the Company.
The change to a single salary supplement for 2014 0 2% 3% 4% 5% 6% 7% 8% 9% 10% 11% 12% replaces both this interim adjustment and the previous salary supplement for earnings above the former HMRC cap that was in place prior Average EPS growth above RPI % p. a. to 2002.
These amounts are set out and explained clearly in the Directors retirement benefits table that follows.
42 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Non-executive directors remuneration Vesting schedule: TSR performance condition Following a 3 yearly review of fees, increases were awarded from 2014 Percentage of award subject to TSR performance vesting to bring these to a level commensurate with the size of the Company, the responsibilities and time commitment of the roles involved and in line with 110 100% vesting at Upper quartile or better 100 market practice.
90 80 For the year to 31 December 2014, the fees payable to the Chairman 70 and non-executive directors will be as follows: 60 50 40 2014 2013 30 20 10 Chairman 175,000 137,150 No vesting below Median 3.85% vesting at Median 0 Non-executive director 46,000 40,000 Median Upper quartile Additional fees: Senior Independent Director 8,000 5,000 Elementis position relative to the FTSE All Share Index excluding investment trusts Chairman of Audit or Remuneration Committee 8,000 5,000 Remuneration payable to directors for 2013 Although the Company reports its results in US dollars the remainder of this report on remuneration is presented in pounds sterling because the majority of the directors are UK based and paid in pounds sterling.
His pension comprises 20 per cent of his salary and employer contributions to defined contribution pension schemes.
2 B rian Taylorsons pension comprises salary supplements paid as compensation for the limitation of pension rights to the former HM Revenue and Customs earnings cap and a pro-rated amount in lieu of future accrual under the UK defined benefit scheme DB scheme, as well as the pro-rated amount of accrued pension in the year valued using the HMRC method accrued benefit net of inflation times a factor of 20 less members contributions.
3 I an Brindle, who was appointed Chairman on 1 August 2013, received seven months of his non-executive director fee 40,000 p. a. and Senior Independent Director fee 5,000 p. a. and five months of the Chairmans fee 137,150 p. a.. 4 A ndrew Christie replaced Kevin Matthews as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2013 and their fees reflect their non-executive director fee and the additional Committee Chairman fee on a pro-rated basis.
5 A nne Hyland joined the Board on 1 June 2013 and was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2013.
Her fees reflect her non-executive director fee and additional fee as Chairman of the Audit Committee on a pro-rated basis.
6 Robert Beeston, who retired from the Board on 31 July 2013, received seven months of the Chairmans fee 137,150 p. a.. 7 C hris Girling retired from the Board on 31 July 2013 and his fee reflects his non-executive director fee and additional fee as Chairman of the Audit Committee on a pro-rated basis.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 43 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Determination of annual bonus outcome for performance in 2013 This section shows the performance targets set in respect of the 2013 annual bonus scheme, the level of performance achieved and the resultant payments to directors.
In 2013, as in prior years, the bonus targets were tested against the half year and full year results.
The H1 bonus payment would ordinarily be paid in August and the full year bonus payment, which takes into consideration any H1 bonus already paid, will be paid in March 2014.
The maximum full year bonus opportunity is 100 per cent of basic salary and the maximum H1 bonus is restricted to 35 per cent of the full year amount.
As explained earlier, from 2014, the bonus will be determined on the basis of the full year results only.
FY 2013 bonus Bonus received as % of plan targets basic salary Relative weighting of performance Actual Chief Finance Full year bonus conditions Threshold Plan Stretch result Executive Director EPS cents 75% 23.3 23.6 26.1 25.4 55.91% 55.91% AWC % 25% 20.00 19.50 19.00 20.40 nil% nil% Total full year payment 100% 55.91% 55.91% H1 2013 bonus Bonus received as % of plan targets basic salary Relative weighting of performance Actual Chief Finance H1 bonus conditions Threshold Plan Stretch result Executive Director EPS cents 75% 12.2 12.2 13.7 12.5 nil% nil% AWC % 25% 19.8 19.3 18.8 20.20 nil% nil% Total H1 payment 100% nil% nil% The 2013 threshold, plan and stretch targets for H1 and the full year disclosed are as originally set and have not been restated for the impact of revised IAS 19.
However, in order that the performance measurement can be made on a consistent basis, following the adoption of revised IAS 19, the actual result for 2013 has been adjusted from 23.0 cents to 25.4 cents.
No payment was made for H1 performance and the result shown has also been restated from the H1 reported number of 11.3 cents.
See page 13 in the Finance report under Other expenses and page 29 in the Audit Committee report under Significant accounting issues.
Bonus payments under both performance conditions increase on a linear basis with 0 per cent payable for threshold performance and 100 per cent for stretch performance.
No discretion other than to adjust for revised IAS 19 which was agreed at the time the targets were set last year was exercised in respect of the above payments and there are no deferral requirements under the bonus scheme rules.
44 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Directors share based awards Determination of 2011 LTIP awards The awards made in 2011, shown in the table on page 46 headed Directors share and scheme interests, have a vesting date of 4 April 2014.
The performance conditions EPS and TSR, split 50:50 relate to performance over the three financial years ended 31 December 2013.
Under the EPS condition, all of the awards subject to that condition would have vested in full if EPS grew during the three financial years ended 2013 by RPI 10 per cent p. a. or more.
Under the TSR condition, all of the awards subject to that condition would have vested in full if the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE All Share Index excluding investment trusts in the three financial years ended 31 December 2013 was at or above upper quartile.
Over the performance period, the Companys EPS grew by 67 per cent and its TSR performance was 131 per cent which placed it in the top 15 per cent of companies in the FTSE All Share Index.
Accordingly, all of the 2011 awards have achieved the maximum performance threshold and, subject to continued employment, will vest in full on 4 April 2014.
For the purpose of the calculation of the LTIP component of the total remuneration figure in the table on page 43, the awards have been valued using the average mid-market closing share price for the three months period from 1 October 2013 to 31 December 2013.
LTIP awards granted in the year LTIP awards made in 2013 are set out in the table below and are subject to EPS and TSR performance conditions split 50:50 over the three years to 31 December 2015.
The vesting schedule and the performance conditions are the same as for the awards to be made in 2014 as shown on pages 42 and 43.
Type Face value of The end date of A summary of of share Number award at grant Percentage that would vest the performance performance targets 1 award Grant date of awards 000s at threshold performance period and measures 0% of the award subject to the EPS Nil cost condition and 3.85% of the award David Dutro option 02.04.13 289,750 755 subject to the TSR condition 31.12.15 As above 0% of the award subject to the EPS Nil cost condition and 3.85% of the award Brian Taylorson option 02.04.13 214,398 559 subject to the TSR condition 31.12.15 As above 1 F or David Dutro this equates to 150 per cent of basic salary and for Brian Taylorson this equates to 100 per cent of his basic salary plus 50 per cent of the CEOs 2010 basic salary re-valued for annual increases to his own salary.
For further details, see page 36 of the Remuneration policy report.
The share price used to determine the number of awards granted was 260.70p being the average mid-market closing share price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
Details of awards in savings-based share schemes are shown in the table overleaf.
Sourcing shares for our share plans Employee share plans comply with ABI guidelines on dilution which provide that overall issuance of shares under all plans should not exceed an amount equivalent to 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital over any ten year period, with a further limitation of 5 per cent in any ten year period on discretionary plans.
Based on the number of awards that remain outstanding as at the year end, the Companys headroom for all plans is 5.2 per cent and for discretionary plans 4.2 per cent of issued share capital.
Savings based share options schemes are not subject to performance conditions.
David Dutros options are held under the US sharesave scheme and would ordinarily vest on the second anniversary of the grant date and expire three months thereafter.
During 2013 he was granted 2,722 savings based options.
The option price shown is based on the mid-market closing share price on the date of grant, giving a face value of 6.2k.
The options granted to Brian Taylorson in 2009 are five year options held under the UK SAYE scheme and would ordinarily vest on the fifth anniversary of the grant date and expire six months thereafter.
Further details on these schemes are show in Note 24 to the Consolidated financial statements on page 85.
B. LTIP awards are subject to performance conditions.
The same EPS growth and relative TSR performance conditions apply in respect of the awards made in 2011, 2012 and 2013, as described in the Remuneration policy report.
These options ordinarily vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and would expire on the tenth anniversary.
C. Interest in shares, including of connected persons.
1 D avid Dutro retained 4,929 shares 2012: 30,688 following the exercise of savings based share options in 2013.
The price on the date of exercise was 252.10 pence per share with a notional gain of c. 6.5k.
In addition, he exercised and sold 988,149 shares granted under the LTIP in 2010 which vested in full at a price of 252.23 pence per share, with a pre-tax gain of c. 2.5m.
2 B rian Taylorson retained 68,904 shares 2012: nil following the exercise and partial sale of 768,103 shares also granted under the LTIP in 2010 which vested in full.
The price on the date of exercise was 252.23 pence per share with a pre-tax gain on the shares sold of c. 1.76m and a notional gain on the shares retained of c. 0.17m.
3 Shares shown are held from the beginning of the year up until the date of their retirement on 31 July 2013.
4 Guideline holding is one times salary.
The market price of ordinary shares at 31 December 2013 was 268.9 pence 2012: 232.5 pence and the range during 2013 was 210.2 pence to 275.0 pence 2012: 135.1 pence to 240.3 pence.
As at 25 February 2014, the Trustee of the Companys Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT held nil shares 2012: nil.
As executive directors, David Dutro and Brian Taylorson, as potential beneficiaries under the ESOT, are deemed to have an interest in any shares that become held in the ESOT.
46 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 As at 25 February 2014, no person who was then a director had any interest in any derivative or other financial instrument relating to the Companys shares and, so far as the Company is aware, none of their connected persons had such an interest.
Between 31 December 2013 and 25 February 2014 there was no change in the relevant interests of any such directors nor, so far as the Company is aware, in the relevant interests of any of their connected persons.
Other than their service contracts, letters of appointment and letters of indemnity with the Company, none of the directors had an interest in any contract of significance in relation to the business of the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year.
Retirement benefits The table below shows the breakdown of the retirement benefits of the executive directors, comprising employer contributions to defined contribution plans, benefits under defined benefit schemes and salary supplements paid in cash.
The amount shown for David Dutro under defined contribution plans reflects total employer contributions in 2013.
The amounts paid under these plans were 47,460 2012: 53,848 equivalent to 6.0 per cent 2012: 6.3 per cent of his total pensionable remuneration in 2013.
The payment of a salary supplement is explained in the Remuneration policy report on page 37.
In addition, as a US salaried executive director, David Dutro participated in the Elementis Career Reward Retirement Plan ECRRP for US employees.
On 1 May 2006, the plan was frozen closed to future accruals.
The ECRRP is a cash balance retirement plan which falls under the category of defined benefit pension plans in the US.
As the plan is closed to future accruals, participants account balances are no longer credited with contributions, however, interest is credited each year at the US Treasury 30 year bond rate.
David Dutros accrued benefits under this plan are also shown in the table.
David Dutros normal retirement date under all his pension arrangements is 65.
The normal pensionable retirement age under the DB scheme for Brian Taylorson is 60.
Directors retirement benefits Defined contribution plans Salary supplements Defined benefit schemes Pension HMRC notional related Contractual earnings cap Increase in benefits to Pension accrued be included benefit if Accrued Accrued benefits net in total director benefits benefits of inflation remuneration retires early 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 31.12.13 31.12.12 2013 2013 2013 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 David Dutro 47 54 99 94 9 9 9 1 2 3 Brian Taylorson 29 152 160 55 50 4 70 43 1 T his salary supplement is in lieu of future accrual under the UK DB scheme from 1 September 2013 and is equivalent to the IAS 19 cost adjusted for employers NIC to the Company of funding his accrued pension in the year had he not opted-out of future accrual and the amount shown is pro-rated for the four month period 29,280.
2 This amount relates to the limitation of pension rights due to the former HMRCs notional earnings cap equating to the pre-tax value of 44 per cent of basic salary.
3 T he accrued benefit under the DB scheme in the year is valued using the HMRC method accrued benefit net of inflation times 20, less member contributions to give 69,530 and added to the salary supplements 152,276 and 29,280 to arrive at the total pension benefit 251,086 for Brian Taylorson in the Directors remuneration table on page 43.
The same methodology has been used to provide the comparative pension figure for 2012 in that table.
Total shareholder return performance and change in CEOs pay The graph below illustrates the Companys total shareholder return for the five years ended 31 December 2013, relative to the FTSE 250 Index, along with a table illustrating the change in CEO pay over the same period.
The table also details the varying award vesting rates year on year for the annual bonus scheme and LTIP.
As the Companys shares are denominated and listed in pence, the graph below looks at the total return to the end of 2013 of 100 invested in Elementis on 31 December 2008 compared with that of the total return of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
This index was selected for the purpose of providing a relative comparison of performance because the Company is a member of it.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 TSR performance rebased to 100 CEO pay total 1 remuneration '000 576 1,031 2,964 3,560 2,108 Annual bonus award against 1000 maximum opportunity 0% 100% 100% 81.25% 55.91% 900 800 LTIP vesting against 1 2 700 maximum opportunity 88% 0% 100% 100% 100% 600 500 1 P rior to being appointed CEO in 2007 David Dutro as COO was awarded ESOS 400 options in 2006 which vested in part in 2009 as shown.
However, these options were underwater on the vesting date so have been valued at nil in line with FRC 300 Lab guidelines.
200 2 T his also relates to ESOS options that were awarded to David Dutro in 2007 100 which all lapsed due to performance conditions not being met.
0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Key Elementis plc FTSE 250 Index Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 47 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Relative importance of the spend on pay Other information about the Committees membership The table below shows the total remuneration paid across the Group and operation together with the total dividends paid in respect of 2013 and the preceding Committee composition financial year.
The Chairman and members of the Committee are shown on page 24, together with their biographical information.
Eight meetings were held Remuneration against distributions during 2013 and the attendance records of Committee members are shown on page 28.
All meetings were also attended by the Chairman of 2013 2012 million million change the Company and the Senior Independent Director, to ensure that all non-executive Board members were kept fully informed on the operation Remuneration paid to all employees and work of the Committee.
Both executive directors also attend meetings see Note 8 to the Consolidated 1 by invitation, as appropriate, although they are not present when their own financial statements 67.1 62.1 8% remuneration arrangements are discussed or, if they are, they 2 Total dividends paid in the year 38.0 20.5 85% do not participate in the decision making process.
1 T he amounts for 2013 and 2012 have been converted from dollar into Terms of reference pounds sterling using the average $: exchange rate for those years.
A full description of the Committees terms of reference is available on the 2 2013 includes a special dividend payment of $22 million 14.4 million.
Companys website and the following is a summary of its responsibilities: Determining the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and Percentage change in CEOs pay executive directors and keeping these under review.
The following table shows the change from 2012 to 2013 of the CEOs pay Making awards under the annual bonus scheme and LTIP, with regard to the three elements set out below and the corresponding including setting performance targets.
change in these elements across all employees within the Group.
Monitoring and making recommendations on the structure and level of remuneration for senior executives, ensuring that these are % Change from 2012 to 2013 appropriately linked to the Groups strategy and aligned with the Salaries Benefits Bonus Boards risk profile.
CEO pay total remuneration 3 5 21 Evaluation, training and development All employees 8 8 8 On an annual basis the Committees effectiveness is reviewed as part of the evaluation of the Board.
Following the evaluation last year, there were change in bonus relates to payments in respect of the relevant financial years no major issues to report.
Statement of shareholder voting During 2013 Committee members attended various external seminars on The resolution to approve the 2012 Directors remuneration report was the latest developments on executive remuneration and all Board members passed on a show of hands at the Companys last AGM held on 25 April received briefings from the Company Secretary and the Committees 2013.
Set out in the table below is the votes cast by proxy in respect of remuneration advisers throughout the year, to keep them updated on that resolution.
topical matters and developments relating to executive remuneration.
Approval of Directors remuneration report for 2012 Remuneration advisers The Committees external advisers are New Bridge Street NBS who Votes for % For Votes against % Against Votes withheld were appointed after a tender in 2008.
This was reviewed again last year 346,299,708 99.73% 938,723 0.27% 2,357,277 and as a result they were retained as advisers.
The Committee is satisfied that there is no over-reliance on NBS, who have no connection with the Company other than as remuneration advisers.
Total fees paid to NBS in 2013 amounted to c. 40,000 for advisory services mainly in connection with the review of executive remuneration, non-executive directors fees and the Directors remuneration report for compliance with the new regulations.
Auditable sections of the Directors remuneration report The sections of the Annual report on remuneration that are required to be audited by law are as follows: Remuneration payable to directors for 2013 and Retirement benefits: and tables headed LTIP awards granted in the year, Directors share and scheme interests and Directors retirement benefits.
48 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Directors report Report and financial statements Elementis supports the wider fundamental human rights of its employees The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements worldwide, as well as those of our customers and suppliers, and further for the year ended 31 December 2013. details are set out in the Corporate responsibility report.
This Directors report includes the Corporate governance reports from Employee communications and involvement page 26 to 48.
The Group has processes in place for communicating with all its employees.
Employee communications include information about Strategic report, future development, GHG emissions and R&D the performance of the Group, on major matters affecting their work, The Strategic report which the Company is required under law to prepare employment or workplace and to encourage them to get involved can be found on pages 2 to 23.
That report also includes information in social or community events.
required in this Directors report about: a future developments in the business of the Group and b greenhouse gas emissions.
As is common practice, the Company operates savings-based share option schemes in the US and UK to encourage employees to become The Group undertakes, on a continuing basis, R&D activities for new shareholders and share in the success of the Group.
Further details of products and to improve existing products.
these schemes are set out on page 85.
Takeover directive disclosures Going concern The management report, for the purposes of the UK Listing Authoritys In assessing the Group as a going concern, the directors have given Disclosure and Transparency Rules, comprises the following sections: consideration to the factors likely to affect its future performance and the Strategic report, this Directors report, the Directors responsibility development, the Groups financial position and the principal risks and statement and the biographical information on the directors on page 24. uncertainties facing the Group, including the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity and market risk and the mechanisms for dealing with these risks.
Dividend Details about the final dividend for the year, as well as a special The Group had a net cash position at the year end of $54.1 million and also dividend, are disclosed in the Chairmans statement on page 2. had access to a syndicated revolving credit facility of $100 million, which expires in October 2018.
There is a mechanism in the agreement for the Directors and their share interests facility to be increased by a further $100 million subject to other terms.
The directors of the Company who served during 2013 were Robert Beeston, Ian Brindle, Andrew Christie, David Dutro, Chris Girling, Anne Under the borrowing facility, the Group has to perform covenant tests for Hyland, Kevin Matthews and Brian Taylorson.
Anne Hyland joined the net debt:EBITDA ratio, interest cover and net worth.
No breaches in the Board on 1 June 2013 and Robert Beeston and Chris Girling retired from required covenant tests were reported during the year.
The Group uses the Board on 31 July 2013.
Otherwise, all of the directors served on the various short and medium term forecasts to monitor anticipated future Board throughout the financial year.
Biographical information about each compliance and these include stress testing assumptions to identify the director as at the year end is shown on page 24. headroom on the covenant tests.
The interests of directors in the share capital of the Company are set After evaluating the covenant compliance modelling and the trading of the out in the Directors' remuneration report.
businesses, the directors are satisfied that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future Employment policies and equal opportunities as going concerns.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going The Group is an inclusive and equal opportunity employer that relies on concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
HR specialists throughout its worldwide locations to ensure compliance with all applicable laws governing employment practices and to advise Share capital on all HR policies and practices, including recruitment and selection, The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares, as set out training and development, and promotion and retirement.
in Note 7 to the Parent company financial statements on page 92.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank Elementis policies seek to create a workplace that has an open atmosphere equally in all respects.
The rights attached to them, in addition to those of trust, honesty and respect.
Harassment or discrimination of any kind conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys articles based on race, colour, religion, gender, age, national origin, citizenship, of association the Articles.
Other than those specific provisions set out mental or physical disabilities, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any in the Articles, there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares other similarly protected status is not tolerated.
This principle applies to or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them.
From time all aspects of employment from recruitment and promotion through to to time the Elementis Employee share ownership trust Trust holds termination and all other terms and conditions of employment.
shares in the Company for the purposes of various share incentive plans and the rights attaching to them are exercised by independent trustees, It is Group policy not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful criteria who may take into account any recommendation by the Company.
As at and its practices include the prohibition on the use of child or forced 31 December 2013 the Trust held no shares in the Company 2012: nil.
Employment policies are fair and equitable and consistent with A dividend waiver is in place in respect of all shares that may become the skills and abilities of the employee and the needs of the business.
Employees are free to join a trade union or participate in collective bargaining arrangements.
Directors, Articles and purchase of shares The directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation and by It is also Group policy, for employees who have a disability, to provide the Companys Articles.
Rules about the appointment and replacement continuing employment under normal terms and conditions, where of directors are also set out in the Articles.
practicable, and to provide training, career development and promotion, as appropriate.
The Board has the power conferred on it by shareholders to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 49 Directors report continued Significant agreements change of control Political donations There are few significant agreements which the Company is party to that take The Group made no political donations during the year 2012: nil.
effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company.
The Company is a guarantor under the Groups $100 million revolving credit Directors and officers liability insurance facility and, in the event of a change of control, any lender among the facility The Company maintains liability insurance for the directors and officers of the syndicate, of which there are four with commitments ranging from $20 million Company and its subsidiaries.
Since 2008, the directors of the Company have to $30 million, may withdraw from the facility and that lenders participation in been in receipt of an indemnity from the Company in respect of any liability or any loans drawn down are required to be repaid.
loss that may arise out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the Company, or of any subsidiary, Under David Dutros service contract with the Company, compensation to the extent permitted under the Companies Act 2006.
Copies of these is payable to him equivalent to one years basic salary if he terminates his indemnities, which continue to remain in place, are available for inspection contract upon a change of control provided that the Company has not at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will first obtained a written agreement to be bound by his service contract be available for inspection at the AGM.
from any successor in a change of control.
There is no specific change of control provision in Brian Taylorsons service contract with the Company Directors conflicts of interest but the provisions on early termination set out on page 41 of the Directors Since 2008, Brian Taylorson, who is Finance Director and a trustee of remuneration report apply to him.
the DB scheme, has been the only director who is in receipt of a conflict authorisation from the Company.
The conflict authorisation enables him to The rules of the Companys various share incentive schemes set out the continue to act as a trustee notwithstanding that this role could give rise to consequences of a change of control of the Company on the rights of a situation in which there is a conflict of interest.
The conflict authorisation the participants under those schemes.
Under the rules of the respective is subject to annual review by the Board and was renewed during 2013 schemes, participants would generally be able to exercise their options for another year.
The terms of the conflict authorisation have remained on a change of control, provided that the relevant performance conditions unchanged since 2008 and details can be found in the 2012 Annual Report.
have been satisfied and, where relevant, options are not exchanged for new options granted by an acquiring company.
Other information Information about financial risk management and exposure to financial Substantial shareholders market risks are set out in Note 21 to the Consolidated financial As at 25 February 2014 the Company had been notified, in accordance statements on page 74. with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in its issued ordinary capital: Annual General Meeting The seventeenth AGM of the Company will be held on Thursday 24 April 2014.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate Percentage of issued document sent to shareholders.
Ordinary ordinary shares share capital By order of the Board AXA Investment Managers SA 28,739,014 6.26 BlackRock, Inc. 23,211,191 5.06 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 22,734,503 4.95 Schroders plc 22,517,387 4.91 Norges Bank 18,117,062 3.95 Wai Wong Company Secretary 25 February 2014 Auditor A resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 24 April 2014.
Details about this proposal are set out in the Notice of Meeting accompanying the Annual Report.
Each director in office at the date of this Directors report confirms that a so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and b he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
50 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Directors responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible consolidated and parent company financial statements in accordance for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration with applicable law and regulations.
report and Corporate governance report that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the they are required to prepare the Consolidated financial statements in corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of have elected to prepare the Parent company financial statements in financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The directors, all of whom are shown on page 24, confirm that to the Under company law the directors must not approve the financial best of their knowledge: statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the consolidated and set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
The management report includes a fair review of the development and Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the For the Consolidated financial statements, state whether they have undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, By order of the Board subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent company financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements Brian Taylorson comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for Finance Director taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets 25 February 2014 of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 51
