Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 49 Directors Remuneration Report Report from the chairman of the remuneration committee Information not subject to audit the policy and implementation reports will be his participation in the Capital Appreciation Remuneration report contents proposed at the companys AGM.
Plan, will help align his reward with that of This report covers the reporting period from shareholders.
The committee decided to October 1 2012 to September 30 2013 and Report from the chairman of the leave Mr Ensors profit share unchanged as he includes three sections: remuneration committee continued to carry out an executive role.
the report from the chairman of the 2013 was the first year for the companys new remuneration committee setting out the senior management team, appointed following The remuneration committee also reviews key decisions taken on executive and a comprehensive search in conjunction with the remuneration and incentive plans of the senior management pay during the year: Egon Zhender.
In October 2012, Christopher executive directors and other key people across the policy report which outlines the Fordham succeeded Richard Ensor as managing the group as well as looking at the remuneration remuneration policy for the year to director, and the latter moved to the role of costs and policies of the group as a whole.
One September 2014: and executive chairman to succeed Padraic Fallon result of this and the management succession the annual implementation report on who sadly died before he had a chance to plan referred to above was an increase in the remuneration which outlines how the complete his retirement plans.
salaries of Colin Jones, finance director, and current remuneration policy has been Jane Wilkinson who combines the roles of implemented this financial year, including With the help of its advisers, the committee director of marketing and CEO of Institutional details of payments made and outcomes spent considerable time benchmarking the Investor.
These were the only changes made for the variable pay elements based on remuneration package of Mr Fordham against to the salaries and incentives of the executive performance for the year.
those on offer across other FTSE 250 companies directors during financial year 2013. as well as those available within the media This report has been prepared in accordance sector in general.
Mr Fordhams salary was The committee structures remuneration with the relevant requirements of the Large set at a relatively low base compared to the packages to encourage an entrepreneurial and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups market, although relatively high by Euromoney culture with a focus on profit growth alongside Accounts and Reports Regulations 2013 the standards.
At the same time his profit share was tight cost control and risk management.
This Regulations and of the Listing Rules of the rebased to reward above average profit growth generally means setting salaries below market Financial Conduct Authority.
com Directors Remuneration Report Report from the chairman of the remuneration committee continued remuneration derived from variable profit driven tranches in February 2018, 2019 and 2020, companys expense, although none did so in incentives.
The importance of variable pay to with the second and third tranches subject to 2013.
The group itself can use external advice each directors total remuneration is illustrated an additional RPI test as well as the requirement and information in preparing proposals for the on pages 60 and 61. for individual businesses to achieve at least 80% remuneration committee.
It does apply external of the profits achieved in 2017.
This ensures benchmarking although no material assistance The committee is also a strong believer in that the profits of the group are maintained in from a single source was received in 2013. long-term incentives to drive profit growth and relation to at least inflation and the businesses align the interests of executive management continue to focus on profit growth.
The key activities of the committee in the year with those of shareholders.
The companys ended September 30 2013 included: Capital Appreciation Plan CAP, first introduced CAP 2014 will cost the group, in accounting approving salary increases for CR Jones in 2004, has been a key driver of the companys terms, no more than 41 million over its life and and JL Wilkinson to reflect changes to growth over the past ten years with adjusted will be satisfied with approximately 3.5 million their responsibilities as a result of the profit before tax increasing more than fivefold ordinary shares and 10 million in cash.
The management succession plan implemented from a base of 21.3 million in 2003 to 116.5 shares will be purchased in the market over the at the start of the year: million in 2013 see chart on page 49. next few years.
confirming that salaries would remain unchanged at April 1 2013 for the other The groups long-term incentive plan, the CAP, is The committee also focuses on the remuneration executive directors for the next 12 months: an important part of the groups remuneration of the wider group and this year approved approving the average annual pay increase, strategy.
It is a highly geared performancean average group-wide salary increase of just effective from April 1 2013, for the group based share option scheme which directly under 2% excluding promotions.
In approving of just under 2%: rewards executives for the growth in profits this increase, the committee ensured that the approving the payment of annual profit of the businesses they manage, and links to directors and local management considered shares for the executive directors and the delivery of shareholder value by satisfying inflation in local areas in which the group senior management of the group for profit rewards in a mix of shares in the company and operates, the performance of the businesses shares earned in financial year 2012: cash.
It aims to deliver exceptional profit growth they work for, micro and macroeconomic approving the vesting in February 2013 over the performance period and for this profit factors, market rates for similar roles and of the first tranche of awards under CAP to be maintained over the subsequent vesting the skills and responsibility of the individuals 2010 following the satisfaction of the period.
The increases proposed by local primary performance condition: management were focused on those individuals considering and approving the Since the implementation of CAP 2010, who excelled in their roles and were performing implementation, subject to shareholder adjusted profit before tax has increased above expectations.
This means that strong approval, of CAP 2014, a replacement from 63.0 million in 2009, the base year, to performing employees received an increase scheme for CAP 2010.
116.5 million in 2013, an increase of 85% over well above the average and conversely those Linking KPIs to remuneration four years.
The second and final tranche of CAP who werent meeting expectations received no As explained in the Remuneration Policy Report 2010 will vest for the majority of participants in increase.
on page 52, the groups remuneration policies February 2014.
Remuneration committee are designed to drive and reward earnings During the year the remuneration committee growth and shareholder value.
The KPIs set out The remuneration committee is proposing, comprised JC Botts chairman, MWH Morgan, on page 12 of the Strategic Report similarly subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 and DP Pritchard independent.
All members of contribute to the growth in the groups earnings AGM, to put in place a new CAP, CAP 2014, the committee are non-executive directors of and shareholder value.
These KPIs are integral in order to drive further above average profit the company.
MWH Morgan is also a director to the setting of incentives for senior managers growth and to help retain key employees.
of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, the groups and others across the group.
The performance target for CAP 2014 will be parent company.
For the year under review, the appropriately demanding, requiring the group committee also sought advice and information to generate profit growth of at least 10% a year from the companys chairman, managing or RPI plus 5%, whichever is higher over a four director and finance director.
The committees year period from a base of profits achieved in terms of reference permit its members to 2013.
The committee welcomes the new remuneration disclosure regulations that came into force this year and believes that this report complies not only with the letter of these regulations, but also the spirit under which they were written.
It is hoped that the report provides clarity and transparency of the work of the committee in its objective of rewarding and retaining the right people and driving the profit growth of the group.
John Botts Chairman of the remuneration committee 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Directors Remuneration Report Governance
