Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Due to his substantial shareholding in the Letter from the Remuneration Company, the CEO does not participate in Committee Chairman any long-term incentive plan, nor in any Dear Stakeholder, pension or superannuation scheme.
Other On behalf of the board, I am pleased to members of senior management are eligible present our Remuneration Report for 2013. to participate in a long-term incentive plan to ensure shareholder alignment.
Despite the unfavourable economic and market conditions, affecting our financial results, In terms of key decisions made in the year, EVRAZ has delivered on several key investment the Committee determined that the CEOs projects, which are aimed at developing salary for 2014 will remain frozen at the EVRAZs raw material base, improving its steel same level as 2013, reflecting the continuing product mix and preserving the Companys challenging market conditions and low low cost positions.
Companys management general increases to employees across the initiated a cost reduction programme and have Company.
Based on performance against the achieved good results in its implementation.
pre-determined KPIs and targets, the CEOs annual bonus pay out in respect of 2013 Many of the Companys achievements would would have been 69% of maximum.
However, not be possible without our peoples keen This report has been prepared in accordance after due consideration, and in the context involvement and contribution.
Thats why with the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Companys overall performance this talent management and the retention of to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and year, the Committee and CEO jointly agreed senior management and executives remained Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations to cap the annual bonus in respect of 2013 key items on our agenda during the year.
It also meets the at the target level 50% of maximum.
want to ensure that EVRAZ has a competitive relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of remuneration mix that rewards our peoples the Financial Services Authority and describes In line with our commitment to good corporate efforts and is aligned to the long-term and how the Board has applied the principles governance, we will continue to monitor our sustained performance of the company.
of good governance as set out in the UK investors views, best practice developments Corporate Governance Code issued by the and market trends on executive remuneration.
This report represents the first EVRAZ Financial Reporting Council in September 2012.
These will be taken into account when deciding Remuneration Report to fully comply with upon executive remuneration at EVRAZ in order the new Directors remuneration reporting This report contains both auditable and nonto ensure our policy remains appropriate in the regulations introduced last year by the UK auditable information.
The information subject context of business performance and strategy.
As required by these regulations, to audit by the Groups auditors, Ernst & Young this report is split into two sections, as follows: LLP, is set out in the Annual Remuneration Policy Report Directors remuneration policy.
This sets Report and has been identified accordingly.
Details of the executive Director and nonout details of the EVRAZ remuneration policy executive Director remuneration policies are for Directors.
This will be put to a binding given in the following sections.
In accordance vote at the 2014 AGM, and, subject to with section 439A of the Companies Act, a shareholder approval, will apply from the binding shareholder resolution to approve this 2014 AGM.
report will be proposed at the Annual General Annual remuneration report.
This gives Meeting of the Company to be held in 2014. details of how remuneration was paid in This policy will apply to payments made from 2013 and how we intend our policy to apply the 2014 AGM, subject to shareholder for 2014.
This section will be put to an approval.
advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee reviewed the remuneration policy in detail as part of the move towards adopting the new regulations.
We believe that our remuneration policy remains appropriate, and as such, there have been no major changes in the year.
In particular, the following key features remain unchanged: The Chief Executive Officer participates in a bonus scheme based on the achievement of the Companys KPIs to ensure focus is spread across the key aspects of Company performance and strategy.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Remuneration policy Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Executive Director Base salary Provides a level of base Normally reviewed Generally, the maximum None pay to reflect individual annually, taking into increase per year will be experience and to attract account individual and in line with general level of and retain high calibre market conditions, increases within the talent.
size and nature of the role, However, there is no relevant market pay overall maximum levels, opportunity as increases individual experience may be made above this and pay level at the Committees increases for discretion, to take employees across the account of individual Group.
circumstances such as increase in scope and For the current CEO, base responsibility and to salary incorporates a reflect the individuals Directors fee paid to all development and Directors of the company performance in the role.
for participation in the work of the Board committees see the section on Non-Executive Director remuneration policy below.
Benefits To provide a market level Benefits currently include: Generally the cost of None of benefits, as appropriate private healthcare benefits will be in line for individual meal allowances with that for the senior circumstances management team.
Other benefits including However the cost of pension benefits may be insurance benefits may provided if the Committee vary from year to year considers it appropriate.
depending on the The current CEO does not individuals currently participate in any circumstances.
The overall benefit value In the event that an will be set at a level the executive Director is Committee considers required by the Group to proportionate and relocate, benefits may appropriate to reflect include but are not limited individual circumstances.
to relocation allowance There is no total and housing allowance.
94 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Annual bonus Aligns executive The Company operates 200% of base salary per The bonus is based on remuneration to Company an annual bonus financial year achievement of the strategy through arrangement under which Companys key rewarding the awards are generally quantitative financial, achievement of annual delivered in cash.
operational and strategic financial and strategic measures in the year to business targets.
Targets are reviewed ensure focus is spread annually and linked to across the key aspects of corporate performance Company performance based on predetermined and strategy.
The exact measures and associated weighting will be determined on an annual basis, according to the Companys strategic priorities, however at least 60% will be based on Group financial measures.
For achievement of threshold performance, 0% of maximum will be paid, rising straight line to 50% of maximum for target performance and 100% of maximum for outstanding performance.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust bonus payments to reflect the overall performance of the Company.
Non-Executive Directors Chairman and To provide remuneration Director fees are paid in the form of cash fees, but with the flexibility to forgo all or part of such fees after deduction of applicable income tax and social taxes to Director Fees that is sufficient to attract acquire shares in the Company should the Non-Executive Director so wish.
and retain high calibre Non-Executive Director fees are reviewed from time to time.
non-executive talent Non-Executive Directors receive an annual fee for membership of the Board.
Additional fees are payable by reference to other Board responsibilities taken on by the Non-Executive Directors for example membership and chairmanship of the Board committees.
The Chairman of the Board receives an all-inclusive annual fee.
Expenses incurred in the performance of Non-Executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, including any tax due on the expenses.
This may include travel expenses, professional fees incurred in the furtherance of duties as a Director and the provision of training and development.
In addition, the Company contributes an annual amount towards secretarial and administrative expenses of Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors may not participate in the Companys share incentive schemes or pension arrangements.
Total fees paid to Non-Executive Directors will remain within the limit stated in the Articles of Association.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued The Committee reserves the right to make any annually by the Committee to ensure that the Illustration of the application of the remuneration payments and payments for loss measures and weightings are in line with the remuneration policy of office that are not in line with the policy set strategic priorities and needs of the business.
The chart below provides an indication of what out above where the terms of the payment could be received by the Executive Director were agreed before the policy came into effect Remuneration arrangements throughout the under the proposed remuneration policy.
or at a time when the relevant individual was Group not a Director of the Company and, in the The remuneration approach and philosophy is Application of the remuneration policy opinion of the Committee, the payment was applied consistently at all levels, including the not in consideration of the individual becoming Executive Director.
This ensures that there is a Director of the Company.
alignment with business strategy throughout the Company.
Remuneration arrangements 7,515 The Committee does not operate clawback below the Board reflect the seniority of the role 67% arrangements on Directors remuneration on and local market practice and therefore the the basis that such arrangements would not be components and levels of remuneration for 5,015 enforceable under the Russian Labor Code.
different employees may differ in parts from the policy set out above.
50% The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, For instance, in addition to a base salary, a 2,515 exchange control, tax or administrative performance related bonus KPIs aligned with 100% 50% 33% purposes or to take account of a change in Companys strategy and the provision of legislation without obtaining shareholder benefits, senior managers are also entitled to approval for that amendment.
participation in a long-term incentive programme.
This is designed to align interests Minimum In line with Maximum expectation Performance measures and targets of these individuals to the delivery of long-term Base pay Annual bonus measures and targets are growth in shareholder value.
The current CEO Annual bonus selected to provide an appropriate balance already holds a substantial shareholding in the between incentivising the Director to meet Company and therefore does not participate in financial objectives for the year and achieving this plan.
They are reviewed Minimum In line with expectations Maximum Base pay Base salary value of annual benefits provided in 2013 Annual bonus 0% of salary 100% of salary 200% of salary target opportunity maximum opportunity 96 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements Policy on recruitment of Executive Directors policy table above by more than 200% of The Committee will generally seek to In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, base salary.
This additional headroom has structure the buyout on a comparable basis remuneration would be determined in line with been capped at a level comparable to to awards forfeited.
The overriding principle the following policy.
This policy has been maximum award levels seen in conventional is that any buyout award would be at or developed to enable the Company to recruit long-term incentive plans operated in the below the commercial value of the best candidate possible who will be able to wider UK listed market.
contribute to the Companys performance and The Committees intention would be for any The Committee retains the flexibility to alter will help to reach its goals.
share-based incentive awards to be subject the performance measures of the annual to performance conditions.
Where the bonus for the first year of appointment, So far as practicable and appropriate, the intention is to grant regular long-term if the Committee determines that the Committee will seek to structure pay and incentive awards to a candidate, the circumstances of the recruitment merit benefits of any new executive Directors in Committee would seek appropriate such alteration.
line with the current remuneration policy.
shareholder approval for a new share plan Notwithstanding this, the Committee in accordance with the Listing Rules.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from recognises that the Executive Director When setting salaries for new hires, the within the organisation, the normal policy is Remuneration policy set out above is Committee will take into account all relevant that any legacy arrangements would be tailored towards the only current Executive factors, including the skills and experience honoured in line with the original terms and Director, the CEO, who has a significant of the individual, the market from which they conditions.
Similarly, if an Executive Director is shareholding in the Company.
Any new are recruited and the market rate for the appointed following an acquisition of, or merger Executive Director is likely to have a role.
For interim positions a cash with another company, legacy terms and different fact-pattern to the current CEO, supplement may be paid rather than salary conditions will be honoured.
and thus the Committee believe it is for example a non-executive Director important to retain the flexibility to be able taking on an executive function on a On appointment of a new Chairman or to offer other elements, namely market short-term basis.
Non-Executive Director, their fees will typically competitive, share-based incentive To facilitate recruitment the Committee may be in line with the Policy as set out above.
Any programs, which are linked to the need to compensate loss of remuneration specific cash or share arrangements delivered companys performance and designed to arrangements on joining the company.
In to the Chairman or Non-Executives will not align the executive Directors interests to granting any buyout award, the Committee include share options or any other the delivery of growth in shareholder value.
will take into account relevant factors performance related elements.
The maximum level of variable remuneration including any performance conditions which may be granted at the time of attached to the awards forfeited, the form in recruitment excluding any buyouts will not which they were granted e. g. cash or exceed the on-going policy described in the shares and the timeframe of the awards.
Executive Directors service contract and loss of ofce policy The CEO has a service contract with a subsidiary of EVRAZ plc.
The terms of the CEOs service contract are summarised below: Notice period Executive Director Date of contract months Alexander V. Frolov 31 December 2012 N A EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued The CEOs service contract does not provide There is no automatic entitlement to annual first AGM following their appointment and, for any specific notice period and therefore, bonus, and Executive Directors would not subject to the outcome of the AGM, the in the event of termination, the applicable normally receive a bonus in respect of the appointment is for a further one year term.
notice period will be as provided for as in the financial year of their cessation.
However, Over and above this arrangement, the Russian labour code from time to time where where an Executive Director leaves by reason appointment may be terminated by the Director the termination is at the Companys initiative of death, disability, ill-health, or other reasons giving three months notice or in accordance the entitlement to pay in lieu of notice is that the Committee may determine, a bonus with the Articles of Association.
Letters of currently limited to 3 months base salary.
Any such bonus would appointment do not provide for any payments The Committee may determine that a normally be subject to performance and in the event of loss of office.
termination payment of up to 12 months base time pro-rating, unless the Committee salary should be paid, taking into consideration determines otherwise.
All Directors are subject to annual rethe circumstances of departure.
Going forward, appointment and accordingly each Nonall new executive Directors contracts will Non-Executive Directors letters of Executive Director will stand for re-election provide for a notice period of no more than appointment at the AGM on 12 June 2014.
12 months and for any compensation Each Non-Executive Director has a letter provisions for termination without notice will of appointment setting out the terms and The key terms of the Non-executive Directors be capped at 12 months base salary and conditions covering his or her appointment.
appointment letters are summarised below: contractual benefits.
They are required to stand for election at the Non-Executive Directors Date of contract Notice period Alexander G. Abramov 14 October 2011 3 months Duncan Baxter 14 October 2011 3 months Karl Gruber 14 October 2011 3 months Alexander Izosimov 28 February 2012 3 months Sir Michael Peat 14 October 2011 3 months Olga Pokrovskaya 14 October 2011 3 months Terry Robinson 14 October 2011 3 months Eugene Shvidler 14 October 2011 3 months Eugene Tenenbaum 14 October 2011 3 months 98 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements Copies of the Directors letters of appointment Consideration of shareholder views applicable fees for participation in the work or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, When determining executive Director of the Board committees as laid out in the his service contract, are available for remuneration policy, the Committee takes into section below on non-executive Director inspection by shareholders at the account the guidelines of investor bodies and remuneration, however the Committee Companys registered office.
consider these fees to be incorporated in his base salary.
Alexander Frolovs current Consideration of conditions elsewhere in shareholding 10.89% of issued share capital the Company as of 8 April 2014 provides alignment to the Annual Remuneration Report Management prepares details of all employee delivery of long term-growth in shareholder In this section we provide a summary of pay and conditions which is considered by the value.
As such, we do not consider it remuneration paid out to our Directors for the Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee necessary for the CEO to participate in any 2013 financial year, and details of how the takes this into consideration when setting the long term incentive plans, or to impose formal remuneration policy will be implemented in the CEOs remuneration.
However the Committee shareholding guidelines.
However, the following financial year.
does not consider any direct comparison Remuneration Committee will review this on measures between the Executive Director and an on-going basis.
Executive Directors remuneration wider employee pay.
The company does not In 2013 year Mr Alexander Frolov, as the Chief formally consult with employees on Executive Single gure of remuneration audited Executive Officer CEO was entitled to a base Director remuneration.
Key elements of the CEOs remuneration salary, a performance related bonus and package received in relation to 2013 provision of benefits.
As a member of the compared to prior year are set out below.
In 2011 it was converted to Russian roubles at the prevailing exchange rate, reflecting the currency of payment, and this amount has remained unchanged since.
Fluctuations in exchange rates means that the retranslated, reported US$ figure may vary year on year.
2 Also includes US$ 62,798 as Directors fees from Raspadskaya Coal Company, a company in which EVRAZ has a controlling shareholding.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Base salary to the achievement of performance conditions As shown in the table below, performance The current CEOs salary was approved by the based on predetermined targets set by the against the pre-determined KPIs and targets Remuneration Committee on 23 May 2008 at Board of Directors.
The target bonus is 100% was strong, resulting in an annual bonus a level of US$2,500,000 which includes, for of base salary with a maximum potential of up pay-out of 69% of maximum.
However, after the avoidance of doubt, the Directors fee, the to 200% of base salary.
due consideration and in the context of the fees that are paid for committees membership Companys overall performance in the year, the and any salary from an EVRAZ plc subsidiary.
Annual bonus for 2013 audited Committee and CEO jointly agreed to cap the The bonus is linked to corporate performance.
annual bonus in respect of 2013 at the target For 2014, the CEOs salary will be For 2013, five indicators with equal weightings level 50% of maximum, waiving any bonus US$2,500,000.
of 20% were taken into account when above this level.
determining the CEOs annual bonus, as Pension and benets audited follows: LTIFR, EBITDA, Current approved NPV, The table below sets out details of the targets The CEO does not participate in any private Free Cash Flow and Cash Cost Index.
The set for each KPI, the actual achievement in the pension plans.
Benefits principally consist of bonus pay-out is adjusted by a profitability year and total pay-out level for the 2013 year a private healthcare and meal allowances.
coefficient, ranging between 70% and 130%, bonus: based on EBITDA performance versus budget.
Annual bonus The CEO is eligible to participate in a The Committee reviews the resulting bonus performance-related bonus which is subject pay-out to ensure that the resulting bonus to the agreement of the Remuneration pay-out is appropriate in light of the overall Committee and approval by the Board of performance of the Company.
Directors and paid in cash.
The bonus is linked Result Measurement Planned level Bonus payout KPIs Target 2013 Upper level % of target Lower level Actual 2013 % of max 1.97 LTIFR 80% 100% 120% 104% 40% US$1,730m EBITDA 120% 100% 80% 105% 63% FCF US$0m US$200m US$0m US$200m US$458m 100% Current approved NPV 85% 120% 100% 80% 96% 42% 100% Cash cost index 90% 100% 110% 94% 81% Total 65% Profitability coefficient 1.3 1 0.7 1.0525 Bonus payout 69% 138% of salary Discretionary adjustment Capped at target bonus Total bonus payout post adjustment 50% 100% of salary Annual bonus for 2014 For 2014, the bonus framework will be broadly in line with the prior years.
The pay-out will continue to be subject to the EBITDA profitability adjustment.
Forward targets are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive: however they will generally be disclosed in the subsequent year.
100 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements Non-Executive Directors remuneration Non-executive remuneration payable in respect of 2013 and 2012 is given below audited information : Single gure of remuneration audited 2013 US$, 000 2012 US$, 000 1 2 1 2 Non-executive Director Total fees Admin Total Total fees Admin Total Alexander G. Abramov 750 30 780 658 25 683 Alexander Izosimov 198 30 228 165 25 190 Eugene Shvidler 174 30 204 170 25 195 Eugene Tenenbaum 150 32.5 182.5 172 22.5 194.5 Karl Gruber 224 30 254 224 30 254 Duncan Baxter 224 30 254 224 30 254 Olga Pokrovskaya 198 32.5 230.5 176 22.5 198.5 Sir Michael Peat 224 30 254 224 30 254 3 Terry Robinson 351.1 35.7 386.8 298 30 328 1 Total fees include annual fees and fees for committee membership or chairmanship pro rata working days.
2 The Company contributes an annual amount of US$30,000 towards secretarial and administrative expenses of Non-Executive Directors.
3 Also includes US$ 58,800 53,100 paid as fees and 5,700 as administrative expenses for Chairmanship in Raspadskaya Coal Company, a company in which EVRAZ has a controlling shareholding.
A Non-Executive Directors remuneration consists of an annual fee of US$150,000 and a fee for committee membership US$24,000 or chairmanship US$100,000 in respect of the Audit Committee chairmanship and US$50,000 for the chairmanship of other committees.
For reference, the fees payable for the chairmanship of a committee include the membership fee, and any Director elected chairman of more than one committee is only generally entitled to receive fees in respect of one chairmanship.
The fee for the Chairman of the Board amounts to US$750,000 from 1 March 2012 this fee includes, for the avoidance of doubt, the Directors fees and the fees that are paid for committee membership.
Fees will remain unchanged for 2014.
Aggregate Directors Remuneration The aggregate amount of Directors remuneration payable in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31 December 2013 was US$7,668 thousand 2012: US$4,692 thousand.
Share ownership by the Board of Directors audited As set out earlier in this report, there are no formal minimum shareholding requirements currently in place, reflecting the CEOs current shareholding in EVRAZ.
As of 31 December 2013 the following Directors had beneficial interests in EVRAZ shares: Total holding, Number of Ordinary Directors shares shares, % Alexander Abramov 317,300,488 21.55% Alexander Frolov 158,442,915 10.76% Eugene Shvidler 45,257,031 3.07% Pursuant to the exchange of shares for warrants by Lanebrook in January 2014, Lanebrooks interest in EVRAZ changed which resulted in changes of ultimate holders ownership.
Thus, the Directors interests in EVRAZs shares as of 8 April 2014 was as follows: EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Total holding, Number of Ordinary Directors shares shares, % Alexander Abramov 328,620,382 21.81% Alexander Frolov 164,095,485 10.89% Eugene Shvidler 46,864,423 3.11% All shares held by Directors are held outright, with no performance or other conditions attached to them, other than those applicable to all shares of the same class.
Other Directors do not currently hold any shares in the Company.
Relative importance of spend on pay The graph below shows comparison of total cost of remuneration paid to all employees between current and previous years and financial metrics in US$ millions.
2,617 2,398 9% 2,027 1,821 -10% 375 0 EBITDA Dividends Total Employee Pay 2012 2013 Performance graph The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by total shareholder return compared to the performance of the FTSE 250 Index since EVRAZ plcs admission to the premium listing segment of the London Stock Exchange on 7 November 2011.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as an appropriate benchmark as it is a broad based index of which the Company is a constituent member.
Total shareholder return performance 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 11 1 2011 11 1 2012 11 1 2013 EVRAZ FTSE 250 102 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements The table below shows the CEOs single figure of total remuneration over the past 3 years along with comparison of variable payments with maximum opportunity.
Annual variable CEO single element award figure or total rates against remuneration maximum US$ opportunity 2013 4,894,286 50% 2012 2,141,000 0% 2011 1,667,000 11.3% Percentage change in remuneration The table below sets out the percentage change in remuneration elements of the Director undertaking the role of CEO and average figures for Russian based administrative personnel.
We have selected this group of employees as an appropriate comparator as they are based in the same geographical market as the CEO, meaning they are subject to similar external environment pressures.
Russian administrative CEO personnel Salary 0% 4% 1 Benefits 200% 8% 2 Annual bonus N A 164% 1 The increase in CEO benefits reflects a change in terms of private healthcare provided.
2 It is not possible to calculate the percentage change in CEO annual bonus given the pay-out in respect of 2012 was $nil.
Role of the Remuneration Committee to review regularly the on-going Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is a formal appropriateness and relevance of the In this section we give details of the committee of the Board and can operate with remuneration policy: composition of the Remuneration Committee a quorum of two Committee members.
It is to determine the total individual and activities undertaken over the past year.
operated according to its Terms of Reference, remuneration package of the Chairman of a copy of which can be found on the the Board, the Company Secretary and key Members of the Remuneration Committee Companys website.
senior management, including pension The EVRAZ plc Remuneration Committee was rights, bonuses, benefits in kind, incentive constituted and appointed by the Board on The main responsibilities of the Remuneration payments and share options or other share 14 October 2011, and the Committee Committee are: based remuneration within the terms of the comprised the following independent to set and implement the remuneration agreed policy: Non-Executive Directors during the 2013 year: policy for the remuneration of the Chairman to approve awards for participants where Duncan Baxter Committee Chairman : of the Board, the Companys Chief Executive existing share incentive plans are in place: Karl Gruber: Officer, the Company Secretary and key to review and approve any compensation Alexander Izosimov senior management: payable to executive Directors and senior to take into account all factors which it executives: and No Directors are involved in deciding their own deems necessary to determine such a to oversee any major changes in employee remuneration.
The Committee may invite other framework or policy, including all relevant benefits structures throughout the Group.
individuals to attend Committee meetings, in legal and regulatory requirements, the particular the Chief Executive Officer, the Head provisions and recommendations of the UK of Human Resources and external advisers for Corporate Governance Code and associated all or part of any Committee meeting as and guidance: when appropriate and necessary.
to review and take into account the remuneration trends across the Group when setting remuneration policy for Directors: EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 103 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Attendance During the year, Deloitte advised the give rise to such conflict and that there are During 2013, the EVRAZs Remuneration Committee on developments in the regulatory appropriate internal controls and segregation Committee met three times.
The purpose of environment and investor views and in the of duties in place.
Sir Michael did not play the meetings was to consider and to make development and disclosure of the Companys a part in the tender and selection process.
recommendations to the Board in relation to incentive arrangements.
Total fee for advice the remuneration packages of the Executive provided to the Committee during the year The Committee is satisfied that the advice they Director and key senior managers, to approve was 31,100.
No other services were provided have received has been objective and the annual bonus for the 2012 results as well to the Company by the advisor during the independent.
as to approve the 2013 LTIP awards and list of financial year.
Shareholder considerations Deloitte is a founding member of the We remain committed to on-going shareholder During the year, the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Consultants Group and, as dialogue and take an active interest in undertook a detailed self-assessment.
such, voluntarily operates under the code of feedback received from our shareholders Upon consideration of the results, we are conduct in relation to executive remuneration and voting outcomes.
Following feedback comfortable that the Remuneration Committee consulting in the UK.
from shareholders on the structure of our is independent and the current members Remuneration Committee and on the possess the appropriate range of skills and Sir Michael Peat, an Independent Nonrecommendation of the Nominations experience to deliver a high quality contribution Executive Director of EVRAZ, is also an Committee, we made changes to its to our decision making.
Independent Non-Executive on the Board composition in 2012. of Deloitte LLP.
Both the Chairman and the Advisors Remuneration Committee Chairman recognise Where there are substantial votes against The Committee received advice during the year the need to ensure that there is no conflict of resolutions in relation to Directors from independent remuneration consultants interest arising from the appointment of remuneration, we shall seek to understand Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP was selected by Deloitte LLP as independent remuneration the reasons for any such vote and will detail the Committee to provide the Company consultants.
We are satisfied that the nature any actions in response to these.
of Sir Michaels role at Deloitte LLP does not The following table sets out actual voting results from the Annual General Meeting which was held on 13 June 2013 in respect of our previous remuneration report.
Total votes as % of issued Number of votes For Against Withheld share capital Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 1,058,394,986 12,190,735 193,934 72.70% 1 98.86% 1.14% 1 Percentage of votes cast.
These results illustrate the strong level of shareholder support for the Directors remuneration framework.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors, Duncan Baxter Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 8 April 2014 104 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
