Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 73 Report on directors remuneration The Committee believes that the current Performance over the longer-term has policy is flexible enough to achieve this also been strong and looking back and, given that a substantial part of the over the past three years Benchmark total remuneration package is weighted PBT has grown by an annual average towards long-term performance, of 13.5%, on a constant currency basis, includes a significant deferral element and cumulative operating cash flow was of the annual bonus, and clawback $3,330m.
In addition, the Companys provisions are in place, the Committee is TSR was 47.1% above that of the FTSE comfortable that no undue risk taking is 100.
These key strategic metrics are the being encouraged.
performance conditions upon which the vesting of the Performance Share Plan While the Committee considers that no the PSP and Co-investment Plans Roger Davis material changes to the current structure Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the CIP awards are based.
As a result are needed for the 2014 financial year of this performance 100% of the awards it has, as it does periodically, reviewed under the PSP and 100% of the awards this and concluded that it is appropriate under the CIP will vest.
Full details of the to increase the shareholding guidelines outcome are set out on page 74.
Chairmans introduction to 300% of salary for the Chief Executive and highlights The Committee is comfortable that the Officer and 200% of salary for the other The Remuneration Committee the levels of vesting are commensurate with executive directors from 200% and 100% Committee is pleased to present its the underlying financial performance of salary respectively.
This recognises annual report on directors remuneration of the business and therefore considers the increasing desire from shareholders the Report for the year ended 31 that the payouts reflect our view that for management to retain shares in their March 2013.
Shareholders will be invited exceptional rewards are only paid business together with the importance to approve the Report at the Companys for exceptional performance.
We will of aligning the interests of directors with Annual General Meeting on 17 July 2013. continue to set performance targets that those of the owners of the business.
are both appropriately challenging and, The Committee, whose membership, From 1 April 2013, the salaries of the if met, will represent value creation for remit and responsibilities are set out executive directors were increased by shareholders whilst being achievable in the preceding corporate governance between 2.5% to 2.9% which was in and motivational for management.
P69 report, has always sought to provide line with salary increases for the wider We will aim to ensure that they are of transparency in its reporting.
In light of the employee population.
The Committee was equivalent stretch from year to year UK Governments proposed regulations mindful of the pay restraint that continues whatever the change in the economic on reporting of executive remuneration to be exercised across the Group and will climate or trading conditions.
which are expected to be introduced in the ensure that future salary rises continue to coming year, this years Report includes In summary, therefore, the Committee be positioned from this perspective.
certain additional disclosures that aim to seeks to balance the interests of all The Company has performed well over provide greater clarity.
This Report covers: stakeholders and considers that its the past year and our results again aims are currently being met.
We hope the remuneration policy employed demonstrate the ability of our business that our shareholders agree with our in the year ended 31 March 2013, to perform strongly in difficult market approach and look forward to their and the policy that will apply for the conditions.
Having achieved benchmark support at the 2013 AGM.
forthcoming financial year: and PBT growth of 12.5%, on a constant how the policy has been implemented currency basis, a bonus of 150% of salary, over the past financial year.
equivalent to 75% of the maximum, is payable to the executive directors.
Our policy is structured to balance Once again, the executive directors have the twin objectives of supporting our elected to defer 100% of their bonus into strategic aims to deliver long-term the Co-investment Plans, as they always sustainable growth that results in superior total shareholder returns have done, which is a strong signal of and providing sufficient levels of their confidence in the Company and remuneration and appropriate reward to strengthens the alignment of their our executive directors.
interests with those of shareholders.
74 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Remuneration in summary This section provides a summary of key remuneration arrangements for our executive directors.
More detail of how these were operated during the year ended 31 March 2013, and are intended to be operated in future, is provided later in this Report.
Summary of annual remuneration earned in the year ended 31 March 2013 1 Salary Annual bonus Benefits Total 2013 000s 000s 000s 000s Don Robert US$1,550 US$2,325 US$465 US$4,340 Chris Callero US$990 US$1,485 US$62 US$2,537 2 Brian Cassin 413 675 67 1,155 1.
The executive directors have deferred their entire annual bonus shown above and will be awarded invested shares under the Co-investment Plans in respect of this deferral.
They will have an opportunity to earn matching shares maximum 2:1 on this deferral, subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
Brian Cassins annual salary was 450,000 for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The figures provided in the above table show remuneration from the date he joined Experian 30 April 2012 to 31 March 2013.
Summary of long-term remuneration awarded in the year ended 31 March 2013 Shares awarded under Shares awarded under Co-investment Plans 1 2 1 Performance Share Plan Invested shares Matching shares Don Robert 219,063 211,997 423,994 Chris Callero 139,918 135,678 271,356 3 Brian Cassin 101,275 1.
Awards under the Performance Share Plan and matching shares awarded under the Co-investment Plans will only vest to the extent that stretching performance targets are met.
These targets are described later in this Report.
The directors deferred their entire annual bonus for 2012 and the invested shares shown above were awarded in respect of this deferral.
Upon appointment Brian Cassin was also granted a one-off recruitment award of 158,261 shares.
Further details are provided in the section entitled Recruitment P82 and Retention awards.
Summary of proposed remuneration arrangements for the year ending 31 March 2014 The Remuneration Committee reviews remuneration arrangements annually to ensure they remain suitable in the light of both internal and external factors.
This year, the Committee concluded that the key elements of the existing arrangements remained aligned with the core principles of Experians remuneration policy and Experians long-term business strategy, and therefore no changes to the overall structure of the remuneration package were required.
The Committee agreed the following key changes for the year ending 31 March 2014: salaries have been increased in line with salary increases for the wider employee population: performance targets have been reviewed by the Committee and, as a result, the cash flow target, which applies to the Co-investment Plans, has been increased.
The Committee considers that the other long-term targets remain appropriate: in order to ensure a strong alignment of the interests of the executive directors with those of shareholders, the Committee has increased the shareholding guideline from 200% of salary for the CEO and 100% of salary for other executive directors to 300% and 200% respectively: and mindful of shareholders' desire for Remuneration Committees to have the ability to adjust payouts from incentive plans to ensure rewards are aligned with the success of the business, additional powers are being introduced into the long-term incentive plans, for awards being made in 2013 onwards, to give the Committee the discretion to vary the level of vesting determined by applying the performance conditions if they consider that this level of vesting is inconsistent with the actual underlying financial and operational performance of the Group.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 75 Remuneration Policy The following table sets out an overview of the remuneration policy which applied for the year ended 31 March 2013 and which will also apply for the year ending 31 March 2014.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Base salary Reflects the competitive market Base salaries are normally reviewed by the Committee annually and on the same basis as for all other salary for the role and takes employees, with any increases taking effect on 1 April of each year.
account of personal contribution Salary increases take into account the prevailing economic conditions, best practice, positioning against and performance against market and approach to employee remuneration throughout the wider Group.
As a result, in the year Group strategy ended 31 March 2013, the percentage increases for the executive directors 2.5% to 2.9% were in line, overall, with the global pay review.
Benefits Benefits are provided as part of a Benefits comprise life insurance, cash supplement in lieu of pension, private healthcare, company car market competitive package and fuel allowance where applicable.
Don Robert is based in the US, and receives a fixed accommodation allowance given the time he is required to spend in the UK.
As a result, additional expenses are not paid in respect of hotels or subsistence when he is in London.
In line with typical US practice, Don Robert and Chris Callero participate in a deferred compensation plan.
1 Annual Incentivises year on year The performance measure is growth in Benchmark profit before tax PBT and targets are approved bonus achievement against stretching annually by the Committee.
performance conditions linked Awards are up to a maximum 200% of salary, subject to performance, and are paid in cash and are not to Experians strategy to drive pensionable.
Any bonus earned may be deferred into the Co-investment Plans see below.
profitable growth CoPerformance measures directly Participants are invited to invest between 50% and 100% of their annual bonus in Experian shares with the investment link to Experians strategy to drive opportunity to earn matching shares at a maximum of two shares for every one invested subject to the Plans CIP profitable growth and optimise achievement of performance targets tested over a three-year performance period.
capital efficiency Maximum matching share award for executive directors is 200% of invested bonus.
Aligns with shareholder interests Vesting of awards is based on the following performance measures equally: through delivery of shares Growth in PBT: and Encourages long-term commitment to the Group from participants Cumulative operating cash flow cash flow.
Aligns remuneration with two of Experians strategic KPIs Performance Performance measures directly Annual award of shares which vests subject to the achievement of performance targets that are tested Share Plan link to Experians strategy to drive over a three-year period.
PSP profitable growth and optimise Normal maximum award levels are 200% of salary.
Awards of up to 400% of salary may be made in capital efficiency exceptional circumstances.
Aligns with shareholder interests Vesting of awards is based on the following performance measures: through use of total shareholder 75% of an award vests based on growth in PBT: and return performance criteria and delivery in shares 25% of an award is based on total shareholder return TSR out-performance against the FTSE 100.
In addition, awards will be subject to the achievement of satisfactory return on capital employed ROCE performance.
Pension Provides competitive retirement In the UK, a defined contribution plan is available for all employees, with an employer contribution rate in provision and encourages retention normal circumstances of up to 20% for the most senior executives.
Retirement age is 65 but benefits can be taken from age 55 onwards.
The UK defined benefit arrangements are closed to new entrants, subject only to exceptions approved by the Committee on a case by case basis.
There are no directors who are members of the UK defined benefit plan.
In the US, Experian provides a Personal Investment Plan 401k which all US employees, including directors, are eligible to join.
This is a defined contribution arrangement to which participants are able to contribute up to 50% of salary, up to a maximum salary and participant contribution limit established by the IRS, each calendar year.
A supplementary unfunded defined benefit arrangement is provided in the US for Don Robert.
Shareholding Strengthens the alignment Guideline requirement is shares equivalent in value to 300% of salary for the CEO and 200% for other guidelines between executive directors executive directors an increase for 2014 from 200% and 100% respectively.
and shareholders Executives are required to retain at least half of any vested shares net of tax under the CIP and PSP until the guideline is met.
Unvested shares do not count towards the limits.
Non-executive directors are required to hold a minimum shareholding in Experian plc equivalent to one times their annual fee.
25% of their net fees will be paid in the form of shares until the guideline is met.
All subsequent references in the Report on directors remuneration to PBT refer to Benchmark PBT as calculated on a constant currency basis.
Experian has operated a Share Option Plan the SOP in the past but no grants have been made since 2010 and there is currently no intention to make any grants in the future.
Awards may be granted, however, under exceptional circumstances.
Experians recruitment policy is in place to attract the key talent required to drive business success.
Where applicable, the structure and terms and conditions of any buyout awards will replicate, as closely as possible, those of the incumbent awards.
76 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Explanation of Remuneration Policy Introduction This Report has been drawn up in line with Schedule 8 of the UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the UK Financial Conduct Authority Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition, the Company has chosen to adopt some of the proposed regulations under the draft UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 ahead of the legislation becoming effective for UK companies.
The Remuneration Committee: members, role and frequency of meetings P69 The Committee members, their role and frequency of meetings can be found in the corporate governance statement.
Working with advisers In making its decisions, the Committee consults with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Group HR Director.
Other members of the Global Reward team are also invited to attend meetings of the Committee as appropriate.
The Chief Financial Officer is also normally consulted in respect of performance conditions applying to short and long-term incentive arrangements.
No executives are present when their own remuneration arrangements are being discussed.
The Committee has access to independent consultants to ensure that it receives objective advice.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte were first appointed by the Committee as independent advisers in 2007 and they continued to act in this capacity during the year ended 31 March 2013.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deloitte also provided unrelated advisory and tax services to the Group during the year.
Kepler Associates Kepler provided incentive plan award valuations and remuneration data in addition to supporting data for the target calibration process.
Kepler does not provide any other services to the Group.
Linklaters LLP provided legal advice in respect of incentive plan design and interpretation.
Remuneration philosophy and principles Experians remuneration philosophy is that reward should be used to drive long-term, sustainable business performance.
In this regard, the Committee aims to have in place remuneration principles for Experian which are consistent with its business objectives and are designed to: drive accountability and transparency and align remuneration with the interests of shareholders: provide a balanced portfolio of incentives which align both short-term one-year and longer-term three-year performance such that sustainable growth and value are delivered for our shareholders: apply demanding performance conditions to deliver sustained profitable growth across the Group, thereby aligning incentives with shareholders interests, setting these conditions with due regard to actual and expected market conditions: pay base salaries that are market-competitive and are appropriate in the context of an individuals performance and experience as well as the remuneration arrangements throughout the Group: provide competitive performance-related compensation which influences performance and helps attract and retain executives by providing the opportunity to earn commensurate rewards for the achievement of outstanding performance, which leads to long-term shareholder value creation: and deliver competitive benefits to underpin the other components of the remuneration package.
Consistent with these principles, the Committee compares the Experian remuneration arrangements with those of other relevant organisations and companies of similar size and scope to Experian.
The remuneration arrangements are also reviewed in light of market conditions, which have once again been challenging and are expected to continue to be so over the forseeable future.
Performance-related incentives are targeted at upper quartile levels for the achievement of stretching objectives.
Experian is committed to performance-related pay at all levels within the organisation and the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements throughout Experian when determining those for the executive directors.
The performance measures used in Experians incentive plans are all financial, with growth in profit being the key measure P24 used.
This measure was selected as it is reflective of one of Experians key performance indicators EBIT.
The performance management process, which is used throughout Experian, assesses executives against both financial and non-financial performance objectives.
Performance against these individual objectives ultimately supports growth in profit and so the Committee believes it is appropriate that this remains the key measure for the Groups incentive plans.
For the long-term incentive plans, Kepler calculate the TSR performance and this, and all other performance, is subject to audit.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 77 The management of the Groups specific business risks is governed by its risk management framework and is inherent in the P26 way in which Experian operates.
As a result of this operational focus on risk management, the Committee is satisfied that the incentive arrangements do not encourage excessive risk taking and therefore it is not considered necessary to have a direct link to risk in the performance measures used.
The Committee believes reward at Experian is appropriately balanced against risk considerations, particularly in the following areas: Reward alignment with risk considerations Co-investment Between 50% and 100% of the annual bonus may be deferred The executive directors and the vast Deferral into shares for three years.
These deferred shares together with majority of senior management invited shares awarded under the long-term incentive plan mean that a to participate have elected to defer significant portion of total remuneration is delivered in the form their entire annual bonuses for the year of shares deferred for a period of three years.
Shareholding Executive directors are expected to build up and maintain a The shareholdings of Don Robert guidelines shareholding of at least 200% of salary 300% for the CEO.
These and Chris Callero greatly exceed the guidelines have been increased from 100% of salary 200% for the minimum requirement.
Brian Cassin, CEO with effect from 1 April 2013. who was appointed in April 2012, is building up his shareholding in line with the guidelines.
Clawback Vesting of awards made under the Experian Performance Share This feature was introduced in 2011 Plan and matching awards under the Experian Co-investment and will be in place for future awards.
Plans will only occur if the Committee is satisfied that the vesting is not based on any material misstatement of accounts: and Where any bonus is paid out which is ultimately found to have been based on materially misstated financial results, the bonus opportunity may be reduced accordingly in the following financial year.
Discretion The Committee has the discretionary power to adjust payouts This feature has been introduced for from incentive plans to ensure rewards are aligned with the actual incentive plan awards made in 2013 underlying financial and operational performance of the Company.
With respect to Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee is satisfied that environmental, social and governance risks are not increased by the incentive structure for senior management and this does not inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
EXPECTED VALUE OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXPECTED VALUE OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Remuneration of executive directors REMUNERATION AT TARGET PERFORMANCE REMUNERATION AT MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE These graphs illustrate the remuneration package for the executive directors, 100% 100% split between fixed and variable pay, at target and maximum levels of 80% 80% performance.
The combined potential remuneration from annual bonus and 60% 60% share-based incentives i. e. variable pay outweighs the fixed elements excluding pension and benefits at both 40% 40% levels of performance.
As the relativities of the fixed and variable elements are 20% 20% the same for each executive director, we have not provided graphs on an 0% 0% individual basis.
Variable: long-term Variable: long-term Variable: short-term Variable: short-term Fixed Fixed 78 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Executive directors service contracts Don Robert has a service agreement with Experian Services Corporation ESC dated 7 August 2006.
This provides that, if his employment is terminated by ESC without cause, he is entitled to the following severance payments: continued payment of monthly salary for 12 months from the termination date: 12 months participation in welfare benefit plans in which he participated during his employment: and an annual bonus based on 100% achievement of objectives payable in equal monthly instalments for 12 months.
The same amounts are payable by ESC if Don Robert terminates the contract: i following material breach by ESC: or ii for Good Reason following a change of control of ESC.
Good Reason means, during the six month period following a change of control, a material and substantial adverse reduction or change in Don Roberts position.
These terms are in line with US practice.
Don Roberts service agreement also provides for the following payments to be made if the agreement terminates in the event of his death in addition to payments due but unpaid before death : a pro rata annual bonus for the bonus year to the termination date based on the Groups performance in that bonus year: and a lump sum equal to 12 months base salary to be paid no later than 90 days after the date of death.
If the employment is terminated due to Don Roberts disability, he is entitled to the bonus as described immediately above in addition to payments due but unpaid before the termination.
Any deferred compensation obligations will be governed in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
This is consistent with US employment practice.
Chris Callero has a service agreement, dated 11 June 2009, with ESC, which is terminable by 12 months notice either from ESC or from Chris Callero.
Brian Cassin has a service agreement dated 29 February 2012, with Experian Limited, which is terminable by 12 months notice from Experian Limited or six months notice from Brian Cassin.
Other than as described above, the service contract of each of the executive directors does not provide for any benefits on the termination of employment.
Experians policy on service contracts for new executive directors is to follow the UK Corporate Governance Code guidelines and best practice.
Consultation and engagement How shareholder views are taken into account In advance of the AGM the Chairman of the Committee writes to the 25 shareholders with the largest holding of Company shares and investor representative bodies such as the Association of British Insurers the ABI and the National Association of Pension Funds the NAPF to provide information on any changes to the remuneration structure.
Where requested by these shareholders, further discussion and clarification is provided to assist them in making an informed voting decision.
If any major concerns are raised, these are discussed with the Committee Chairman, in the first instance, and the rest of the Committee as appropriate.
Then, at its first meeting following the AGM each year, the Committee considers all shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM.
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings or from correspondence from time to time, is then considered as part of the Committees annual review of remuneration policy which normally takes place at meetings in November and January.
Shareholder voting on the 2012 report on directors remuneration The voting to approve the Report at the AGM on 18 July 2012 is set out in the following table: Votes for Total number of Number of including discretionary votes % of votes cast Votes against % of votes cast votes cast votes withheld 613.5m 88.1% 82.5m 11.9% 696.0m 3.2m Following the AGM, the Company engaged with a number of shareholders who had voted against the resolution to approve the Report, to discuss the reasons for their voting decision and this has generated additional feedback which will inform the Committees deliberations going forward.
The Committee is committed to openness and providing transparency to its operation and considers that its current process of shareholder engagement along with the additional disclosures contained within this Report are evidence of that.
How employee pay is taken into account Pay and conditions across the Group are considered when finalising the current policy for executive directors.
As a result, the basic salary increases at 1 April 2013 were in line with the average increases of the wider workforce.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 79 Fixed remuneration Base salary and benefits Before making a final decision on individual salary awards, the Committee assesses each directors individual performance and experience as well as average pay increases awarded to other employees in the Group.
To assess the appropriate salary for a role, benchmark data, sourced from external remuneration consultants, is provided to the Committee.
Executive directors salaries are benchmarked against those of executive directors from the companies in the FTSE 100 Index along with other global comparators, reflecting the markets from which Experian recruits talent.
These include, but are not limited to, UK and US companies of a similar size, companies of a similar size in the UK and US financial services sector and companies with significant operations in the same markets as Experian.
The Committee reviewed salaries in early 2013 and, taking into account the factors described above, approved increases as detailed in the following table.
These increases are in line with those awarded to the wider employee population.
Salary to Salary from Percentage 31 March 2013 1 April 2013 increase Don Robert US$1,550,000 US$1,595,000 2.9% Chris Callero US$990,000 US$1,015,000 2.5% Brian Cassin 450,000 462,500 2.8% In addition to base salary, executive directors receive certain benefits-in-kind including a car or car allowance, private health cover and life assurance.
These are set at market competitive levels for each role.
In line with typical US practice, Don Robert and Chris Callero also participate in a deferred compensation plan.
Pensions Pension provision varies across the Group based on geographical location and the time of joining Experian.
Subject to these variations, the principles of pension provision apply to all employees.
In the UK, a defined contribution plan is available for all employees, with an employer contribution rate in normal circumstances of up to 20% for the most senior executives.
Brian Cassin participates in the UK defined contribution plan.
Chris Callero participates in this plan.
This is a legacy arrangement from when he joined the Companys previous parent, GUS plc, and was set up to provide a defined benefit arrangement similar to those of the UK executives.
He is also entitled to participate in the US defined contribution arrangement 401k but does not currently do so.
Variable remuneration Annual bonus Annual bonuses are awarded for achieving profit growth targets.
The Committee believes this is appropriate as it is reflective P24 of one of Experians key performance indicators EBIT.
The maximum bonus opportunity for executive directors is 200% of base salary.
However, this level of annual bonus is only payable if Experians financial performance surpasses stretching profit growth targets, designed to deliver exceptional results to shareholders.
The calibration of these targets is based on benchmarks that reflect stretching internal and external expectations.
The benchmarks considered include: broker earnings estimates, earnings estimates for competitors, straight-line profit growth consistent with median upper quartile shareholder returns, latest projections for the current year, budget and strategic plan.
Annual bonus in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 The Committee set targets for the annual bonus in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 which required stretching levels of performance with reference to relevant internal and external benchmarks in order for maximum bonus to be earned.
80 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued PBT GROWTH CALIBRATION FOR 2013 ANNUAL BONUS Benchmark PBT growth achieved of 12.5% was around the mid-point of the performance range, as shown in the chart opposite, and therefore a bonus equivalent to 150% of salary is payable to the executive directors.
The Committee considers that this level of bonus payment is appropriate Target Stretch Maximum in the context of the underlying performance of the business.
12.5% PBT growth Co-investment Plans The CIP provides the executive directors with the opportunity to defer between 50% and 100% of their annual bonus into Experian shares invested shares that are matched with an additional award of shares matching shares with the maximum match being calculated on the basis of two matching shares for each invested share 2:1 basis.
The release of invested shares and matching shares is deferred for three years and the release of the matching shares is subject to performance conditions which are measured over that period.
The operation of the CIP is described in the following schematic: Annual bonus is Invested shares 3 year Invested shares deferred and invested deferral released in full in Experian shares period Matching shares up 3 year Matching shares to 2 for 1 match on performance released to the extent Invested shares.
period that performance conditions are satis ed Committee sets Clawback provisions performance targets apply Performance conditions are determined by the Committee in advance of grant.
Dividend equivalents accrue on these awards.
Generally, if a participant resigns during the three-year period they forfeit the right to the matching shares and the associated dividends, although they would be entitled to retain any invested shares.
Matching awards under the CIP may vest early in the event of a change of control but would be pro-rated for time and performance.
P88 Details of the awards granted in May 2012 are given in the table entitled Co-investment Plans.
CIP performance metrics The vesting of awards under the CIP is based 50% on the achievement of a growth in PBT performance condition, measured over three years, with the other 50% subject to the achievement of a three-year cash flow target.
The Committee selected these P24 two performance measures as they reflect two of Experians key performance indicators EBIT and cash flow.
The executive directors have elected to defer 100% of their bonus earned in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 into the CIP.
It is intended the same performance measures will be used for the matching awards expected to be made in May 2013 as for the awards made in May 2012 i. e. growth in PBT and cash flow.
The economic environment in which Experian operates has not improved over the last year.
On balance, the Committee believes the PBT growth target set in 2011 continues to be appropriately calibrated.
The cash flow target has been increased to reflect the Groups increased absolute profitability whilst taking into account the impact of foreign exchange movements.
If the 2012 performance targets were restated using 2013 exchange rates, the performance range would be approximately US$3,500m to US$3,900m.
The Committee therefore believes that the new target range provides a sufficient stretch above that of 2012. Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 81 Both performance conditions will be measured over a three-year period and the specific targets for the May 2013 awards are set out in the following tables along with the targets for the 2011 and 2012 awards: PBT 50% of an award Cash flow 50% of an award Vesting Vesting 0% 50% 100% 0% 50% 100% 2011 Below 7% 7% 14% 2011 Below $3,000m $3,000m $3,400m 2012 Below 7% 7% 14% 2012 Below $3,700m $3,700m $4,100m 2013 Below 7% 7% 14% 2013 Below $3,800m $3,800m $4,200m straight-line vesting between points straight-line vesting between points In addition, vesting of awards is subject to the Committee being satisfied that the vesting is not based on financial results which have been materially misstated.
For the awards to be made in 2013, the Committee will also have the discretion to vary the level of vesting determined by applying the PBT and cash flow performance conditions if they consider that this level of vesting is inconsistent with the actual underlying financial and operational performance of the Group.
Annual bonus and CIP in respect of the year ending 31 March 2014 It is intended that annual bonus arrangements and the operation of the CIP for executive directors will remain unchanged for the year ending 31 March 2014.
For matching shares awarded under the CIP, the final performance measures and targets will be determined shortly before the awards are made in May 2014 and will be disclosed at the appropriate time.
However, the Committee undertakes to ensure that any targets, whilst they must be seen as achievable to retain and motivate executives during the deferral period, are sufficiently stretching in order to deliver significant shareholder value.
Performance Share Plan Under the PSP, shares are awarded to participants subject to the achievement of performance conditions which are measured over a three-year period.
The maximum award under the PSP is normally 200% of base salary, although up to 400% of salary may be awarded under exceptional circumstances.
Any vesting occurs three years from the date of grant and dividend equivalents accrue on the vested shares.
Awards under the PSP may vest early in the event of a change of control but would be pro-rated for time and performance.
P89 Details of the awards granted in prior years are given in the table entitled Performance Share Plan.
The operation of the PSP is described in the following schematic: Awards granted 75% of the award Shares subject to growth to participants is subject to growth in PBT vest to the extent in PBT that the performance Committee sets condition is satis ed performance Clawback provisions targets apply 3 year performance period 25% of the award is Shares subject to TSR subject to TSR performance vest to the extent that the performance condition is satis ed 82 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued PSP performance metrics The vesting of awards under the PSP is based 75% on the achievement of a growth in PBT performance condition, measured over three years, with the other 25% subject to TSR outperformance against the FTSE 100 Index.
The Committee has selected P24 these two performance measures as they reflect a key performance indicator of Experian EBIT and represent the value delivered to shareholders relative to Experians peers.
The performance targets for all outstanding PSP awards, and those expected to be granted in May 2013 are set out in the following tables.
For the awards to be made during 2013, the Committee has reviewed the calibration of the performance targets in light of market conditions, and, on balance, considers that the targets set in 2011 continue to be appropriately stretching.
The Committee will also have the discretion to vary the level of vesting determined by applying the TSR and PBT performance conditions if they consider that this level of vesting is inconsistent with the actual underlying financial and operational performance of the Group.
PBT 75% of an award TSR vs FTSE 100 % outperformance 25% of an award Vesting Vesting 0% 25% 100% 0% 25% 100% 2011 Below 7% 7% 14% 2011 Below index Equal to index 25% above index 2012 Below 7% 7% 14% 2012 Below index Equal to index 25% above index 2013 Below 7% 7% 14% 2013 Below index Equal to index 25% above index straight-line vesting between points straight-line vesting between points All outstanding awards are also subject to a ROCE performance underpin and a clawback feature whereby the vesting of awards is subject to the Committee being satisfied that the vesting is not based on financial results which have been materially misstated.
Recruitment and Retention awards Special awards of shares may be granted for specific recruitment or retention purposes under an annex to the rules of the PSP.
Any such awards are not pensionable.
As disclosed last year, recruitment awards were granted to Brian Cassin upon his appointment as Chief Financial Officer in the year under review.
These were made to compensate him for share awards he forfeited when he left his previous employer.
The recruitment awards aimed to replicate, as closely as possible, the structure and value of Mr Cassins previous awards which were not subject to performance conditions and were due to vest in annual tranches over a five year period.
The recruitment awards were therefore structured to vest in five tranches between January 2013 and January 2017, subject to Mr Cassins continued employment with Experian.
Should he leave at any time during that period, other than for good leaver reasons, those unvested shares will lapse in full subject to the rules of the PSP.
As there were no performance conditions attached to the original awards, the value of these was determined as the face value around the time of grant and that, in turn, determined the value and number of shares of the recruitment awards.
Details of the P89 awards are in the table entitled Performance Share Plan.
In structuring the recruitment awards as outlined above, the Committee was satisfied that Mr Cassin was offered a package that was equivalent to his previous one whilst at the same time replicating the lock-in through staggered vesting over the five year period.
The Committee does not believe in over-paying on recruitment, nor does it grant replacement equity incentives without first taking into account the likely vesting and resulting value of the equity that any potential new hire would be giving up.
Share Option Plan SOP As has been the policy since 2010, no grants were made under this plan in 2012 and the Committee has agreed this will also be the case for 2013 other than in exceptional circumstances.
The maximum award under the SOP is normally 200% of base salary, although up to 400% of salary may be awarded under exceptional circumstances.
Use of the SOP in the future will remain under review by the Committee.
Details of outstanding awards under the SOP and the associated performance P87 conditions are set out in the table entitled Share options.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 83 Sharesave plans All executive directors and employees of the Company, and any participating subsidiaries in which sharesave or a local equivalent is operated, are eligible to participate if they are employed by the Group at a qualifying date.
As an example of these plans, the UK Sharesave Plan provides an opportunity for employees to save a regular monthly amount, over either three or five years which, at the end of the savings period, may be used to purchase Experian shares at up to 20% below market value at the date of grant.
Outcome of performance testing determined in the year ended 31 March 2013 Co-investment Plans For awards granted under the Co-investment Plans in June 2010, the matching shares were subject to the achievement of performance targets as set out in the following tables.
PBT 50% of an award Cash flow 50% of an award Average growth target per annum Vesting 3 year cash flow Vesting Below 5% 0% Below $2,900m 0% 5% 50% $2,900m 50% 11% 100% $3,300m 100% straight-line vesting between points straight-line vesting between points The Committee measured the performance conditions over the three years ended 31 March 2013 and the results were as follows: PBT: average annual growth over the three-year performance period was 13.5% which resulted in 100% of this part of the award vesting: and Cash flow: three-year cumulative cash flow was US$3,330m which resulted in 100% of this part of the award vesting.
In aggregate therefore, 100% of the matching awards will vest on 3 June 2013.
Performance Share Plan PSP awards granted in June 2010 were subject to performance conditions measured over the three years ended 31 March 2013, as set out in the following tables.
PBT 75% of an award TSR vs FTSE 100 % outperformance 25% of an award Average growth target per annum Vesting 3 year TSR Vesting Below 5% 0% Below index 0% 5% 25% Equal to index 25% 11% 100% 25% above index 100% straight-line vesting between points straight-line vesting between points Vesting was also subject to the Committee confirming that ROCE performance had been satisfactory.
The Committee measured the performance conditions over the three years ended 31 March 2013 and the results were as follows: PBT: average annual growth over the three-year performance period was 13.5% which resulted in 100% of this part of the award vesting: and TSR: three-year outperformance was 47.1% which resulted in 100% of this part of the award vesting.
The Committee confirmed that ROCE performance was satisfactory and in aggregate, therefore, 100% of the awards will vest on 3 June 2013.
84 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Shares released to participants in the year ended 31 March 2013 Recruitment and Retention awards One of the awards outlined above, made to Brian Cassin on his recruitment, vested on 25 January 2013 and he received 30,663 P89 shares.
Further details are given in the table entitled Performance Share Plan.
Performance graph The Committee has chosen to illustrate TSR against the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate index against which TSR should be measured as it is a widely used and understood index of which Experian is a constituent.
VALUE OF 100 INVESTED IN EXPERIAN AND THE FTSE 100 ON 31 MARCH 2008 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 March 08 March 09 March 10 March 11 March 12 March 13 Experian FTSE 100 Index The above graph shows that, at 31 March 2013, a hypothetical 100 invested in Experian would have generated a total return of 350 compared with a return of 135 if invested in the FTSE 100 Index on 31 March 2008.
Shareholding guidelines The Committee believes it is important that executives build up a significant holding in Experian shares to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Therefore, the Committee has established guidelines, from 1 April 2013, under which the Chief Executive Officer should hold the equivalent of three times his base salary in Experian shares and other executive directors two times their base salary including invested shares held under the CIP.
Don Robert and Chris Callero significantly exceed these guidelines.
Brian Cassin is building his shareholding up to the requisite level in accordance with the guidelines.
Further details P91 are given in the table entitled Directors interests.
Policy on external appointments The Board recognises the value of external directorships in enabling executive directors to broaden their experience and development.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, executive directors may therefore accept one FTSE 100 non-executive directorship, and retain any related fees.
During the period under review, Don Robert served as non-executive director on the board of Compass Group plc and the fee P86 received in respect of this role is set out in Note 4 to the annual remuneration table.
Meeting obligations under share-based incentives Obligations under Experians employee share plans may be met using either shares purchased in the market or, except for rolled-over awards under certain GUS plans, newly issued shares.
The current policy is that, where possible, all awards will be satisfied by the purchase of shares, or from shares previously purchased, by the employee trusts or by shares held in treasury.
This policy will remain under regular review.
The rules of the Experian share plans are in line with the guidelines set out by the ABI regarding dilution.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 85 Remuneration of non-executive directors The Boards policy on the remuneration of non-executive directors is that: fees should reflect individual responsibilities and membership of Board committees: remuneration should be in line with recognised best practice and be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain high calibre non-executives: and remuneration should be a combination of cash fees paid quarterly and Experian shares see below to help align the interests of non-executive directors with those of shareholders.
Non-executive directors do not receive any benefits-in-kind with the exception of the Chairman who receives private healthcare and the use of a company car.
The current fees for non-executive directors are shown in the table below.
These were last reviewed with effect from 1 October 2011 and will next be reviewed in October 2013.
Non-executive directors fees from 1 October 2011 Base fee 125,000 Plus additional fees for: Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director 80,000 Chairman of Audit Committee 35,000 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 27,000 The Chairmans fee was reviewed by the Committee in early 2012 and increased by 25,000 to 375,000 with effect from 1 April 2012.
This was the first fee review since April 2010 and the next review will be in April 2014.
Experian requires its non-executive directors to build up a holding in the Companys shares equal to their annual fee.
One quarter of their net annual fee is used to purchase Experian shares each year until they reach this holding: such shares P91 are included in the table entitled Directors interests.
Any tax liability arising from these arrangements is the responsibility of the individual director.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any Experian share plans.
Non-executive directors do not have employment contracts but each has a letter of appointment with no provision for any termination payment.
Each appointment with the exception of that of the Chairman is for a renewable three-year term, subject to election re-election by shareholders, but may be terminated by either party on one months written notice six months notice in the case of the Chairman.
86 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Implementation of Remuneration Policy The information set out in the remainder of this Report has been subject to audit.
Annual remuneration The following table shows an analysis of the emoluments of the individual directors for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Annual bonuses shown relate to the year ended 31 March 2013.
Benefits to executive directors include life insurance, private healthcare, company car and fuel allowance where applicable.
Don Robert also received a fixed accommodation allowance of 250,000 during the year.
Brian Cassin received a cash supplement of 53,130 in lieu of part of his pension entitlement.
Sir John Peace is not eligible for a performance bonus, pension contributions or long-term incentive awards but continues to receive a company car benefit and private healthcare.
Experian plc pays directors fees to the executive directors in respect of their services as directors of Experian plc.
These fees were 125,000 per annum from 1 October 2011.
Such fees form part of, and are not additional to, the remuneration set out in the table.
Don Robert served as a non-executive director of Compass Group plc during the period under review, for which he received a fee of 81,000 2012: 81,000.
Brian Cassin's annual salary was 450,000 for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The salary and benefits figures provided in the table show remuneration from the date he joined Experian 30 April 2012 to 31 March 2013.
The annual bonus is for the full year, as agreed by the Committee on recruitment.
No further payment was made to Mr Cassin to reflect bonus foregone when he left his previous employer.
Non-executive directors receive an additional fee of 6,000 per trip to attend Board meetings where such attendance involves inter-continental travel from their home location.
Dierdre Mahlan and George Rose joined the Board on 1 September 2012 and the amounts shown in the above table are their fees earned from that date.
David Tyler retired from the Board on 31 December 2012 and the amounts shown in the above table are the fees he earned to that date.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 87 Share options Details of options granted to directors under the Experian Share Option Plan and the GUS Executive Share Option Schemes are set out in the table below.
Total number Number of of shares shares under Experian under option Date from option at share price at which 1 April Exercise on date of 31 March exercisable Date of grant 2012 price Granted Exercised exercise Lapsed 2013 expiry date Executive directors Don Robert 31.05.05 132,091 483.1p 31.05.08 30.05.15 02.06.06 133,184 521.1p 02.06.09 01.06.16 18.06.09 552,453 464.0p 552,453 1,095.0p 265,275 Chris Callero 18.06.09 236,765 464.0p 236,765 933.5p Notes: 1.
Options granted in 2006 or earlier were originally granted under the GUS Executive Share Option Scheme and were exchanged for equivalent options over Experian plc shares on demerger.
These options vested subject to the achievement of performance conditions which were met in full.
The options granted in June 2009 were subject to performance conditions measured over the three years ended on 31 March 2012.
As reported last year, the outcome of these performance conditions was such that 100% of these options vested on 18 June 2012.
The market price of Experian plc shares at 31 March 2013 was 1,140p: the highest and lowest prices during the financial year then ended were 1,185p and 870p respectively.
88 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Co-investment Plans Details of awards made to directors under the Experian Co-investment Plans are set out in the table below.
In line with the rules of the Experian North America Co-investment Plan, invested shares for Don Robert and Chris Callero were calculated with reference to their gross bonus.
The matching share awards are based on the gross value of the bonus deferred.
Matching awards granted in June 2009 were subject to performance conditions measured over the three years ended 31 March 2012.
As reported last year the outcome of these performance conditions was such that 100% of the awards vested.
The vesting date was 18 June 2012 when the Experian share price was 933.5p.
Cash dividend equivalents were paid to Don Robert and Chris Callero on their vested shares.
They received US$464,534 and US$298,629 respectively.
Awards made to Don Robert and Chris Callero in June 2010, June 2011 and May 2012 under the Experian North America Co-investment Plan were based on the average share price for the three days prior to grant.
The performance periods for these awards are 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2013, 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2014 and 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2015 respectively.
Release of matching shares under these plans is subject to the achievement of performance conditions as detailed in the sections entitled Outcome of performance testing determined in the year ended 31 March 2013 2010 awards and CIP performance metrics' 2011 and P80 2012 awards, the retention of invested shares and continued employment.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 89 Performance Share Plan Details of awards made to directors under the PSP are set out in the table below.
Awards granted in June 2009 were subject to performance conditions measured over the three years ended 31 March 2012.
Dividend equivalents were paid to Don Robert and Chris Callero on their vested shares.
They received US$411,577 and US$176,390 respectively.
The performance period in respect of the PSP awards made in June 2010, June 2011 and May 2012 are 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2013, 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2014 and 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2015 respectively.
The performance conditions attached to these awards are detailed in the sections entitled Outcome of P82 performance testing determined in the year ended 31 March 2013 2010 award and PSP performance metrics 2011 and 2012 awards.
As disclosed in last year's Report, Brian Cassin was granted recruitment awards to replace outstanding equity awards from his previous employer.
The recruitment awards replicate Mr Cassin's previous awards as closely as possible and therefore vest in five tranches between January 2013 and January 2017, subject to his continued employment with Experian.
"Should he leave at any time during that period, other than for ""good leaver"" reasons, any unvested awards will lapse in full subject to the rules of the PSP."
90 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Executive directors pension arrangements Don Robert is provided with benefits through a Supplementary Executive Retirement Plan SERP which is a defined benefit arrangement in the US.
The figures below are in respect of his SERP entitlement.
Brian Cassin participated in the UK defined contribution arrangement during the year and the employer contributions to this arrangement were 29,375.
Chris Callero participated in the US defined contribution arrangement 401k Plan during the year and the employer contributions to this arrangement were US$10,249 2012: US$7,104.
The pension entitlements in respect of benefits from non-registered defined benefit arrangements are detailed in the table below.
Accrued Accrued Change in Additional pension at pension at Transfer Transfer transfer pension earned Transfer value 31 March 31 March value at value at value less to 31 March 2013 of the increase 2013 2012 31 March 31 March directors net of inflation less directors per annum per annum 2013 2012 contributions per annum contributions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Don Robert 611 543 14,389 11,749 2,640 54 1,276 Four former directors of Experian Finance plc formerly GUS plc, received unfunded pensions during the year.
Three of the former directors are paid under the SURBS.
The total unfunded pensions paid to the former directors was 470,560 2012: 473,153.
Notes: Columns 1 and 2 represent the deferred pension to which Don Robert would have been entitled had he left the Group at 31 March 2013 and 2012 respectively.
Column 3 is the transfer value of the pension in column 1 calculated as at 31 March 2013 based on factors determined by the US government in accordance with the US pension-to-lump-sum actuarial basis.
Column 4 is the equivalent transfer value, but calculated as at 31 March 2012 on the assumption that Don Robert left service at that date.
Column 5 is the change in transfer value of accrued pension during the year net of contributions by Don Robert.
Column 6 is the increase in pension built up during the year, recognising i the accrual rate for the additional service based on the pensionable salary in force at the year end, and ii where appropriate the effect of pay changes in real inflation adjusted terms on the pension already earned at the start of the year.
Column 7 represents the transfer value of the pension in column 6.
The disclosures in columns 1 to 5 are equivalent to those required by the large and medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and those in columns 6 and 7 are those required by the UK Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 91 Directors interests The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below.
Share options granted to directors, awards under the PSP and the contingent interests in matching shares under the Co-investment Plans are shown in the relevant tables and included here.
The directors have no interests in any debentures of the Group or in any shares or debentures of the Groups subsidiaries.
For regulatory purposes, as at 8 May 2013, there had been no changes in the above interests.
Shares included in this measure are the directors interests in the Company plus the net value of any invested shares under the Co-investment Plans.
Brian Cassin was appointed Chief Financial Officer in April 2012 and is building his shareholding up to the requisite level in line with the relevant guidelines.
The number of Experian shares held by Don Robert and Chris Callero at 31 March 2013 includes 739,894 and 474,712 shares respectively awarded to them under the Experian North America Co-investment Plan in lieu of annual bonus, as shown in the table which details these plans, in addition to any personal beneficial shareholding.
Don Robert and Chris Callero have an unconditional right to receive these Experian shares at the end of the relevant three-year deferral period.
These shares do not carry dividend or voting rights prior to receipt.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Charles Brown Company Secretary 8 May 2013
