Directors Report Remuneration Board Remuneration Report continued mandatory for this years Report, the remuneration and to discuss the remuneration shareholders.
Any elements of the discretion Committee has sought to comply with the new policy ahead of it going to a binding vote at the that the Committee may want to reserve under requirements where it is practical to do so, AGM in 2015.
The discussions will also consult the remuneration policy will be set out in the while still remaining compliant with existing on plans to replace the current PSP with a new Board Remuneration Report in 2014 once regulations.
Therefore this Report has been plan before the existing scheme comes to the those aspects have been discussed both split into two sections: a Remuneration Policy end of its term.
In the year under review, the internally and externally.
Report, which sets out the remuneration policy Chairman of the Board and the Senior of the executive and non-executive directors: Independent Director provided the Committee and an Annual Remuneration Report, which with feedback from major shareholders on discloses how the current remuneration policy their views on remuneration: this feedback has has been implemented in the year ended 31 been borne in mind by the Committee when Alan Wood August 2013.
We will be seeking shareholder setting remuneration for the executive Chairman of the Remuneration Committee support for both parts of the report by way of a directors.
13 November 2013 single advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM on The Committees remuneration policy will 15 January 2014. continue to strive to have a rewards structure I intend to meet with a number of key that is fair, recognises achievement and shareholders during 2014 to gain a deeper maintains the ability of the Group to recruit and understanding of their perspectives on retain the best talent in the interests of all REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Remuneration policy and philosophy align the interests of the executives with comparator group to compare the percentage When setting the remuneration policy, the those of the shareholders by rewarding change in the CEO salary, benefits and shortfollowing principles and objectives are borne in them for enhancing shareholder value and terms incentives with that of a wider employee performing at the highest level: mind: group.
This is something the Committee will put in place for the reporting year ending 31 have a remuneration policy that maintain the ability of the Group to attract, August 2014.
Given the nature, complexity, appropriately incentivises without recruit and retain the best people with the geographic spread and autonomous nature of detracting from the goals of good qualities, experience and skills necessary the Group operations, the Committee is keen corporate governance: and to operate and develop its businesses: to ensure that the chosen comparator group is when setting remuneration and developing reward hard work, commitment, drive, suitable and provides a sensible robust metric the remuneration policy, take into experience and leadership skills: to compare increases in CEO remuneration consideration the views of shareholders against.
have a fair structure that recognises and and best practice guidelines.
rewards achievement and is aligned with The Committee recognises that it may on When considering remuneration packages for the strategic goals of the Group: occasion have to step outside the stated the executive directors, the Remuneration remuneration policy in order to attract, in recognition of the Groups global nature, Committee is aware of and takes into motivate and retain particular individuals.
have a package of reward with both short consideration the pay and conditions of and long-term incentives, thereby helping employees across the Group, particularly when to promote its long-term growth and considering any increases in base salary.
stability: Consideration is being given to a suitable Remuneration policy table for executive directors for 2013 Component Objective Opportunity Operation Performance measure Changes for year ending 31 August 2014 Base salary Core element of fixed Increases to base salary tend Group performance and Benchmarked Increases from 1 September remuneration reflecting the to be in line with the wider results as well as externally from time to 2013 were 6.0% for Nicholas individuals role, skills and Group.
Higher increases may individual performance, time as appropriate.
be awarded in exceptional experience and Richard Perry: these Individual performance circumstances or in line with effectiveness are taken increases take account of Market competitive is one of the previously stated policy as in into account when setting and are compatible with packages are provided to considerations when the case of the CEO.
increases awarded to attract, retain and motivate setting base salary Increases could reflect an employees in our western high calibre people to the Reviewed annually with awards.
increase in scope and economies.
external advice being responsibility or promotion.
sought from time to time Increases reflect strong Nicholas Hobsons salary is along with salary trends in individual performances partly denominated in US comparable companies as during the year see dollars and the reported appropriate.
explanatory note below for amounts in sterling will vary further details.
with changes to the sterling US dollar rate of exchange.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 41 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results Remuneration policy table for executive directors for 2013 continued Component Objective Opportunity Operation Performance measure Changes for year ending 31 August 2014 Retirement To ensure that sufficient The CEO is entitled to a Positioned to be Not applicable.
benefits pension provision in pension allowance of 26% of competitive with the retirement is provided.
base salary: part is paid into a market.
defined contribution plan and Part of the package to Some legacy pension part is delivered in cash.
attract, retain and motivate arrangements in respect of employees.
The Group Finance Director Richard Perry are participated in the Companys explained further in the defined benefit scheme until note below.
April 2012 and now receives a pension allowance of 88.2% of base salary.
Benefits in To provide benefits in line Variable but include car The car allowance is Not applicable.
CEO car allowance to kind with normal corporate allowance, phone allowance, generally set periodically increase automatically by practice.
private medical insurance, and increased annually by RPI annually to be business travel and RPI.
Other expenses are consistent with the Group subsistence, reimbursement paid as they arise or are Finance Director.
of relocation expenses where reviewed periodically.
appropriate and other ancillary benefits including repatriation expenses where appropriate.
Annual The performance target is Maximum award currently Focused on delivery of 100% based on EPS No change to quantum or bonus growth in underlying EPS, 100% of base salary for the growth in underlying EPS growth which is felt to performance targets.
scheme which is a stated KPI of the CEO and 70% of base salary to drive the long-term be a challenging but Company and has been for the Group Finance success of the Company.
selected as being important Director.
The bonus will pay out to the success of the Group In exceptional circumstances for underlying EPS in delivering its strategic The Committee takes such as recruiting to a role, growth capped at 16%, objectives, which in turn account of material the Committee would with payments linear helps to deliver long-term corporate events and their consider extending the bonus between 0% and 16%.
sustainable growth and impact on EPS when of an incoming executive value.
making final bonus awards No bonus will pay out director beyond 100% of base so that they are not unless there is growth Underlying EPS is viewed by pay if necessary to attract a artificially impacted by in underlying EPS the Committee as having an key person into a role.
major acquisitions, compared to the inherent link to inflation.
disposals or significant previous year.
change to the issued share capital of the Company.
Long-term Provides a clear link The PSP can issue Reviewed annually by the 67% Relative TSR Increase in the maximum incentive - between the remuneration conditional awards up to Committee.
against the PSP Peer award for the CEO in line PSP of executive directors and 150% of base salary in Group and 33% growth with market norms and to The performance targets members of the Group normal circumstances rising in underlying EPS.
reflect the package are discussed in detail by Executive Committee and to 300% of base salary in alignment as indicated in the Committee each year Performance is the long-term value exceptional circumstances previous Annual Reports.
and are set with the aim of measured over three creation for shareholders such as recruitment.
The current plan generally motivating appropriate No awards will vest makes conditional awards behaviour which is aligned unless the Committee based on 70% of base salary with the careful running is satisfied that TSR and for all members except the and management of the EPS performance CEO who will receive Group.
Part of the reflect the Companys conditional awards based on assessment includes the underlying financial 100% of base salary.
provided by the targets in There is a dividend roll up the current economic Vested shares are applied to the conditional environment.
retained for a further awards which is accrued over three years.
the Plan Cycle and added to the original conditional award before the final allotment of shares is made.
Shareholding Promotes share ownership Executive Directors to hold On-going requirement.
guidelines and aligns the interests of the equivalent of 100% of the executive directors with base salary in the Companys both the Company and shares.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 42 Directors Report Remuneration Board Remuneration Report continued Remuneration policy table for non-executive directors & Chairman for 2013 Component Objective Opportunity Operation Performance measure Changes for year ending 31 August 2014 Fees To attract, motivate and Not applicable.
Benchmarked Fees had been reviewed retain the best nonexternally from time to every three years but from executive talent for the role.
The remuneration of the time as appropriate.
April 2013 they will be non-executive directors is increased by RPI each year.
determined by the Board as a whole with individuals absenting themselves from discussions relating directly to their own remuneration.
Benefits in In line with market practice.
The non-executive Chairman Not applicable.
Travel and subsistence expenses are paid by the Company.
Shareholding guidelines currently hold shares exceeding the Additional detail on remuneration An Executive Management Share Ownership shareholding guidelines.
policy Policy was introduced in 2011, setting the Chairman and non-executive directors Base salary expectation that executive directors hold the The Chairman and non-executive directors are As previously reported, the salary of the CEO is equivalent of 100% of salary in the Companys generally appointed for fixed three year terms, being increased over time to an appropriate shares and members of the Executive with provision for additional fixed term level in line with the responsibilities and scope Committee to hold the equivalent of 50% of appointments as deemed appropriate and in of the role, his initial salary having been below salary in the Companys shares, at the point of the best interests of the Company.
market levels on taking on the role of CEO in acquisition of the shares.
The Policy allows March 2011 shares to be sold to settle tax liabilities on The non-executive directors do not participate them and for retirement planning purposes.
in any of the Groups bonus or share incentive Retirement benefits The Policy aims to encourage executives to schemes nor do they accrue any pension Nicholas Hobson is in receipt of a pension build and maintain a meaningful shareholding entitlement.
entitlement equivalent to 26% of his annual in the Company which can be achieved by the salary, part of which is paid into an retention of shares vesting under the longoccupational defined contribution plan: the term incentive arrangements and the purchase balance is paid in cash and the Company does of shares in the market.
This helps ensure that not retain any responsibility for the investment their interests are aligned with those of performance of the pension payments.
Both executive directors Richard Perry retains benefits in the defined benefit section of the Fenner Pension Scheme where he became a postponed member under Directors service contracts and termination payments the Scheme from April 2012.
From April 2012, Richard Perry receives a Pension Allowance The executive directors have rolling 12 month termination other than the notice period and under the terms of his Service Agreement contracts.
The Company has agreed to the the provision noted above.
The Committee will which is equivalent to the total cost the payment of a prescribed sum equivalent to 12 seek to mitigate the cost to the Company Company previously incurred to meet the months salary and contractual benefits if while dealing fairly with each individual case.
contracted pension arrangement he was there is a change of control or termination of The details of the service contracts in relation entitled to in the Fenner Pension Scheme, their contracts by the Company other than for to the executive directors and letters of plus the top up Pension Allowance which was cause.
appointment in relation to the Chairman and designed to enable him to enhance his pension The service contracts do not contain any non-executive directors who served as provision up to two-thirds of remuneration.
provision for compensation on early directors during the year are as follows: Richard Perry retains full discretion in how he chooses to invest the Pension Allowance payments and the Company does not retain any Effective date of service Unexpired term at Notice contract letter of appointment 31 August 2013 period responsibility for the investment performance.
The Pension Allowance paid to Richard Perry Executive directors has been frozen at a fixed percentage of base Nicholas Hobson 1 March 2011 - 1 year salary.
Richard Perrys pension entitlement Richard Perry 5 April 2012 - 1 year should be viewed as a legacy arrangement, set Non-executive directors when such pension payments were the norm Mark Abrahams 1 March 2011 6 months 1 year and were in line with remuneration practice and Vanda Murray 11 January 2012 17 months 1 year packages for senior executives at the time of David Buttfield 12 January 2012 - - his appointment.
Future executives would have Alan Wood 1 April 2013 31 months 1 year a more prescribed pension arrangement as John Sheldrick 1 September 2013 36 months 1 year befits current remuneration practice and mores.
David Buttfield elected to retire at the conclusion of the AGM in January 2013.
