63 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction The remuneration of Mr Zhevago and Mr Mawe the Executive This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee Directors is disclosed in local currency and allows year-on-year the Committee on behalf of the Board in accordance with the comparison, uninfluenced by exchange rate fluctuations on notional requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, translation into US Dollars.
A 1% increase to the salary of Mr Mawe Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups the CFO was made during the year: no other significant changes Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the UK were made to executive pay or incentives during the year.
As stated Corporate Governance Code.
Part A of the report, which is not above, it is in the interests of shareholders to align the incentives of subject to audit, sets out the Companys remuneration policy.
Part B the executives and the shareholders, and the Board continues to provides details of remuneration and share incentives of the review the structure and level of remuneration afforded through Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The sections share options and ownership in relation to variable and fixed pay.
subject to audit are highlighted throughout.
Part A will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the Companys 2014 AGM and Part B In line with the new regulations for reporting Directors remuneration, to an advisory vote.
this report is divided into two distinct sections: the first Part A outlines Ferrexpos forward-looking remuneration policy for Summary Statement Executive and Non-executive Directors, setting out components of A Statement to Shareholders from the Chairman of the pay, how they are linked to the business strategy, and incentive Committee opportunities for the Executive Directors.
The second Part B On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Directors reviews how the Companys remuneration policy was implemented Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013. in 2013 and includes a table showing a single figure of total remuneration for the Directors.
The Company has continued to grow during the year, executing its strategy by increasing production and sales, reducing the risk Lucio Genovese profile of the business by diversifying the customer profile and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee developing its logistics capabilities, whilst investing within the means of its balance sheet.
The profitability of the Company has increased, driven by higher volumes along with higher average commodity prices.
The Committee believes that this performance is fairly reflected in executive remuneration outcomes for the year, as set out in this report taking into consideration the comments regarding Mr Zhevago the CEO below.
It is the policy of the Board to align executive and shareholder interests by linking a high proportion of remuneration to performance, basing rewards on a balanced portfolio of performance measures, and assessing them against the relevant market so as to ensure that they attract, motivate and retain talented executives.
The CEOs incentive is derived entirely from his shareholding in the Company, and his salary is paid at a flat rate of US$240,000 per year all of which is donated to charity.
The Board considers this large shareholding in the business to be a significant factor in aligning the performance of the CEO with other shareholders interests, and is satisfied that this structure is appropriate.
64 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 REMUNERATION REPORT continued PART A: POLICY SECTION Committee Terms of reference for the Committee have been approved by the Board, and its duties include the determination of the policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Committee, as well as their specific remuneration packages, including pension rights and, where applicable, any compensation payments.
In determining such policy, the Committee is expected to take into account all factors which it deems necessary to ensure that members of the senior executive management of the Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage strong performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
The composition of the Committee and its terms of reference comply with the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code and are available for inspection on the Groups website at www.
com Key Principles of the Remuneration Policy Ferrexpos remuneration policy is designed to help attract, motivate and retain talented executives to help drive the future growth and performance of the business.
The policy aims to: align executive and shareholder interests: link a high proportion of remuneration to performance: reward a balanced portfolio of performance measures e. g. relative Total Shareholder Return TSR outperformance of sector peers, annual business priorities and individual performance : and provide competitive rewards assessed against the relevant market to attract, motivate and retain talented executives.
In determining the Companys remuneration policy, the Committee takes into account the particular business context of the Group, the industry segment, the geography of its operations, the relevant talent market for each executive, the location of the executive and remuneration in that local market and best practice guidelines set by institutional shareholder bodies.
The Committee will continue to give full consideration to the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to Directors remuneration and to the guidance of investor relations bodies.
Executive Director Policy Table This section of our report summarises the policy for each component of Executive Director remuneration, which will apply from the date of the 2014 AGM in respect of payments to both current and future Executive Directors but see also Remuneration policy for new appointments below.
The Chief Executive takes a salary of US$240,000 per year which is all paid to charity net of applicable income taxes with no performance related pay as described earlier in this report, and his incentive is derived entirely from his shareholding in the Company.
At the current time, most of these policies below are therefore not applicable to the current CEO other than those related to benefits and pensions.
65 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, with Base salary increases are applied in line Business and, where relevant for To attract and retain talent by ensuring reference to the individuals role, experience with the outcome of the review which current Executive Directors, individual base salaries are competitive in the and performance: business performance: will not exceed 5% p. a. or if higher the performance are considerations in setting market in which the individual is salary levels for equivalent posts at relevant applicable RPI in any year.
comparators: cost of living and inflation: this level may be applied where appropriate and the range of salary increases applying to reflect changes in the scale, scope and across the Group.
responsibility attaching to the role and market comparability.
Pension Executive Directors will as appropriate be The employer contribution will be a Not performance related.
offered membership of a scheme which percentage of pensionable salary and complies with relevant legislation.
Where associated benefits excluding variable necessary, additional pension entitlements pay at a level that complies with local will be provided.
Benefits Benefits are paid to comply with local Benefits values vary by role and eligibility Not performance related.
Competitive in the market in which the statutory requirements and as applicable and cost are reviewed periodically.
to attract or retain executives of a suitable Increases to the existing benefits will calibre.
They include life insurance, and not normally exceed applicable inflation.
Where appropriate, Increases above this level may be applied additional benefits may be offered where appropriate to reflect changes in including, but not limited to, allowances role, scope, location and responsibility.
for accommodation, relocation, tax advice and legal advice.
Variable pay Short-Term Incentive Plan STIP Targets are set at the start of the year Maximum opportunity of 150% of salary.
To focus management on delivery of against which performance is measured.
annual business priorities which tie into The Committee determines the extent Performance measures can include the long-term strategic objectives of to which these have been achieved.
The financial, non-financial and personal the business which include but are not Committee can exercise discretion to achievement criteria measured over one limited to developing the reserve base, adjust the formulaic outcome within the financial year.
increasing production, reducing costs, limits of the plan for factors outside of reducing the risk profile of the business, management control where it believes Details of the performance measures and expanding the customer portfolio, the outcome is not truly reflective of weightings for the STIP in 2014 are set out expanding geographically.
performance or in line with overall in Part B under STIP framework for 2014.
The Committee has discretion to make The STIP does not contain claw back changes in future years to reflect the provisions.
evolving nature of the strategic imperatives that may be facing the Company.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP framework was approved by The LTIP provides for annual awards of Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to To motivate participants to deliver shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
To the performance shares and options up to the Companys relative TSR against appropriate longer-term returns to extent that an LTIP award vests, this will an aggregate limit of 200% of salary in a comparator group over a period of shareholders by encouraging them to see include the applicable dividends on the normal circumstances.
This limit may be at least three years and continued themselves not just as managers, but as shares earned during the vesting period.
exceeded in exceptional circumstances employment.
In addition, for any shares part-owners of the business.
but will not exceed 300% of salary.
to vest, the Committee must be satisfied The LTIP does not contain claw back that the recorded TSR is a fair reflection provisions.
The threshold opportunity is 20% of of Ferrexpos underlying business maximum.
Details of the performance targets for the LTIP are set out in Part B under LTIP granted in 2013.
The Committee reviews the LTIP performance conditions, in advance of granting each LTIP cycle.
Over the life of this policy relative TSR will be retained as a performance measure and will have a weighting of at least 50%.
66 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Rationale for Performance Measures The STIP is based on performance categories that are key to delivering on our long-term strategy.
Performance measures are set at the beginning of the financial year to reflect business priorities and other corporate objectives, and can include financial, non-financial and personal achievement criteria.
Performance targets are set at such a level as to be stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular strategic priorities and economic environment in a given performance period.
The STIP target is based on the annual budget approved by the Board.
Where appropriate, the Committee sets a performance zone Threshold to Stretch around the Target, which it considers provides an appropriate degree of stretch challenge and an incentive to outperform.
The Committee believes that using multiple targets for the purposes of the STIP provides for a balanced assessment of performance over the year.
For the LTIP, the Committee believes that relative TSR is the most objective external measure of the Companys success over the longer term.
Relative TSR helps align the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders by incentivising share price growth and, in the Committees view, provides an objective measure of long-term success.
The Committee has discretion to review the comparator index if any of the constituent companies is affected by corporate events such as mergers and acquisitions.
The Committee also reviews the constituents and their weightings prior to the start of each LTIP cycle in order to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Details of the comparator group will be set out in the Annual Report on remuneration for the year immediately following the year in which the grant is made.
Share Ownership Guidelines With effect from the grant of 2010 LTIP awards which vested in 2013, Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee are encouraged, in line with the growing practice among FTSE 250 companies, to build up a holding of shares of equivalent value to a years base salary in the case of Executive Directors or six months base salary for other members of the Executive Committee.
Executives will be encouraged to retain their vested LTIP shares on an after-tax basis until the applicable guideline level is achieved.
Remuneration of Senior Executives Below the Board The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of senior executives below the Board is consistent with that of the Executive Directors.
Senior executives participate in the LTIP with the same performance measures applied as for the CFO.
Long-term incentive awards may be granted to participants below the Board without performance conditions, for example, if it is considered necessary to attract executives of the appropriate calibre.
Payments Resulting from Existing Awards Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment resulting from the vesting of any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this report.
Non-executive Director Policy Table This section of our report summarises the policy for each component of Non-executive Director remuneration.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Fees To attract and retain talent by ensuring Annual fee for the Chairman.
Non-executive Director fees increases Not performance related.
fees are market competitive and reflect are applied in line with the outcome of the time commitment required of NonAnnual base fee for Non-executive the review.
executive Directors in different roles.
Additional fees are paid to the Senior Independent Director and the The maximum aggregate fees, per Chairmen of the Committees as well as annum, for all Non-executive Directors for representation on subsidiary boards, allowed by the Companys Articles of where appropriate, to reflect additional Association is 5,000,000. responsibility Fees are reviewed from time to time, taking into account the time commitment, responsibilities, and fees paid by comparable companies, and also taking into consideration geography and risk profile.
Additional fees may be payable to Non-executive Directors in exceptional circumstances, e. g. if there is a material increase in time commitment.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any incentive plans, or receive benefits or any additional elements of remuneration to that stated above.
67 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Pay-for-Performance: Scenario Analysis The CEO does not participate in any incentive plan, for the reasons stated in the introduction to this report.
Under all scenarios, therefore, his remuneration, which is donated to charity, remains as set out in Section B of this report.
For the CFO who is the remaining Executive Director, the graph below provides estimates of the potential future reward opportunity and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Below threshold, Target and Maximum.
CFO CHF000s Fixed STIP LTIP 40% 44% 16% 2,202 Maximum 55% 41% 4% Target 1,594 100% Below 872 threshold 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 In illustrating potential reward opportunities the following assumptions have been made: Scenario STIP LTIP Fixed pay 1 Maximum Maximum STIP 150% of salary Performance warrants full vesting Base salary, Target On target STIP 100% of salary Performance warrants pension, and benefits 1 threshold vesting 20% as at 1 January 2014 Below threshold No STIP payable Threshold not achieved nil 1 Excludes increase in value arising from share price growth.
Potential reward opportunities illustrated above are based on the policy which will apply in 2014, applied to the base salary in force at 1 January 2014.
For the STIP, the amounts illustrated for the CFO are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2014.
For the LTIP awards, it should be noted that the LTIP awards do not normally vest until the end of three years following the beginning of the year in which they were granted.
For the LTIP awards, the award opportunity for the CFO is assumed to remain the same number of shares as in 2013 i. e. 130,000 shares for the CFO and the face value is estimated using the average share price over Q4 2013 of 183 pence.
Remuneration Policy for New Appointments The Committees approach to setting remuneration for new Executive Directors is to ensure that the Companys pay arrangements are in the best interests of Ferrexpo and its shareholders.
To do this, the Company takes into account internal pay levels, the external market, location of the executive and remuneration received at the previous employer.
The Committee reserves discretion to offer appropriate pension and benefit arrangements, which may include the continuation of benefits received in a previous role.
Variable pay awards excluding any potential buy-out awards, described below for a newly appointed Executive Director will be as described in the Policy table, subject to the same maximum opportunities.
Different performance measures may be set initially for the STIP and LTIP awards, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual, and the point in the financial year at which he or she joined, and subject to the rules of the plan.
The rationale will be clearly explained in each case.
68 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 REMUNERATION REPORT continued In addition, the Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out existing incentive awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In such cases the compensatory award would typically be on a like-for-like basis with similar time to vesting, performance measures and likelihood of the targets being met.
The fair value of the buy-out award would not be greater than the awards being replaced.
To facilitate such a buy-out the Committee may grant a bespoke award under the Listing Rules exemption available for this purpose.
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Group will honour any contractual commitments made prior to his or her promotion to Executive Director.
In every case, the Board will pay both the appropriate but also the necessary rate of pay to attract an executive who in the view of the Board will contribute to shareholder value.
The approach to setting Non-executive Director fees on appointment is in line with the approach taken for the fee review set out in the Non-executive Director policy table earlier in this report, and will also take into account fee levels for existing Non-executive Directors.
Details of Executive Directors Service Contracts The Executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with Ferrexpo AG, a Group company the employer.
The Committee sets notice periods for the Executive Directors at 12 months or less, which reduces the likelihood of having to pay excessive compensation in the event of poor performance.
The principal terms of the Executive Directors service contracts which have no fixed term not otherwise set out in this report are as follows: save in circumstances justifying summary termination, Mr Zhevagos service contract with the employer is terminable on not less than six months notice to be given by the employer or by Mr Zhevago, and Mr Mawes service contract with the employer is terminable on not less than twelve months notice to be given by the employer or not less than six months notice to be given by Mr Mawe.
Notice period Executive Director Position Date of contract From employer From employee K Zhevago CEO 1 November 2008 6 months 6 months C Mawe CFO 7 January 2008 12 months 6 months Under the service contracts, the Executive Directors are entitled to 25 working days paid holiday per year.
The Executive Directors service contracts contain a provision exercisable at the option of the employer to pay an amount on early termination of employment equal to the respective notice period.
If the employer elects to make such a payment which in practice it will do if the speed and certainty afforded by this provision are thought to be in the best interests of shareholders, the Executive Director will be entitled under his contract to receive all components of his base salary, accrued but untaken holiday and expenses for the extent of the notice period, including for Mr Mawe a pro rated performance-related payment under the STIP where the employer terminates employment, which reflects the practice in the Group at the time when Mr Mawe was appointed.
Mr Mawes entitlement to a pro rated performancerelated payment where the employer terminates his employment will not be replicated in the service contracts of future Executive Directors.
In addition to the contractual rights to a payment on loss of office, any employee including the Executive Directors may have additional statutory and or common law rights to certain additional payments, for example in a redundancy situation.
Policy for Loss of Office Payments The following principles apply when determining payments for loss of office for the Executive Directors and any new Executive Directors.
The employer will take account of all relevant circumstances on a case by case basis including but not limited to : the sums stipulated in the service contract including base salary during his or her notice period, accrued but untaken holiday, and allowances benefits but excluding STIP, save in the case of Mr Mawe : whether the Executive Director has presided over an orderly handover: the contribution of the Executive Director to the success of the Company during his or her tenure: and the need to compromise any claims that the Executive Director may have.
The Company may, for example, if the Committee considers it to be necessary: enter into agreements with Executive Directors which may include the provision of legal fees or the settlement of liabilities in return for a single one-off payment or subsequent payments subject to appropriate conditions: terminate employment other than in accordance with the terms of the contract bearing in mind the potential consequences of doing so : or enter into new arrangements with the departing Executive Director for example, consultancy arrangements.
69 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 If the individual is considered a good leaver e. g. for reasons of death, ill-health, injury or disability: his employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group: the business or part of the business in which he is employed being transferred to a transferee which is not a member of the Group: or any other reason which the Committee in its absolute discretion permits any outstanding LTIP awards will be pro rated for time and performance conditions will be measured.
The Committee retains discretion to alter these provisions as permitted by the relevant plan rules on a case-by-case basis following a review of circumstances, in order to ensure fairness to both shareholders and participants.
In considering the exercise of discretion as set out above, the Committee will take into account all relevant circumstances which it considers are in the best interests of the Company for example, ensuring an orderly handover, performance of the executive during his tenure as Director, performance of the Company as a whole and perception of the payment amongst the shareholders, general public and employee base.
In the event of a change of control, the vesting period under the LTIP ends and awards may be exercised or released to the extent to which the performance conditions have, in the Committees opinion, been achieved up to that time.
Pro rating for time applies but the Committee has discretion to allow awards to be exercised or released to a greater or lesser extent if it considers it appropriate having regard to the circumstances of the transaction and the Companys performance up to the date of the transaction.
It is the Committees policy to review contractual arrangements prior to new appointments in the light of developments in best practice.
The Executive Directors service contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office.
External Appointments It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other quoted companies provided that they have obtained the consent of both the Chairman of the Board and which should be notified to the Board.
Details of external directorships of quoted companies held by Executive Directors, along with fees retained, are as follows: Executive Director Company Role s held Fees retained 1 2 K Zhevago New World Resources plc Non-executive Director Nil C Mawe 1 Directorship ceased 24 February 2014.
2 The fee was donated to various charities.
Details of Non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment Neither the Chairman nor any of the Non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company: however, each has entered into a letter of appointment with the Company.
The Non-executive Directors are each appointed for an initial period of three years, and their appointments may then be renewed on a three-yearly basis, subject to re-election when appropriate by the Company in general meeting: in 2011 the Company adopted the practice of annual re-election of all Non-executive Directors.
Unless otherwise determined, neither the Company nor the Director concerned may give less than three months notice of termination of the appointment.
The key terms of current letters of appointment are as follows: Non-executive Director Position Date of appointment Date of re-election M Abrahams Chairman 14 June 2007 Annual re-election O Baring Non-executive Director 1 December 2007 Annual re-election L Genovese Non-executive Director 14 June 2007 Annual re-election W Kuoni Non-executive Director 14 June 2007 Annual re-election I Mitiukov Non-executive Director 14 June 2007 Annual re-election M Salamon Non-executive Director 27 March 2009 Annual re-election Employee Context In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions throughout the Group.
Prior to the annual pay review and throughout the year, the Committee receives reports from the CEO setting out the circumstances surrounding, and potential changes to, broader employee pay.
The CEO consults as appropriate with key employees and the relevant professionals throughout the Group.
This forms part of the basis for determining increases in Executive Director and senior executive remuneration which also takes into consideration factors detailed earlier in this report.
Consideration of Shareholder Views The Committee takes into consideration views expressed by shareholders regarding remuneration, either at the AGM, one to one or group meetings and shareholder events or otherwise by considering these views at the relevant Committee meetings which are subsequently reported to and if appropriate considered by the Board as a whole.
The Committee takes shareholder feedback into careful consideration when reviewing remuneration and regularly reviews the Directors remuneration policy in the context of key institutional shareholder guidelines and best practice.
It is the Committees policy to consult with major shareholders prior to making any major changes to its executive remuneration structure.
Details of shareholder consultations carried out during the year are included below in Part B of this Remuneration Report.
70 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 REMUNERATION REPORT continued PART B: REMUNERATION IN 2013 The following section provides details of how the remuneration policy was implemented during the year.
Committee Membership in 2013 The Committee comprises four independent Non-executive Directors.
Lucio Genovese is the Chairman of the Committee, and its other members are Oliver Baring, Wolfram Kuoni and Ihor Mitiukov.
The Committee met three times during the year.
Attendance at meetings by individual members is detailed in the UK Corporate Governance Report on page 59.
A summary of the topics discussed at each meeting in 2013 is detailed below: Review of remuneration of Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee, including STIP outcomes and targets.
LTIP performance and the Companys performance compared to its peers.
General market considerations surrounding executive remuneration packages and structure.
Performance evaluation of the Committee.
The CEO usually attends meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, and the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
No Director is present when his own remuneration is being discussed.
Advisers The Committee retains Kepler Associates to provide advice on remuneration policy, with particular emphasis on the structure of long-term incentives for senior management and the provision of annual benchmark reports on executive and non-executive remuneration.
Kepler Associates is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its code of conduct.
Other than advice to the Committee no other services were provided by Kepler Associates to the Group.
The fees paid to Kepler Associates in respect of work carried out in 2013 totalled 35,765 based on time and materials.
The advice of the remuneration consultants is considered to be objective and independent based on the professional qualifications, reputation and expertise of the company involved.
The CEO provides guidance to the Committee on remuneration packages of senior executives employed by the Group but not in respect of his own remuneration.
Single Total Figure of Remuneration Audited The table below sets out in a single figure for each currency of payment the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ending 31 December 2013 and the prior year.
2 Benefits: the taxable value of benefits received in the year accommodation allowance.
3 STIP: this is the total bonus earned on performance during the year.
Further details are provided on pages 65, 67, 71 and 72.
4 LTIP: the market value of shares that vested on performance to 31 December of the relevant year 2013: 22.9% vested on performance: 2012: 91% vested on performance.
The market value is based on the share price on the respective dates of vesting: 31 December 2013 of 191.0 pence and of 31 December 2012, 251.2 pence.
Further details are provided on pages 65, 67 and 72 to 74.
5 Pension: Valued in accordance with sections 230 to 232 of the Finance Act 2004 for cash balance arrangement schemes.
Other formulae such as 20 times the increase in the value of accrued benefit over the year are not considered appropriate since this is not a classic Defined Benefit scheme see Pensions and other Benefits below, and for expatriate staff the pension is repaid as a lump sum on leaving the country.
71 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 The table below sets out in a single figure for each currency of payment the total remuneration received by each Non-executive Director for the year ending 31 December 2013 and the prior year.
All figures shown in 1 2 3 M Abrahams O Baring L Genovese W Kuoni I Mitiukov M Salamon currency of payment, US$000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Fees 500 500 200 190 230 230 265 265 150 150 150 150 STIP LTIP Pension Total 500 500 200 190 230 230 265 265 150 150 150 150 Total single currency 500 500 200 190 230 230 265 265 150 150 150 150 1 Oliver Baring receives a fee of US$150,000 p. a. as a Non-executive Director and an additional fee of US$60,000 p. a. in total increased from US$40,000 in July 2013 for his roles as Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Nominations Committee and Chairman of the Committee of Independent Directors.
2 Lucio Genovese receives a fee of US$150,000 p. a. as a Non-executive Director and additional fees of US$40,000 p. a. for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and US$40,000 for his role as a Non-executive Director of Ferrexpo AG.
3 Wolfram Kuoni receives a fee of US$150,000 p. a. as a Non-executive Director and additional fees of US$40,000 p. a. for his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee and US$75,000 for his role as a Non-executive Director and as Chairman of Ferrexpo AG.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy Salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, with reference to the individuals role, experience and performance: business performance: salary levels at relevant comparators: and the range of salary increases applying across the Group.
During the year the Committee considered pay levels against international mining comparators and other FTSE-listed companies of similar size with executives based in similar geographic locations.
Following this review the Committee decided to increase Mr Mawes salary by 2% from 1 January 2014.
Mr Zhevagos salary, which he donates to Ukrainian charities, remained unchanged at US$240,000.
Base salary at: Executive Director Position 1 January 2014 1 January 2013 Increase K Zhevago CEO US$240,000 US$240,000 0% C Mawe CFO CHF651,525 CHF638,750 2% Pensions and Other Benefits Audited The Group does not operate a separate pension scheme for Executive Directors.
Mr Mawe and Mr Zhevago are members of the Ferrexpo AG pension plan which is a mandatory insurance scheme under Swiss law, provided for all employees of Ferrexpo AG, to which the Company contributes an average of 6% of their annual base salaries.
Increase in value for 2013 Total cash Normal less Directors value at end retirement contribution of 2013 date CHF000 CHF000 K Zhevago 7.1.
27 52 425 No additional benefit is receivable should an Executive Director retire early.
Mr Zhevago is entitled to, but in 2013 made no claim in respect of, furnished accommodation in Switzerland and elsewhere in Europe if necessary for the performance of his duties, and up to US$5,000 for professional tax advice.
Ferrexpo AG provides Mr Mawe with CHF168,000 of accommodation allowance per annum which is subject to periodic review in line with CPI inflation.
Pension and other benefits will operate as set out in the Executive Director Remuneration Policy set out earlier in the report.
2013 STIP outcome audited The Company, as a single product producer of Iron Ore Pellets with a focused customer portfolio, sets its performance targets to ensure that the CFO and senior executives are motivated to enhance shareholder value in the short term but also in the long term.
As such, these targets are specific and include both financial and operational measures which by their nature are commercially sensitive.
72 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Key performance targets for 2013 were set at the start of the year for the CFO and senior executives and were weighted to reflect the contribution of the CFO to the achievement of that target.
Targets during the year related to financial performance, operational performance, safety behavioural safety initiatives and improvements in lost-time accident statistics, and project performance, as well as personal targets relating to operational and corporate development objectives.
Financial and operational targets were adjusted, as in previous years, to take account of market and raw material cost price developments and mining plans as appropriate, to the extent that these were not under the direct control of management.
Adjustments were at the full discretion of the Committee.
The level of achievement against each of the targets for FY2013 as determined by the Committee for the CFO is summarised below.
The targets themselves have not been disclosed, as the Committee considers that they are commercially sensitive.
Weighting Max bonus as Actual bonus KPI for CFO FY2013 assessment % of salary as % of salary Financial EBITDA Above target 19.7% 22.5% 33.75% NOPAT At stretch 7.5% Operational Production Between target and stretch 30% 19.2% 20% Sales volume Below threshold 0% CSR and safety 10% Between target and stretch 15% 12.5% Development projects Below target 6.3% 47.5% 71.25% Personal and governance Between target and stretch 55% Total 100% 150% 120.2% Target STIP opportunity as a percentage of salary may be varied as appropriate to take account of changes in role, responsibility or scope.
No payment is made under the STIP if performance is below threshold.
For the CFO, threshold performance earns a bonus of 50% of salary, on-target performance 100%, and stretch performance 150%.
The Committee considered the CFOs personal performance, as well as CSR and project performance, during 2013.
Taking his overall performance and taking into account specific commercially sensitive targets the Committee awarded a bonus of 120.2% of salary to theCFO.
STIP Framework for 2014 The STIP framework for 2014 is in line with the principles of the Remuneration Policy and 2013 framework.
CSR, projects and personal KPIs continue to be set as in previous years.
Mr Mawes 2014 STIP opportunity is 150% for maximum performance, and 100% of salary for target performance.
The measures and weightings for the STIP in 2014 are shown in the table below.
Due to commercial sensitivity, details of performance targets will be disclosed in arrears and in certain instances will be aggregated.
The CEO does not participate in the STIP.
Weighting KPI for CFO Financial EBITDA, NOPAT 17.5% Operational Production, sales volume 22.5% CSR and safety 10.0% Personal, projects, governance 50.0% Total 100% 2011 LTIP Award Vesting Audited The performance period for the 2011 LTIP awards ended on 31 December 2013.
The 2011 LTIP rewarded TSR outperformance of a tailored comparator group, as set out on page 73.
Under the 2011 LTIP, 20% of maximum would vest for TSR performance in line with the Index, with full vesting for TSR outperformance of 8% p. a.
The constituents of the comparator group are set out on page 73.
Brockman Resources and Xstrata were acquired during the performance period and were therefore dropped from the 2011 LTIP comparator group.
Ferrexpos TSR performance relative to the weighted index was assessed by Kepler Associates.
From 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013, outperformance of Index TSR by 0.3% p. a. resulted in 22.9% of the 2011 LTIP awards vesting.
The Committee has considered the Companys overall performance and determined that the recorded TSR outperformance was a fair reflection of Ferrexpos underlying performance over the performance period and has therefore determined, in accordance with the rules of the plan that 22.9% of the 2011 LTIP awards vested.
73 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 LTIP Granted in 2013 Audited The 2013 LTIP grant to Mr Mawe is outlined below.
Vesting for minimum performance End of Number of Face value Face value % of performance Date of grant shares % salary maximum period 1 1 C Mawe 23.04.2013 130,000 265,200 62% 20% 31.12.2015 1 Based on average share price for the last six months of 2012, 204 pence and average 2013 exchange rate of CHF1 0.673.
The Committee reviewed the constituents of the comparator index and their weightings prior to the grant of 2013 LTIP awards and dropped China Vanadium and Gindalbie Metals, and added African Minerals.
The constituents of the Index for the last three cycles are summarised in the table below: Weighting 2011 2012 2013 Focused iron ore miners 40% African Minerals Atlas Iron China Vanadium Cliffs Fortescue Metals Gindalbie Metals Kumba Iron Ore MMX Mineracao Mount Gibson Northern Iron Global diversified miners 50% Anglo American BHP Billiton Rio Tinto Vale 1 Xstrata Single commodity emerging market miners 10% African Rainbow Minerals Alcoa Alumina Aluminium Corp of China Antofagasta Boliden Eramet ENRC First Quantum Minerals Freeport McMoRan Industrias Penoles Katanga Mining Kazakhmys KGHM Polska Miedz Lundin Mining Norilsk OZ Minerals Peabody Energy Teck Cominco Vedanta Resources 1 It is intended that Xstrata will be replaced by Glencore Xstrata for future LTIP cycles.
74 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 REMUNERATION REPORT continued TSR is calculated on a common currency basis to ensure that comparisons with international comparators listed overseas are fair.
As described in previous reports, the TSR share price averaging period was extended from three to six months for LTIP awards granted in 2011 onwards to help improve the comparison of the management long-term incentive in relation to potential short-term movements in Ferrexpos share price or the share price of comparator companies.
No performance shares will vest if Ferrexpos TSR underperforms the comparator index.
20% will vest if Ferrexpos TSR is equal to Index TSR: full vesting will occur only if Ferrexpos TSR exceeds the Index by at least 8% p. a. : there will be straight-line pro rata vesting in between those points.
In addition, for any shares to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the recorded TSR is a fair reflection of Ferrexpos underlying business performance.
The vesting parameters are illustrated below.
Dividends will accrue on performance shares over the vesting period and be paid on shares that vest.
LTIP framework for 2014 This Directors Remuneration Report is published prior to the grant date of awards under the LTIP, which are normally made in April.
It is the Committees intention to grant LTIP awards in 2014 in line with the framework used in 2013.
The Committee will review the comparator group in advance of grant to ensure it remains appropriate.
Details of these awards will be set out in the next years annual report on remuneration.
Non-executive Directors Including the Chairman The Non-executive Directors fees are reviewed each year in light of the time commitment and level of involvement that Non-executive Directors are required to devote to the activities of the Board and its Committees, market practice, and surveys by Kepler Associates.
Fees payable for 2014 are: Role Annual fee Chairman fee US$500,000 Non-executive Director base fee US$150,000 Committee Chairman fee US$40,000 Senior Independent Director fee US$60,000 The Chairmans fee and the Non-executive Directors fees were last increased in 2011: the Senior Independent Director SID fee was increased from US$40,000 on 1 July 2013 the SID also chairs the Nominations Committee and Committee of Independent Directors for which he receives no separate fee.
Directors Shareholdings Audited Total interests of the Directors in office and connected persons as at 31 December 2013: At At 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 1 K Zhevago 296,077,944 300,198,313 C Mawe 208,496 142,202 M Abrahams 176,848 170,992 O Baring 20,130 20,130 L Genovese 170,556 169,568 W Kuoni 29,841 28,854 I Mitiukov 33,046 31,952 M Salamon 100,000 100,000 1 Mr Zhevago is interested in these shares as a beneficiary of the Minco Trust, which is the ultimate shareholder of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. which owns 296,077,944 shares in the Company.
Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee are encouraged to build up a holding of shares of equivalent value to a years salary in the case of Executive Directors or six months salary for other members of the Executive Committee.
Executives will be encouraged to retain their vested LTIP shares on an after tax basis until the applicable guideline level is achieved.
As at 11 March 2014, the Executive Directors shareholdings are as follows: Shareholding Current 2 requirement Subject to shareholding 1 % salary Owned outright performance % salary Guideline met?
Further details of shares subject to performance are provided below.
2 Based only on shares owned outright at 31 December 2013 and share price of 191 pence.
75 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Details of LTIP awards held by Mr Mawe which are subject to performance are provided below.
At the date of vesting 31 December 2013 the market price of a share was 191 pence.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors from the end of the period under review to 11 March 2014, being a date not more than one month prior to the date of notice of AGM.
Total outstanding i. e. awarded but not yet vested awards granted under the LTIP from its inception in 2008 until the end of 2013 are equivalent to 0.23% of issued share capital.
Exit Payments Made in Year Audited No Directors left during the year and as a result, no payments for loss of office were paid or receivable by any Director or former Director in the financial year.
Payments to past Directors Audited No payments were made to past Directors in the year.
Percentage Change in CEO Remuneration Compared to Other Employees The table below sets out the percentage increase in salary, taxable benefits, and annual bonus for the CEO between 2012 and 2013 compared to that for other employees.
Other 1 CEO employees Salary 0% 2.0% Taxable benefits -100% 0% Annual bonus n a 11.7% 1 Refers to senior executives.
Relative Importance of Spending on Pay The table below shows Ferrexpos dividend and total employee pay expenditure this includes pension and variable pay, including STIP and fair value of LTIP, but not social security for the financial years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013, and the percentage change.
Year-on-year US$ million 2013 2012 change All-employee remuneration 85 89 -4.7% 1 2,3 2 Distributions to shareholders 78 78 0% 1 Includes dividends and share buybacks.
2 Includes special dividends of US$38.7 million paid in 2013 and 2014 in respect of 2012 and 2013.
3 Assumes final dividend for 2013 is approved at the 2014 AGM.
76 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Comparison of Company Performance and Executive Director Pay The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2013, of 100 invested in Ferrexpos shares on 31 December 2008 compared with the current value of the same amount invested in the FTSE 250 Index or in the shares of the LTIP comparator group.
The FTSE 250 Index is chosen because Ferrexpo is a constituent member of this group.
Historical TSR Performance 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 31 Dec-08 31 Dec-09 31 Dec-10 31 Dec-11 31 Dec-12 31 Dec-13 Ferrexpo FTSE250 Index 2013 LTIP Index US$000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 K Zhevago Single figure total remuneration 322 341 348 291 243 STIP vesting % max K Zhevago did not participate in the STIP or LTIP LTIP vesting % max Statement of Shareholder Voting The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2011 and 2012 Remuneration Reports at the 2012 and 2013 AGMs respectively.
2012 453m 99.5% 2m 0.5% 0.5m 2013 530m 99.7% 1.5m 0.3% 0.6m Shareholder Consultation As no major changes to the Executive Director remuneration structure were considered in 2013, there was no formal consultation of shareholders: however, at shareholders request there were discussions on various aspects of remuneration during the year.
Other transactions involving Directors are set out in note 34 related parties to the financial statements.
This report was approved by the Board on 11 March 2014.
Signed on behalf of the Board Lucio Genovese Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
