Fidessa group plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 notification to the Board is required.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually.
A procedure exists to allow the directors to seek independent legal advice in respect of their duties at Fidessas expense where the circumstances are appropriate.
No such advice was sought by any director during the year.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for his advice and services.
There was a formal evaluation of the performance of the Board during 2013.
This consisted of an internally run review conducted by the Chairman with the Company Secretary.
The performance evaluation questionnaire was based on the Code process and it covered the areas of Board structure, effectiveness, Committees, information and communication.
Questionnaires were completed by the directors and submitted for discussion.
The feedback generated from the questionnaires was discussed by the Board, together with potential improvements that could be made.
The conclusion was reached that the Board is operating effectively.
An evaluation of the Chairman by the non-executive directors without the executive directors present was also carried out and it was concluded that he was performing his role effectively.
There is a formal written policy on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive such that their roles are complementary to each other.
John Hamer as Chairman is principally responsible for leading the Board, promoting constructive debate amongst the Board and facilitating communication with shareholders as well as overseeing strategy.
Chris Aspinwall as Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of Fidessas operations: he leads and develops the strategy plans for the business and identifies risk factors.
Directors undergo a full, formal and tailored induction process on joining and, following regular reviews by the Chairman of training and development requirements, receive ongoing updates to improve their skills and knowledge according to their personal and external needs.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board and updating it on governance and regulatory matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest came into effect from 1st October 2008.
The Articles of Association allow the directors to consider and if they deem fit to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Articles of Association set out the process for authorisation of such conflicts and any such conflicts will be recorded in the Board minutes and maintained on a register which will be reviewed on an annual basis by the Nominations Committee and by the Board.
No conflicts have arisen since the legislation came into effect.
Committees of the Board The constitution and responsibilities of the Boards committees are set out below.
Directors remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st December 2013.
The Committee continues to believe that a significant proportion of the remuneration for the executive directors should be performance-related.
The elements of each executives package that are performance-related are the annual cash bonus, which is directly linked to the years operating profit, and long-term share incentives.
The performancerelated elements are underpinned by a competitive salary with very limited benefits.
These principles are reflected in the remuneration policy with the focus of the performance-related elements on consistent financial performance over multiple years and the operation of shareholding guidelines providing strong alignment with Fidessas strategy and shareholders interests.
The policy has been applied consistently through the last two years and the approval of the policy at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting will continue its application through 2014.
