Fidessa group plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The individual elements of the remuneration packages offered to executive directors are set out in the table below.
Executive directors remuneration policy Salary Each executive directors salary is paid monthly and reviewed annually.
When setting salary levels the Committee takes into account an individuals experience, knowledge and performance in the role, business and individual performance, achievement of objectives, comparative salaries and periodic reviews from the Committees remuneration advisers.
In addition, the Committee considers the salary increases being provided to Fidessa employees over recent years and the period under review to take account of potential sensitivity of salary increases to executive directors.
Recent benchmarking undertaken by the Committees remuneration advisers showed that the executive directors salaries are in line with comparative salaries.
Maintaining this alignment is one of the factors the Committee takes into account when setting salary levels.
This approach should assist in the recruitment, motivation and retention of high performing individuals.
Benefits Benefits are very limited as the Committee strongly believes in focusing directors remuneration on types of remuneration that can be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Executive directors are entitled to life insurance, ill health income protection and private medical insurance.
The benefits offered may vary during the policy period but they shall not exceed those benefits generally offered to employees.
Annual The purpose of the annual bonus is to reward the performance of the executive directors based on bonus an annual business target.
It is based on financial performance measures which are reviewed annually.
The applicable sections of the Annual Report on remuneration sets out details of the performance measures and the operation of the annual bonus for both 2013 and 2014.
To be consistent with other tiers of management, the annual bonus is paid in two instalments, an interim and final bonus being paid after the half-year and final results are announced respectively.
The proportion of the bonus payable as an interim bonus is around one third of the likely annual bonus payable.
In the unlikely event that the overall amount due for the annual bonus is less than that already paid as an interim bonus, the excess is clawed back.
The rationale for the methodology is to directly align the bonus with the financial performance, whilst at the same time avoid reward for poor performance.
A component of the annual bonus may be deferred, through the use of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP, thus encouraging a longer term focus.
If an element of the annual bonus constitutes an award under the DABP, that award, together with dividends earned, will vest three years after the grant, subject to continued employment.
A summary of the DABP is set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
The Committee will take into consideration the executive directors shareholdings and existing long-term share-based incentives when determining whether deferral of an annual bonus is appropriate or not.
The maximum bonus payable is subject to an upper limit of 125% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the Finance Director.
The maximum proportion of the annual bonus that can be deferred as an award under the DABP in any year will be ordinary shares with a market value at the time of the award of 50% of the annual bonus for that year.
Fidessa group plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and corporate governance report continued Long-term Long-term incentives are an important form of overall compensation when judiciously combined incentives with other forms of remuneration.
Such incentives are also key to aligning long-term remuneration with the long-term interests of shareholders.
These incentives also encourage employee retention and consistent performance when the vesting conditions are based on average or aggregate measures over multiple years.
The EGRIP was previously the primary long-term incentive plan and all outstanding awards under that plan are now in the latter part of their measurement period.
The current primary long-term incentive plan the executive directors can receive awards from is the Performance Share Plan PSP which was overwhelmingly approved by shareholders in May 2011.
Each award from the PSP has a vesting period of four years and a performance condition related to growth in earnings per share measured over four years.
The maximum annual award under the PSP to an executive director is 500,000 based on the market value of the shares at the time of the award.
When determining the value of the awards to grant to the executive directors, the Committee takes into account, and ensures consistency with, the awards granted to other employees.
The previous share schemes in which the executive directors have an interest are the EGRIP and the Share Bonus Plan SBP.
The performance measurement period is ongoing for the 2009 and 2010 EGRIP awards and therefore awards from the EGRIP may vest during the policy period.
The final award from the SBP has vested in 2013 and all awards will be exercised or lapse during 2014.
A summary of these plans, their operation, performance conditions and clawback arrangements is set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
Pension The provision of a pension contribution may be important in helping Fidessa attract and recruit high performing individuals.
The directors are entitled to participate in a money purchase pension scheme, but the current executive directors do not participate.
The maximum contribution that Fidessa may make to a directors money purchase pension scheme shall be consistent with other employees in the same location.
In 2014, Fidessa will match the contributions of employees participating in the UK money purchase pension scheme up to a maximum of 3% of salary.
Such contribution will be taken into consideration when agreeing a directors salary so that it does not result in an inappropriate proportion of fixed remuneration.
Other The executive directors are also eligible to participate in the Share Incentive Plan SIP and Monthly Share Purchase Plan MSPP on terms that are no better than other employees.
These plans are applicable to over 90% of employees and provide a matching share for each share purchased.
The directors participation in these plans is limited to the maximum allowed in the relevant UK legislation 125 per month until April 2014 and then 150 per month thereafter.
A summary of these plans and their operation is set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
Fidessa group plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The performance measures for the annual bonus are set by reference to the financial performance as reported to the Operating Board.
When considering the relevant targets the Committee takes into account the directors on target earnings i. e. salary and bonus for the year and sets a target level that is sufficiently demanding taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time and the expected financial performance for the year.
The Committee chooses financial performance measures which are simple to operate, transparent and can be applied accurately.
The financial performance measures consist of a threshold and a sliding scale of payment once that threshold has been achieved.
In relation to the PSP the performance measure is set by reference to the growth in earnings per share which the Committee considers appropriate, as the vesting of an award requires an improvement in Fidessas financial performance.
In addition, such a measure is simple to operate, transparent and can be applied accurately.
The chart below illustrates the levels of remuneration that would be received by each executive director at different levels of performance for the first year to which the remuneration policy applies.
1,331,000 1,400 Illustration of the Chief Executive Finance Director application of 19% 1,200 the remuneration 1,042,000 policy in 2014 1.000 15% 856,000 800 45% 30% 607,000 39% 600 481,000 26% 35% 400 303,000 24% Long-term variable 100% 46% 36% 200 35% 100% 50% Annual variable 0 Fixed Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum The illustration above, which excludes benefits and awards under the SIP and MSPP as they represent a very small amounts, was calculated on the following basis: minimum remuneration is solely fixed remuneration comprising salary and benefits the current executive directors do not receive a pension contribution from Fidessa : on target remuneration comprises fixed remuneration, the anticipated annual bonus for the year calculated on principles similar to those applying in 2013 and the expected face value of PSP at the time of award for mid-point vesting: and maximum remuneration comprises fixed remuneration, the annual bonus based on the maximum multiple of salary and the expected face value of PSP at the time of awards for full vesting.
