Fidessa group plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and corporate governance report continued Service contracts non-executive directors The contract of service for John Hamer was entered into on 2nd June 1997 and the key terms are shown in the table below: Provisions Summary Term and Indefinite with six months notice from either party.
Benefits Private medical insurance, life insurance and ill health income protection.
Entitled to participate in SIP and other and receive matching shares from Fidessa in relation to that share plan.
entitlements Termination Payment in lieu of notice equal to six months pay.
Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of appointment for a term of three years that is subject to termination by either party on one months notice, except that in the case of Philip Hardaker, his term has been extended until such time as his successor has been appointed and a handover completed.
The terms commenced in: 2011 for both Philip Hardaker and Elizabeth Lake: 2012 for Mark Foster: and 2013 for Ron Mackintosh.
Remuneration policy for new directors In the event that a new executive director is appointed or a new service contract is entered into, the service contract would be subject to a notice period of not greater than 12 months with the director entitled to receive salary, bonus and benefits as well as participate in the current share plans.
The remuneration package for the new director would be set in accordance with the terms of Fidessas approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment whilst at the same time reflecting the experience and skill of the individual.
The new directors total remuneration would be consistent with comparative packages as advised by the Committees remuneration advisers and the proportions of the various elements of the remuneration package would be broadly similar to those relating to the current executive directors.
The total remuneration for a new director is not expected to be higher than the current Chief Executives total remuneration.
In the year of joining, the annual bonus and associated performance measures will be varied to reflect the part year.
In addition, when recruiting new executive directors the Committee may need to offer additional cash and or share-based elements on a one-time basis when it considers these to be in the best interests of Fidessa and its shareholders.
Such payments would be limited to the remuneration lost when leaving the former employer to take up a position with Fidessa and would reflect the delivery mechanism e. g. cash, shares, options, time horizons and whether performance requirements are attached to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of such payments at the time of appointment.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment would continue as appropriate, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that Fidessa will meet reasonable relocation expenses in line with market practice.
The appointment of non-executive directors shall be on terms substantially similar to those of the existing non-executive directors and in accordance with the remuneration policy for non-executive directors applicable at the time.
