Fidessa group plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors remuneration for the year commencing 1st January 2014 Executive directors Salary The Committee will continue to monitor the remuneration of executive directors of other companies in the IT sector and other listed companies with similar market capitalisation to ensure that the executive directors remain sufficiently rewarded to promote long-term success.
In line with the directors remuneration policy, salary for the executive directors will be the same as in 2013.
Benefits The benefits received by the directors will remain substantially unchanged from 2013, being life insurance, ill health income protection and private medical insurance.
Annual An annual bonus will be paid to the executive directors in accordance with the directors remuneration bonus policy and the operation method adopted in 2013.
The percentage payable on operating profit greater than the threshold will be set to provide a similar overall outcome and material adjustments to these parameters are unlikely.
An interim bonus payment will be made after the half year results are announced.
The performance measure for, and the operation of, the annual bonus for 2014 is not being disclosed in this report as that information is deemed to be a forecast and therefore commercially sensitive.
That information will be disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Long-term It is proposed that the Committee may approve the granting of awards to the executive incentives directors under the PSP no greater than the maximum permitted under the approved Directors Remuneration Policy and the terms of the relevant share plan.
The performance targets for awards made under the PSP will be based on the satisfaction of an earnings per share growth performance condition, as described in note 19 to the financial statements.
2009 awards under the EGRIP may vest in September 2014 subject to the performance conditions being satisfied.
Pension The directors will continue to not participate in the pension scheme.
Other The directors will continue to be awarded matching shares as a result of their participation in the SIP.
In relation to the non-executive directors, it is proposed that their fees and all other elements of remuneration remain the same as in 2013 and consistent with the directors remuneration policy.
On behalf of the Board Ron Mackintosh Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 14th February 2014
