Fidessa group plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and corporate governance report continued In 2013 the Committee continued to be cognisant of the general constraint on remuneration packages within Fidessa due to the market conditions and financial performance of Fidessa.
This sensitivity resulted in the aggregate of fixed remuneration and annual bonus reducing by 3% and 4% for the executive directors and no awards of long-term performance-related share incentives in the year.
In the year the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan EGRIP options awarded in 2008 reached the end of their measurement period and vested.
These options required three performance conditions to be satisfied and there was a material outperformance for each: the total shareholder return condition was exceeded by 11%, the earnings per share condition was exceeded by 39% and the techMARK All-Share Index was outperformed by 10%.
The general constraint on remuneration packages within Fidessa is expected to continue into 2014.
This will be reflected in the executives remuneration for the year, for whom there will be no increase in salaries, no change in benefits and the annual bonus aligned to operating profit performance in a similar way to 2013.
Ron Mackintosh Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Introduction This report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the reporting requirements of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The report has been split into two sections: the Directors Remuneration Policy, which sets out the policy on the remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors for the next three years, and an Annual Report on Remuneration, which discloses the directors remuneration for the year ending 31st December 2013.
Fidessa will be seeking shareholders support for both sections of the report at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors Remuneration Policy is intended to become effective from the 2014 Annual General Meeting and remain in place for three years.
During the period from 1st January 2014 until the Annual General Meeting, Fidessa shall follow the Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in this report.
Directors remuneration policy The Committee believes that the executive directors and senior managers should be rewarded fairly and competitively according to their performance.
This should be at a comparable level to directors in similar companies and at a level that will attract, motivate and retain individuals of an appropriate calibre to deliver Fidessas strategy and value to shareholders.
Fidessas remuneration philosophy is that a significant proportion of the remuneration of the executive directors and senior management should be performance-related, so that management is clearly focused on financial performance.
Whilst the annual bonus is focused on operating profit in the year, the long-term share-based incentives are focused on earnings per share and share price performance measured over multiple years.
The focus on financial performance avoids excessive short-term risk taking, encourages consistent performance over multiple years and aligns remuneration with Fidessas strategy and shareholders interests.
It aims to deliver value and good growth over the long-term whilst balancing the extent of caution and risk.
