Governance Directors remuneration report As the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to For the EABP that relates to the financial year 2013 14 there will be present my report for the year to 31 March 2013. no significant change to the parameters for award, with no payment being made for profit below 95% of budget and the targets for injury The Group met its financial targets for this year despite the prevention and customer service will be set to deliver year on year challenging and unprecedented headwinds we have faced.
Our improvements in these key areas.
However, having considered recovery programmes in UK Bus and First Student are on track and feedback from shareholders, in addition to the current profit targets, it is more important than ever that our remuneration policy results in a proportion of bonus will be linked to the achievement of cash the retention and continued motivation of management who have to generation targets for both Group and individual divisions in 2013 14. drive through and deliver the changes and improvements that are necessary in the business.
Our focus therefore remains on ensuring The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee also include that we have remuneration packages which attract, retain and determining targets for and payments under any performance related motivate the high calibre individuals necessary to maintain the pay scheme.
Whilst no changes were made to our LTIP metrics we Groups position as a leader in the public transportation industry.
reduced the quantum of awards made during the year by 20% to Our policy is to link a proportion of this remuneration to achievement reflect the significant reduction in the Companys share price to of demanding financial, safety, customer service and personal ensure they were not excessive.
This lowered the maximum performance targets and structure rewards to align managements entitlement which could be earned during the 2012 13 financial year interests with those of our shareholders and provide incentives to to 120% of basic salary in respect of our Chief Executive.
Given the deliver the challenging transformation plans that have been outlined capital reorganisation announced on 20 May 2013 and the earlier in this report.
forthcoming review of LTIP awards, the Remuneration Committee decided to defer making any awards until after the Company Our remuneration policy is reviewed on an ongoing basis against the announces its half year results in November 2013 and, to the extent Committees broad principles and in the light of emerging best required, shareholders will be consulted in advance about any practice in Corporate Governance.
changes that relate to the structure of the LTIP and changes to the performance conditions.
The Remuneration Committee has not changed its remuneration policy during the course of the year.
However it intends to undertake Following our annual review of Executive salaries it was determined a full review of the Executive Annual Bonus Plan EABP and Long not to award any inflationary increases to the Directors which means Term Incentive Plan LTIP during the course of 2013 14 to ensure that the Chief Executives salary has been frozen for a second that the incentive plans in place for executives remain competitive in successive year.
terms of our ability to attract, motivate and retain talented people and are aligned to the achievement of our business plans.
Professor David Begg Chairman of the Remuneration Committee FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Directors remuneration report continued This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Key matters discussed during the year Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reviewing and approving Terms of Reference Reports Regulations 2008.
It also meets the requirements of the Receiving and approving Directors pay structure Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the main and supporting principles of the Code Considering and approving the EABP 2011 12 bonus relating to Directors remuneration.
The Company complies with all of Awarding Tim OTooles EABP 2011 12 bonus waived the provisions of the Code in respect of the Directors remuneration Confirming no vesting of LTIP 2009 report.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 July 2013.
Reviewing and approving 2012 Directors remuneration report Reviewing performance targets under EABP 2012 13 The Regulations require the Companys auditors to report to the Companys shareholders on the auditable part of the Directors Reviewing performance targets under LTIP 2012 remuneration report and to state whether in their opinion that part of Discussing and approving EABP and LTIP participants and the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the good leavers Companies Act 2006.
This report has therefore been divided into Discussing further strategy proposals for EABP leaving in place separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
for 2013 14 and LTIP deferred Unaudited information Key matters discussed after year end Remuneration Committee Considering and approving the EABP 2012 13 bonus The Remuneration Committee is chaired by David Begg.
The other Awarding Tim OTooles EABP 2012 13 bonus waived members of the Committee are Colin Hood, John Sievwright and Jim Winestock who was appointed to the Committee in January Awarding Chris Surchs EABP 2012 13 bonus 2013.
Mick Barker as Group Employee Director attends meetings Confirming no vesting of LTIP 2010 at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee to represent the Groups employees.
The Chairman of the Board, as well as the Chief Reviewing and approving 2013 Directors remuneration report Executive, also attend meetings of the Committee by invitation, but Reviewing potential performance targets for EABP 2013 14 neither was present when matters relating to their own remuneration were discussed.
The Board considers each of the members of the Remuneration policy Committee to be independent in accordance with the Code.
None of Aim the members of the Committee has any personal financial interest The aim of the Committee is to design remuneration packages for the other than as a shareholder in the matters to be decided, or any Executive Directors and senior management which attract, retain and conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships or any involvement motivate the high calibre individuals necessary to maintain the in the day-to-day running of the business.
Groups position as a leader in the public transport industry.
In doing so the Committee aims to align management incentives with the The terms of reference of the Committee were updated in March interests of shareholders and the achievement of its challenging 2013 and are published on the Companys website.
Copies are business transformation plans.
In implementing its policy, the Committee has given full consideration The principal purpose of the Committee is to consider matters related to the Principles on remuneration set out in the Code.
The policy is to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior reviewed on an ongoing basis against the Committees broad management below Board level.
principles and in the light of emerging best practice in corporate governance.
The Committee met eight times during the year and all members attended each meeting held whilst they were members.
The Committee was also advised on the structuring of Directors remuneration packages and trends and best practice by Towers Watson, Mercers and Deloitte LLP.
Apart from Towers Watson acting as our consultants for the Group Employee Survey, neither Towers Watson or Mercers had any other connection with the Company.
Deloitte LLP are the Companys Auditors but have provided remuneration services in compliance with the Ethical Standards of the Auditing Practices Board which restrict the provision of certain services in order to maintain auditor independence.
Advisory partners and staff have no involvement in audit, and are not involved in the preparation of audited information.
The Committee is satisfied that the safeguards in place ensure that the remuneration advice it receives from Deloitte LLP is independent.
64 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Structure of remuneration packages The targets set in relation to non-financial performance are key There are five key elements to the executive remuneration package: strategic Group objectives that are tailored to the responsibilities of each individual Executive Director and, in aggregate, are considered basic salary and benefits in kind to be similarly challenging to the range of financial targets set.
annual cash and deferred bonus both paid under the EABP For the year under review, bonuses were payable for Group LTIP normalised profit performance against budget of between 95% and 110%.
At 95% bonus would have been assessed at nil: at 101% share schemes bonus would have been assessed at 50% and at 110% bonus would retirement benefits.
have been assessed at maximum.
Adjustments operate on a straight The Committee considers the remuneration package as a whole, line basis between these parameters.
70% of any bonus payable was balancing each of the individual elements to ensure that, overall, the dependent upon Group or, as appropriate, divisional financial remuneration received by each Executive Director is competitive but performance against target and the balance upon the achievement of not excessive, contains an appropriate balance between fixed and safety, customer service and personal objectives.
The maximum variable performance-related remuneration and that each Executive potential bonus which can be awarded to Executive Directors is 100% Director will have sufficient long term incentive to ensure that his of basic salary and 120% of basic salary in the case of the Chief interests are aligned with those of shareholders.
In addition, no bonus in respect of non-financial performance is payable unless 95% of the Groups normalised The remuneration of the Executive Directors is made up of the budgeted profit is achieved.
following components: Bonus payments comprise a mixture of cash and deferred share Basic salary and benefits in kind awards.
The share award deferral period which applies to all The basic salary and benefits in kind for each Executive Director are participants in the EABP is three years.
Share awards will lapse if the determined by the Committee for each financial year and when an relevant individual leaves the Group during the deferral period for any individual changes position or responsibility.
In determining appropriate reason other than redundancy, retirement or ill-health.
The Committee levels, the Committee considers the Group as a whole, having regard considers it is appropriate for a proportion of the annual bonus to be to the general level of pay awards around the Group, and also the taken in the form of deferred shares as this acts as a retention packages received by executives of comparable seniority, experience mechanism and also aligns the participants longer term interests with and responsibilities employed by the Companys peers in the public those of the Companys shareholders.
transport sector and other companies of comparable market capitalisation.
Details of the salaries and benefits in kind received by As the award of any bonus is already dependent on the achievement each of the Executive Directors in the year are shown on page 68. of stringent targets, the Committee considers that it is not appropriate to attach further performance conditions on vesting of the deferred At 1 April 2012 the Executive Directors salaries did not increase.
share element of any bonus other than that the relevant participant No salary increase will be paid to the Executive Directors for the remains employed by the Group and has not tendered his or her 2013 14 financial year.
resignation prior to the end of the deferral period.
Executive Annual Bonus Plan EABP Group performance against budget for the 2012 13 financial year was The Group operates a performance-related bonus plan for its 102.6%.
A bonus of 70% of salary was awarded to Tim OToole and Executive Directors and senior management under which payment of 65.8% of salary was awarded to Chris Surch.
50% of their bonus is bonuses has historically been linked to achievement of a sliding scale payable in cash with the remaining 50% in the form of deferred of challenging normalised profit targets and non-financial targets shares.
Tim OToole waived his bonus.
injury prevention, customer service and personal performance.
Where an Executive Director is also directly responsible for one or Subject to approval of the Companys shareholders at a general more operating divisions, payment of a proportion of the bonus is also meeting of the Company to be held on 10 June 2013, following linked to the profitability of those divisions.
the capital reorganisation announcement on 20 May 2013, the Remuneration Committee determined that pursuant to the rules of Each year, the Board sets challenging budget targets for the Group the EABP, a standard rights issue adjustment formula would be as a whole and for each business unit within the Group.
applied to adjust the outstanding options and or awards granted under this scheme.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 Directors remuneration report continued Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP As with the previous awards, the foregoing vesting targets for the The LTIP was established in 2008 and provides for an award of 2012 award and the level of the award as a factor of salary in relation shares, exercisable at the end of a three-year performance period to the Executive Directors were agreed by the Committee following subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and continued consultation with a number of the Companys largest institutional employment.
50% of the award is subject to growth in the Companys shareholders.
earnings per share EPS and the remaining 50% of the award is Awards will lapse at the end of the performance period to the extent subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR.
that the performance conditions have not been satisfied.
There will be Details of the vesting targets for both parts of the 2008, 2009, no re-testing.
2010 and 2011 awards were set out in previous Directors Following testing of the conditions for vesting of the 2010 award remuneration reports.
at 31 March 2013, the Committee determined at a meeting on In respect of the portion of the 2012 award which is subject to EPS 13 May 2013 that neither the EPS nor the TSR targets had been growth: met and accordingly the award has lapsed.
The awards granted in 2008 and 2009 also lapsed.
100% will vest if EPS at the end of the performance period is not less than 51.9p The Committee can set different performance conditions from those described above and may also vary or adjust the performance 25% will vest if EPS at the end of the performance period is not less conditions applying to awards which have been made to take than 43.72p account of events the Committee considers exceptional, including Between 25% and 100% will vest on a straight line apportionment technical events, such as changes in accounting standards and basis if EPS at the end of the performance period is between treatment and the takeover of a company in the TSR comparator 43.72p and 51.9p group, provided that in the opinion of the Committee the amended condition is fair and reasonable and no less challenging than the There will be no vesting if EPS at the end of the performance period original condition would have been but for the event.
The portion of the 2012 award which is subject to TSR will vest if the Generally, awards under the LTIP to any participant in any one Companys TSR over the three year performance period falls within financial year cannot exceed one and a half times basic salary at the the top half of a ranking of the TSR of the companies within a time of the award.
However, in exceptional circumstances, this may comparator group.
The TSR comparator group for 2012 was selected be increased to up to two times basic salary.
Awards under the LTIP to provide performance measurement against a group which are not pensionable.
contains the Companys industry peers and is made up of a list of those companies comprising the FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure Following the capital reorganisation which was announced on 20 May Index at the start of the performance period.
2013 the Committee decided to defer making any awards until after the Company announces its half year results in November 2013 and 100% of that portion will vest if the Companys TSR falls within the as set out in the Chairmans letter, to the extent required, shareholders upper quartile of the comparator group will be consulted in advance about any changes that relate to the 25% of that portion will vest if the Companys TSR falls at the structure of the LTIP and changes to the performance conditions.
median of the comparator group Subject to approval of the Companys shareholders at a general Between 25% and 100% will vest on a straight line apportionment meeting of the Company to be held on 10 June 2013, following basis if the Companys TSR falls between median and the upper the capital reorganisation announcement on 20 May 2013, the quartile of the comparator group Remuneration Committee determined that pursuant to the rules There will be no vesting if the Companys TSR is below the median of the LTIP, a standard rights issue adjustment formula would be of the comparator group.
66 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Share Schemes Retirement benefits Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Tim OToole is the only Executive Director who is a member of a The Company operated an ESOS up to June 2004 for Executive defined benefit Group pension scheme.
His dependants are eligible Directors and other senior management.
In common with other large for dependants pensions.
Whilst Chris Surch is not a member of the companies the Company did not grant any further awards to Executive defined benefit scheme or the Group SIPP he receives a pension Directors or senior management under the ESOS after 2004. allowance equal to 20% of his basic salary.
Both Executive Directors dependants will receive payment of a lump sum in the event of death Subject to approval of the Companys shareholders at a general in service.
Further details are set out on page 71. meeting of the Company to be held on 10 June 2013, following the capital reorganisation announcement on 20 May 2013, the Proportion of fixed and variable pay for Executive Remuneration Committee determined that pursuant to the rules of Directors 2013 the ESOS, and subject to HMRC approval, a standard rights issue A significant proportion of Executive Directors potential remuneration adjustment formula would be applied to adjust the remaining is performance related.
This comprises annual bonuses under the outstanding options previously granted under this scheme.
EABP and in the case of Tim OToole, long term incentives under the LTIP.
The fixed proportion of their overall remuneration comprises Save As You Earn SAYE Scheme base salary and pension allowance.
For Tim OToole achieving The Company operated a SAYE Scheme for eligible employees median performance, performance related pay would represent during the year under review under which options may be granted on almost 54% of total remuneration.
If performance were such that the an annual basis at a discount of up to 20% of market value.
The maximum award achievable under each variable incentive was paid, Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the current scheme performance related pay would represent approximately 70% of total but have chosen not to.
Chris Surch joined as Group Finance Director after the 2012 LTIP awards had been granted and therefore only Subject to approval of the Companys shareholders at a general participated in the EABP.
At median performance, performance meeting of the Company to be held on 10 June 2013, following related pay would represent 30% of his total remuneration.
the capital reorganisation announcement on 20 May 2013, the At maximum performance related pay would represent 45% of Remuneration Committee determined that pursuant to the rules of total remuneration.
the SAYE and subject to approval of HMRC, a standard rights issue At median At maximum adjustment formula would be applied to adjust the outstanding options granted under this scheme.
46% 54% 30% 70% Tim OToole 70% 30% 55% 45% Chris Surch Buy As You Earn BAYE Scheme The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan under the title Buy As 0% 100% 0% 100% You Earn.
The scheme, which is open to all UK employees of the % of total remuneration % of total remuneration Group, enables employees including the Executive Directors to Fixed Variable purchase partnership shares from their gross income before income tax and National Insurance deductions.
The Company provides two Shareholding guidelines matching shares for every three partnership shares, subject to a Following the establishment of the LTIP in 2008, shareholding maximum Company contribution of shares to the value of 20 a guidelines for Executive Directors were introduced.
The shares are held in trust for up to five years, in which case, Executive Directors to retain at least 50% of the shares, net of tax, no income tax or National Insurance will be payable.
The matching vesting under an LTIP award, or any other vesting of an award under shares will be forfeited if the corresponding partnership shares are any other executive share plan, or otherwise acquire shares in the removed from trust within three years from award.
Company over a period of five years until a shareholding with a market value calculated by reference to purchase price equal to 100% of basic salary is achieved.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to relax or waive the application of such guidelines in certain circumstances, including the impending retirement of any Executive Director.
As at 31 March 2013 Tim OToole had a beneficial interest in 148,438 ordinary shares and it is anticipated that he will exceed the shareholding guidelines at the end of the five year period.
Chris Surch had a beneficial interest in 30,534 ordinary shares.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Directors remuneration report continued Service agreements Non-Executive Directors It is the Companys policy to restrict notice periods for Executive All Non-Executive Directors have a letter of appointment and their Directors to a maximum of 12 months.
Tim OTooles service fees are determined by the Board based on surveys of fees paid to agreement, which is dated 25 January 2011, includes a notice period non-executive directors of comparable companies.
The appointment of 12 months by either party.
Chris Surchs service agreement, dated of each of the Non-Executive Directors is subject to early termination 1 September 2012, includes a notice period of 6 months by either without compensation if he is not re-appointed at a meeting of party.
Under both service agreements, the contracts contain a shareholders where he is up for re-election.
These letters of provision, exercisable at the discretion of the Company, to pay an appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered amount in lieu of notice on early termination of the contract.
Such office during normal business hours and will be made available for payments are limited to basic salary plus certain benefits but would inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
not include entitlement to bonus or share awards.
There are no Details of the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are set out below.
contractual provisions governing payment of compensation on early There will be no increase in such fees for the financial year that termination of the contracts.
If it becomes necessary to consider early commenced on 1 April 2013. termination of a service contract, the Company will have regard to all the circumstances of the case, including mitigation, when determining Non-Executive Directors, other than the Group Employee Director, any compensation to be paid.
cannot participate in any of the Companys share schemes and are not eligible to join a Company pension scheme.
Each of the Where Board approval is given for an Executive Director to accept an Non-Executive Directors other than David Begg and Colin Hood outside non-executive directorship, unless the appointment is in who receive all of their fees in the form of shares in the Company connection with Group business, the individual Director is entitled to has elected to receive 40% of his fees in the form of shares in the retain any fees received.
Company in order to ensure that their interests are more closely aligned to those of the Companys shareholders.
The shares are purchased on a monthly basis in the market.
Pension Compensatory Cash Benefits 1 Salary allowance payment bonus in kind Fees Total Total 2 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Tim OToole 846 133 46 1,025 1,055 3 Chris Surch appointed 1 September 2012 263 53 237 86 1 640 Non-Executive Directors Martin Gilbert 191 191 191 4 Mick Barker 53 38 91 20 David Begg 60 60 53 Colin Hood 50 50 50 John Sievwright 60 60 60 Brian Wallace appointed 1 August 2012 33 33 Jim Winestock appointed 1 August 2012 33 33 Total 1,162 186 237 86 47 465 2,183 1,429 1 The Executive Directors received the following non-cash benefits in the year: Tim OToole 12,000 car allowance, 17,771 US private medical insurance for himself and spouse and 16,065 reimbursement of advisory fees principally relating to taxation in the US and UK.
Chris Surch 768 UK private medical insurance for himself and spouse.
2 Tim OToole and Chris Surch will receive no salary increase for 2013 14.
3 As a result of Chris Surch resigning from his role as Group Finance Director at Shanks Group plc he forfeited an annual cash bonus for the financial year 2011 12 of 237,958 that would otherwise have been payable.
This has been confirmed in writing by the CEO of Shanks Group plc and the cash payment was instead paid by the Group on a comparable basis.
4 Mick Barkers earnings from the Group as an employee, including his fee as First Capital Connect FCC Employee Director, are included.
In addition he received a FCC Olympic Bonus of 500.
His earnings from the Group for the period from the date of his appointment as a Director on 1 January 2012 up to 31 March 2012, including his fee from FCC as Employee Director, which was omitted from the 2012 Annual Report, are included in the 2012 total.
68 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Total shareholder return Market price of FirstGroup plc shares The graph below shows, for the last five financial years of the The market price of FirstGroup plc shares at 31 March 2013 was Company, the total shareholder return on a holding of shares in the 201.10p and the range during the year was 175.7p to 260.50p.
Company as against that of a hypothetical holding of shares made up Directors remuneration of shares of the same kinds and number as those by reference to Details of the Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March which the FTSE 100 Index, the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All 2013 are set out on pages 68 to 71.
Share Travel and Leisure Index are calculated.
Emoluments and compensation This graph is included to meet legislative requirements.
The indices The total salaries, fees and benefits paid to, or received by, those used were selected as the Company believes that they are the most persons who served as a Director of the Company at any time during appropriate and representative indices against which to measure the the year for the period of such directorship are shown in the table on Companys performance for this purpose, particularly the FTSE All page 68.
These include any and all payments for services as a Share Travel and Leisure Index, which is the index against which the Director of the Company, its subsidiaries or otherwise in connection relative performance of half of the 2012 LTIP award is measured.
with the Directors management of the Group and also include the Total shareholder return Group Employee Directors earnings as an employee.
200 150 100 50 0 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 FirstGroup plc FTSE 100 Index Total shareholder return Total shareholder return FTSE All Share FTSE 250 Index Travel and Leisure Index Total shareholder return Total shareholder return Source: Datastream FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Directors remuneration report continued Directors share awards The outstanding share awards under the LTIP, deferred share bonus under the EABP and SAYE Scheme granted to each of the serving Directors are set out in the table below.
No price was paid for any share award.
There have been no changes to the terms and conditions of any share awards granted to Directors.
At At beginning Lapsed end of of year Granted Exercised waived year or date of during during during or date of 1 appointment the year the year the year retirement Exercise Date number of number of number of number of number of price from which Expiry Directors Scheme shares shares shares shares shares pence exercisable date 2 Mick Barker SAYE 2008 09 517 517 371 1.2.
16 5 Retention share award 2011 214,826 214,826 nil 1.11.13 N A 1 Chris Surch was appointed as Group Finance Director on 1 September 2012.
He has yet to be granted options and or awards under the Employee Share Schemes.
2 Lapsed on 1 August 2012 3 The figure shown represents the number of nil-cost share awards which were granted under the deferred share element of the EABP in respect of FY 2011, with Tim OToole electing to take all this bonus in the form of deferred shares.
Tim OToole waived any bonus for FY 2012 and also for FY 2013.
The cash value of the EABP 2013 share award to Chris Surch for FY 2013 was 86,036.
This award will take the form of a nil-cost option over shares.
The number of share awards will depend on the average of the mid-market price of ordinary shares in the five dealing days from 20 May 2013.
4 The figures shown represent the number of nil-cost share awards which were granted under the LTIP in the relevant financial year.
5 The retention share award will not vest if Tim OToole has ceased to be employed by FirstGroup or given notice of his resignation other than for certain good leaver reasons by this date.
The principal purpose of this retention share award, which was made in a prior year after consultation with a number of FirstGroups largest institutional shareholders, was the retention of Tim OToole as Chief Executive.
6 The Remuneration Committee met on 13 May 2013 and determined that the performance conditions of the LTIP 2010 had not been met.
Therefore Tim OTooles entitlement under the 2010 LTIP has now lapsed.
Subject to approval of the Companys shareholders at a general meeting of the Company to be held on 10 June 2013 following the capital reorganisation announcement on 20 May 2013, the Remuneration Committee determined that in respect of the EABP, LTIP, SAYE and retention share award, a standard rights issue adjustment formula would be applied to adjust the outstanding options and or awards under these Schemes.
70 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Retirement benefits Details of the retirement benefits for each of the Directors are set out in the table below: Directors contributions Transfer during the value year for Increase of increase Increase relevant Accrued in accrued in accrued Transfer Transfer in transfer defined pension Increase pension pension value at value at value, less benefit at 31 March in accrued net of net of 31 March 31 March Directors 1 3 2 1 scheme 2013 pension inflation inflation 2012 2013 contributions Directors Tim OToole 15,417 7,191 2,788 2,665 54,129 85,402 146,347 45,528 4 Chris Surch 1 Only Tim OToole participated in a defined benefit pension scheme during the year.
The defined benefit Directors contributions in the table above have been paid via salary sacrifice by the Director with an equivalent contribution being paid directly to the pension scheme by the Company.
The Group operates a number of pension schemes.
Tim OToole participates in a final salary arrangement, restricted through a scheme earnings cap, which is not limited in membership to Executive Directors.
This closed to new members in 2011.
2 The inflation assumption is 2.79% using the annual change in CPI as at February 2013.
3 The accrued pension at 31 March 2013 for Tim OToole is based on the actual final pensionable salary at that date.
A three year average of pensionable salary is normally used.
As Tim OToole has not yet completed three years service, the final pensionable salary has been averaged over two complete years.
4 Chris Surch is not a member of the defined benefit scheme.
A pension allowance is calculated for each Director as 20% of their basic salary in excess of the scheme earnings cap, or 20% of basic salary for those employed after 1 April 2011.
For Tim OToole 9,222 was paid into the Group SIPP with 133,092 being paid as a salary supplement.
Chris Surch did not participate in the Group SIPP and a salary supplement of 52,500, calculated at 20% of his basic pro rata salary, was paid to him.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, on 20 May 2013 and signed on its behalf by: Professor David Begg Chairman of the Remuneration Committee FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71
