Directors remuneration report 2014 REMUNERATION THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The committee had two strategic issues to manage during the year.
The development of a remuneration policy for approval by our shareholders and the creation of a new long-term incentive plan given the impending expiry of the plan approved in 2004.
The policy is presented on pages 65 to 72 of this report.
The proposed Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is presented on pages 66 and 67 as well as page 78 of this report and a summary of its rules is contained in the Appendix to the Explanatory Notes to the AGM notice on pages 156 and 157.
While the policy will not formally take effect until approved by the shareholders at the AGM on 5 June 2014, we intend to operate within that policy beginning immediately.
The committee consulted with 15 of the companys largest shareholders and a number of key shareholder representative bodies Mark Elliott in the development of both the policy and the LTIP.
In particular the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee new LTIP was altered to refl ect: a desire for greater transparency in the way EPS is calculated a change in our TSR comparator group a desire to alter the metrics so that EPS is balanced with TSR and DEAR SHAREHOLDER, a third metric aligned with our strategy.
We selected a cash fl ow metric which aligns with our strategic intent to reduce debt and In what has been a year of great change for the group, the to invest in organic growth Remuneration Committee has dealt with both the activities that occur in the normal course of events and those driven by changes an increase in the shareholding requirement for executive directors.
We believe the result is a plan which is better aligned with our strategy and with shareholder interests.
COMMITTEE OPERATIONS The committee believes the proposed policy and plan outlined in this As announced in last years report, Lord Condon retired from the report will allow us to attract and retain top talent for executive roles board at the AGM held on 6 June 2013 and thus I assumed the role and will incentivise behaviour and performance aligned with of chairman of the committee.
In addition, Winnie Fok joined the our strategy and shareholder interest.
As part of the annual salary review process, the committee determined As is best practice, the committee performed a formal review of its that the CEOs salary would be increased to 890,000 with effect from performance by collecting feedback from committee members and 1 January 2014.
Salaries for other executive directors were unchanged.
those associated with committee proceedings.
In summary, the review An illustration of the effect of our remuneration policy during 2014 can found that the committee performed well but that we have the be found on page 71 of the following report.
opportunity to improve in a few key areas such as greater involvement in the operation of incentives schemes across the group and in PAY DURING 2013 engagement with all of our stakeholders.
We developed plans to enhance our performance and will monitor our improvement in The committee was involved in approving the terms agreed with those areas as part of this review.
Messrs Buckles and Dighton upon their departure during the year and the employment terms for their replacements.
The terms agreed In addition, we regularly review our terms of reference to determine with Messrs Buckles and Dighton simply refl ected their contractual if they continue to refl ect best practice.
We have recommended to the entitlements.
There were no additional payments nor was there any board minor updates to refl ect our intent to more closely monitor accelerated vesting of outstanding awards.
Further details are set out variable pay plans across the organisations top 220 senior managers.
Our terms of reference continue to be available on our website.
In recruiting new executives the committee considered a number of The committee executed a formal review of its advisers in September factors including external market practice, internal relativities, individual and saw presentations and terms from three fi rms.
We selected experience, expertise and the requirements of the role.
In the case Deloitte to become our new advisers effective from October 2013. of Ashley Almanza he was fi first recruited as the chief fi financial offi cer from 1 May 2013 and was awarded a salary commensurate with the position and variable compensation and benefi ts as refl ected in our policy.
When he was promoted to chief executive in June 2013, his base salary, benefi ts and variable compensation were increased to refl ect his additional responsibility.
No further payments were committed or made.
64 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Following Ashleys promotion to chief executive offi cer, Himanshu Raja OUR REMUNERATION POLICY was recruited as chief fi financial offi cer.
His base pay is equal to that paid The committee reviews the companys remuneration policy for to Ashley Almanza whilst he was chief fi financial offi cer.
directors regularly to ensure that it remains aligned with the companys The directors service contracts are available for inspection by strategic objectives, in line with best practice and suitable to attract and shareholders.
retain high calibre individuals whilst rewarding performance fairly.
No bonuses were paid to executive directors in March 2013 for the When reviewing and setting the policy, the committee takes account year 2012.
Having reviewed performance for 2013, Grahame Gibson, of the overall approach and structure of employee reward across the Regional CEO Americas was awarded a bonus of 103,000 and group, pay decisions for the wider workforce as well as the results of the committee used some discretion to determine that bonuses relevant benchmarking data.
It is the committees intention that pay of 648,000 and 234,375 will be paid to Ashley Almanza and should also refl ect responsibility attached to the role fulfi lled, individual Himanshu Raja respectively, in recognition of their signifi cant business performance and other relevant market information.
Shareholders are achievements since joining the group.
consulted from time to time on the remuneration policy, for example where a signifi cant change to the policy is proposed.
In Ashley Almanzas case, he assumed the role of CEO in a time of great uncertainty.
The board asked him to focus on identifying root When setting the policy, the committee is mindful of the need to have causes of issues that had led to our profi t warning in May and to a remuneration framework which not only provides the ability to prioritise the correction of those issues in a sustainable manner.
We attract and retain high calibre executives but also motivates executives asked him to stay equally balanced on delivering quality underlying and rewards the delivery of superior performance.
The strong link operating results that would set the foundation for sustainable growth between executive reward and the groups performance: alignment of going forward.
Given his assumption of the CFO role in May and then the interests of the executives and the shareholders: and provision of the CEO role in June, the committee concluded that the underlying incentive arrangements which focus appropriately on both annual PBITA of 442 million, as presented in the results, was at target for and longer-term performance are at the heart of the policy.
Overall, the fi financial portion of his bonus.
For the portion of his bonus based the committee remains intent on achieving remuneration levels which on non-fi financial objectives, the committee, and indeed the whole provide a market competitive base salary with the opportunity through board, was highly satisfi ed with the rate and pace of progress and the the companys incentive schemes to achieve earnings commensurate committee therefore awarded him the maximum quantum.
The bonus with the delivery of superior performance.
was prorated to refl ect his nine months of employment by the group The policy on remuneration of directors is set out on pages 66 which resulted in the 648,000 payment.
to 72 and a separate resolution to approve this will be put to the In Himanshu Rajas case, given he did not join until October, the shareholders at the companys annual general meeting on 5 June 2014. committee concluded that his prorated bonus would be awarded based on a set of non-fi financial objectives that again addressed the immediate need to deal with underlying fi financial and risk management processes in a manner that would correct root cause issues uncovered during 2013.
Again the board and the committee were highly satisfi ed with the signifi cant progress he made in three months.
Therefore we judged his performance to deserve a maximum prorated bonus of 234,375.
In accordance with the plan rules a portion of these bonus payments will be deferred for three years and paid in shares.
In Grahame Gibsons case, there was no payment for the fi financial portion of his bonus, since his fi financial targets were not achieved.
However, he met a number of his non-fi financial objectives in relation to talent management, succession planning, portfolio management and in preparing our US businesses for the introduction of the Affordable Care Act.
Therefore, Grahame was awarded a bonus of 103,000 payable in cash.
More information can be found on the committees deliberations of these bonuses on page 73 of the report.
Executive directors are also eligible for long-term incentive awards although there was no vesting in relation to the awards made in 2010 and 2011 which would have vested in March 2013 and March 2014 respectively.
We hope that you fi nd this years remuneration report informative and that we will enjoy your support on all of the remuneration-related votes at the 2014 AGM.
Mark Elliott Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 31 March 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 65 Directors remuneration report continued FUTURE POLICY TABLE This remuneration policy will be effective from the day after the 2014 AGM.
Remuneration policy for executive directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation BASE PAY Base pay is set at competitive Reviewed annually and fi xed for 12 months commencing 1 January.
Interim salary reviews may be carried out following signifi cant changes in role, levels in order to recruit and scope or responsibility or at any other time at the committees discretion.
retain high calibre executives The fi final salary decision may also be infl uenced by role, experience, individual and company performance, internal relativities and increases for with the skills required in group employees.
order to manage a company of the size and global footprint of G4S.
The level of pay will refl ect a number of factors including individual experience, expertise and role.
BENEFITS As with base salary, a suitable Executives are entitled to a number of benefi ts comprising paid holiday, healthcare for themselves and their family and life insurance of up to four times range of benefi ts is made base salary, car allowance, business-related transport, limited fi financial advice from time to time, expatriate benefi ts where relevant.
A relocation available in order to recruit allowance refl ecting reasonable costs actually incurred will be paid.
Other benefi ts may be granted at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
and retain high calibre Reasonable business expenses in line with G4S expenses policy e. g. travel accommodation and subsistence will be reimbursed and in some instances executives.
the associated tax will be borne by the company.
ANNUAL BONUS Rewards the achievement of Awarded annually based on performance in the year.
Targets are set annually and relate to the group and or the business managed by the executive.
annual fi financial and strategic Bonus outcome is determined by the committee after the year end, based on annual performance against targets.
business targets and delivery of personal objectives.
Bonuses are paid in cash, but executives are required to defer any bonus payable in excess of 50% of their maximum bonus entitlement into shares.
Deferral is for a minimum period of three years.
Dividends or equivalents accrue during the deferral period on deferred shares.
Deferred element encourages long-term Bonuses are not pensionable.
shareholding and discourages excessive risk taking.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN NEW Incentivises executives to Executive directors are granted awards on an annual basis, which vest over a period of at least three years subject to continued service and achieve the companys the achievement of a number of currently three key performance measures.
long-term fi financial goals The Remuneration Committee reviews the quantum of awards to be made to each executive each year to ensure that they remain appropriate.
as well as focus on value creation, whilst aligning the Dividends or equivalents accrue during the vesting period on awards that vest.
interests of executives with those of shareholders.
The award is settled by the transfer of market-purchased shares to the executive directors.
All the released shares after tax must be retained until the minimum shareholder requirement is met.
Currently, the minimum shareholding requirement is 200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% for the other executive directors.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS As with base salary and other G4S operates a defi ned contribution group-wide personal pension plan in the UK in which executives may participate.
Alternatively, G4S may provide benefi ts, making available a a cash allowance in lieu of a contribution into such plan.
suitable retirement benefi ts The current executive directors receive cash allowances.
The CEO receives 25% of base pay as a cash allowance: the CFO receives 20% of base pay package aids the recruitment and the other executive director receives 40% of base pay, refl ecting his historic participation in a defi ned benefi ts plan which has been closed.
and retention of high calibre executives, allowing such The level of award is kept under review by the committee and is intended to be broadly market comparable for the roles.
executives to provide for their retirement.
66 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Maximum opportunity Performance measures and clawback Actual base pay for each executive director is disclosed each year in the None, although individual performance may have a bearing on salary increases.
In determining salary increases, the committee considers market salary levels including those of appropriate comparator companies.
Ordinarily, annual salary increases would be no more than the average annual increases across the group.
However, in exceptional circumstances a higher level of increases may be awarded, for example: following a signifi cant change to the nature or scale of the business: or following a signifi cant change to the nature or scope of the role: or for a new appointment, where the base pay may initially be set below the market level and increased over time, as experience develops and with reference to the individuals performance in the fi first few years in the role.
Where exceptional increases are made we will fully disclose and explain the rationale for such increases.
Maximum benefi ts per director per annum: None.
holidays 30 days car allowance 20,000 business-related local transport 40,000 for fi financial advice, expatriate benefi ts and relocation expenses, the expense will refl ect the cost of the provision of benefi ts from time to time but will be kept under review by the committee other benefi ts granted at the discretion of the committee up to 3% of base pay per annum per director reasonable business expenses which are reimbursed are not subject to a maximum, since these are not a benefi t to the director.
Any allowance in relation to relocation will provide for the reimbursement of reasonable costs incurred.
Maximum opportunity of 150% of base pay per annum for the CEO and Typically, executive directors bonus measures are weighted so that: the CFO.
between 70% and 85% of the bonus is based on achievement of challenging fi financial performance 125% of base pay per annum for any other executive director.
measures e. g. profi t before tax and amortisation, organic growth, cash fl ow measures, etc.
with each measure operating independently of the others: and the remainder is linked to personal and or non-fi financial measures, which are strategic or operational in nature.
Each year, the committee may use its discretion to vary the exact number of measures as well as their relative weightings, and this will be disclosed in the annual remuneration report.
As a result of the number of factors taken into account in determining bonus, there is no minimum pay-out level.
For illustrative purposes, in the event that only threshold has been achieved, pay-out would be 35% of maximum, rising to full pay-out should achievement of a stretch performance level be achieved for all measures assuming the non-fi financial performance measures were satisfi ed.
The deferred element of the bonus is not subject to any further performance measures but is subject to claw-back in certain circumstances.
The non-deferred part of the bonus, which is settled in cash, is also subject to claw-back see separate section below on page 68.
Maximum opportunity of 250% of base pay per annum for the CEO.
Awards vest based on performance over a period of at least three fi financial years commencing with the fi financial year in which the award is made.
Maximum opportunity of 200% of base pay per annum for the other executive directors.
Performance will be measured based on a combination of earnings per share growth, total shareholder return against a comparator group and average operating cash fl ow.
For awards made in 2014, these will be in the proportion of 40%, 30% and 30% respectively.
However, the committee retains the fl exibility to amend these proportions, provided that no single measure will be a signifi cantly greater proportion than the others.
At threshold, 25% of the relevant portion vests.
This increases on a straight-line basis up to 100% for performance in line with maximum.
Targets are set out on page 78.
Awards are subject to claw-back in certain circumstances see separate section below on page 68.
Maximum opportunity of up to 25% of base pay for the CEO and 20% for None the other executive directors save that 40% of base pay per annum is payable to Grahame Gibson.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 67 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy for non-executive directors Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity CHAIRMANS FEE To attract and retain a high calibre chairman by offering The chairmans fee is disclosed each year in the Ordinarily, any increase of the chairmans fee would be in a market competitive fee, which also refl ects the Directors remuneration report.
The fees are reviewed line with increases for similar roles in other companies responsibilities and time commitment.
There are no annually by the committee.
The annual fee is an allFees payable to the chairman and other non-executive performance-related elements.
The committee retains directors in aggregate per annum shall not exceed the the discretion to review the chairmans fee at any other maximum specifi ed in the companys articles of association time if appropriate.
The chairmans fee are reviewed against those of other companies of a similar size.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES EXCLUDING THE CHAIRMAN To attract and retain high calibre non-executive directors NED fees including any additional fee for any additional Ordinarily, any increase of the non-executive directors fees NEDs by offering market competitive fees which role listed below are disclosed each year in the would be in line with other increases for similar roles in should refl ect the responsibilities and time commitment.
There are no performance related elements.
With the exception of the chairman, the fees for NEDs Fees payable to non-executive directors including the are structured by composition build-up consisting of: chairman in aggregate per annum shall not exceed the maximum specifi ed in the companys articles of association a base fee for the relevant year.
an additional fee for chairing a committee an additional fee for the role of deputy chairman an additional fee for the role of senior independent director The non-executive director component fees are reviewed annually by the executive directors.
The board retains the discretion to review the NED fees at other times, as appropriate, to refl ect any changes in responsibilities or commitment.
The basic fee covers committee membership and each NED is expected to participate in one or more board committees.
All the fees are reviewed against those of other companies of a similar size.
BENEFITS Benefi ts may be provided from time to time in Reasonable business expenses in line with G4S expenses Reasonable business expenses which are reimbursed are connection with the chairman and other NEDs policy e. g. travel accommodation and subsistence will be not subject to a maximum, since these are not a benefi t performing their roles, such as business travel, reimbursed and in some instances the associated tax will to the director.
subsistence and entertainment, accommodation be borne by the company.
Benefi ts and expenses will refl ect the actual cost of and professional fees for tax and social security the provision.
compliance, and other ancillary benefi ts.
Notes to the future policy table In particular, awards made under the previous Performance Share Plan will continue to vest in accordance with the rules of that plan and to 1.
Performance measures the extent that the relevant performance tests are met.
Details of the Annual Bonus Plan The actual performance measures and targets vesting of the awards will be published in the annual remuneration are set by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year.
The performance measures used for our annual bonus plan have been selected to refl ect the groups key performance indicators.
The The non-executive directors do not participate in any incentive committee aims to ensure that the measures appropriately encourage schemes nor do they receive any benefi ts other than those referred the executive directors to focus on the companys strategic annual to in the above table.
priorities, whilst the targets are set to be stretching but achievable.
Changes in period The aim is to strike an appropriate balance between incentivising annual During 2013, a new CEO and CFO were appointed.
No changes fi financial and strategic business targets, and each executive directors key were made to the remuneration policy in effect during the previous role specifi c objectives for the year.
year and the new CEO and CFO were recruited in line with the existing remuneration framework.
Without the infl uence of the historic Long Term Incentive Plan In choosing the performance measures for participation in a defi ned benefi t scheme, the new hires were recruited the proposed new Long Term Incentive Plan, the committee aims to on a lower pension cash allowance than the previous CEO and CFO.
fi nd a balance of measures which refl ect the companys long-term fi financial goals as well as incentivise executives to create sustainable, 3.
Malus and claw-back mechanisms long-term value for shareholders.
Since 2010, any cash and or shares awarded under the annual bonus plans and the current Performance Share Plan may be subject to Legacy plans The committee reserves the right to make any claw-back.
The proposed new Long Term Incentive Plan and the current remuneration payments including payments for loss of offi ce annual bonus plan may be subject to malus or claw-back from the notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above executive director concerned if the Remuneration Committee so where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy determines and, in the case of misstatement of accounts, where the came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not Audit Committee concurs.
The time period in which the claw-back can a director of the company and, in the opinion of the committee, the be operated depends on the reason for the overpayment.
Please see payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a the explanatory table on page 69. director of the company.
For these purposes, payments may include the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration.
In cases where all or a part of the variable remuneration award was in the form of shares, the payment terms are those agreed at the time the award was granted.
68 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Annual Bonus Plan including deferred elements LTIP 2013 Plan 2014 Plan Current PSP rules Proposed new LTIP Material misstatement of group up to 2 years after the up to 2 years after the up to 2 years after up to 2 years fi financial accounts payment of the cash payment of the cash vesting except where after vesting element regardless element due to fraud or reckless of the reason behaviour when it shall be 6 years after vesting Misconduct up to 6 years after up to 6 years the payment of the after vesting cash element Fraud unlimited unlimited The amount to be clawed back directly from the executive director will SERVICE CONTRACTS be the overpaid amount, but the Remuneration Committee retains the Shareholders are entitled to inspect copies of executive directors discretion to claw-back the net i. e. post-tax amount of the award service contracts at the companys head offi ce and annually at received by the executive director.
Executive directors service contracts all have the following features: PRINCIPLES AND APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT AND INTERNAL PROMOTION OF DIRECTORS Contracts are drafted in line with best practice at the time the executive directors were appointed When hiring a new executive director, or promoting to the board from within the group, the committee will offer a package that is suffi cient Terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
to retain and motivate and, if relevant, attract the right talent whilst Specifi c provisions for Ashley Almanza and Himanshu Rajas contracts at all times aiming to pay no more than is necessary.
Ordinarily, dated 2013 that are not in Grahame Gibsons contract dated remuneration for a new executive director will be in line with the 2006 include: policy set out in the table above.
However, discretion may be required for exceptional circumstances such as dealing with remuneration Following board approval, Ashley Almanza is allowed to hold two external non-executive appointments he is currently a nonrelinquished in a previous job.
The maximum level of on-going variable pay that may be awarded to new executive directors on recruitment executive director of Noble Corporation and of Schroders plc and retain the fees paid directly to him for the appointments.
or on promotion to the board shall be limited to 400% of base salary as set out in the policy table above calculated at the date of grant, Himanshu Raja is allowed to hold one external non-executive appointment and retain any fees paid directly to him for the excluding any buy-out awards see below.
Remuneration and any buy-out arrangements will be announced as far as possible at the time appointment.
Grahame Gibsons contract does not specifi cally deal with NED positions, which will therefore be subject solely a new executive director or chairman is appointed, or in the following Directors remuneration report.
When determining the remuneration of a newly-appointed Mitigation obligations on termination payments are explicitly included executive director, the Remuneration Committee will apply the in the 2013 contracts.
Notice payments for Ashley Almanza are following principles: payable monthly and those for Himanshu Raja are payable in two six monthly instalments payable in advance.
The on-going remuneration package to be designed in accordance with the policy table above There are no express mitigation provisions in Grahame Gibsons contract.
New executive directors will participate in the Annual Bonus Scheme and Long Term Incentive Plan on a similar basis to existing Non-executive directors letters of appointment: executive directors Appointment is subject to the provisions of the articles of association of the company, as amended from time to time regarding The Remuneration Committee shall have discretion to grant one-off cash or share-based awards to executive directors where appointment, retirement, fees, expenses, disqualifi cation and removal of directors it determines that such an award is necessary to secure the recruitment of that executive director and where it is in the best All continuing non-executive directors are required to stand for interests of the company to do so.
Such awards would only be made re-election by the shareholders at least once every three years, as compensation for remuneration relinquished under a previous although they have agreed to submit themselves for re-election employment i. e. buy-out arrangements and would be intended to annually in accordance with the 2012 UK Corporate mirror forfeited awards as far as possible by refl ecting the value, Governance Code nature, time horizons and performance measures attached.
In such Initial period of appointment is two years circumstances, the company will disclose a full explanation of the detail and rationale for such one-off award All reasonably incurred expenses will be met In certain circumstances, it may be necessary to buy out long notice Fees are normally reviewed annually.
periods of previous employment With regard to internal promotions, any commitments made before LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENT promotion and unconnected with the individuals promotion may The duration of the notice period in each of the executive directors continue to be honoured even if they would not otherwise be contracts is 12 months.
consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfi lled The Remuneration Committee would consider the application of For external and internal appointments, the Remuneration mitigation obligations in relation to any termination payments where Committee may agree that the company will meet certain relocation such provisions exist in the executive directors contract.
expenses including legal fees, as set out in the policy table The contracts do not provide for the payment of a guaranteed bonus In determining the approach for all relevant elements, the in the event of termination.
Directors other than Himanshu Raja will Remuneration Committee will consider a number of factors, not be eligible for bonus accrual during any period of garden leave.
including but not limited to external market practice, current In the case of Himanshu Raja, his contract provides for such accrual arrangements for existing executive directors and other although any level of payment would depend on the discretion of the internal relativities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 69 Directors remuneration report continued The value of the termination payment would cover the balance of any salary and associated benefi ts payments due to be paid for the remaining notice period, the value of which will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee would also retain the discretion to make appropriate payments necessary to fi nalise any settlement agreement, but in exercising such discretion the Remuneration Committee will remain mindful to ensure that there is no reward for failure.
The fees for outplacement services and reasonable legal fees in connection with advice on a settlement agreement may be met by the company.
The table below illustrates how each component of pay would be calculated under different circumstances: Automatic good leaver Plan categories Treatment for good leavers Treatment for other leavers Annual bonus cash element All leavers other than Executive directors may receive Bonus opportunity will lapse.
voluntary resignation and a bonus to be paid on the summary dismissal normal payment date and in accordance with the agreed performance measures but reduced pro-rata to refl ect the time employed.
Annual bonus deferred share element Injury, disability or ill health Deferred shares may be Deferred share awards released if the executive shall lapse.
Redundancy director ceases employment prior to the third anniversary Retirement as a result of one of the good Death leaver reasons.
Termination without cause Change of control or sale of employing company or business Any other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee Performance Share Plan current Injury, disability or ill health Awards will vest on the relevant Awards will lapse.
vesting date on a timeRedundancy apportioned basis, unless the Remuneration Committee Retirement determines otherwise, and Death subject to the achievement of the performance measures.
Change of control or sale of employing company or business Any other circumstances, provided that the Remuneration Committee considers there are exceptional circumstances Long Term Incentive Plan new Injury, disability or ill health Awards will vest on the relevant Awards will lapse.
vesting date on a timeRetirement apportioned basis, unless the Remuneration Committee Redundancy determines otherwise, and Death subject to the achievement of performance measures at the Change of control or sale relevant vesting date.
of employing company or business The vesting date for such awards will normally be the Any other circumstances original vesting date, unless at the discretion of the otherwise determined by the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee.
As directors may leave employment for a wide range of reasons, the CORPORATE ACTION Remuneration Committee retains discretion to approve payments If the company is subject to a change in control, the current where the reason for leaving does not fall precisely within the Performance Share Plan and the proposed new Long Term Incentive prescribed good leaver category.
The committee will take account of Plan provide that awards will vest subject to the performance targets the directors performance in offi ce and the circumstances of their exit.
having been satisfi ed up to the date of the change of control and, unless The committee will seek to balance the interests of shareholders, the the committee determines otherwise, time pro-rating.
On a variation of departing director and the remaining directors.
Any awards subject to share capital, other reorganisation of the company, or a demerger of a performance conditions would be assessed at the end of the relevant substantial part of the groups business, the committee may make such period and be subject to time apportionment.
adjustment to awards as it may determine to be appropriate.
70 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Illustrations of application of remuneration policy ASHLEY ALMANZA HIMANSHU RAJA GRAHAME GIBSON 000 000 000 5,000 5,000 5,000 4,754 47% 4,000 4,000 4,000 3,084 3,036 3,000 3,000 3,000 2,551 41% 41% 22% 2,000 28% 2,000 2,000 1,805 1,724 31% 18% 26% 18% 31% 1,194 1,000 1,005 27% 1,000 1,000 33% 849 100% 47% 25% 56% 33% 100% 100% 49% 28% 0 0 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum performance performance performance performance performance performance Fixed pay Fixed pay Fixed pay Annual bonus Annual bonus Annual bonus Long-term incentive Long-term incentive Long-term incentive Regional CEO CEO CFO Americas Base pay as at 1 January 2014 890,000 625,000 639,483 Benefi ts 81,408 98,716 110,152 Pension 222,500 125,000 255,793 Total fi xed pay 1,193,908 848,716 1,005,428 The base pay for the Regional CEO Americas is calculated using average exchange rates over 2013.
The benefi ts fi gures include taxable business expenses and the associated tax and NIC payable by the company.
The bar charts above set out the effect of the executive directors remuneration policy as it will apply in 2014 and based on the assumptions set out below: Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed pay Consists of total fi xed pay including base salary, benefi ts and retirement benefi ts Base salary salary effective as at 1 January 2014 Benefi ts amount received by each executive director in 2013 including business expenses classifi ed by HMRC as benefi ts but which the company does not consider to be benefi ts in the ordinary sense Retirement benefi ts 25% of salary for Ashley Almanza, 20% of salary for Himanshu Raja and 40% for Grahame Gibson Annual bonus No payout 60% of the maximum payout 100% of the maximum payout i. e. 90% of salary for Ashley i. e. 150% of salary for Ashley Almanza and Himanshu Raja Almanza and Himanshu Raja and 75% of salary for and 125% of salary for Grahame Gibson Grahame Gibson Long-term incentives No vesting 25% vesting under the LTIP 100% of the maximum payout i. e. 62.5% of salary for Ashley i. e. 250% of salary for Ashley Almanza and 50% of salary Almanza and 200% of salary for Himanshu Raja and for Himanshu Raja and Grahame Gibson Grahame Gibson Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 71 Directors remuneration report continued STATEMENTS OF CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP The structure of the executive directors pay policy is generally in line with the policy for remuneration of the senior management within the group, though the levels of award will be different.
The performance measures that apply in the variable element of the remuneration will refl ect the relevant areas of responsibilities.
There may be one-off awards for retaining scarce and critical individuals below board level.
Remuneration of employees globally will depend on local regulation and practice, taking any collective bargaining agreements into account, where they exist.
Elements of remuneration Availability Fixed Base salaries Available to all employees worldwide Pensions Available to most employees in developed markets Variable Annual bonus Available to all senior managers worldwide Long-term incentive plan Available to some senior managers worldwide Benefi ts Car or car allowance Available to all senior managers worldwide Protection insurance Available to most employees in developed markets Private Healthcare Available to all senior managers and above worldwide Across the group the company seeks to pay competitively, taking STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF into account external benchmarking and internal moderation at SHAREHOLDER VIEWS each level to ensure that remuneration is in line with market practice.
We are committed to consulting with our top shareholders on key When determining base salary increases for executive directors, the remuneration issues and we would usually seek to consult prior to Remuneration Committee pays particular attention to the data at any major change in policy or practice.
This helps us to understand any senior manager level.
potential concerns our shareholders may have, and take any views on At G4S, the Remuneration Committee does not normally consult board.
In 2013 and early 2014, we consulted with some of our largest directly with employees as part of the usual process of determining the shareholders and certain shareholders representative bodies in respect remuneration policy and pay decisions for executive directors and has of the proposed new LTIP and the directors remuneration policy.
not therefore done so in setting this remuneration policy.
However, Details of the consultation are provided in the Chairmans statement employee surveys are carried out biennially to determine employees section of this report.
views of their own pay and benefi ts, as well as those of colleagues Furthermore, our Remuneration Committee chairman will be available in general.
to answer any questions and listen to the views of our shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION Executive directors The following table shows a single total fi gure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2013 fi financial year for each executive director, together with the comparative fi gures for 2012.
Aggregate executive directors emoluments are shown in the fi final column of the table.
For Ashley Almanza, this includes the period from 1 April 2013 when he commenced employment and when he was Group CFO from 1 May 2013 during which time his base pay was 625,000 per annum prior to his appointment as Group CEO from 1 June 2013 when his base pay increased to 850,000 per annum.
For Trevor Dighton, this includes the period when he was an executive director, to the AGM held on 6 June 2013.
Payments made after that date are shown on page 76. c. For Nick Buckles, this is up to 31 May 2013.
Payments made after that date are shown on page 76. d. For Himanshu Raja, this was from his appointment date on 7 October 2013 and this includes the period from 1 October 2013.
2 Benefi ts include car allowance, business-related travel, healthcare, disability and life assurance.
In 2013 for Grahame Gibson, the benefi ts value includes a total value of 42,290 relating to fl ights for him and his family between the UK and US.
Benefi t values include the costs of overnight accommodation and meals which HMRC treats as a taxable benefi t and on which the company will pay tax in due course, although it does not consider such expenses to be benefi ts in the ordinary sense.
The grossed-up amounts are 18,914 for Ashley Almanza, 8,471 for Himanshu Raja, 18,479 for Nick Buckles, 28,695 for Grahame Gibson and 35,218 for Trevor Dighton.
Benefi t values also include business-related local travel costs of 22,528 and 10,224 for Mr Almanza and Mr Raja respectively who bear the tax themselves.
3 The benefi t values for 2012 are those from the 2012 annual report.
They do not include estimates of the value of staff entertainment, taxable travel costs and the associated taxes met by the company but these are not expected to be signifi cant.
4 In relation to the PSP, where the performance measures are substantially complete by the end of a particular year, the value of any award will be reported in the column for that year.
5 Any bonus due above 50% of the individuals maximum bonus entitlement is awarded as deferred shares which vest after a period of three years.
72 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance The following table shows a single total fi gure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2013 fi financial year for each non-executive director, together with the comparative fi gures for 2012.
Aggregate non-executive directors emoluments are shown in the last row of the table.
1 John Connolly was appointed in June 2012.
2 Lord Condon and Bo Lerenius retired on 6 June 2013.
3 Mark Elliott was appointed as chair of the Remuneration Committee and senior independent director on 6 June 2013.
4 Clare Spottiswoode was appointed as Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee on 6 June 2013.
5 Adam Crozier and Paul Spence were appointed on 1 January 2013.
6 Tim Weller was appointed on 1 April 2013.
7 Benefi t values include the costs of travel, overnight accommodation and meals which HMRC treats as a taxable benefi t, and on which the company will pay tax in due course, although it does not consider such expenses to be benefi ts in the ordinary sense.
8 The only benefi ts paid for non-executive directors in 2012 were business expenses which HMRC treats as a taxable benefi t. Such expenses were not required to be disclosed in 2012 and so they were not recorded separately for each director.
Therefore the benefi ts fi gures listed for 2012 are estimated and based upon 2013 data.
Ashley Almanza received 113,000 from Schroders plc and a fee of $33,000 as well as shares valued at $285,000 from Noble Corporation for his non-executive directorships referred to on page 48 and retained such remuneration.
Mr Almanza uses his annual leave entitlement for Noble Corporation board meetings.
FURTHER NOTES TO THE SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION TABLES Executive directors base pay Payments approved by the committee under the 2013 bonus scheme Ashley Almanzas base pay in 2013 as group CEO was 850,000 were as follows: per annum.
For Ashley Almanza, given that he assumed the CEO role in a time Himanshu Rajas base pay as group CFO was 625,000 per annum.
of great uncertainty in June, the board asked him to focus on the achievement of high quality underlying profi t for the portion of his Grahame Gibsons base pay was last increased in January 2011.
He bonus relating to the fi financial measures.
In view of the part-year for receives part of his salary in sterling and part in US$.
The US$ element which Ashley was CEO, we judged his delivery of 442 million of has been converted into sterling for the purposes of reporting, at the underlying operating profi t against a budget of 439 million to be on exchange rates prevailing in each month in which Grahame Gibson target.
For the portion of his bonus relating to non-fi financial measures, was paid.
the board asked Ashley to complete a thorough assessment of the root 2013 Annual bonus causes for our performance issues and to develop and implement the In previous years, the annual performance-related bonus scheme changes required for long-term success.
The committee and the board was dependent on profi t. However, during the fi financial year ending noted in particular the following performance in concluding that 31 December 2013, the annual bonus scheme rules were amended to Ashley has earned a maximum entitlement on the non-fi financial include two other fi financial measures, organic growth and cash element of his bonus: generation.
The organic growth target which is measured against the Balance sheet an equity placement in nine days and the budgeted percentage increase constituted 20% of maximum bonus.
aggressive management of cash-fl ow allowed us to reduce debt by Cash generation measured against a cash conversion target was 15% 269 million and to improve our net debt to EBITDA ratio to 2.6x.
with profi t measured by achievement against budget being 35%.
The identifi cation of underperforming assets with plans to fi x or Non-fi financial strategic objectives linked to the delivery of the business dispose delivered 124 million of proceeds with more to follow.
These measures were personal objectives with 15% of maximum bonus attributable to strategic objectives taken Risk management developed a new risk and assurance organisation from the business plan and a further 15% linked to objectives relating and recruited professional staff to develop and implement new to the organisation such as people, CSR, risk, values etc.
Each of the contract management processes.
measures operated independently of the others.
Customer engagement personally led the work to understand The maximum bonus entitlement for the chief fi financial offi cer delivery and billing issues with our UK MoJ contract.
Ashley increased from 125% to 150% of base pay, while the maximum bonus personally interacted with the UK Government to understand entitlement for the chief executive 150% of base pay and other concerns and to develop a corporate renewal programme executive directors 125% of base pay remained unchanged: however, which when fully implemented will regain the trust of this the maximum pay-out is only reached when the relevant stretch important customer.
This renewal programme sets the highest ethical standards and Bonuses are paid in cash up to 50% of their maximum entitlement.
commitment to customer service as the standard behaviour Where the bonus amount is in excess of 50% of the maximum expected throughout the organisation.
bonus entitlement, the amount which exceeds 50% will be delivered Leadership recruited new leaders for regional roles and a high in the form of a deferred share award which vests after a period of calibre CFO to lead the transformation of the fi finance organisation three years.
and its process and procedures.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 73 Directors remuneration report continued These scores lead to the following calculated bonus: groups transformation programme.
The committee noted that excellent progress was made against each of these objectives and Based on his average base pay, Ashleys maximum potential bonus therefore awarded Himanshu a maximum prorated bonus of 234,375. for a full years service would have been 1,200,000 in the event of Based on his base pay for a full years service, Himanshus maximum achievement of a stretch target, 30% of which would be attributable potential bonus would have been 937,500.
The payment was prorated to non-fi financial objectives and the remainder to fi financial objectives.
to take account of the period for which he was employed, namely three The payment was prorated to take account of the different levels in months.
In accordance with the bonus plan rules, half of the bonus will base pay and the period for which he was employed, namely nine be paid in shares, deferred for three years.
270,000 was therefore paid in respect of non-fi financial For Grahame Gibson, the payment of a bonus under the fi financial objectives and 378,000 for the on target fi financial achievement.
portion of the annual bonus scheme was dependant on the attainment In accordance with the bonus plan rules, 30.55% of the bonus paid of three fi financial objectives relating to the Americas region PBITA, will be awarded as shares, deferred for three years.
cash conversion and working capital reduction.
Since the threshold The board is satisfi ed that Ashley has made very signifi cant progress targets for these objectives were not met, no bonus is payable under in establishing a foundation for long-term sustainable growth of the fi financial portion.
For the portion of his bonus relating to nonquality earnings.
fi financial measures, Grahame was set a number of strategic objectives linked to the delivery of the Americas regions business plan such as Himanshu Raja did not join the group until October.
Himanshus portfolio management and progress on operational and fi financial objectives included strengthening the groups audit and risk effi ciencies, as well as a number relating to the organisation such as management functions, reviewing and applying balanced accounting succession planning and progress on health and safety.
Having met judgements to the groups assets and liabilities and assessing prior a number of his non-fi financial objectives, Grahame was awarded a year underlying performance, undertaking a fi financial review of the bonus of 103,000 paid as $147,717 and 8,608.10, which represents groups large contracts portfolio, developing and implementing a 16.11% of his maximum bonus entitlement.
successful 2014 budget process and supporting the CEO with the PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP The PSP values shown in the 2013 and 2012 columns of the single fi gure table relate to the PSP awards made in March 2011 and March 2010, for the three-year EPS performance periods ended on 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 respectively.
The performance measures and targets for these PSP awards are set out below: Two-thirds of each award 2010 and 2011 One-third of each award 2010 and 2011 Average annual growth in Proportion of allocation Ranking against the bespoke Proportion of allocation EPS Period ending on vesting comparator group by vesting 31 December in the third year reference to TSR Less than global CPI 4% pa Nil Below median Nil Global CPI 4% pa 12% over 25% Median 25% 3 years Global CPI 4 to 12% pa Pro-rata between 25% Between median and Pro-rata between 25% and 100% upper quartile and 100% Greater than global CPI 100% Upper quartile 100% 12% pa 33% over 3 years The table below illustrates the companys performance against the The table below illustrates the companys performance against the 2010 PSP award targets and the resulting payout, shown in the 2012 2011 PSP award targets and the resulting payout, shown in the 2013 column of the single fi gure table: column of the single fi gure table: Vesting % of Vesting % of Performance element Performance element Increase of Fall of Average annual growth in EPS 2.65% pa 0% Average annual growth in EPS 10.8% pa 0% Ranked Ranked between between 9th and 10th 15th and 16th Relative TSR in peer group 0% Relative TSR in peer group 0% 0% of 0% of Total vesting maximum Total vesting maximum 74 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance TOTAL PENSION ENTITLEMENTS AUDITED INFORMATION Neither Ashley Almanza nor Himanshu Raja is a member of the companys pension plan, which is a defi ned contribution group personal pension plan available to all UK employees.
Instead they receive cash allowances of 25% and 20% of their base pay, respectively.
Nick Buckles, Trevor Dighton and Grahame Gibson have ceased accruing pensions under the companys defi ned benefi t scheme.
A salary supplement in lieu of pension of 40% of basic salary was paid.
Their pension transfer values in the defi ned benefi ts scheme all fi gures are in 000s are shown in the table below.
Total accrued Total accrued Pension input Pension input annual pension annual pension Date accrual Normal amount 2013 amount 2012 at 31 12 13 at 31 12 12 ceased retirement date Nick Buckles 0 0 0 411.6 5 7 2011 1 2 2021 Trevor Dighton 0 0 161.7 148.0 6 4 2011 30 7 2009 Grahame Gibson 0 0 21.7 20.0 6 4 2006 17 1 2013 Notes: 1 Nick Buckles transferred out the value of his G4S pension benefi ts on 15 December 2013.
The transfer value was calculated using the same actuarial basis as that used by the Trustees of the Pension Scheme for all members.
2 In 2011, Grahame Gibson transferred the majority of his pension benefi ts to a private pension arrangement leaving a residual pension of 20K pa payable from age 60.
Grahame Gibson has passed normal retirement date and the accrued pension shown includes the application of a late retirement factor.
3 Trevor Dighton has passed normal retirement date and the accrued pension shown for both 2012 and 2013 include the application of a late retirement factor.
4 The earliest date when entitlement to a pension arises without consent and without actuarial reduction is age 60 the normal retirement date.
There are no additional benefi ts available on early retirement before the normal retirement date.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AUDITED INFORMATION Awards have been granted each year under the companys Performance Share Plan PSP, generally in March, after the announcement of the companys results.
PSP awards were made or deemed to be made to the executive directors in March 2013, save for the additional award for Ashley Almanza on his appointment as CEO, in accordance with the companys normal grant policy, as shown in the table below: Number of shares see EPS TSR notes below Face value Performance Performance Performance % vesting at Director Award type for details condition period period threshold Ashley Almanza Conditional 777,367 2,151,426 50% TSR 01 01 2013 As per note 1 25% shares 50% EPS 31 12 2015 below 3 Nick Buckles Conditional 692,282 2,074,998 50% TSR 01 01 2013 19 03 2013 25% shares 50% EPS 31 12 2015 19 03 2016 4 Trevor Dighton Conditional 340,302 1,019,997 50% TSR 01 01 2013 19 03 2013 25% shares 50% EPS 31 12 2015 19 03 2016 Grahame Gibson Conditional 357,611 1,071,878 50% TSR 01 01 2013 19 03 2013 25% shares 50% EPS 31 12 2015 19 03 2016 Himanshu Raja Conditional 347,531 1,041,654 50% TSR 01 01 2013 19 03 2013 25% shares 50% EPS 31 12 2015 19 03 2016 Notes: 1 Ashley Almanza was granted an award over 417,037 shares on his appointment as CFO.
This award had a face value of 1,250,000 based on a share price of 299.733p.
On 21 May 2013, a further conditional share award over 360,330 shares was made when his appointment as CEO was announced.
This award had a face value of 901,426 based on a share price of 250.167p.
The total number of shares awarded was calculated on a pro-rated basis.
The EPS performance criteria are the same for both awards but the TSR reference periods are different as they relate to the dates of grant.
2 Himanshu Raja was granted an award over 347,531 shares on his appointment as CFO.
This award had a face value of 1,041,654 based on a share price of 299.733p.
The award is calculated on a pro-rated basis based on 30 complete months between the appointment date and vesting date relative to three years.
3 Nick Buckles award has been reduced on a time pro-rated basis to 57,690 shares to refl ect the period from the date of grant to 31 May 2013, when he ceased to be an executive director.
4 Trevor Dightons award will be reduced on a time pro-rated basis to 160,698 shares to refl ect the period from date of grant to 30 July 2014, when he will cease to be an employee.
PSP awards granted in 2013 have the following performance measures and targets: Half of each 2013 PSP award Half of each 2013 PSP award Average annual growth in Proportion of Ranking against the bespoke Proportion of allocation EPS period ending on allocation vesting comparator group by vesting 31 December in the third year reference to TSR Less than global CPI 4% pa Nil Below median Nil Global CPI 4% pa 25% Median 25% 11% over 3 years Global CPI 4 to 11% pa Pro-rata between 25% Between median and Pro-rata between 25% and 100% upper quartile and 100% Greater than global CPI 100% Upper quartile 100% 11% pa 33% over 3 years Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 75 Directors remuneration report continued STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTEREST AUDITED INFORMATION The executive directors are required to build up a minimum shareholding in G4S, as explained in the remuneration policy.
Shares are valued for these purposes at the year-end price, which was 262.5p per share at 31 December 2013.
Number of shares owned outright Number of Share ownership deferred shares Total shares under Shares vested requirements Share ownership held as at PSP awards subject but unexercised 4 % of salary 2013 2012 requirements met?
31 12 2013 to performance PSP awards Ashley Almanza 200% 100,000 n a No 0 777,367 0 3 Nick Buckles 150% 1,832,050 1,832,050 Yes 0 795,633 0 3 Trevor Dighton 100% 825,090 1,225,090 Yes 145,161 683,143 55,291 Himanshu Raja 150% 0 n a No 0 347,531 0 Grahame Gibson 150% 651,682 704,685 Yes 7,526 963,036 0 Notes: 1 Deferred share awards and PSP awards do not include the further shares with a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid in respect of shares received.
The number of shares is gross and will be subject to tax when they are released.
2 In addition to the above, each of the directors has a deemed interest in the total number of shares held by the companys employee benefi t trust.
As at 31 December 2013, the trustee of the employee benefi t trust held 6,934,564 shares 7,589,853 in 2012.
3 Number of shares owned outright shown as at 31 December 2013, except for Messrs Buckles and Dighton for whom they are shown as at 31 May 2013 and 6 June 2013 respectively.
At 31 May 2013, Nick Buckles held 370, 568 deferred shares.
4 Shares under PSP awards include awards on a time pro-rated basis for Messrs Buckles and Dighton.
5 Includes any shares owned by connected persons.
6 On 12 March 2014, Himanshu Raja purchased 50,000 shares in the company.
There have been no changes in the interest of each of the other directors between 31 December 2013 and the date of this report.
7 The table does not include the deferred shares which will be awarded to Ashley Almanza and Himanshu Raja in respect of the portion of their bonus which exceeds 50% of their respective maximum bonus entitlement.
There are no requirements for the non-executive directors or The total payment made for his 12 month notice period was former directors to hold shares once they have left the company.
1,182,000 and was paid subject to the normal withholding of payroll The shareholdings for non-executive directors are shown below.
The monthly payments were made up to and including August.
In September, the balance of the payments relating to the 12 months As at As at notice was paid.
31.12.2012 31.12.2013 Nick Buckles did not receive any bonus payment, nor did he receive John Connolly 100,000 100,000 any award under the PSP, for the duration of his 12-month notice 1 Lord Condon 2,029 n a period.
His unvested awards under the PSP were reduced on a time Adam Crozier n a 0 pro-rated based on the period from the dates of grant to 31 May 2013.
Mark Elliott 25,000 25,000 The company paid for the cost of outplacement advice and services, Winnie Fok 20,000 20,000 which was 48,000.
2 Bo Lerenius 16,000 n a Non-cash benefi ts, including medical insurance of 1,892 and a gift Mark Seligman 75,496 75,496 valued at 12,890 exclusive of associated taxes in recognition of his Paul Spence n a 10,000 long service were also provided to Mr Buckles.
Clare Spottiswoode 0 4,681 Trevor Dighton Tim Weller n a 37,570 Trevor Dighton remained an employee after he stepped down from the board at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
The terms of his 1 Interests for Lord Condon shown as at 6 June 2013. employment between 7 June 2013 and 30 July 2013 were in respect of 2 Interests for Bo Lerenius shown as at 6 June 2013. contractual service performed and equalled his normal monthly salary.
Trevor Dighton was served notice on 24 July 2013 in accordance with PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS his contract of employment pursuant to which he will cease to be an AUDITED INFORMATION employee on 30 July 2014.
Trevor Dighton is entitled under the terms No payments have been made to former directors of the company of his contract to payment comprising the following until his departure during the fi financial year ended 31 December 2013 other than on 30 July 2014: those payments set out in the payments for loss of offi ce section.
Base pay of 42,500 per month PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Car allowance of 1,333.33 per month from 1 September 2013 AUDITED INFORMATION following the return of his company car Nick Buckles Cash allowance in lieu of pension of 17,000 per month.
Nick Buckles was entitled under the terms of his contract to payment The total payment made for the period from 1 August 2013 to 31 for a 12 month notice period, comprising the following elements: December 2013 was 302,833.
Base pay of 69,167 per month The total payment due to be made for the period 1 January to 30 July Car allowance of 1,667 per month 2014 is anticipated to be 425,833.
Cash allowance in lieu of pension of 27,666 per month Mr Dighton has not received any bonus in respect of the year under review.
His unvested awards under the PSP will be pro-rated to 30 July 2014.
76 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE The line graph below shows the eight-year annual Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against the FTSE 100 index.
The directors believe this to be an appropriate form of broad equity market index against which to base a comparison given the size and geographic coverage of the company and the fact that the company is itself a member of the FTSE 100.
2006 2013 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 G4S FTSE 100 index CEOS PAY IN LAST EIGHT FINANCIAL YEARS Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Ashley Incumbent Buckles Buckles Buckles Buckles Buckles Buckles Buckles Buckles Almanza CEOs total fi gure of annual 1 remuneration 000 1,908 2,269 2,376 3,248 2,823 1,542 1,186 514 1,459 Bonus % of maximum awarded 76% 95% 83% 74% 53% 0% 0% 0% 72% PSP % of maximum vesting 63% 75% 100% 100% 58% 14% 0% 0% n a Notes: 1 Nick Buckles stepped down as CEO on 31 May 2013 and Ashley Almanza took over as CEO from 1 June.
2 After July 2011, the CEOs total single fi gure of annual remuneration included payment in lieu of pension.
This was 40% of base pay for Nick Buckles and is 25% of base pay for Ashley Almanza.
Prior to July 2011, a notional sum equal to 40% of relevant base pay has been included.
The value of shares that vested in the relevant year under the PSP or a notional value in the case of shares vested but unexercised have been included in the prior years CEOs total fi gures since that is the most relevant year for measurement of performance.
3 Prior to 2013, the CEOs total single fi gures did not include taxable expenses.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEOS REMUNERATION RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below shows how the percentage change in the CEOs salary, The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay benefi ts and bonus between 2012 and 2013 compares with the compared with other disbursements from profi t. percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay Disbursements 2013 2012 Change for a selected group of G4S employees.
The Remuneration Committee Dividends paid 130m 120m 8.3% has chosen all employees in the UK as the group which should provide Total employee the most appropriate comparator.
costs 5,441m 5,452m -0.2% Percentage change in remuneration between 2012 and 2013 1 There were no share buy-backs effected in either year.
Salary Benefi ts Annual bonus CEO 1.4% 0.1% See note 2 Average increase for all other UK employees 8.2% 9.7% See note 3 1 The CEOs benefi ts for 2013 were calculated on a like for like basis and therefore do not include taxable business expenses and grossed up tax and NIC payable thereon.
In future years, the comparison will include such taxable business expenses and the baseline cost for 2013 will be 84,820.
2 There was no bonus paid to the CEO in 2012.
3 Information on bonuses is not available for all other UK employees.
G4S employs more than 618,000 employees globally.
Infl ation is a key driver of general increases in salary and the structure of the benefi ts provided is often driven by the local market practice.
Hence, as the CEO is based in the UK, employees in the same country rather than all employees within the group have been chosen as the comparator.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 77 Directors remuneration report continued Health & safety STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2014 Customer service and retention Our Remuneration Policy for directors as set out on pages 66 to 72 People and organisation will, if approved, take effect following the 2014 AGM and will then be Operational excellence implemented on the basis set out in this report.
Some elements of pay for executive directors, forming a signifi cant proportion of the total Business development reward available, are subject to the achievement of performance Values conditions.
Between 70% and 85% of the bonus will be based on fi financial Base pay measures and the balance will be based on non-fi financial measures.
The committee agreed to freeze base pay for executive directors in Details of the performance measures and targets are commercially 2009 and 2010 and again in 2012 and 2013, in view of the economic sensitive.
They will be disclosed in the 2014 report when they are circumstances and the pay and employment conditions across the no longer commercially sensitive.
For 2014 at the annual pay review, it was decided to increase Mr Almanzas base pay by just under 5% whilst no change was made Performance Share Plan Awards will be granted under a new LTIP, subject to shareholder to the base pay of the other two executive directors.
Annual Bonus Scheme Details of the new LTIP are as set out in the summary of the scheme The annual bonus for the fi financial year ending 31 December 2014 on pages 156 and 157. will be consistent with the policy detailed in the remuneration policy section of this report in terms of the maximum bonus opportunity, The Remuneration Committee considers that a combination of deferral and claw-back provisions.
The committee selects for each earnings per share growth, total shareholder return and cumulative executive director, from a range of fi financial and non-fi financial measures cash fl ow targets are the most appropriate performance measures which support the groups key strategic objectives.
The range of for 2014 awards, as they provide a transparent method of assessing fi financial measures includes group profi t, organic growth and operating the companys performance, both in terms of underlying fi financial cash fl ow.
The non-fi financial measures are based on the core values performance and returns to shareholders.
and include the following key areas: PERFORMANCE MEASURES FOR LONG TERM INCENTIVES TO BE AWARDED IN 2014 40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted Average annual growth Ranking against the in EPS Period ending bespoke comparator on 31 December in Proportion of group by reference Proportion of Average operating Proportion of the third year allocation vesting to TSR allocation vesting cash fl ow allocation vesting Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil 105% Nil 5% pa 15% over 3 years 25% Median 25% 105% 25% Pro-rata between 25% Between median and Pro-rata between 25% Between 105% Pro-rata between 25% 5 to 12% pa and 100% upper quartile and 100% and 125% and 100% Greater than 12% pa 36% over 3 years 100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100% The companys current policy is to use market purchased shares to b Decreasing the net interest cost in the performance year in satisfy performance share plan awards.
The new plan will continue to respect of the interest charge on the cash cost of any share buy do the same.
backs during the past three years.
Interest will be calculated at the groups average costs of funds for the year.
Participants in the LTIP will receive a further share award with a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid in respect of The Remuneration Committee will apply discretion in the event of future LTIP award vesting at the end of the performance period.
impairment, if the impairment is not a result of management failure, then it does not impact the payout.
The company calculates whether the EPS performance targets have been achieved by reference to the companys audited accounts which The Remuneration Committee may alter the terms of the EPS measure provide an accessible and objective measure of the companys earnings if it feels that it is no longer a fair measure and is no longer incentivising.
Operating cash fl ow is a measure taken before capital expenditure Adjustments to the EPS will be made in respect of: and investments to ensure that management is not incentivised to under-invest in growth opportunities.
Operating cash fl ow is expressed Constant exchange rates which will be normalised to the rates in as EBITDA - working capital and provisions movement as a the base year percentage of EBITA.
Average operating cash fl ow is the average Acquisition earnings will be added to the EPS base at the level over three years.
used in the acquisition business case TSR ranking will be verifi ed externally.
Disposal earnings will be removed from the EPS base at the Non-executive directors remuneration business plan rate The fees payable to the non-executive directors are set by the Share buy back the company will only execute buy-backs if the executive directors and the chairman.
The fees payable to the investment is economically accretive and it is in the interest of non-executive chairman are set by the Remuneration Committee.
The adjusted EPS for the purposes of calculating In both cases, fees are reviewed mid-year.
performance against the LTIP target shall be further adjusted by a Increasing the average number of shares in issue during the performance year by the number of shares bought back during the past three years 78 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Towers Watson has also provided and will continue to provide ADVISERS TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE management remuneration information in respect of senior For the period to October 2013, the Remuneration Committee management below the level of the group executive committee.
received advice from Towers Watson Limited as the committees The Remuneration Committee has satisfi ed itself as to the appointed adviser on executive and senior management remuneration independence of Deloitte.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration matters.
After a tendering process, the Remuneration Committee Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the code appointed Deloitte as its independent adviser on 17 October 2013. of conduct in the UK.
Adviser Services provided to Rem Co Other services provided to company Fees Towers Watson Advice on executive remuneration and Provision of market remuneration data for senior pay benchmarking management and collation of pension data for accounting purposes 51,000 Deloitte Advice on executive remuneration Employment tax advice on expatriate and share plans along with corporate tax advice and other consulting services provided by different parts of Deloitte.
23,250 Alithos TSR vesting indications for in-fl ight plans None and verifying the TSR vesting percentage and advice on potential peer group constituents 10,500 Herbert Smith Freehills LLP HSF provided legal advice to the STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING company throughout the year, including in relation to the operation An ordinary resolution to receive and approve the Directors of the companys incentive arrangements and on executive directors Remuneration report contained in the annual report for the year service agreements.
This advice was available to be considered by the ended 31 December 2012 was passed at the companys annual Remuneration Committee.
HSF has also advised the Remuneration general meeting which took place on 6 June 2013, with 78.4% of the Committee on compliance with the new regulations relating to votes in favour and 21.58% against.
It is believed that many of the votes against and abstentions were The CEO Nick Buckles to 31 May 2013 and from 1 June 2013, prompted by a recommendation from one of the proxy adviser fi rms Ashley Almanza provided guidance to the Remuneration Committee which expressed concern about an increase in the PSP allocations in on remuneration packages for senior executives within the group.
The then chairman of the Remuneration Committee and his Further guidance was received from the groups HR director, Irene successor have consulted widely with key shareholders and shareholder Cowden, and the director of compensation and benefi ts Sok Wah Lee.
representatives to explain the rationale for the policy adopted in 2013 Neither the CEO nor the HR director participated in discussions and that proposed for the future.
Following his appointment as chairman of the Remuneration The Remuneration Committee is satisfi ed that the advice it received Committee, Mark Elliott has also undertaken an extensive process during the year was objective and independent based on the of consultation with major shareholders on the proposed new LTIP.
experience of its members generally.
Mark Elliott The table below sets out the members of the Remuneration Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Committee who were present during any consideration of directors 31 March 2014 remuneration, and shows the number of meetings attended by each director: Name Number of meetings attended Lord Condon 3 3 Mark Elliott 6 6 Winnie Fok 6 6 Mark Seligman 6 6 Clare Spottiswoode 5 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 79
