Termination of employment continued Differences between remuneration policy The Committee does not anticipate the exercise of discretion for Executive Directors and other employees provided by the PSP and DABP plan rules in respect of termination payments.
However, there may be unforeseen circumstances where When setting remuneration levels for the Executive Directors, this is in the best interests of the company and its shareholders.
the Committee considers the prevailing market conditions, the Where it is necessary to exercise discretion, explanations will be competitive environment through comparison with the remuneration provided.
of executives at companies of similar size, complexity and international reach and the positioning and relativities of pay Where an Executive Director leaves the company, the Committee and employment conditions across the broader GSK workforce.
will carry out an assessment of the individuals performance and conduct over the time in role.
If it is determined that the individuals In particular, the Committee considers the range of base salary rises performance or conduct was contrary to the legitimate expectations for the workforces of those parts of GSK where the CEO, CFO and of the company, the Committee reserves the right to apply Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines are employed.
This is considered appropriate mechanisms such as clawback see page 119, to be the most relevant comparison as these populations reflect most or reduction or lapsing of outstanding incentive awards malus, closely the economic environments encountered by the individuals.
to ensure that any termination payments are in the best interests The same principles apply to the remuneration policy for Executive of the company and its shareholders.
Directors and other employees although the remuneration offered In the case of termination for cause, all payments and unvested to Executive Directors under this policy has a stronger emphasis awards are forfeited except shares deferred under the DABP on performance-related pay than that offered to other employees which vest in full on the date of termination and accrued salary of the Group.
Salary and benefits including pension are tailored to the local market.
Service contracts The annual bonus plan applies to the wider employee population The table below sets out the relevant dates of the current Executive and is based on business and individual performance.
Directors service contracts, which are available for review at the companys registered office during office hours.
A combination of performance-related and restricted share plans applies to the wider employee population.
Date of Effective contract date Expiry date Notes All-employee share plans are available to employees in the UK, Sir Andrew 18.06.08 22.05.08 31.08.24 Contract amended on including the HM Revenue & Customs approved UK ShareSave Witty 04.02.10 to remove and ShareReward Plans.
entitlement to bonus The company conducts regular employee surveys which include on termination feedback on remuneration matters.
Simon 08.09.10 04.01.11 30.04.28 In the wider organisation, we have aligned our performance Dingemans and reward systems with our values and introduced a new Dr Moncef 21.12.10 21.12.10 01.08.19 Contract replaced on performance system in 2014 that formally evaluates employees Slaoui 21.12.10, principally to on both what they need to do and how they do it.
Also, for our remove entitlement to most senior people we dis-incentivise unethical working practices bonus on termination using a clawback mechanism that allows us to recover performance-related pay.
