Non-Executive Director remuneration policy Element Purpose and link to strategy Overview Chairmans fee To provide an inclusive flat rate fee There is no formal maximum, however, fees are reviewed annually and set that is competitive with those paid by reference to a review of the Chairmans performance and independently by other companies of equivalent sourced market data.
size and complexity subject to the The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating and making limits contained in GSKs Articles recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the Chairman.
The Chairman does not participate in discussions in respect of his fees.
Fees can be paid in a combination of cash and or GSK shares or ADS.
See further details of GSKs Non-Executive Directors share allocation plan below.
Basic fee There is no formal maximum, however, fees are reviewed annually and set by reference to independently sourced market data.
The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the companys Non-Executive Directors.
A minimum of 25% is delivered in the form of GSK shares or ADS.
Supplemental fees To provide additional compensation Additional fees for Committee Chairmen, intercontinental travel and the Senior for Non-Executive Directors Independent Director.
Current fee levels are set out on page 109 of the Annual excluding the Chairman taking on Report on Remuneration.
additional Board responsibilities or undertaking intercontinental travel to meetings.
Benefits To facilitate execution of Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors are incurred in the responsibilities and duties required normal course of business in relation to meetings on Board and Committee by the role.
matters and other GSK-hosted events.
For overseas-based Non-Executive Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the UK.
Non-Executive Directors may from time to time be accompanied by their spouse or partner to these meetings or events.
The costs associated with the above are all met by the company and in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable and therefore treated as benefits for the Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive To enhance the link between At least 25% of the Non-Executive Directors total fees, excluding those of the Directors share directors and shareholders, GSK Chairman, are paid in the form of GSK shares or ADS and allocated to a share allocation plan requires Non-Executive Directors or ADS account.
to receive a significant part of their The Non-Executive Directors may also take the opportunity to invest part or fees in the form of GSK shares or all of the balance of their fees into the same share or ADS account.
The GSK shares or ADS which are notionally awarded to the Non-Executive Directors and allocated to their interest accounts are set out in the table on page 115 and are included in the Directors interests table on page 110.
The accumulated balances of these GSK shares or ADS, together with the notional dividends accrued, are not paid out to Non-Executive Directors until they leave the Board.
Upon leaving, the Non-Executive Directors will receive either the GSK shares or ADS, or a cash amount equivalent to the value of the GSK shares or ADS at the date of leaving, or date of payment if later.
Letter of Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors will be subject to annual election or re-election and appointment Chairmans terms of engagement will normally serve no longer than nine years from the date of first election by are set out in letters of appointment shareholders at a general meeting.
as set out in the table on page 109.
The Chairman will be subject to annual appointment by shareholders and may serve longer than nine years from the date of first election by shareholders at a general meeting.
