Governance & remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report Chairmans Annual Statement We are removing the business The Committee reviewed the efforts made by diversification measure from the Sir Andrew and his team in 2013 to improve Performance Share Plan PSP and global public health, increase transparency from the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan of clinical data and modernise GSKs DABP matching awards to be made commercial practices and interactions with from 2014 onwards.
The ongoing investigation by diversification remains important, authorities in China was also considered by but the business mix is now appropriate the Committee.
Both Sir Andrew and the and growth can still be delivered Board are mindful of the impact this issue has without the additional focus of this had on the reputation of the company.
The remaining result, the bonuses awarded for 2013 were performance measures will continue to lower than they otherwise might have been.
This change has The executives continue to align their the effect of increasing the proportion personal interests with those of shareholders.
of the award based on TSR, adjusted Sir Andrew has elected again this year to free cash flow and R&D new product defer the maximum permitted under the performance from 25% to 33%.
Dear Shareholder companys DABP and, as at 31 December We are extending the time horizons 2013, he held more than twice the value of As the Chairman of GSKs Remuneration by introducing an additional two-year GSK shares required by the companys share Committee the Committee, I am pleased to holding period for PSP awards for ownership requirements.
present our Directors Remuneration Report Executive Directors to be made from 2013 remuneration for executives and related for 2013, for which we will be seeking your 2015 onwards.
performance under the annual bonus and approval at our AGM on 7 May 2014.
In line The Committee decided that it would long-term incentives PSP awards and DABP with the new remuneration reporting regime, be appropriate to award our Executive matching awards is described in our Annual the Directors Remuneration Report is split Directors salary increases of 2.5% for Report on Remuneration on pages 99 to 101. into two separate reports.
The Annual Report 2014, consistent with the average salary on Remuneration will be subject to an Agenda for 2014 budget for other UK and US employees advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM across our business.
The Committee held shareholder meetings in while the Remuneration Policy Report will be November 2013, at which we shared updates subject to a binding vote.
Furthermore, the Committee decided on remuneration matters in the last 12 that it would be appropriate for there to Key decisions and changes in 2013 months and proposals for 2014 onwards.
be no increase in the annual and long-term The executive remuneration environment incentive opportunities for our Executive During 2014, the Committee will continue to continued to evolve at pace during 2013.
keep executive remuneration arrangements The new reporting regulations offered fresh under review.
We will also continue our opportunity to discuss our remuneration Performance and pay in 2013 regular dialogue with shareholders and will practices and policies with shareholders.
The Group generated its best TSR hold our annual meetings with GSKs largest performance since its formation and investors later in 2014 to listen to their views We are proud of our track record in listening 5.2 billion of cash was returned to and feedback.
to the views of our shareholders and we have shareholders.
In determining remuneration made a number of decisions during the year The Committee and the company take a keen awards for 2013 it was the Committees view relating to executive remuneration, to ensure interest in external views on remuneration that the executive team demonstrated strong incentive arrangements remain appropriate matters.
In particular, we have consulted delivery and successful implementation of the for GSK and are in the long-term interests widely on our remuneration policy with Groups strategic priorities.
In particular, it of shareholders.
The key changes are shareholders for their feedback and input.
was an exceptional year for R&D productivity.
highlighted below: We responded to issues raised and were GSK delivered sales and earnings growth pleased to receive support from the investors During 2013, we reviewed the design in line with its guidance and led the industry we consulted.
of long-term incentives with the main in new product approvals.
These new objectives being simplification and I commend both our reports Annual Report products will strengthen businesses in responding to concerns previously raised on Remuneration and Remuneration Policy Respiratory, Vaccines, HIV and Oncology.
As a result of this Report to shareholders for approval at our Importantly, the Committee notes that review and investor consultation during AGM.
substantial future opportunities remain for the year, we are changing the way in the Group, with a total of 40 new molecular which our long-term incentives operate: entities currently in Phase II III development.
Further action was also taken to streamline Tom fide Swaan and increase the focus of the Group.
Remuneration Committee Chairman Non-core products and other assets were 26 February 2014 divested for proceeds of 2.5 billion and ongoing, organic structural initiatives delivered incremental year-on-year savings of around 400 million.
