Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2013 On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am providing Other changes to the Board during 2013 are recorded on an introduction to our Directors Remuneration Report for page 81 under Board Composition in 2013. the year ending 31 December 2013.
As with last year, we have sought to make this report as short, simple and No Executive Director received a salary increase or any straightforward as possible.
form of LTI award or any bonus in respect of their membership of the Board during 2013.
Firstly, I would like to thank my predecessor, William Macaulay, for his previous service as chairman of this Although, as a Jersey registered company headquartered in Committee.
Since his last report, as a result of the Switzerland, we are not subject to the UKs new reporting acquisition of Xstrata, the composition of the Board has regime, we consider it to be broadly reflective of good changed.
The Company had two Executive Directors at the practice and have prepared this report in compliance with end of 2013: the new regime, where feasible to do so.
To present the Report in the format required by the new regime, we have Ivan Glasenberg: Mr Glasenberg remains the Group CEO.
made some changes to the order in which the report is His remuneration remains unchanged as a result of the being presented this year.
Accordingly, over the following acquisition of Xstrata with no increase in any element of pages we have set out: remuneration.
Although eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan and to receive long-term incentive The Groups forward-looking Directors Remuneration LTI awards, he has, again, waived any entitlement to Policy which is subject to approval by shareholders at either for both 2013 and 2014.
The only change to his our 2014 AGM: arrangements during 2013 is a minor amendment to Details of the implementation of our reward policy in his contract to ensure that, consistent with best practice, 2013 including: even if he did participate in such arrangements, variable pay would not be taken into account in assessing any the governance surrounding pay decisions in 2013, termination payments.
members of the Committee and advisers to the Committee in 2013: and Peter Coates: Mr Coates was a Non-Executive Director of the Company prior to the Xstrata acquisition.
details of what was paid to Executive Directors in Pursuant to the acquisition arrangements he stepped respect of their service on the Board during the down from the Board on 2 May 2013.
Having accepted financial year ended 31 December 2013: an executive position with the Company at that time, he was re-appointed to the Board on 12 June 2013.
As an To reflect best practice, we shall be seeking shareholder Executive Director, Mr Coates had a conventional approval of our remuneration arrangements through package with a salary of AUS$1.54m c. 950,000 and two votes, one on the Directors Remuneration Report he did not participate in any bonus arrangement or LTI.
excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy and a As a former Xstrata employee, he holds certain legacy separate vote on our Directors Remuneration Policy.
At year end, he ceased to be an Executive Both will technically be advisory only as the Company is Director but he remains on the Board as a Non-Executive not subject to the UK statutory regime to make the former Director.
He did not receive any termination payments binding although, clearly, the Committee will take any in respect of this change.
Mr Kalmin left the Board on 2 May 2013 but remains employed as Chief Financial Officer.
The report includes his remuneration to the date of departure from the Board.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 92 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information We were disappointed in only receiving a 78% vote in Our auditors have reported on certain parts of the favour of the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report at the Directors remuneration report and stated whether, in 2013 AGM.
Our understanding, however, is that this was their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly largely a reflection of the controversy around some of the prepared.
Those sections of the report which have been retention terms agreed by the Xstrata Board rather than subject to audit are clearly indicated.
being a reflection on Board level pay at the Company itself.
Part A Directors Remuneration Policy Going forward, we now have one Executive Director on The Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in this our Board.
He has one of the most modest packages of section of the report will take effect for all payments made any FTSE100 CEO.
We have sought to ensure that our to directors from the date of the 2014 AGM.
remuneration policy and its implementation are attractive to shareholders in reflecting good governance, complete New UK legislation and related investor guidance simplicity and welcome restraint.
We trust that you will encourages companies to disclose a cap within which each support the associated votes at the 2014 AGM.
element of remuneration policy will operate.
Although not subject to this legislation, the Committee has set an annual John Mack cap for each element of remuneration under the maximum Remuneration Committee Chairman opportunity column which will apply until a revised policy 17 March 2014 is approved by shareholders.
In each case the cap has been set to provide appropriate flexibility and is not intended Introduction to lead to an inflationary impact.
We have presented this Remuneration Report to reflect the recent changes in reporting requirements on remuneration The General policy table which begins on the next page matters for companies with a UK governance profile, must be read alongside the notes set out on page 98 which particularly the UKs new Large and Medium-sized together set out and explain our remuneration policy.
Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports While the policy for the Executive Directors currently Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Company intends only applies to Mr Glasenberg following Mr Coates to comply in all material respects with the reporting ceasing to be an executive at year end, in the interests obligations within these regulations as a matter of good of transparency, the sections explaining how the policy practice.
The report also describes how the Board has has been implemented includes commentary on the complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate remuneration of both Mr Coates and Mr Kalmin who Governance Code relating to remuneration matters.
served as Executive Directors during part of 2013.
In order to aid simplicity of reporting and reflecting the fact that the Company reports its financial statements in US Dollars, with effect from 1 January 2014, the fees of the Non-Executive Directors and the base salary for the CEO are each set in US Dollars.
The replacement amounts have been determined by translating the prevailing fees and salary in Pounds Sterling to US Dollars at the average rate for last year as set out on page 46.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 93 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2013 General policy Elements of the package Remuneration Policy for the Directors is summarised in the table below: General Policy for We have the same philosophy as any other Remuneration Committee, namely to set the Executive Directors Company's remuneration policies and practices so that they facilitate the attraction, retention and motivation of Executive Directors and other senior executives of appropriately high this section does not calibre to implement the Groups strategy while aligning the interests of the Executive technically form part of the Directors and executives with those of shareholders generally.
This policy has consistently Directors Remuneration underpinned our entire approach to executive remuneration.
Policy and is for information only One exceptional aspect of our CEO's remuneration is that, at his instigation and reflecting his status a major shareholder, he does not participate in bonus or LTI arrangements, a policy which will continue into 2014.
As a result, we are currently able to set overall remuneration for our CEO at significantly lower levels than in comparable companies.
The Committee believes that his significant personal shareholding creates sufficient alignment of interest with shareholders in the absence of participation in a bonus or LTI arrangement.
Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Salaries are positioned Base salaries are reviewed Not applicable N A Base salary within a market competitive annually with the next Provides market competitive range for companies of a review due to take place fixed remuneration that similar size and complexity in December 2014 rewards relevant skills, The Committee does not The Committee has not responsibilities and slavishly follow data but increased general salary contribution uses it as a reference point in levels for the Executive considering, in its judgment, Directors since the the appropriate level having Companys IPO in May 2011 regard to other relevant demonstrating a responsible factors including corporate approach to setting base and individual performance salaries and any changes in an From 1 January 2014 individuals role and Mr Glasenberg, the CEO, responsibilities is the only Executive Base salary is paid monthly Director on the Board.
in cash A base salary cap of $1,447,292 p. a. being his current salary as now set in US dollars, has been set so that no voluntary increase will be made to his base salary without shareholder approval or unless the law otherwise requires Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 94 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures As stated above in the Introduction section, the Committee decided to re-express the CEOs Implementation of Policy salary with effect from 1 January 2014 as a US Dollar denominated amount.
His annual base in 2013 and 2014 salary is therefore now $1,447,292.
The previous salary for Mr Glasenberg in pounds this section does not sterling was 925,000. technically form part of the Mr Coates joined the Board as an Executive Director on a salary of AU$1,540,000 Directors Remuneration $1,490,550.
Policy but does form part of the Implementation Report.
Mr Kalmin left the Board on a salary of 700,000 $1,095,248.
It is included here for No base salary increases were implemented for Executive Directors effective in information only January 2013 or January 2014.
Benefits received by N A Provides appropriate Benefits Mr Glasenberg comprise insurance cover benefits To provide appropriate salary loss long-term Values are shown in the supporting non-monetary sickness and accident single figure table below but benefits insurance travel insurance may fluctuate without the Committee taking action A monetary limit of $ 20,000 p. a for Mr The Company may Glasenberg has been set periodically change the benefits available to staff for the office at which an Executive Director works in which case the Director would normally be eligible to receive the amended benefits on similar terms to all relevant staff.
In the case of Mr Glasenberg, this would be expected to mean employees generally in the Baar office Benefits received by Executive Directors comprised salary loss long-term sickness Implementation of Policy insurance for Messrs Glasenberg and Kalmin and accident insurance cover for all three in 2013 and 2014 Executive Directors.
this section does not No changes were made to this element of remuneration within the year and no changes technically form part of the in respect of Mr Glasenberg are envisaged for 2014.
Directors Remuneration Policy but does form part of the Implementation Report.
It is included here for information only Mr Glasenberg and Mr An annual cap on the cost N A Pension Kalmin participates in the of provision of retirement Provides basic retirement defined contribution scheme benefits of $150,000 per benefits which reflects local for all Baar Switzerland - Executive Director has market practice based employees been set For Mr Coates, pension contributions were the minimum superannuation contributions permitted under Australian law Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 95 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2013 Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures For Mr Glasenberg, an annual contribution of 19.5% of salary up to CHF280,800 $302,941, Implementation of Policy being CHF54,761 $59,079 in 2013 and 2014 For Mr Kalmin, an annual contribution of 15% of salary up to CHF280,800 $302,941, this section does not being CHF42,040 $45,354.
technically form part of the Directors Remuneration For Mr Coates, contributions as follows: from 12 June 2013 9% of annualised earnings Policy but does form part of of up to AU$183,000 AU$5,460 and July to December 2013 9.25% of annualised earnings the Implementation Report.
It is included here for No changes were made to these elements of remuneration within 2013 and no changes in information only respect of Mr Glasenberg are envisaged for 2014 except to reflect any changes in the pension contribution levels of the Baar all-employee pension scheme.
The Committee has set a The performance measures Annual Bonus plan levels Annual Bonus Plan maximum annual bonus applied may be financial, and the appropriateness Supports delivery of short level of 200% of base salary non-financial, corporate, of measures are reviewed term operational, financial p. a. divisional or individual and annually to ensure they and strategic goals in such proportions as the continue to support Committee considers the strategy appropriate.
Any Annual Bonus plan Additionally, the Committee outcome above 100% of will consider the outcomes salary is to be deferred against pre-set targets into shares for a period of following their calculation up to three years although and may moderate these the Committee reserves outcomes to take account of discretion to alter the a range of factors including current practice of deferral the Committee's view of whether by altering the overall Company portion deferred, the period performance in the year of deferral or whether amounts are deferred into cash or shares Cash element paid in one tranche following the year end Malus provisions apply to any amounts deferred 2013 Annual Bonus Implementation of Policy in 2013 and 2014 The Remuneration Committee accepted the request of each Executive Director that he not be considered for a bonus in respect of his service as an Executive Director during 2013. this section does not technically form part of the 2014 Annual Bonus Directors Remuneration Mr Glasenberg, currently as the only Executive Director, has continued to waive any right Policy but does form part of to participate in the plan for 2014. the Implementation Report.
It is included here for information only Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 96 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures No Executive Director has, Overall annual Executive Executive Directors do not Long-Term Incentives to date, participated, Directors limit of 200% of at present participate in the Glencore Performance Share although this will be kept salary for LTI grants plan reflecting, in the case Plan incentivises the creation under review to ensure it recognising that this is less of the CEO, the significant of shareholder value over remains appropriate than the formal limit in the alignment achieved the longer-term plan through his personal Malus clauses apply shareholding.
Accordingly, The Company will honour no performance conditions the vesting of all awards have been established for granted under previous Executive Directors.
On any policies in accordance with future participation, the the terms of such awards Committee may set such performance conditions on LTI awards as it considers appropriate whether financial or non-financial and whether corporate, divisional or individual To date no Executive Director has received an award and none will be granted for Implementation of Policy Mr Glasenberg in 2014. in 2013 and 2014 this section does not technically form part of the Directors Remuneration Policy but does form part of the Implementation Report.
It is included here for information only The Committee has set a N A N A Significant Personal formal shareholding Shareholdings requirement for Executive Aligns the interests of Directors of 300% of salary executives and shareholders Usually to be achieved within 5 years of Board appointment The CEO has a beneficial ownership of over 8% of the Companys issued share capital Implementation of Policy in 2013 and 2014 this section does not technically form part of the Directors Remuneration Policy but does form part of the Implementation Report.
It is included here for information only Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 97 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2013 Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures The objective in setting the fees Fees are paid monthly in cash N A Chairman and Non-Executive paid to the Chairman and the other Director fees Aggregate fees for all Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors is to be Directors including the Chairman Reflects time commitment, competitive with other listed are subject to the cap set in the experience, global nature companies of equivalent size Articles of Association.
This is and size of the Company and complexity.
Fee levels are currently set at 3,000,000. periodically reviewed by the Board However, due to the fact that for Non-Executives and the from 1 January 2014 fees are set in Committee for the Chairman.
US Dollars, part of the proposed In both cases, the Company does amendments to the Companys not adopt a quantitative approach Articles of Association to be to pay positioning and exercises considered at the 2014 AGM judgment as to what it considers include a change in this limit to to be reasonable in all the $5,000,000 which is a broadly circumstances as regards quantum equivalent amount at prevailing Non-Executive Directors and the exchange rates.
Senior Independent Director receive a base fee.
Additional fees are paid for chairing or membership of a Board committee Chairman receives a single inclusive fee Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for any other remuneration or benefits of any nature Reviewed every year with the next review due to take place in December 2014 Refer to section below on Non-Executives terms of appointment for details of fees Implementation of Policy in 2013 and 2014 No fees have been increased for 2014 or since the Companys IPO in May 2011 although, as with the Executive Directors, all fees have been re-expressed as US Dollar amounts for this section does not 2014 onwards using the average exchange rate for 2013. technically form part of the Directors Remuneration Policy but does form part of the Implementation Report.
It is included here for information only Notes to the Policy table: 1 Mr Glasenberg, the only Executive Director, received no salary increase in January 2014.
2 Differences between the policy on remuneration for Directors from the policy on remuneration of other employees: the only Executive Director has waived any entitlement to participate in the variable pay arrangements.
In addition, other members of senior management who also have significant shareholdings in the Company also similarly did not participate in variable pay arrangements during 2013.
Arrangements also differ from its pay policies for Group employees as necessary to reflect the appropriate market rate position for the relevant roles.
3 All references to there being no change to the terms of remuneration of Executive Directors during the year is subject to the caveat that Mr Coates entered into a new executive contract in May 2013, prior to joining the Board as an Executive Director in June 2013.
The terms of his remuneration under that contract, as fully set out above, terminated on 31 December 2013, when he ceased to be an Executive Director.
4 For 2013, all remuneration and fees were paid in Pounds Sterling except for pension contributions and the provision of benefits which, in respect of Mr Glasenberg and Mr Kalmin, were provided in Swiss Francs and, in respect of Mr Coates, for whom all emoluments and benefits while he was an Executive Director were provided in Australian Dollars.
These amounts have been converted into US Dollars at the average rate for last year as set out on page 46.
5 From 2014 onwards, all remuneration and fees will be paid in US Dollars except for pension contributions and the provision of benefits as described above.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 98 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Recruitment Remuneration Policy Where it is necessary to make a recruitment related pay award to an external candidate, the Company will not The Companys recruitment remuneration policy aims to pay more than is, in the view of the Committee, give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the necessary and will in all cases seek, in the first instance, appointment and promotion of its high-calibre executives to deliver any such awards under the terms of the to strengthen the management team and secure the skill existing incentive pay structure.
It may, however, be sets to deliver our strategic aims.
necessary in some cases to make such awards on terms that are more bespoke than the existing annual and The following represents guidelines considered reasonable equity-based pay structures in the Group in order to by the Committee, but they may need to change in relation secure a candidate.
to securing an appropriate candidate whose appointment would be in shareholders best interests.
All such awards for external appointments, whether under the annual bonus plan, Performance Share Plan or The starting point for the Committee will be to look to otherwise, to compensate for awards forfeited on leaving the general policy for Executive Directors as set out a previous employer will take account of the nature, above and structure a package in accordance with that time-horizons and performance requirements on those policy.
However, the policy was developed having regard awards.
In particular, the Committees starting point will to the specific circumstances of the current Directors and be to ensure that any awards being forfeited which therefore consistent with the new UK regulations for a remain subject to outstanding performance requirements newly appointed Executive Director the Committee is not other than where these are substantially complete are constrained by the caps on fixed pay within the policy on bought-out with replacement requirements and any a recruitment or at any subsequent annual review within awards with service requirements are bought out with the life of this policy as approved by shareholders.
However, exceptionally the Committee Committee will not pay more than it considers to be may relax those obligations where it considers it to be necessary to secure the recruitment having regards to in the interests of shareholders and those factors are, appropriate market rates and evolving best practice.
in the view of the Committee, equally reflected in some For an internal appointment, any variable pay element other way, for example through a significant discount to awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue the face value of the awards forfeited.
It will only include on its original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new guaranteed sums where the Committee considers that it appointment as appropriate.
is necessary to secure the recruitment.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee For the avoidance of doubt, where recruitment related may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation awards are intended to replace existing awards held by expenses as they consider appropriate and or to make a candidate in an existing employer, the maximum a contribution towards legal fees in connection with amounts for incentive pay as stated in the general agreeing employment terms.
policies will not apply to such awards.
The Committee has not placed a maximum limit on any such awards The Committee reserves the right to make awards of which it may be necessary to make as it is not considered incentive pay that are necessary to secure a candidate, to be in shareholders interests to set any expectations which may include either awards to compensate for for prospective candidates regarding such awards.
Any the forfeiture of incentive awards in a previous employer recruitment-related awards which do not replace awards or to provide appropriate incentives for a new recruit to with a previous employer will be subject to the limits on the Group.
Details of any such awards will be incentive awards as detailed in the general policy.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 99 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2013 The elements of any package for a new recruit and the The above chart has been included to be consistent with approach taken by the Committee in relation to setting the requirements of the new UK disclosure requirements.
each element of the package will be consistent with the Under the formal policy, consistent with other large Executive Directors remuneration policy described in this FTSE companies, the total available variable pay i. e. the report, as modified by the above statement of principles maximum amount payable in respect of bonus and longwhere appropriate.
term incentives available to Mr. Glasenberg would be approximately $5,790,000 being four times base salary.
A new Non-executive Director would be recruited on the As Mr Glasenberg has waived entitlement to all variable terms explained above in respect of the main policy for elements for 2014, his base salary and all benefits are set at such directors.
less than 25% of the aggregate remuneration which would potentially have been available to him had he not waived Potential rewards under various scenarios participation in these aspects.
As Mr Glasenberg has waived any right to participate in both bonus and longThe potential total rewards available to the Executive term incentives, the chart shows the same total fixed pay Director for the 2014 financial year, ignoring any change salary, pension and benefits figure at all levels.
This is in share price and roll-up of dividends are: considered appropriate as the level of his personal shareholding is sufficient to provide a keen alignment of Performance charts interest between him and of shareholders more generally $000 without the need to add additional aspects to his package and cost to other shareholders : his fixed remuneration US$1,509 US$1,509 US$1,509 set out below is set at a modestly below market level so the above chart does not reflect any element of an excessive bias to fixed pay in the traditional sense.
100% 100% 100% Consistent with UK legislation, it has been prepared using the following assumptions.
Minimum On-target Maximum The performance charts on this page reflect the figures CEO Ivan Glasenberg in the single figure table on page 105, but are presented in US dollars.
In 2013, Mr Glasenbergs base salary was Short-Term Incentives paid in pounds sterling and his benefits and pension Total Fixed Pay contributions were paid in Swiss francs, as described above and in the single figure table.
Fixed Consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary is that to be paid in 2014.
Benefits measured as benefits figure in the single figure table.
Pension measured as pension figure in the single figure table.
$000 Base Salary Benefits Pension Total Fixed Ivan Glasenberg $1,447 $3 $59 $1,509 On-target and Maximum Based on what the Director would receive if performance was on-target excl.
share price appreciation and dividends : STI: Mr Glasenberg currently waives any right to participate in the annual bonus plan.
LTI: He does not currently participate in the Performance Share Plan.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 100 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors service contracts Executive Directors contracts The table below summarises the key features of the service contracts for the persons who served as Executive Directors during 2013.
All Directors contracts and letters of appointment will be available for inspection on the terms to be specified in the Notice of 2014 AGM.
Provision Service contract terms Notice period Mr Glasenberg and Mr Kalmin twelve months notice by either party Mr Coates one months notice by either party: terminated on 31 December 2013 without any notice payment Mr Glasenberg 28 April 2011 as amended on 30 October 2013 Contract date Mr Kalmin 20 April 2011 Mr Coates 1 May 2013 Expiry date Rolling service contract No special arrangements or entitlements on termination.
Mr Glasenbergs contract Termination payment was amended on 30 October 2013 to clarify that any compensation would be limited to base salary only for any unexpired notice period plus any accrued leave On a change of control of the Company, no provision for any enhanced payments, Change in control nor for any liquidated damages External appointments The Executive Directors each held at least one external appointment being a directorship of a non-subsidiary company during 2013.
These are referred to at the end of their respective biographical summaries on page 78 and 79.
The Executive Directors assign to the Group any compensation which they receive from such external board directorships except for the pre-appointment positions of Mr Coates on the boards of Santos Ltd and Amalgamated Holdings Ltd, for which he received fees of A$423,932 $410,319 during 2013.
The appropriateness of these appointments is considered as part of the annual review of Directors interests potential conflicts.
Termination Policy Summary In practice, the facts surrounding any termination do not always fit neatly into defined categories for good or bad leavers.
Therefore, it is appropriate for the Committee to consider the suitable treatment on a termination having regard to all of the relevant facts and circumstances available at that time.
Further, in practice no Executive Director has, to date, participated in the PSP so the policy remains to be tested.
This policy applies both to any negotiations linked to notice periods on a termination and any treatment which the Committee may choose to apply under the discretions available to it under the terms of the annual bonus and LTI arrangements.
The potential treatments on termination under these plans are summarised below.
Incentives Good leaver Bad leaver If a leaver is deemed to be a good leaver: If a leaver is deemed to be a bad i. e. leaving through, serious ill health or death leaver: typically voluntary resignation or otherwise at the discretion of the Committee or leaving for disciplinary reasons Annual Bonus Pro-rated bonus No awards made LTIP Will receive a pro-rated award if applicable, All awards will normally lapse subject to the application of the performance conditions at the normal measurement date.
Committee discretion to disapply pro-rating Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 101 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2013 The UK legislation does not require the inclusion of a cap or limit in relation to payments for loss of office.
The Committee will take all relevant factors into account in deciding whether any discretion should be exercised in an individuals favour in these circumstances, and the Committee will aim to ensure that any payments made are, in its view, appropriate having regard to prevailing best practice guidelines.
The Committee may also, after taking appropriate legal advice, sanction the payment of additional sums in the settlement of potential legal claims.
Non-Executive Directors Letters of appointment and re-election All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for an initial period of three years from their date of appointment, subject to reappointment at each AGM.
The Company may terminate each appointment by immediate notice and there are no special arrangements or entitlements on termination except that any permanent Chairman will be entitled to three months notice.
While the Interim Chairman remains on the normal appointment letter for a Non-Executive Director, he has been paid the applicable fee for the role of Company Chairman and not received the standard NonExecutive Director fees pro-rata for the period of assuming that role.
Annual fees for 2013 were paid in accordance with a Non-Executive Directors role and responsibilities as follows: 2014 fee in 1 2013 GBP 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 Directors Chairman 675 1,056 1,056 Senior Independent Director 109 170 170 Non-Executive Director 79 124 124 Remuneration Committee Chairman 28 44 44 Member 15 23 23 Audit Committee Chairman 35 55 55 Member 20 31 31 Nomination Committee Chairman 23 36 36 Member 12 19 19 HSEC Committee Chairman 80 125 125 Member 12 19 19 1 These amounts were historically set in UK Pounds Sterling and have been converted to US Dollars using the exchange rate stated in the currency table on page 46.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee has not, since IPO, awarded a salary increase to any Executive Director.
It has not, therefore, in practice had to take into account Group-wide pay and employment conditions in making any decisions but would do so as and when such issues arise.
In accordance with prevailing commercial practice, the Committee did not consult with employees in preparing the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Consideration of shareholders views Each year, the Committee takes into account the approval levels of remuneration related matters at our annual general meeting in determining that the current Directors Remuneration Policy remains appropriate for the Company.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 102 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The Committee also seeks to have a productive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally and any changes to the Companys executive pay arrangements in particular.
Part B Implementation Report Implementation Report Unaudited Information Remuneration Committee Membership and experience of the Remuneration Committee We believe that the members of the Committee provide a useful balance of abilities, experience and perspectives to provide the critical analysis required in carrying out the Committees function.
In particular: John Mack became Chairman of the Committee on 13 August 2013.
His long career in investment bank management provides considerable experience of remuneration analysis and implementation: William Macaulay chaired the Committee until 13 August and remains a member.
He has had a long tenure in private equity which has involved exposure to remuneration issues many times and in a variety of situations: and Leonhard Fischer is a career banker who similarly has had considerable exposure to issues of pay and incentives.
All members of the Remuneration Committee are considered to be independent.
Further details concerning independence of the Non-Executive Directors are contained on pages 80 and 81 of the Annual Report.
Role of the Remuneration Committee The terms of reference of the Committee set out its role.
They are available on the Companys website at: www.
com pdf ToR-REMCO Its principal responsibilities are, on behalf of the Board, to: Set the Companys executive remuneration policy and review its ongoing relevance and appropriateness : Establish the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors including the scope of pension benefits: Determine the remuneration package for the Chairman, in consultation with the Chief Executive: Have responsibility for overseeing schemes of performance related remuneration including share incentive plans for, and determine awards for, the Executive Directors: Ensure that the contractual terms on termination for the Executive Directors are fair and not excessive: and Monitor senior management remuneration.
The Committee considers corporate performance on HSEC and governance issues when setting remuneration for the Executive Directors.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the incentive structure for the Groups senior management does not raise HSEC or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Remuneration Committee activities in 2013 The Committee met four times and considered, amongst other matters, the following: The remuneration policy applicable to the Executive Directors: Senior management remuneration policy, including its level and structure: The form and structure of grants to employees under the Companys Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan: The amount of bonus payable to the CFO in respect of his performance in 2012: and The new UK remuneration reporting rules.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 103 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2013 Internal advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Chairman, CEO and CFO are usually invited to attend some or all of the proceedings of Remuneration Committee meetings.
They do not participate in any decisions concerning their own remuneration.
In addition, the Committee receives advice from John Burton, the Company Secretary.
External advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Committee appointed and received independent remuneration advice during the second half of the year from its newly appointed adviser, FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT.
FIT is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group the UK professional body for these consultants and adheres to its code of conduct.
FIT provided no other services to the Group and, accordingly, the Committee was satisfied that the advice provided by FIT was objective and independent.
FITs fees were charged on the basis of the firms standard terms of business for advice provided.
Previously, the Committee appointed and was advised by Deloitte Global Employer Services Deloitte GES which received fees of 16,000 in respect of its provision of executive remuneration advice to the Committee during early 2013.
Deloitte GESs terms of reference are in accordance with APB Ethical Standard 5 and restrict the provision of certain services to maintain auditor independence.
Distribution Statement Due to the acquisition of Xstrata the Company has not produced a distribution statement for 2013 as it was not considered to be a helpful analysis for shareholders.
It is the Companys intention to provide this in future years.
Performance graph and table The graph below shows the value to 31 December 2013, on a total shareholder return TSR basis, of 100 invested in Glencore Xstrata plc on 18 May 2011 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Mining Index.
The FTSE 350 Mining Index is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is an equity index consisting of companies listed in London in the same sector as Glencore Xstrata.
Performance 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 May 2011 Aug 2011 Nov 2011 Feb 2012 May 2012 Aug 2012 Nov 2012 Feb 2013 May 2013 Aug 2013 Nov 2013 FTSE 350 Mining Index Glencore Xstrata Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 104 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The new UK reporting regulations also require that a TSR performance graph is supported by a table summarising aspects of CEO remuneration, as shown below for the same period as the TSR performance graph: Long term Single figure Annual variable incentive vesting of total element award rates rates against 1 remuneration against maximum maximum 2 2 000 opportunity opportunity 2013 Ivan Glasenberg 964 n a n a 2012 Ivan Glasenberg 964 n a n a 2011 Ivan Glasenberg 964 n a n a 1 The value of benefits and pension provision in the single figure may vary as a result of the application of exchange rates.
Further details are provided in the Single Figure Table below.
In this table the figures are reported in pounds sterling as historically the CEO has been paid in pounds sterling.
2 Both the annual variable element and long term incentive vesting rates are n a due to the CEO not participating in these awards Percentage change in pay of Chief Executive Officer 2012 to 2013 The UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, provide for disclosure of percentage changes of the CEOs remuneration against the average percentage change for employees generally or an appropriate group of employees.
Given that the CEO has since the Companys IPO in May 2011 waived any entitlement to any increase in salary and given that his only other unwaived benefits are those provided to all employees at the Companys head office in Baar no such comparison has been made.
In the event that Executive Directors receive increases in salary in future then a suitable disclosure in respect of these regulations will be made.
Voting Outcomes from AGM 2013 The following table shows the votes cast to approve the Directors Remuneration Report, for the year ended 31 December 2012, at the 2013 AGM held on 16 May 2013.
As referred to in Mr Macks letter, the Committee considers this level of negative voting to be a reflection of views on certain actions by the Xstrata Board rather than to be an indication of a lack of support for the Companys approach to the remuneration of its Directors Votes For Votes Against Votes Abstentions as a total of votes cast 78.3% 21.7% 1.1% 6,466,288,692 1,795,475,367 93,986,325 Implementation Report Audited Information Single Figure Table Salary Fees Benefits Annual Bonus Long-term incentives Pension Total 000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Ivan Glasenberg 925 925 2 2 37 36 964 964 Peter Coates 586 179 2 9 597 179 Steven Kalmin 232 700 1 2 1,400 9 28 242 2,130 The table above has been compiled taking account the following: 1 Each Director waived any right to participate in the Executive Directors annual bonus plan or any long term incentive.
As no bonuses or long term incentives have been granted for 2013, there are no relevant performance measures to be disclosed.
2 See description concerning the changes of the role of Mr Coates on page 81.
On 12 June 2013 he became an Executive Director.
Mr Coates 2012 figures reflect Non-Executive fees only.
Mr Coates 2013 figures reflect Non-Executive fees from 1 January to 2 May and Executive Director remuneration from 12 June to 31 December.
3 Mr Kalmin was on the Board of Glencore until the merger with Xstrata on 2 May 2013.
His 2013 figures show his remuneration until this date.
4 700,000 of Mr Kalmin's bonus award for 2012 was deferred in shares for three years with a third vesting on each anniversary of the grant via an award of 181,627 shares as further described on the final page of the Directors remuneration report.
5 Benefits comprise the provision of standard company insurances in Australia for Mr Coates and Switzerland for the others, the cost of which was borne in Australian dollars and Swiss francs respectively.
6 Pension contributions are as disclosed in the policy table.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 105 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2013 As no bonuses or long term incentives have been granted for 2013, there are no relevant performance measures to be disclosed Former Executive Directors As reported at the beginning of this report, Mr Kalmin remains the CFO and Mr Coates ceased to an Executive Director on 31 December 2013.
Neither of them received any payment or benefit in respect of his change of status.
Non-Executive Fees The emoluments of the Non-Executive Directors for 2013 based on the current disclosure requirements were as follows: Total Total Total 2013 2013 2012 Name US$000 000 000 Non-Executive Chairman 1 Simon Murray 613 392 675 2 Sir John Bond 49 31 3 Anthony Hayward Interim 742 474 159 Non-Executive Directors Leonhard Fischer 202 129 129 4 William Macaulay 191 122 127 5 Li Ning 50 32 91 6 Peter Hooley 85 6 Ian Strachan 85 6 Con Fauconnier 85 6 Sir Steve Robson 85 7 Peter Coates 93 59 179 8 Peter T Grauer 89 57 9 John J Mack 93 60 Total 1 Mr Murray ceased to be Non-Executive Chairman on 2 May 2013.
His fees were paid to 31 July 2013 reflecting his right to receive 3 months notice of termination.
2 Sir John Bond was Non-Executive Chairman from 2 May until 16 May 2013.
3 Dr Hayward was Senior Independent Director until 16 May 2013.
From that date he has been interim Non-Executive Chairman.
4 Mr Macaulay ceased to be chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 13 August 2013, but remains a member of that Committee.
5 Mr Li ceased to be a Director on 2 May 2013.
6 Messrs Hooley, Strachan, Fauconnier and Robson served as Directors from 2 May to 16 May 2013.
7 Mr Coates served as a Non-Executive Director from 1 January to 2 May 2013.
His emoluments for being an Executive Director are included in the Single Figure Table for Executive Directors above.
His non-executive fees are also included in the Single Figure Table.
8 Mr Grauer was appointed as a Director on 12 June 2013: on 13 August 2013 he was appointed to the Nomination and Audit Committees.
9 Mr Mack was appointed as a Director on 12 June 2013: on 13 August 2013 he was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 106 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors interests The Directors interests in shares are set out in the Directors report on page 110.
In addition, under the new reporting regime, disclosure is made of all outstanding interests under share plans as at 31 December 2013 as follows: Total Share Plan Interests Shares including Restricted Stock Share Options Share options Share options not Shares subject to Shares not subject to subject to subject to Share options performance performance performance performance vested but Director conditions conditions conditions conditions unexercised Steven Kalmin: Unvested awards under the deferred element 1 of his 2012 bonus award 181,627 Peter Coates: 2 Options arising from legacy Xstrata schemes 1,381,118 Notes: 1 These shares were awarded as half of Mr Kalmins bonus for 2012 being valued at the date of award at 700,000.
They vest in three equal tranches on the first three anniversaries of 20 March 2013.
2 The exercise prices for these options, which were granted between 2005 and 2007 when Mr Coates was employed by Xstrata, range from 1.7610-4.4547.
Approval This report in its entirety has been approved by the Committee and the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: John J Mack Remuneration Committee Chairman 17 March 2014 Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 107
