30 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Audit Committee report continued Internal audit External audit The Internal Audit Manager was recruited in August 2013 and Appointment has presented reports to the last two meetings of the Committee.
An audit programme for the last two months of 2013 and for The Committee considers the reappointment of the external 2014 was presented to the Committee and approved.
Points auditors each year and, as part of this process, considers the arising from audits completed and follow-up action plans to independence of the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit address areas of weakness were presented to the Committee process.
Further information on these aspects is given below.
meeting in February 2014 and reviewed by the Committee.
Having reviewed the performance of  in 2013, the Committee has decided to recommend to the Board External audit that  be reappointed for the 2014 audit and a resolution to this effect will be put to the 2014 AGM.
At the July and November meetings, the external auditors presented their audit plans for the interim review and annual audit The external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partner respectively.
These plans were discussed with the external auditors every five years and other partners periodically in order to protect and changes from the previous years scope were agreed.
independence and objectivity and provide fresh challenge to the Group.
The current lead partner, Mrs Rosemary Shapland, has The effectiveness of the external audit process depends on been in place for four years.
appropriate risk identification at the start of the cycle which was reviewed as part of the planning process.
The principal risks Fees identified for 2013 were in relation to revenue recognition, management override of controls and provisions against debtors In respect of the audit for 2013,  and and inventory.
its international member firms charged the Group 761,000 2012: 562,000 for audit and audit-related services.
The Following completion of the audit,  Committee approved the fees for 2013 after considering the confirmed that no additional matters had arisen during the audit increased scope of the work this year and being satisfied by which required them to alter their planned procedures.
The  that the level of fees was appropriate Committee assessed the effectiveness of the audit process based for the amount of work required.
on its interaction with the external auditors and by obtaining feedback from management on the effectiveness of the process, Non-audit services which is referred to later in this report.
For 2013, management was satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge The Committee regularly monitored and approved the services on the primary areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the provided to the Group by  and has audit process to be good.
The Committee agreed with this view.
established a policy and pre-approval requirement for the provision of non-audit services to ensure that there is no impairment of Training objectivity and independence.
For this purpose, auditing the accounts of subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation and At each meeting, a paper is presented on any new accounting other services provided pursuant to the legislation are regarded as developments and any changes in corporate governance audit services.
The pre-approval requirement is subject to annual requirements that may affect the Group.
I and the members of the review by the Committee.
Committee also attend external training sessions given by the big four firms of auditors and other advisers.
The external auditors are invited to provide services where their position as auditors renders them best placed to undertake the Fair, balanced and understandable overview work.
In 2013, this included all work required in connection with the Prospectus and other documentation connected with the IPO The Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts 2013, and reporting and certification connected with borrowings and taken as a whole, in the light of their knowledge of the Group and circulars to shareholders.
For other non-audit services, any contract its performance and has concluded that it is fair, balanced and in excess of 20,000 must be approved by me and any individual understandable and provides the information necessary for engagement over 250,000 must be approved by the Committee.
shareholders to assess the Companys strategy, business model and performance, and reported to the Board accordingly.
Tax and general accounting work, especially where  could end up auditing its own work or where any other conflict could arise, is not awarded to the external auditors and is put out to tender.
Valuation, accounting services and some tax and advisory work is not permitted to be done by the external auditors.
There are no contractual restrictions on who the Committee can choose as external auditors.
O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t Governance F F F F F Fiiiiiin n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ciiiiia a a a alllll s s s s s st t t t ta a a a at t t t te e e e em m m m me e e e en n n n nts ts ts ts ts O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 In addition to the audit fee,  and its Effectiveness of the external audit process member firms charged the Group during 2013 one-off fees of 1,134,000 for reporting accountant work for the Prospectus The effectiveness of the external audit process for 2013 was and IPO and 426,156 for benchmarking, tax clearances and evaluated, taking into account the views of relevant senior implementation of LTIPs and Global Share Plans.
These items of management and the Committee members.
The conclusion work were approved before the IPO and it was considered that of the evaluation was that the process was effective.
We have the external auditors were best placed to do this work in the time considered the FRC Audit Quality Review Team report on available in view of their extensive knowledge of the Group and  dated May 2013.
If our audit is selected the need to avoid having to brief and control other advisers.
In for quality review, we have asked to see any resulting reports.
addition,  charged the Group 160,000 for other audit-related assurance services and 147,000 for the Committee evaluation tax support and advisory work.
The Committees activities were reviewed as part of the review of Further details of fees are shown in note 18 on page 79.
The fees Board effectiveness which was done internally this year.
Based on for non-audit services amounted to 245% of the audit fee but this and as a result of the work done during the year, the without the IPO and benchmarking-related work would have Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its been 40% of the audit fee.
terms of reference and carried out its responsibilities effectively.
Independence The independence of the external auditors is confirmed John Biles by  each half year and was last Chairman of the Audit Committee confirmed in February 2014.
The Committee considered 28 February 2014  presentation and confirmed that it considered the auditors to be independent.
Internal audit The Internal Audit Manager reports to the Audit Committee and for administrative purposes to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Internal Audit Manager will use additional external resource as necessary to complete the agreed programme of work and provides assurance over the key financial processes and controls in operation across the Group, upon which management places reliance in its mitigation of risk.
An annual internal audit plan was reviewed and approved by the Committee covering the last two months of 2013 and all of 2014.
This plan took account of the Groups strategic objectives and risks and provides the degree of coverage deemed appropriate by the Committee.
All manufacturing locations will be visited at least every two years and sales operations every five years.
Internal audit reports include control weaknesses identified, recommendations for improvement and the agreed management actions to improve control.
Actions are then monitored until completed.
The effectiveness of Internal Audit will be reviewed and discussed annually with the Internal Audit Manager and in the few months since it commenced, operation has been reviewed and assessed as effective.
32 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors remuneration report New regulations governing the content of Directors remuneration Chairmans annual statement reports came into force as from 1 October 2013.
In line with these new requirements, this report is divided into three sections: On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present my first Directors remuneration report for this Annual Statement: HellermannTyton.
the Directors remuneration policy report, which it is proposed HellermannTytons remuneration policy was outlined in the IPO should apply from the 2014 AGM and which details Prospectus and has remained unchanged since the Company listed HellermannTytons Executive and Non-executive Director on the London Stock Exchange on 2 April 2013.
The Group has remuneration policies.
It explains the components of Executive a dedicated and talented senior management team with Director remuneration and how the arrangements support the significant experience and understanding of their respective Companys strategic objectives of profitable growth and markets and regions, and the Remuneration Committee the sustained, increased shareholder value, and also includes Committee is focused on adopting a remuneration policy the projected pay outcomes under different performance scenarios: policy that provides appropriate incentives to enhance the and Groups performance and rewards executives for their personal contribution to the success of the business.
the annual report on remuneration, which focuses on the remuneration arrangements and outcomes for 2013, and how At the time of listing, executive reward was closely scrutinised to the Committee intends to implement the policy in 2014. ensure that remuneration arrangements appropriately reflected the Under the new reporting arrangements, the Directors Companys status.
This was achieved through benchmarking of remuneration report will be subject to two votes at our 2014 the Directors and senior managers' remuneration packages AGM: the policy report will be put to a binding vote, and the against a range of relevant UK listed companies comparable to annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory vote.
HellermannTyton in size and complexity.
Salary, pension, benefits and bonus arrangements for the Executive Directors were I hope this report outlines in a clear and understandable manner established, and the 2013 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the how decisions about HellermannTytons Executive Director and Global Share Plan GSP have been implemented on the basis Non-executive Director remuneration are made, how overall described in the IPO Prospectus.
This included setting the packages are structured and how the Executive Director reward performance targets for the annual bonus plan, establishing policy opportunities will support successful execution of the Groups and making awards under the LTIP subject to performance targets, strategy in the years to come.
I welcome any comments issuing free shares under the GSP and initiating arrangements for shareholders may have.
employees to purchase shares that may attract awards of matching shares after a holding period of three years.
David Lindsell Remuneration for Executive Directors in 2013 reflects a strong Chairman of the Remuneration Committee set of results.
HellermannTytons sales revenue and underlying EBITA increased by 11.1% and 11.8% respectively in 2013 in 28 February 2014 constant currency terms.
This was a strong performance against Group targets and is reflected in the annual bonus that has been awarded to its Executive Directors for the period ended 31 December 2013, as explained in detail later in this report.
The Chairmans fee and the Non-executive Directors fees were determined by the Board at the time of their appointment and will in future be determined in accordance with the policy set out in the Directors remuneration policy report on page 37.
O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t Governance F F F F F Fiiiiiin n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ciiiiia a a a alllll s s s s s st t t t ta a a a at t t t te e e e em m m m me e e e en n n n nts ts ts ts ts O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 The Committee believes it is important that executive Policy report remuneration is weighted to reward entrepreneurial achievement and the creation of shareholder value over time: exceptional Directors remuneration policy achievement in terms of longer-term shareholder value creation The Committees primary objective is to ensure that reward should attract upper quartile levels of remuneration, whilst packages for Executive Directors are competitive in order to below-average value creation should result in much more modest attract and retain the best talent, and are directly linked to the levels of remuneration.
With this in mind, remuneration for the achievement of performance targets.
In order to ensure that these Executive Directors is structured around six main components: objectives continue to be met, the Committee will review the base salary, pension, taxable benefits, annual performance bonus, policy annually for continued appropriateness and relevance, but the long term incentive plan and all-employee share plans.
at the present time no changes are anticipated.
The Committee endeavours to ensure that remuneration policy is The Companys policy on executive remuneration is that the consistent with sound corporate governance and in accordance Remuneration Committee should satisfy itself that Executive with the guidance of institutional shareholder bodies such as the Directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Association of British Insurers.
The Committee seeks to ensure that they In addition to reviewing and approving the remuneration of receive a level of remuneration that is appropriate to their scale of Executive Directors and the remuneration arrangements for the responsibility and performance and that Directors remuneration Groups senior managers, the Committee administers the arrangements will attract, motivate and retain individuals of the Companys share incentive plans.
The Committee also determines necessary calibre.
the Chairmans remuneration, although the Board itself determines the level of fees paid to the Non-executive Directors.
No Director is involved in determining his own remuneration.
This section of the report sets out the remuneration policy for Executive and Non-executive Directors which shareholders are asked to approve at the 2014 AGM.
The Committee intends to bring this policy into effect formally from 30 April 2014 the date of the 2014 AGM.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors The table below summarises the key components of remuneration package for Executive Directors: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Typically reviewed annually Base salary increases are Base salary Not applicable.
by the Committee with any applied in line with the To provide an appropriate changes taking effect on outcome of the annual review.
level of salary to support recruitment and retention, 1 April.
Salary increases for Executive with due regard to the When setting the Executive Directors will not normally individuals responsibilities Directors base salaries, the exceed those of the wider and experience.
Committee considers a range workforce over the term of of factors, including: this policy.
Increases may be salary levels for similar jobs above this level if there is an in relevant UK listed increase in the scale, scope, companies comparable to market comparability or HellermannTyton in size responsibilities of the role.
and complexity: Where increases are awarded personal performance in excess of the wider and experience: employee population, the the individuals role within Committee will explain its the Group and level rationale in the relevant years of responsibility: annual report on the balance between fixed remuneration.
and variable reward: and relative remuneration levels throughout the Group.
34 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Executive Directors are Company contribution of up Pension Not applicable.
eligible to participate in to 21% of salary and To provide a competitive one of the Groups defined pensionable bonus capped at pension provision.
Contribution The pensionable element percentage of salary may be of Executive Directors exceeded in exceptional remuneration is capped circumstances and this applies whether or e. g. recruitment.
not an executive is a member of one of the defined contribution pension plans or has a personal pension arrangement.
The Executive Directors receive Benefits vary by role and Taxable benefits Not applicable.
a range of benefits including: individual circumstance, and To provide benefits that private health insurance: are reviewed periodically to are competitive.
income protection scheme: ensure they remain life assurance: and appropriate.
company car or car allowance.
Where appropriate, other benefits may be offered including, but not limited to, allowances for relocation.
Performance is based on The annual bonus provides for Performance is based Annual bonus annual targets for each awards of up to 100% of base on Group targets.
To motivate and reward financial year.
Group performance measures executives personal and collective achievements.
Performance measures and Bonus for on-target will include, but may not be targets are set at the start performance is 45% of salary.
limited to, adjusted underlying of each financial year to be earnings before interest, tax consistent with business and amortisation EBITA and priorities for the period.
At the end of the year, the A bonus award may be Committee determines the clawed back at any time extent to which these within 12 months after were achieved.
payment if the measures on Awards are paid in cash.
which the bonus award is Payment of 30% of the bonus based are misstated or in the may be deferred for up to event of gross misconduct.
O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t Governance F F F F F Fiiiiiin n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ciiiiia a a a alllll s s s s s st t t t ta a a a at t t t te e e e em m m m me e e e en n n n nts ts ts ts ts O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics The Committee may grant Awards may be granted each Awards vest subject to threeLong Term Incentive annual LTIP awards.
year earnings per share EPS Plan LTIP Awards are granted in the At threshold performance, growth and three-year relative To incentivise and reward form of performance shares 25% of the award is payable.
total shareholder return TSR, long-term performance and to support alignment or nominal cost options each equally weighted.
with shareholders through which vest after three years Relative TSR is measured relative stock market subject to achievement of against the FTSE 250 Index out performance.
performance conditions and excluding investment trusts.
Ahead of each performance Performance periods are cycle, the Committee may three years.
review and adjust the TSR Ahead of each grant, the comparator group for future performance measures and cycles to ensure it remains targets are reviewed by the relevant to HellermannTyton.
Committee to ensure they Before finalising the amounts remain appropriate.
of long-term incentives that Dividends may accrue on LTIP will vest, the Committee may awards and be paid on those also consider underlying shares that vest.
performance and, if appropriate, reduce the level of vesting.
Awards vesting under the LTIP are subject to clawback at any time within 12 months after the date of vesting if the measures on which the award is based are misstated or in the event of gross misconduct.
An HMRC approved scheme Executive Directors can The vesting of matching Global Share Plan GSP under which employees are purchase HellermannTyton shares is usually subject to To reward loyalty to the invited to make contributions shares up to the HMRC continued employment Company, encourage share ownership and align their to buy partnership shares permitted allowance, which and, at the Committees interests with those of using gross pay.
If an employee are then subject to a discretion, may be subject to shareholders.
agrees to buy partnership maximum match in line with performance targets.
The shares, the Company currently HMRC rules.
matching shares may also be matches the number of subject to a holding period.
partnership shares with matching shares up to a certain level, subject to continued employment for three years.
Dividends accrue on investment and matching shares and are automatically reinvested.
36 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Notes to the policy table Global Share Plan Free share awards were offered to Executive Directors under the GSP on the Companys admission to the London Stock Exchange, as proposed in the IPO Prospectus.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer each received 214 free shares, based on their length of service, which will vest in three years subject to continued employment.
It is intended that only purchased and matching shares under the GSP will be offered to Executive Directors on a regular basis.
Pension payments under past policy Under arrangements entered into many years ago, the Chief Executive receives a fixed pension allowance of 15,500 per year.
He is also entitled to a lump sum on his retirement as a Director of HellermannTyton Co. Ltd Japan, calculated by reference to his length of service and his monthly remuneration from that company at the time of his retirement, and to which a supplement of 30% may be added at the discretion of HellermannTyton Co. Ltd Japan.
The estimated value of the benefit of this arrangement accruing during 2013 was 10,477 and is funded out of the 21% contribution referred to in the table above.
It is not intended to grant these pension arrangements to any future Executive Director.
Performance measurement selection Remuneration policy for other employees Executive Directors participate in the annual bonus plan and the HellermannTytons approach to annual salary reviews is consistent LTIP.
These plans are designed to incentivise and to provide reward across the Group.
Key senior managers are eligible to participate in for the achievement of demanding financial and businessthe annual bonus scheme, with targets appropriate to related objectives.
organisational level and business area.
Key senior managers are also eligible for consideration of LTIP awards to further support The aim of the annual bonus plan is to reward key executives over alignment with shareholder interests.
LTIP performance conditions and above fixed pay for the achievement of business objectives.
The are consistent for these employees, while award opportunities may bonus criteria are designed to encourage continuous performance vary by organisational level or business area.
Group financial performance targets relating to the annual bonus plan are set from the Companys Shareholding guidelines annual budget, which is reviewed and approved by the Board prior to the start of each financial year.
Adjusted underlying EBITA and The Executive Directors are subject to a 360-day lock-up period sales revenue are used as key performance indicators for the annual following the Companys listing on 2 April 2013, during which time bonus plan because they provide clear line-of-sight to the underlying they may not dispose of any interest in their shares, such financial performance of the Group.
arrangements being subject to certain exceptions that are usual in an agreement of this nature.
Long-term, share based incentives are designed to align the interests of Executive Directors with the longer-term interests of Executive Directors are required to build up and retain a holding of the Companys shareholders by rewarding them for delivering shares equal in value to their base salaries.
They are expected to sustained, increased shareholder value.
Accordingly, the vesting of build up the required shareholding by the fifth anniversary of their LTIP share awards is linked to growth in the Companys EPS and joining the Board and are required to retain 50% of the net of TSR.
For the LTIP, performance measures and targets are reviewed tax vested awards under the LTIP until this guideline is met.
by the Committee ahead of each grant and must be considered by the Committee to be challenging but achievable.
O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t Governance F F F F F Fiiiiiin n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ciiiiia a a a alllll s s s s s st t t t ta a a a at t t t te e e e em m m m me e e e en n n n nts ts ts ts ts O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 Remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors The table below summarises the Companys remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Chairman and Non-executive Fee increases are applied in Fees Not applicable.
Directors other than the line with the outcome of the Provide competitive Director nominated by annual review.
remuneration to attract and retain Directors of the Doughty Hanson & Co necessary calibre.
Managers Limited, who receives no fee receive a basic fee for their respective roles.
Additional fees are paid for chairing a Board Committee and for the position of Senior Independent Director.
Fees are typically reviewed every two years with reference to fee levels at a range of relevant UK listed companies comparable to HellermannTyton in size and complexity and take into account the time commitment required and responsibilities assumed.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee and the other Non-executive Directors fees are determined by the Board.
The Chairman and Nonexecutive Directors do not participate in the Companys incentive or share schemes.
Note: Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between the Company and Doughty Hanson & Co Managers Limited, Doughty Hanson is entitled to nominate one Non-executive Director of the Company at any time for so long as it holds 10% of the Companys shares.
Pay scenario charts The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for each of the two current Executive Directors, and the potential split between different elements of remuneration under three different scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum performance.
Steve Salmon, Chief Executive Tim Jones, Chief Financial officer 000 Key 000 Key 1,543 1,600 1,600 LTI LTI 1,400 1,400 STI STI 39% 1,200 1,200 Pen sion Pen sion 1,026 1,000 1,000 Fixe d Fixe d 867 40% 800 800 17% 26% 563 21% 600 600 525 18% 17% 11% 6% 27% 400 400 330 22% 13% 9% 5% 83% 50% 28% 200 200 87% 51% 28% 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum 38 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Assumptions underlying each element of pay are provided in the table below.
The projected value of the LTIP excludes the impact of share price growth and dividend accrual.
Actual pay delivered, however, will be influenced by these factors.
Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Includes: Base salary latest known salary effective from 1 April 2014 Benefits as per the single figure for 2013 disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
Pension For Steve Salmon, 16% of salary For Steve Salmon, same assumption as for minimum scenario but also plus lump sum allowance and the includes pensionable bonus capped at 10% of salary plus lump sum estimated value of the benefit of allowance and the estimated value of the benefit of the retirement lump sum the retirement lump sum entitlement accruing during 2013. entitlement accruing during 2013.
For Tim Jones, same assumption as for minimum scenario but also includes pensionable bonus capped at 10% of salary.
Note: LTIP opportunity of 150% is based on opportunity of LTIP awards expected to be granted in 2014.
Approach to recruitment remuneration In the case of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any or all of the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Component Approach Maximum value Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to the individuals role and responsibilities, experience and skills, relevant market data, internal relativities and their current base salary.
Pension New appointees will be eligible to participate in a Group pension plan in line with the policy.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the policy.
Annual bonus The annual bonus described in the policy will apply to new Up to 100% of salary per annum.
appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Targets for the personal element will be tailored to the executive.
LTIP New appointees will be eligible for awards under the LTIP Up to 200% of salary per annum.
which will normally be on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described in the policy.
GSP New appointees will be eligible to participate in the GSP in line with the policy.
In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive When a new Executive Director is appointed by way of internal Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant promotion, the Remuneration Committee will determine their factors including quantum, nature of remuneration and the remuneration on a basis that is consistent with the policy for jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited to ensure that external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has the pay arrangements are in the best interests of the Company contractual commitments made prior to his or her appointment as and its shareholders.
an Executive Director, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.
The Committee may consider it appropriate to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer using the When appointing a new Non-executive Director, the Committee existing elements of the remuneration policy or may make use of will follow the policy as set out in the table on page 37.
In doing so, the Committee will Policy on external appointments ensure the award will not exceed the fair value of the awards forfeited, using a Black-Scholes or equivalent valuation and, where Executive Directors are entitled to accept non-executive director applicable, taking into account the toughness of performance appointments outside the Company and retain any fees received conditions attached to the forfeited awards and the likelihood of provided that the Boards approval is obtained.
O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t Governance F F F F F Fiiiiiin n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ciiiiia a a a alllll s s s s s st t t t ta a a a at t t t te e e e em m m m me e e e en n n n nts ts ts ts ts O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 Service contracts Company is entitled to terminate his contract either by giving 12 months notice or by payment of the remuneration entitlement Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the for the notice period.
Company which came into effect on 2 April 2013 and which can be terminated by the Executive Director on six months written The Chairman and each independent Non-executive Director is notice and by the Company on 12 months written notice.
Upon appointed for a term of two years.
This term may be extended by leaving service at the request of the Company other than for gross the Board upon recommendation of the Nominations Committee, misconduct, the Executive Director is entitled to receive predetermined and the appointment can be terminated by either party on one compensation equivalent to 12 months base salary, pension months notice.
Non-executive Directors are also subject to annual contributions or amounts in lieu thereof and taxable benefits and, re-election at the AGM.
All of the current independent Nonin the case of bonus entitlement, the Director will not normally be executive Directors were appointed on 22 February 2013.
As entitled to any bonus for the year in which he leaves the Company explained on page 37, Doughty Hanson is entitled to nominate one but will be entitled to any accrued but unpaid entitlement in Director of the Company at any time for so long as it holds 10% of respect of the previous financial year and any bonus in respect of the Companys shares.
previous years the payment of which was deferred.
In the event of Executive Directors service contracts and the Chairmans and redundancy, each of the Executive Directors is additionally entitled independent Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are to redundancy pay of 1.5 weeks pay for each complete year of available to view at the Companys registered office.
service over the age of 40 and one weeks pay for every complete year of service between age 18 to 40 inclusive, plus an ex-gratia Exit payment policy and change of control provisions payment of 250 for each complete year of service.
In the event of termination by the Company other than for breach of contract, or The Companys policy is to limit any payment made to a departing by the individual due to retirement a payment of 47,987 will be Director to contractual arrangements and to honour any pre-established made to Steve Salmon and a payment of 8,763 will be made to commitments.
As part of this process, the Committee will take into Tim Jones equivalent to the aggregate amounts by which each of consideration the Executive Directors duty to mitigate their loss.
their remuneration has been reduced to February 2013 under a The table below summarises how the awards under the annual temporary pay reduction scheme for senior employees.
The bonus, LTIP and GSP are typically treated in different leaver scenarios scheme was suspended on 31 March 2013 and whilst it may be and on a change of control.
Whilst the Board retains overall reinstituted in the future there is no current plan to do so.
discretion on determining good leaver status, it typically defines a In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Executive good leaver in circumstances such as retirement with the consent Director must be offered employment by the Companys successor of the company, injury, ill-health or disability, death, redundancy, if or by any company in the Group on terms in all respects no less the part of the business in which the individual is employed or favourable than those applicable immediately prior to such change engaged ceases to be part of the Group, or any other reason as the of control.
If the Executive Director declines this offer, then the Board decides.
Final treatment is subject to the Boards discretion.
Event Timing of vesting award Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Good leaver Paid at the same time as Eligible for an award to the extent that performance targets are satisfied continuing employees.
and the award is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year served.
Bad leaver No annual bonus payable.
Change of control Paid immediately on the effective date Eligible for an award to the extent that performance targets are satisfied of change of control.
up to the change of control and the award is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year served to the effective date of change of control.
LTIP Good leaver In the event of the death of a participant, In the event of the death of a participant during the performance period, the award would vest immediately.
For the award would vest in full.
For other good leavers, outstanding awards other good leavers, awards vest vest to the extent the performance conditions are satisfied and the immediately unless decided otherwise by awards are pro-rated to reflect the length of the vesting period served the Board.
unless the Board decides otherwise.
Bad leaver Outstanding awards are forfeited.
Change of control Vest immediately on the effective date Outstanding awards vest subject to the satisfaction of performance of change of control unless the Board conditions as at the effective date of change of control, and the award is decides otherwise.
pro-rated for the proportion of the vesting period served to the effective date of change of control unless the Board decides otherwise.
Any bonus from previous years the payment of which was deferred would be paid to a leaver regardless of status and on a change of control.
Upon exit or change of control, GSP awards will be treated in line with the approved plan rules.
40 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company the Executive Directors and senior managers were benchmarked against a range of relevant UK listed companies of comparable size In making remuneration decisions, the Committee considers the and complexity to HellermannTyton.
The Committee pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
In also established its terms of reference, particular consideration particular, the Committee considers the range of base pay being given to ensuring that the terms reflect best practice and increases across the Group as a factor in determining the base comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
salary increases for Executive Directors.
Further, the Committee regularly reviews the remuneration structure and pay proposals for Committee evaluation senior managers, and approves the structure and targets for their bonus plans.
It also oversees any major changes in employee The Board conducted a review of Committee effectiveness during benefit structures.
the year and concluded that the Committee has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and carried out all of its The Committee does not specifically consult with employees over responsibilities effectively.
the effectiveness and appropriateness of the remuneration policy and framework although, as members of the Board, the Independent advice Committee receives updates from the Executive Directors on their discussions and consultations with employees.
During the year, the Committee appointed Kepler Associates Kepler as its principal independent adviser.
The Committee Consideration of shareholder views evaluates the support provided by its advisers annually and is satisfied that Kepler provides independent remuneration advice The Company is sensitive to the views of shareholders and intends to the Committee and does not have any connections with to engage regularly with investors following results HellermannTyton that may impair their independence.
The Committee welcomes shareholder feedback a founding member and signatory to the Code of Conduct for on any issue related to Directors remuneration and will take into Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at account all feedback received from the AGM.
During the year, Kepler provided advice on market and best practice for executive Annual Report on remuneration remuneration.
No other services were provided by Kepler to the Group.
The fees paid to Kepler for work carried out in 2013 for This section provides details of how the remuneration policy was the Remuneration Committee were 2,410 based on time implemented during 2013 and how the Committee intends to and materials.
At the time of the IPO,  LLP PwC The following parts of this section are audited: the single total provided advice to the Committee on general remuneration levels figure of remuneration for Directors, including annual bonus for and comparator group benchmarking to support the Committee the financial year ended 31 December 2013: LTIP awards made in its review of the remuneration structure.
Following the IPO, PwC during the year: Directors pension arrangements: and Directors was retained for a transitional period until Kepler was appointed to shareholdings and share interests.
provide advice on legal matters relating to remuneration and share plans and tax advice.
The fees paid to PwC for work carried out in Remuneration Committee 2013 for the Remuneration Committee were 426,156, based on time and materials.
The Committee, being mindful of the fact that Composition PwC are the Companys auditors and of the services provided by During the year, the Remuneration Committee was chaired by PwC in connection with the Companys listing, considered carefully David Lindsell and its other members were David Newlands, Tim whether the advice it received from PwC was objective and Hancock and John Biles.
The Company Secretary acted as independent, and concluded that it was.
The Chief Executive attended Committee meetings as appropriate to provide advice on matters Summary of shareholder voting such as senior management remuneration.
No Director was HellermannTyton Group PLC was incorporated on 19 February present when his own remuneration was being discussed.
2013 and the Companys first AGM will be held on 30 April 2014.
Future Directors remuneration reports will include a statement Meetings detailing how shareholders voted at the previous AGM.
The Committee had one scheduled meeting during 2013 and has had three meetings to date in 2014.
The attendance of the Committee members is shown on page 24.
Activities During 2013, the Committee reviewed the remuneration structure to ensure it was appropriate for HellermannTyton as a listed company, as detailed in the IPO Prospectus.
Salary, pension, benefits, bonus arrangements, the 2013 LTIP and the GSP were all established.
As part of this process, the remuneration packages of O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t Governance F F F F F Fiiiiiin n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ciiiiia a a a alllll s s s s s st t t t ta a a a at t t t te e e e em m m m me e e e en n n n nts ts ts ts ts O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Single total figure of remuneration The Company was incorporated on 19 February 2013 and paid no Directors remuneration prior to the Companys listing on 2 April 2013.
However, in order to assist shareholders understanding, the table below includes the remuneration paid to the two Executive Directors by the previous holding company of the Group, HellermannTyton Alpha S.. r. l, for the whole of 2012 and the period from 1 January 2013 until 2 April 2013.
The Directors remuneration is disclosed in pounds Sterling as all Directors are resident in the UK and their salaries are denominated in pounds Sterling.
Steve Salmons salary in the table above includes 4,800 for 2013 and 15,233 for 2012 that has been deferred under a pay reduction scheme See Service contracts on page 39.
Taxable value of benefits received in the year by Executives includes private health insurance, life assurance, income protection scheme, company car or car allowance.
The first LTIP awards were granted in 2013 and therefore no LTIP awards vested in 2013.
Each Executive Director was awarded 214 free shares on 2 April 2013 valued at 417 based on the share price of 1.95 at date of grant.
The table below sets out a single figure for total remuneration for each Non-executive Director from the date of his appointment, 22 February 2013, to 31 December 2013.
Base fee Additional fees Total 000 000 000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 David Newlands 115 N A nil N A 115 N A Tim Hancock 47 N A 4 N A 51 N A John Biles 47 N A 4 N A 51 N A David Lindsell 47 N A 4 N A 51 N A Alex Moss nil N A nil N A nil N A Notes: Annual fees payable to Non-executive Directors were: Chairman 135,000 Non-executive Director 55,000 Additional fee Remuneration Committee Chairman 5,000 Additional fee Audit Committee Chairman 5,000 Additional fee Senior Independent Director 5,000 Graeme Stening was appointed a Director upon the Companys incorporation and resigned on 6 March 2013.
42 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Annual bonus awarded for performance in 2013 The maximum annual bonus potential for the Executive Directors in 2013 was 100% of base salary.
Bonus for on-target performance from 1 January to 31 March 2013 was 40% of base salary for Steve Salmon and 35% of base salary for Tim Jones, and from 1 April 2013 was 45% for both of the Executive Directors.
For any bonus to be earned, a threshold performance of 90% of the targets for both Group adjusted underlying EBITA and Group external sales was required to be achieved in the case of Steve Salmon and 85% in the case of Tim Jones, with additional bonus being earned pro-rata to performance above the threshold level in respect of those measures.
The other measures, return on sales and compliance with financial covenants, are both performance hurdles rather than thresholds such that the full allocated bonus percentage would be awarded if the target or condition is achieved and no bonus is awarded if the target or condition is not achieved.
The table below sets out the performance measures, their relative weightings, and achievements against specific targets for 2013.
Steve Salmon Bonus % of current Bonus % of current salary at actual Measure Target Threshold salary at target Actual performance performance Group adjusted 1 2 6 underlying EBITA 75.7 million 90% of target 30% 35% 107.9% of target 65.5% 3 6 Group external sales 504.4 million 90% of target 5% 106.4% of target 8.2% 4 Return on sales 14.53% Budget 2.5% Higher than budget 2.5% Compliance with Covenant Covenant compliance 5 financial covenants compliance 2.5% achieved 2.5% Notes: 1.
Group adjusted underlying EBITA for bonus purposes is underlying EBITA as shown on page 16, increased by unbudgeted corporate costs and reduced by the amount by which actual one-off costs exceeded budgeted one-off costs.
Target is the budgeted amount net of budgeted one-off costs.
30% from 1 January to 31 March 2013 bonus of 3% of salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved up to target and 4% of salary for each 1% above target achieved: 35% from 1 April to 31 December 2013 bonus of 3.5% of salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved up to target and 4% of salary for each 1% above target achieved:.
0.5% of salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved.
Bonus of 2.5% of salary is earned if the level of return on sales exceeds budget and no bonus is earned if return on sales is below budget.
Return for this purpose is calculated on the basis of underlying EBITA as shown on page 16 increased by certain exceptional 2013 corporate costs.
Financial covenants include a debt incurrence covenant in connection with the Groups floating rate senior secured notes that, if triggered, would impose a leverage covenant, and a leverage covenant under the Groups revolving credit facility.
Neither of these was triggered in 2013.
For the purpose of comparing actual performance with target, target amounts are re-translated at the same actual average exchange rates as are used to measure actual foreign currency amounts in the Group income statement.
Tim Jones Bonus % of current Bonus % of base salary at actual 3 Measure Target Threshold salary at target Actual performance performance Group adjusted 1 2 6 underlying EBITA 75.7 million 85% of target 25% 35% 107.9% of target 49.7% 3 6 Group external sales 504.4 million 85% of target 5% 106.4% of target 7.1% 4 Return on sales 14.53% Budget 2.5% Higher than budget 2.5% Compliance with Covenant Covenant compliance 5 financial covenants compliance 2.5% achieved 2.5% Notes: 1.
25% from 1 January to 31 March 2013 bonus of 1.67% of base salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved: 35% from 1 April to 31 December 2013 bonus of 2.33% of base salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved.
0.33% of base salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved.
Bonus of 2.5% of base salary is earned if the level of return on sales exceeds budget and no bonus is earned if return on sales is below budget.
Return for this purpose is on the basis of underlying EBITA as shown on page 16 increased by certain exceptional 2013 corporate costs.
The Committee therefore awarded a total bonus of 78.7% of salary to Steve Salmon equal to 310,108 and 61.8% of salary to Tim Jones equal to 166,949.
O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t Governance F F F F F Fiiiiiin n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ciiiiia a a a alllll s s s s s st t t t ta a a a at t t t te e e e em m m m me e e e en n n n nts ts ts ts ts O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 LTIP awards granted in 2013 Awards to the Executive Directors were made on listing of 150% of salary.
Vesting of 2013 LTIP awards is based 50% on annualised growth in the Companys earnings per share EPS and 50% on the Companys total shareholder return TSR compared with the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts measured over a three-year period.
For EPSbased awards, the performance period covers the 2013-2015 financial years and for TSR-based awards the performance period started on 2 April 2013 date of Admission.
The performance targets are as follows: TSR rank compared with FTSE 250 EPS growth excluding investment trusts Percentage of award vesting Less than 7% per annum Below median nil 7% per annum Median 25% 12% per annum Upper quartile 100% Between 7% and 12% per annum Between median and upper Between 25% and 100% on quartile a straight-line basis The following table shows the LTIP awards that were made to the Executive Directors on 2 April 2013.
The share price on 2 April 2013 was 1.95.
Director Number of shares Face value Face value % of salary Vesting date Steve Salmon 303,077 591,000 150% 2 April 2016 Tim Jones 207,692 405,000 150% 2 April 2016 Directors pension arrangements The Company has put in place pension arrangements for its Executive Directors as outlined in the policy table on pages 34 and 36.
The Company does not have have a normal retirement age for employees.
During 2013, Steve Salmon received the following pension-related benefits, which are included in the single figure disclosed on page 41: payments of 64,919 in lieu of pension: the estimated value accruing during 2013, amounting to 10,477, of the benefit of his retirement lump sum entitlement as a Director of HellermannTyton Co. Ltd Japan.
Had Steve Salmon retired on 31 December 2013 the retirement lump sum including a discretionary uplift of 30% would have amounted to approximately 124,000: and a fixed pension allowance of 15,500.
During 2013, contributions of 41,520 were made to the Companys defined contribution scheme on behalf of Tim Jones.
