corPorate Governance remuneration Policy For non-executive Directors Purpose and link element tostrategy operation opportunity maximum Fees Provides a level of fees to support recruitment the non-executive fees are set by the Board taking Policy: uPPer Quartile and retention of non-executive Directors with into account recommendations from the chief the current upper quartile fees the necessary experience to advise and assist executive officer and executive vice chairman ofthecomparator Group are: with establishing and monitoring the Groups and the limits set by the articles of association.
in view of the non-executive succession process non-executive 156,000 that the company is undertaking, the Board the Board continues to believe that it is senior independent 178,000 is requesting that the limit of 750,000 in the important to ensure that the fees paid to audit committee chair 201,000 articles of association is increased to 1,000,000. non-executives remain competitive, that they remuneration committee chair reflect the increasingly important role played When determining the fee recommendations, the 181,000 by non-executives and allow the nomination executive Directors take account of the following compliance committee chair committee to recruit non-executive Directors in determining the appropriate levels: 177,000 ofthe appropriate calibre in accordance with the upper quartile position in the comparator the 2014 actual annual fees will be: therequirements of succession planning.
Group used to benchmark the companys chairman 210,000 the time commitments see page 69 of the executive remuneration non-executive 80,000 non-executive Directors to Hikma are above those the extensive travel required for undertake senior independent 95,000 of an average non-executive, as each devotes therole audit committee chair 102,500 between 30 and 60 days a year to his her duties.
the significant guidance and support required remuneration committee chair the nature of Hikmas business is international, by the executive Directors given the uk listing 95,000 requiring the non-executive Directors to travel ofthe company compliance committee chair 95,000 to the us, middle east, north africa and europe.
non-executive Directors fees are structured into in general, rises will be linked to those the Board is therefore made up of non-executive three elements: provided to employees and or inflation.
Directors with a wide range of experience both Directorship: a base fee for undertaking the the non-executive Directors are not in the uk and internationally.
Whilst the use of duties of a Director of Hikma, chiefly regarding eligible to participate in the Group options for non-executive Directors is prevalent Board, strategy and shareholder meetings pension arrangements and do not inthe us and also to some extent internationally, committee membership: a one-off fee for receive personal pension contributions asauk-listed company it is not considered taking additional responsibilities in relation to bythe Group.
appropriate to grant options to Hikmas committee membership.
usually non-executives the company will set out in the section non-executive Directors.
to ensure that Hikma are members of three committees headed statement of implementation remains able to attract the appropriate calibre committee chairmanship: committee of remuneration policy in the following of candidate and to take account of its inability chairmen undertake additional responsibilities financial year the fees applicable to that to grant options, the Board has therefore set its in leading acommittee and are expected to year see page 112. feepolicy at the upper quartile.
actas a sounding board for the executive that reports tothe relevant committee.
the chairmanship feeis paid in addition to the membership fee with ahigher fee paid to the audit committee chairman to reflect the significant demands ofthis position 97
