corPorate Governance remuneration Policy For executive Directors Policy overvieW Salary loWer Quartile Fixed to pension compensation meDian Benefits meDian TOTAL to Cash uPPer Quartile Share award eiP Performance uPPer Quartile Based compensation matching restricted the maximum that can be paid to each Director is up to the median position for the Fixed compensation elements and the upper Quartile position forthe Performance Based compensation against the comparator Group.
the numerical values are disclosed in this report the committee encourages executives to perform to the highest of their abilities through a strong bias on Performance Based compensation the committee benchmarks compensation against comparable companies comparator Group, which currently consists of: adcock ingram Holdings ltd Gedeon richter Plc novartis aG aspen Healthcare limited Grilfols sa sanofi aventis astraZeneca Plc Hospira inc shire Pharmaceuticals Plc BtG Plc impax labs inc staDa arzneimittel aG eGis Plc krka ucB sa endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings merck kgaa actavis inc Watson Pharmaceuticals inc Forest laboratories inc mylan inc the committee has within the policy the discretion to amend this comparator Group.
the Group used will be set out in the section of the report dealing with the implementation of the policy for the future year on page 112. the criteria taken into account when selecting the current comparator Group included the: type of pharmaceutical specialism international nature of Hikmas operations international nature of the executive team market capitalisation and turnover number of employees consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry affecting the number of comparable companies uk listing environment the committee is cognisant of the limitations of benchmarking.
Whilst it forms the upper limit of compensation, other factors are taken into account when determining awards and rises the comparator Group is used to assess the total shareholder return tsr of Hikma in relation to the performance target for the long term incentive Plan ltiP 91 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued remuneration Policy For executive Directors continueD Fixed remuneration the policy for fixed remuneration is that it should be sufficient to avoid executive distraction and ensure retention, whilst not exceeding the median position compared to the comparator Group.
the committee wishes to encourage executives to focus on the Performance Based compensation and the delivery of the relevant targets.
FixeD remuneration Purpose and link element to strategy operation maximum opportunity salary Provides a base level salary reference points are reviewed annually and include: Policy: uP to meDian of remuneration to up to the median salary levels of the constituents of the the current median salaries of the comparator Group are: support recruitment comparator Group ceo $1,155,000 and retention of size and growth path of the Group in relation to peers vice chairman $638,000 Directors with the Directors role, experience and performance maximum: necessary experience Pay at Group and operational level in general, rises will be linked to those provided to and expertise to deliver General economic environment employees and or local inflation.
Group performance the 2014 actual salaries will be: key element of core the level of Benefits and Pension contributions payable ceo $842,265 fixed remuneration toDirectors vice chairman $620,172 the company will set out in the statement of implementation the salaries for that year for each executive Director see page 112. individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on occasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until they become established in their role.
in such cases subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the average until the target positioning is achieved.
BeneFits Provides a minimum Benefits include healthcare, school fees, company cars and Policy: uP to meDian level of benefits to life insurance.
the maximum will be set at the cost of the benefits support a low fixed as the company operates internationally it may be described.
Benefits that are made available to the majority cost and highly necessary for the committee to provide special benefits or of the Group may be made available to executive Directors.
these would be disclosed to shareholders in the current value of benefits paid is: remuneration policy the annual report on remuneration for the year in which the ceo $10,536 benefits or allowances were paid.
vice chairman $0 the committee recognises the need to maintain suitable flexibility in the determination of benefits to ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel.
accordingly, the committee would expect tobe able to adopt benefits such as relocation expenses, tax equalisation and support in meeting specific costs incurred by Directors to ensure the company and the individuals comply with their obligations in the reporting ofremuneration for tax purposes.
Pensions Provides a minimum executives participate on the same basis as employees Policy: uP to meDian level of pension in the Hikma Pharmaceuticals Defined contribution the current median pension contributions of the contribution to retirement Benefit Plan the Benefit Plan, which operates comparator Group are: support a low fixed in accordance with the rules relevant to employees in ceo $288,750 cost and highly Jordan.
the Group matches employee contributions made vice chairman $95,700 entrepreneurial to the Benefit Plan.
these are up to a maximum 10% of the 2014 actual pension contributions will be in line remuneration policy applicable salary.
Participants are entitled to 30% of the withprevious years: Groups contributions to the Benefit Plan after three years ceo $11,381 of employment with the Group, and an additional 10% vice chairman $11,535 ineach subsequent year.
the company does not provide an executive level pension or pension allowance.
