Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Directors remuneration Policy summary effective period the remuneration committee has oversight of the main compensation structures throughout the Group.
in addition, in respect of the in accordance with the new regulations, the Directors remuneration Policy the Policy which is summarised below, will operate from committees specific review for executive Directors, the committee is satisfied that the Groups incentive structures are consistent with the 1 January 2014 and be put to a binding shareholders vote and become formally effective at the 2014 annual General meeting and risk profile of Hikma and encourage a long-term sustainable view to be taken by participants.
Hikma continues to encourage employees will apply for the period of three years from the date of approval.
to increase share ownership throughout the Group, using its share our core principles incentive plans.
the remuneration committee reviews Group remuneration policy the committee has been particularly sensitive to the external on an annual basis to ensure it remains appropriate.
the committee factors set out above affecting a number of the countries in which aims to ensure that remuneration for the executive Directors and it has operations and has ensured that throughout the Group senior management: any short-term risks have appropriately been reflected in the enhances the achievement of Hikmas strategic aims remuneration structures.
takes account of employment conditions both inside and outside Hikma Discretion the committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out aligns the interests of all employees, management and directors with in this report.
the committee may also exercise operational and those of shareholders administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by takes account of Hikmas corporate social responsibility programme, shareholders as set out in those rules.
in addition, the committee has including environmental, social and governance issues the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative is aligned with Hikmas founding principle of Business integrity matters where it would be, in the opinion of the committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
it is the committees intention that commitments made in line with its policies prior to the date of the 2014 aGm will be honoured, irrespective of Factors aFFectinG remuneration Policy when they are satisfied.
this includes outstanding awards under the long term incentive Plan ltiP, which remain subject to the share changing plan rules.
market practice Wider employee population the Group aims to provide a remuneration package for all employees that is market competitive and operates the same core structure as for market recruitment the executive Directors.
the Group operates share and bonus plans conditions market in throughout the organisation, with pension provisions the same for affecting the the companys allexecutives and employees.
company sector our GrouP remuneration Policy institutional current shareholders economic and their climate representative bodies 90
