Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Directors remuneration report Annual statement STATEMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS Remuneration philosophy Context to reward outcomes FROM THE CHAIR OF THE The Committee believes its As set out elsewhere in this Annual REMUNERATION COMMITTEE remuneration policy should support Report and Accounts, 2013 has the strategic and financial ambitions been another successful year for the Dear Shareholder of the Company, specifically: business.
Our focus on delivering On behalf of the Board, I am on the proven Howdens model has The remuneration package pleased to present the Directors seen us outperform the market, should be simple and support Remuneration Report for 2013, taking market share and increasing the continuing growth of prepared in compliance with the both our sales and margin figures.
Howdens while encouraging an new reporting requirements.
We will This is in spite of varying trading entrepreneurial culture.
be seeking approval for both the conditions throughout 2013.
Directors remuneration policy and As far as possible, remuneration Our incentive schemes are designed the Annual report on remuneration policies and performance to reward participants only if the at our AGM on 8 May 2014. measures are cascaded performance of the business throughout the business from the Remuneration Committees justifies it.
This year the executive CEO down to the depot managers.
actions in year directors have earned payouts The Remuneration Committee met under the bonus at above target Upper quartile levels of total more frequently in 2013 than in level and seen their Co-Investment remuneration should be available recent years five times rather than Plan shares vest at 89% of the for truly superior performance with three times.
The additional meetings maximum potential.
The Committee at least two-thirds of the executive were to help facilitate a thorough believes these payout levels are directors total potential reward review of our remuneration policy justified with profit before tax prebeing performance-related.
ahead of the binding shareholder exceptionals growth over the last vote on policy being held at the 2014 year of 23%, PBT growth over the Profit growth and cash AGM, and a review of remuneration last three years averaging 11% p. a. management, which are within packages following revisions to and strong cash generation in 2013. managements control and Executive Committee roles.
This performance was reflected in influence, are considered to be a share price increase over the year the key performance drivers of As part of the review of remuneration from 1.73 to 3.34. shareholder value.
The Companys policy I met with a number of our targets are considered achievable key investors, and am pleased that In light of the overall opportunity but still at the top-end of they remain supportive of executive under the package, executive stretching performance.
director salary levels have been frozen for 2014.
We will continue to The overall reward policy The composition of the Committee keep these salaries under review.
encourages executives to changed during the year, with Angus own and invest in Howden Cockburn retiring and Richard Joinery Group shares aligning Pennycook replacing him.
I would performance over the like to thank Angus for his invaluable longer-term.
Executives are and involved contribution to our encouraged to invest in shares work over the last seven years.
in the Company and to build and maintain a shareholding of at least one times salary over a reasonable time frame two times salary for CEO.
37 Directors remuneration report continued Summary of changes and Annual awards under the Cokey committee decisions Investment Plan will continue Following our review of remuneration to be made.
For 2014 the PBT policy the Remuneration Committee targets applying to the Cobelieves the remuneration package Investment Plan are to be adopted in recent years remains the increased from 6% 12% p. a. most appropriate for the business.
growth to 8% 20% p. a. growth, It is a simple structure based on with a reduced threshold vesting our core strategic measures of of 0.3 shares per invested share.
Accordingly no Adoption of BIS regulations significant changes to remuneration It is intended that the remuneration policy are proposed.
policy presented in this report will The Committee will continue to apply for a three year period from monitor the current arrangements the point of approval at the AGM.
and remuneration policy to However if for whatever reason the ensure they remain effective in remuneration policy ceases to be supporting the Groups long-term appropriate the Committee will look business goals.
to amend the policy, putting any amended policy to shareholder vote The key decisions made by at the relevant time.
the Remuneration Committee are as follows: Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Committee members as Approval of 2013 annual bonus well as those other individuals payouts at 127% of salary, who supported the Committee following a year of very strong during the year for their hard profit and cash flow performance.
Approval of the vesting of the 2011 On behalf of the Board Co-Investment Plan at 89% of the maximum opportunity in light of Michael Wemms substantial profit growth over the Chairman of the last three years.
Remuneration Committee The annual bonus structure to be used again, with revised 26 February 2014 performance targets which reflect the improved prospects of the business.
38 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Directors remuneration policy This policy is intended to apply for the three years beginning on the date of the 2014 AGM, subject to its approval by shareholders.
Future policy table executive directors Remuneration is benchmarked against rewards available for equivalent roles in a suitable comparator group.
In addition to benchmarking, the Committee considers general pay and employment conditions of all employees within the Group and is sensitive to these, to prevailing market conditions, and to governance requirements.
The table below sets out the key components of executive directors pay packages, including why they are used and how they are operated in practice.
Element and how it supports Performance our strategy Operation Opportunity measures Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually, Increases will normally be only for inflation and or in line None Recognises the and are effective from 1 January with the wider employee population.
market value of each year.
Salaries will not be Salaries are set within a range defined by a market the executives changed outside of the annual benchmark derived from companies of a comparable size role, skill, review, except for in exceptional operating in a similar sector policy is to pay median.
The responsibilities, circumstances, such as a midpeer group used is reviewed whenever benchmarking performance year change in role.
is performed, and the Committee applies judgement and experience.
in identifying appropriate peer group constituent companies.
The individuals level of total remuneration against the market is considered at the same time.
Reviews will take also into account the performance of the individuals, any changes in their responsibilities, pay increases for the wider workforce and internal relativities.
2013 and 2014 salary levels are detailed in the Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 section on page 55.
Benefits Howdens pays the cost of Benefits are based upon market rates and include None Provides a providing the benefits on a receipt of a car allowance: non-exclusive use of a driver: competitive level monthly basis or as required for health insurance and death-in-service insurance payable of benefits.
Annual bonus Performance is assessed Threshold performance under both PBT and cash flow Performance is measured Incentivises annually against cash flow components will result in a payout of 18% of salary for over the financial year.
annual profit and PBT targets.
The Committee may change the threshold payout If an event occurs which and cash flow levels over the life of the policy.
Any bonus earned in excess of causes the Committee performance over 100% of salary is deferred into The cash flow element can result in a payout of up to 20% to consider that the the financial year.
Shares are paid out in of salary.
Achievement against PBT targets can result in performance targets are Deferral links equal tranches on the first and a payout of up to 200% of salary.
However as the total no longer appropriate, the bonus payout second anniversary of deferral bonus receivable by executives cannot exceed 200% of Committee may substitute to share price date.
Payment is subject to salary, the maximum payout under PBT is limited by the or vary the targets in such performance over continued employment.
achievement against cash flow targets.
manner as is reasonable the medium-term.
in the circumstances and The Company does not have The maximum bonus potential of 200% of salary produces a fairer measure a formal claw-back policy represents a notional cap on the profit share component of performance and is not but it does have the ability to and the Committee does not envisage this level of payout materially more or less withhold payment of part or being attained.
all of the bonus if it does not believe the vesting outcome is The Committee may a fair reflection of individual or change the weightings of Company performance.
the performance measures 39 over the life of the policy.
Directors remuneration report continued Element and how it supports Performance our strategy Operation Opportunity measures Co-Investment Executives have the opportunity The CEO can invest up to the lesser of 650,000 shares or PBT performance is Plan CIP to participate in the CIP on an 150% of salary.
measured over a three-year Focuses annual basis.
The targets are set at The CFO is able to invest an equivalent proportion management over a three-year cycle.
the start of each three-year of salary.
The investment is funded by Each invested share is matched by the Group with PBT growth than executive directors themselves up to two shares, subject to performance.
For addressed by the from their personal shareholding threshold performance, 0.3 matching shares vest annual bonus.
deferred annual bonus shares per invested share.
Long-term PBT are not allowable for investment growth is key to Note that the maximum matching opportunity allowable purposes.
the generation under this policy is set below the limit allowable under the The matching shares vest after a of shareholder scheme rules of five matching shares per invested share.
three-year vesting period subject value.
The Company does not intend to make awards above the to performance against PBT policy maximum of two shares per invested share.
The Company does not have a formal claw-back policy but it does have the ability to vary the performance conditions if events happen which cause the Committee to consider that they have ceased to be a fair measure of individual or Company performance.
No dividend equivalents accrue on matching shares.
Long-Term Awards of restricted shares or The plan allows for awards to be granted to participants PBT performance would be Incentive Plan share options may be made of up to 100% of salary in restricted shares or 200% measured over a three-year LTIP under the LTIP.
of salary in market value options, with threshold period.
The targets would be An alternative performance delivering 15% percent of maximum.
set at the start of the threeAwards are not currently being to the CIP.
granted under the plan but the Awards under this plan have not been granted to Committee retains the flexibility executive directors since 2009 and will not be granted in to use it in future years as an years when executive directors also receive CIP awards.
The shares or options would vest after a three-year vesting period subject to performance against PBT growth targets.
The Company does not have a formal claw-back policy but it does have the ability to vary the performance conditions if events happen which cause the Committee to consider that they have ceased to be a fair measure of performance.
40 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Element and how it supports Performance our strategy Operation Opportunity measures Pension The Howden Joinery Group Pension Plan is a hybrid defined benefit, occupational None Provides pension plan.
competitive The defined benefit pension accrues on a Career Average Revalued Earnings CARE long-term basis at the rate of 1 50th of actual pensionable pay in each year currently capped at savings 138,000, the cap increases annually in line with CPI.
In addition, the Company will match any voluntary member contribution made to the defined contribution top-up section to a maximum of 8% of pensionable pay.
Alternatively a participant may receive a salary supplement of 8% of salary in lieu of this defined contribution opportunity.
A pension supplement system operates concurrently with the Plan which recognises that pension entitlement in respect of the CARE part of the Plan is capped.
This supplement is 30% of base salary above the Plan Cap to reflect competitive market practice.
The CEO has chosen to opt out of membership of the Plan and consequently receives a salary supplement of 30% of salary in lieu of pension.
This plan is now closed to new entrants.
If an executive director joins who is not already a member of the plan, they will be able to participate in the new auto-enrolment defined contribution scheme or to receive a supplement payment of 30% of total base salary.
Shareholding Executive directors are expected The CEO is expected to build up a holding None requirement to retain vested shares from of 200% of base salary.
Strengthens deferred bonus and long-term Other executive directors are required to hold alignment incentive awards net of income 100% of base salary.
of interests tax and national insurance between contributions until they reach participants and the minimum requirements.
Unvested deferred bonus and long-term incentive shares are not taken into account.
Notes to the policy table There are two changes to this policy compared to 2013: The level of vesting at threshold under the Co-Investment Plan has been reduced from 0.5 to 0.3 matching shares per invested share for 2014.
The addition of the provision that executive directors deferred annual bonus shares are not allowable for investment purposes under the Co-Investment Plan.
This change was made in response to shareholder feedback and to align with best practice.
In addition updated performance targets have been set for the annual bonus and CIP for 2014 see page 55 for further details.
41 Directors remuneration report continued Performance Measures and Targets Annual bonus The table below sets out additional information on performance conditions relating to the annual bonus: Measure Definition How targets are set PBT Pre-exceptional profit before tax from Set by the Remuneration Committee in light of continuing operations.
Howdens budget, brokers forecasts and prior year PBT.
Cash flow Net cash flow from operating activities, taking into Cash flow targets generated by Howdens financial account the efficiency with which working capital is model, based on modelled scenarios under which used, and adjusted for exceptional items.
threshold, target and outperformance levels of PBT are achieved.
The annual bonus has been based on PBT and cash flow performance since 2008.
These two measures continue to represent the two most important factors in creating value for shareholders in Howdens business model.
In addition, the use of two measures supports the Committees principle of simplicity of remuneration arrangements.
Other potential measures have been considered by the Remuneration Committee but none were felt to provide a benefit outweighing the complexity they would add.
Commercial sensitivity precludes the advance publication of bonus targets but targets will be disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
For 2013 targets please see the annual bonus targets and outcomes table on page 49.
Co-Investment Plan The CIP has been based solely on nominal PBT performance since 2010.
Targets are considered by the Remuneration Committee to provide a range which represents long-term success for Howdens, and are kept under review in light of brokers forecasts and inflation forecasts.
In the event that inflation significantly increases the Committee will reconsider the operation of this measure.
The Remuneration Committee keeps the performance measures used under review.
Secondary measures for the CIP have been considered but it has been decided that the PBT measure on its own is most appropriate due to its significance for the long-term success of Howdens and the ability for Howdens to identify a robust target range.
Remuneration policy for other employees The remuneration policy described above applies specifically to executive directors of the Group.
However, the Remuneration Committee believes it is appropriate that all senior managements reward is directly linked to the performance of the Company and aligned with shareholder value.
Accordingly Executive Committee members a further six individuals participate in the same incentive schemes as the executive directors at a reduced level to ensure alignment between the leadership team with each other and with our shareholders.
42 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Below this level, a system of profit sharing and the encouragement of share ownership is cascaded through all tiers of management.
Individuals within the upper tiers of the organisation participate in a similar bonus plan that is linked to PBT and cash flow.
These individuals also receive share awards which vest dependent on the same performance measures as the long-term incentive plan awarded to executive directors.
Share grants are made at a reduced level to a wider population within Howdens that do not use performance conditions.
These awards are made in order to encourage share ownership throughout the Company.
NED fee policy The Groups policy on non-executive director NED and Chairman fees is set out below.
During 2013, changes were made to NED and Chairman fee levels, as set out in the Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 section on page 55.
Element and how it supports our Performance strategy Operation Opportunity measures Fees for nonThe fee for the Chairman is Fees for non-executive directors are set out in NEDs are executive directors determined by the Remuneration the statement of implementation of policy in the not eligible to To attract NEDs who Committee while the Chairman following financial year section on page 55. participate in any have a broad range is absent.
performance related The fees reflect the time commitment and of experience and arrangements.
The fees for the non-executives responsibilities of the roles.
Accordingly skills to oversee the are determined by the Chairman committee chairmanship and Senior Independent implementation of and Chief Executive.
Director SID fees are paid in addition to the NEDs our strategy.
Committee chairmanship fees apply No other services are provided to the only to the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Chairman receives no fees in addition to the Chairmans fee.
Fees may be reviewed every year, and are set within a range defined by a market benchmark of FTSE 250 companies.
Benchmarking is typically undertaken every three years.
43 Directors remuneration report continued 2014 remuneration scenarios The remuneration package for the executive directors is designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable, performance-related components, with a significant proportion of the package weighted towards long-term variable pay.
The Committee is satisfied that the composition and structure of the remuneration package is appropriate, clearly supports the Companys strategic ambitions and does not incentivise inappropriate risk taking and reviews this on an annual basis.
The composition and value of the executive directors remuneration packages in a range of performance scenarios are set out in the charts below.
These show that the proportion of the package delivered through long-term performance is in line with our remuneration policy and changes significantly across the performance scenarios.
As a result, the package promotes the achievement of superior long-term performance and aligns the interests of the executive directors with those of other shareholders.
A brief description of each remuneration scenario is set out below the charts.
Base salary corresponds to 2014 salary.
Benefits figure uses 2013 actual benefits as per the single figure table as an indication for 2014 benefits.
Pension represents 2014 salary supplement for CEO and 2013 actual benefits as per the single figure table as an indication for 2014 pensions.
Bonus is 100% of salary for the target scenario and 200% of salary for the maximum scenario.
Note that although the 200% bonus level represents maximum award achievable, the Committee does not envisage this level of payout being attained under normal circumstances.
The CIP figures reflect the midpoint of the threshold and maximum vesting for the target scenario and full vesting for the maximum scenario.
Share price movement has not been incorporated into the above figures.
Non-executive directors do not receive performance related pay.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group When making decisions on executive reward, the Remuneration Committee considers the wider economic environment and conditions within the Company.
In particular the Committee considers pay conditions for the wider workforce when reviewing base salaries for executive directors.
For 2014 salary increases for the workforce are around 3% of salary.
The Company considers no further remuneration comparison measurements.
Additionally some of the Companys workforce are unionised or belong to a works council.
Howdens maintains open lines of communication with these bodies and the Committee is always made aware of any relevant information in relation to remuneration policy.
Notwithstanding that the Committee does not specifically invite employees to comment on the directors remuneration policy, it does take any comments made by employees into account.
44 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee remains committed to maintaining an ongoing and transparent dialogue with its shareholders.
During the year, open channels of dialogue were maintained with our major shareholders and shareholder representation bodies, and the Committee Chairman met with a number of the Groups largest investors in the preparation of this new Remuneration Report.
The Committee Chairman also sent a letter to the Groups top ten shareholders in advance of the publishing of this remuneration report summarising the contents and the key areas for shareholders attention, allowing them to raise any issues or concerns they may have had in advance of the final publication date.
Shareholders were supportive of Howdens approach.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The treatment and design of the various elements of remuneration paid to new recruits is set out in the table below.
The Committees policy is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role.
However, in unusual circumstances, an arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate recruitment of a particular individual.
Any such arrangement would be made only where critical to the recruitment of an exceptional candidate, and within the context of minimising the cost to the Company.
Component Policy General The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role.
Any new executive directors ongoing package would be consistent with our remuneration policy as set out in this report.
Base salary The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid to similar roles and benefits in comparable companies policy is to pay median.
In certain circumstances the Committee may initially position the executive directors salary below the market level and increase it to market levels through exceptional increases over an appropriate period of time.
The executive director will be eligible to receive benefits in line with Howdens benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Should relocation of a newly recruited executive director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the Company.
Such relocation support could include but not be limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel cost, a contribution to stamp duty, replacement of non-transferrable household items and related taxes incurred.
In addition, and in appropriate circumstances, the Committee may grant additional support in relation to the payment of school fees and provision of tax advice.
Pension The executive director will be able to participate in the new auto-enrolment defined contribution scheme or to receive a supplement payment of up to a maximum of 30% of base salary.
Annual bonus The executive director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the remuneration policy table.
The maximum potential opportunity under this scheme is 200% of salary.
Long-term The executive director will be eligible to participate in the long-term incentive schemes set out in the remuneration policy incentives table.
This allows for awards to be made under either the CIP or the LTIP but not both.
Accordingly the executive director may be offered a maximum investment opportunity under the CIP of the lesser of 650,000 shares and 150% of salary, with each invested share being matched by up to 2 matching shares.
Alternatively awards may be made under the LTIP to a maximum of 100% of salary in restricted shares or 200% of salary in options.
Replacement The Committee may grant the executive director awards to replace awards from a previous employment that are forfeited.
awards Should replacement awards be made, any awards granted would be no more generous overall in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining the quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will take into account the fair value and, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of remuneration foregone.
45 Directors remuneration report continued Service contracts and letters of appointment All executive directors employment contracts have twelve months notice of termination on both sides.
In the event of termination by the Company, there will be no compensation for loss of office due to misconduct or normal resignation.
In other circumstances, executive directors may be entitled to receive compensation for loss of office which will be paid monthly for a maximum of twelve months.
Such payments will be equivalent to the monthly salary that the executive would have received if still in employment with the Company.
Executive directors will be expected to mitigate their loss within a twelve month period of their departure from the Company.
In their service contracts, executive directors have the following remuneration related contractual provisions: Receipt of a salary, which is subject to annual review.
Receipt of a car allowance and non-exclusive use of a driver.
Health insurance and death-in-service insurance payable by the Group.
Eligibility to participate in any bonus scheme or arrangement which the Company may operate from time to time, subject to the plans rules.
Participation in the Companys pension plan, subject to the approval of the Board.
NED appointments are for an initial period of three years.
They are subject to re-appointment annually in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
NEDs do not have contracts of service or notice periods and are not entitled to any form of compensation in the event of early termination for whatever reason.
46 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Policy on payment for loss of office The treatment of the various elements of remuneration payable to executive directors in a loss of office scenario is set out in the table below.
In exceptional circumstances an arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate the exit of a particular individual, however any such arrangement would be made within the context of minimising the cost to the Company.
The Committee will only take such a course of action where it considers it to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Full disclosure of any payments will be made in accordance with the new Remuneration Reporting regulations.
Component Policy General When determining any loss of office payment for a departing individual the Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company whilst seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time.
As an overriding principle there should be no element of reward for failure.
Base salary In the event of termination by the Company, there will be no compensation for loss of office due to misconduct or normal and benefits resignation.
Pension An enhanced pension is payable in the event of retirement through ill health.
There is no scope for enhancements to individuals accrued pension entitlements for other loss of office scenarios.
Annual bonus Where an executive directors employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the executive may be eligible for an annual bonus award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an executive directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro-rata annual incentive award for the period worked in that performance year may be payable subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
Long-term The treatment of outstanding deferred annual bonus is governed by written agreements with individuals and the incentives treatment of long-term incentive awards by the rules of the relevant plan.
Individuals are defined as either a good or and deferred bad leaver for the purposes of outstanding incentive awards.
Good leavers are those leaving under pre-specified annual bonus circumstances such as retirement, ill health or disability or those deemed by the Committee at its absolute discretion as a good leaver given the circumstances surrounding the loss of office.
All other leavers are bad leavers.
If an individual is a good leaver or dies then they will either continue to hold the award which will vest on the normal vesting date based on Howdens performance where applicable, or the Committee may exercise discretion to accelerate vesting of the award, pro-rated to reflect the extent to which the performance targets have been met allowing for the curtailed performance period.
In both scenarios the amount vesting is pro-rated for the proportion of the period elapsed when the individual leaves.
If an individual is a bad leaver then all awards to which they are conditionally entitled will lapse in full.
47 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration This annual report on remuneration outlines remuneration related activities and outcomes over the past year.
The report represents the implementation of the remuneration philosophy of the Committee as set out in the Annual Statement on page 37 to 38, and a remuneration policy which is broadly consistent with the future policy being put to shareholders in the Directors Remuneration Policy section.
Those sections of this report which have been audited are indicated in the title to the section.
Single total figure of remuneration subject to audit The table below sets out the aggregate remuneration received by directors for 2013.
Further details on the pension, annual bonus and Co-Investment Plan figures are contained in following sections.
Note 2 CIP matching awards valued at a share price of 3.19, being the Groups three-month average share price to 28 December 2013.
Note 3 Options valued at a share price of 2.38, being the Groups closing share price on 25 March 2013, the day the options vested.
Note 4 On 18 September 2013 Angus Cockburn stood down from the Board and Richard Pennycook was appointed to the Board.
The aggregate executive directors remuneration, including salary, bonus, benefits and cash pension allowances is 2,876k.
48 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Additional requirements in respect of single figure table subject to audit Annual bonus targets and outcomes The table below sets out the 2013 annual bonus targets and performance outcomes which underlie the bonus figures shown in the single total figure of remuneration table for 2013.
These targets were set in February 2013 in line with the approach set out on page 39.
As incentive targets they are designed to be stretching for participants, and do not represent the Groups budget figures for last year.
The Remuneration Committee was satisfied that the payments fairly reflected Group performance for 2013.
PBT Cash flow Overall Threshold Target Above target Achieved Threshold Target Maximum Achieved Total Cash Deferred Performance 105.4m 125.0m 137.5m 138.4m 124m 145m 157m 158m Payment 10% 85% Share of PBT: CEO 8% 15% 20% 20% CEO CEO CEO % of salary CEO 107% 127% 100% 27% unless 0.44% CFO CFO CFO CFO otherwise CFO 107% 127% 100% 27% stated 0.31% Matthew Ingle 723 572 152 Outcomes for executive directors 000 Mark Robson 509 401 108 Co-Investment Plan The table below sets out the details of the Co-Investment Plan targets and performance outcomes which underlie the Co-Investment Plan figures shown in the single total figure of remuneration table for 2013.
These awards will vest on 5 April 2014.
3 year PBT growth Threshold Maximum Achieved Performance 6% p. a.
11% p. a. Vesting matching shares per invested share 0.50 2.00 1.78 Given the performance achieved as set out above, the table below sets out the value of this award for participants.
This is based on a share price of 3.19, being the three-month average share price to 28 December 2013.
Number of awards Total value at 3.19 vesting 000 per share 000 Matthew Ingle 1,155 3,685 Outcomes for executive directors Mark Robson 812 2,589 49 Directors remuneration report continued Total pension entitlements subject to audit Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Howden Joinery Group Pension Plan the Plan, details of which are provided in the future policy table on page 41.
The Plan is not open to new joiners.
The table below sets out the accrued pension for both executive directors, with pension values calculated using the HMRC method.
No additional benefits become receivable if executive directors retire early.
Matthew Ingle had a fully funded pension position in 2006 and hence has chosen to opt out of membership of the Plan.
Mr Ingle therefore receives a salary supplement of 30% of salary in lieu of pension 165,000 in 2012.
Pension value Pension value in the year Pension Accrued in the year from from defined value in year pension at Normal defined benefit contribution from cash 28 Dec 2013 retirement date component component allowance Total Name 000 000 000 000 000 Matthew Ingle 49 28 09 2014 170 170 Mark Robson 25 16 01 2019 55 32 79 166 Loss of office payment or payments to past directors subject to audit No loss of office payments or payments to past directors were made in the year under review.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year subject to audit During 2013, the executive directors were invited to participate in the Co-Investment Plan.
The plan operated on the same basis as the awards which were granted in 2012, as follows: The CEO was able to invest up to the lesser of 650,000 shares and 150% salary of his own shares into the plan for three years.
At the time of award, 150% of salary equated to 360,315 shares based on a closing share price of 2.38 on the day prior to grant.
The CFO was able to invest up to the same proportion of salary as the CEO.
Both the CEO and CFO invested the full amount.
Under the plan, each invested share is matched by up to two additional shares which vest subject to the achievement of stretching PBT growth targets.
In setting the performance targets, the Remuneration Committee aims to align managements reward with longer-term PBT growth which is central to the achievement of the Groups strategy.
50 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 The table below provides further details of this award.
Nature of award Restricted shares awarded under the Co-Investment Plan Number of Maximum potential Face value Level of award Executive invested shares matching shares of CIP award CEO 360,315 720,630 1,715,099 CFO 252,731 505,462 1,203,000 PBT component PBT growth Number of matching shares that performance condition would vest per invested share vesting schedule 12% p. a.
2.0 Straight-line vesting between these points Straight-line vesting between these points 6%p.
Performance period Performance measured from FY2013 to FY2015 Vesting date 26 March 2016 Based on a share price of 2.38, being the closing price on the 25 March 2013 source: Datastream.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests subject to audit In order that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, executive directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal shareholding in the Company.
Under the share ownership guidelines the Chief Executive is required to hold a personal shareholding equal to twice his basic salary.
Other executive directors are required to hold a personal shareholding equal to their basic salary.
Shares deferred under the deferred bonus plan and unvested incentive shares are not counted towards this requirement.
There are no shareholding guidelines for non-executive directors.
51 Directors remuneration report continued The table below sets out the total shares in the Group held or potentially held by directors and the extent to which the executive directors have met the shareholding guidelines.
Owned Share Shareholding outright awards Options Shareholding requirement including subject to subject to Vested but Current requirement number of connected Subject to performance performance unexercised shareholding Guideline Director % shares persons deferral conditions conditions options % of salary met?
This is calculated using those shares owned outright by the executive director only.
The table above highlights the significant investment held by executive directors in Howdens shares, which is well in excess of that required under their shareholding guidelines.
The table below sets out options exercised by the executive directors in the year, following the full vesting of option awards in both 2012 and 2013.
Average Average gain No of options Average market value at on exercise of Director exercised exercise price exercise date share options Matthew Ingle 2,147,229 0.25 2.47 2.22 Mark Robson 4,915,067 0.48 2.22 1.74 52 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Performance graph and table 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts Howdens 2 2 3 4 5 Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 CEO single figure 000s 1,399 1,458 6,083 3,401 5,168 Annual bonus % of maximum 63% 69% 66% 51% 63% LTIP vest % of maximum 0% 0% 100% 100% 89% The graph above illustrates the Companys TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment companies of which the Company is a constituent.
It shows that over the past five years Howden Joinery Group has generated significantly higher returns than the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
Beneath the graph is a history of the CEO single figure and incentive payout levels.
It shows that the bonus has recognised consistently strong annual performance, and that long-term incentives have reflected the challenges that faced the Company after 2008 and recognised the turnaround delivered by the Group since then.
These figures are buoyed by significant share price increases over the periods, as illustrated by the graph.
Each CEO single figure has been prepared as per the prescribed methodology, and includes base salary, benefits, pension and annual bonus payments.
The figures also include long-term incentive vests where relevant.
No long-term incentives vested which relate to the 2009 and 2010 CEO single figures.
The 2011 CEO single figure includes the vesting of the 2009 premium priced option awards.
This comprised two equal tranches of options, one with a premium exercise price of 25p and the other with a premium exercise price of 50p share price at grant was 18.75p.
The awards vested in full as cumulative PBT in the 3 financial years ending in 2009, 2010 and 2011 exceeded the target set of 90 million.
The value shown in the single figure reflects the significant increase in share price over the period to 1.188 at the date of vest a growth of 81% p. a.. 4.
The 2012 CEO single figure includes the vesting of the 2010 market priced option award, which had an exercise price of 87p.
The share options vested in full as the Groups 2012 PBT exceeded the maximum growth target of RPI 8% p. a. on 2009 PBT.
The value shown in the single figure reflects the significant increase in share price over the period to 2.38 at the date of vest a growth of 43% p. a.. 5.
The 2013 CEO single figure includes the partial vesting of the 2011 CIP award.
89% of the matching shares vested as the Groups 2013 PBT had grown at 11% p. a. on 2010 PBT.
The value shown in the single figure reflects the significant increase in share price over the period to 3.19 the 3 month average to 28 December 2013, source: Datastream from 1.10, a growth of 43% p. a.
53 Directors remuneration report continued Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of chief executive officer The table below sets out the change in short-term pay from 2012 to 2013 of the CEO compared to all employees on a per capita basis : Salary Taxable benefits Bonus % % % 000s 000s increase 000s 000s increase 000s 000s increase 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 CEO 572 555 3% 18 18 0.5% 723 573 26% All full-time employees per capita 23 22 3% 1 1 6% 7 7 2% Pay increases to the wider workforce were 3% in 2013, the same as the increase provided to the CEO.
The difference in increase in bonus payments reflects the greater dependence of the CEOs package on performance related pay than for all employees generally.
For 2014, the CEOs salary increase is going to be 0%, compared to a typical wider workforce increase of c3% of salary.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the change in total remuneration spend of the Group from 2012 to 2013 compared to: the total dividend paid by the Group: the total remuneration spend of the Group as a percentage of revenue: and the two incentive performance measures PBT and cash flow.
The figures are shown in m, unless otherwise specified.
Total Total remuneration remuneration spend Total dividend PBT Cash flow spend as a % Year m m of revenue m m 2012 241 5 27% 112 97 2013 256 23 27% 138 158 % increase 6% 360% 0% 23% 63% Net cash flow from operating activities, being the definition used for the annual bonus scheme.
The figures above reflect the continuing growth of Howdens, both in terms of financial performance and progression of Howdens dividend policy, and an increasing workforce from an average monthly number of full-time equivalent employees of 6,441 in 2012 to 6,499 in 2013.
External appointments It is recognised that executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that exposure to such duties can broaden their experience and skills, which will benefit the Company.
Howden Joinery Group allows executive directors and other appropriate senior employees to accept a maximum of one nonexecutive appointment outside the Company, subject to permission from the Committee, provided this is not with a competing company nor likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
No such appointments are currently in place.
Executive directors may retain the fees paid to them in respect of their non-executive duties.
54 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 Remuneration policy will be implemented from 2014 as follows: Base salaries and fees Base salary increases for 2014 are set out in the table below.
2013 2014 Percentage Percentage Salary increase from 2012 Salary increase from 2013 Matthew Ingle 572 3% 572 0% Mark Robson 401 3% 401 0% NED fees were increased during 2013, and the fee structure simplified with the removal of Committee membership fees.
These increases were the first for non-executive directors since 2007.
2013 2014 Percentage Percentage Pre increase Post increase increase from 2012 Fee increase from 2013 Chairman fee 170,000 190,000 12% 190,000 0% Basic NED fee 35,000 45,000 29% 45,000 0% Additional SID fee 3,000 3,000 0% 3,000 0% Committee Chair fee 8,000 8,000 0% 8,000 0% Committee member fee 2,500 0 0% 0 0% Annual Bonus Measures The table below sets out annual bonus measures for 2014.
This is the same structure as used in 2013.
As set out in the policy section of this report, targets for these measures are considered commercially sensitive by the Committee and so are not disclosed here.
The profit share percentages for CEO and CFO have been reduced from 0.44% and 0.31% respectively to reflect increased performance expectations for 2014.
Performance targets, together with achievement against them, will be set out in full in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Definition Performance level Payout level PBT Pre-exceptional profit before Threshold 10% of salary tax from continuing operations Target 85% of salary Above target Profit share for the CEO: 0.325% of PBT Profit share for the CFO: 0.228% of PBT Subject to aggregate bonus payout cap of 200% of salary Cashflow Net cash flow from operating Threshold 8% of salary activities, taking into account Target 15% of salary the efficiency with which working Maximum 20% of salary capital is used, and adjusted for exceptional items 55 Directors remuneration report continued Co-Investment Plan measure and targets The table below sets out CIP performance measures and targets for awards to be made in 2014.
The targets have been increased for 2014 to reflect increased performance expectations.
In addition, the level of vesting at threshold has been reduced from 0.5 matching shares per invested shares to 0.3 matching shares per invested share.
Number of matching shares that PBT component PBT growth performance condition would vest per invested share vesting schedule 20% p. a.
2.0 Straight-line vesting between these points 8% p. a.
0 Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration Membership of the Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises four independent non-executive directors who have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
During the year, the members of the Committee were: Michael Wemms Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Mark Allen Angus Cockburn retired from the Board on 18 September 2013 Tiffany Hall Richard Pennycook joined the Board on 18 September 2013 Under its terms of reference published in the Governance section of Howden Joinery Group Plc website at http: www.
com and reviewed on an annual basis the Committee is responsible for determining the broad policy and specific remuneration packages for executive directors, the Company Secretary and other members of the Executive Committee, including pension rights and, where applicable, any compensation payments.
The Committee is also regularly updated on pay and conditions applying to other employees in the Company.
The Committee met five times during 2013 and attendance of the Committee is shown in the table in the Corporate Governance report.
The meetings covered the following key areas: Approve salaries for the Executive Board members and Executive Committee.
Review the developments in corporate governance best practice and competitive market practice trends during the course of the year.
Review and approve the remuneration report to shareholders.
Review and approve the Chairmans fees.
Review and approve the terms and conditions of the annual bonus and long-term incentives awarded in 2013, including determining the appropriate performance targets.
56 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Review and approval of annual bonus payouts and share-based awards vesting in 2013. Review and approve the terms of reference of the Committee.
Initial review of the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy and incentives for 2013. Review of the balance between risk and reward to ensure that the incentives are compatible with the Companys risk policies and systems.
The Committee concluded that the incentives did not expose the Company to any excessive risk and were appropriately managed.
Advice to the Committee The Committee regularly consults with the Chief Executive on matters concerning remuneration, although he is never present when his own reward is under discussion.
The Company Chairman attends the Remuneration Committee by invitation except when his own remuneration is determined.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee but is never present when her own reward is determined.
The Committee also has access to detailed external information and research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
 LLP PwC is the Committees retained independent advisor and provided advice to the Committee during the year.
PwC has been independent advisor to the Committee since 2007, and was appointed by the Committee as the result of a tender process.
Work undertaken by PwC for the Committee included updating the Committee on trends in compensation and governance matters and advising the Committee in connection with benchmarking of the total reward packages for the executive directors and other senior members of staff.
A representative from PwC attends each meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2013 totalled 101,000, with fee levels based on the quantity and complexity of work undertaken.
PwC also provided tax advice to the Company during 2013.
The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting each year.
It is satisfied that PwC is providing robust and professional advice.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group which operates a code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Statement of voting at general meeting The table below shows the voting outcome at the May 2013 AGM for the approval of the 2012 Remuneration Report: For Against Votes 98.5% 1.5% 23,301,040 votes 4.8% of all votes were withheld.
The Committee was pleased with the strong vote in favour of the report the Group received from shareholders.
Michael Wemms Remuneration Committee Chairman 26 February 2014 57
