Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report For the year ended 31 December 2013 Annual Statement from the Chairman of the During the year the Committee reviewed the remuneration Remuneration Committee and incentive programmes in place for the executive Directors and the senior management team, to ensure they Introduction remain fairly remunerated for their contribution to the The Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on continuing success of the Company.
Remuneration that follow reflect the Remuneration Committees the Committee work undertaken during the year, and their The Committee is of the view that the principles and policies commitment to comply with the requirements of the amended encompassed within the following report are fitting and Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies appropriate to Hunting given its international spread of and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations operations and in particular its focus on the North American 2013.
The Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy sets out market place.
The Committee commends the Policy and the the framework for Directors remuneration which will apply from April 2014 subject to shareholder approval.
The Annual Report on Annual Report on Remuneration to you.
Remuneration shows how the proposed Policys principles were applied during 2013.
Both the Policy and Annual Report on The Committee consulted with shareholders on all of these Remuneration will be individually tabled for shareholder approval proposals and following amendments provide full details of at the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company to be the future Policy in the following report to be approved by held on 16 April 2014. shareholders at the Companys AGM in April 2014.
During the year the Committee reviewed the remuneration and Andrew Szescila, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee incentive programmes in place for the executive Directors and the senior management team, to ensure they remain fairly remunerated for their contribution to the continuing success of the Company.
An ongoing issue which faces the Committee is the ability to attract and retain experienced executives in the geographic territories in which the Company operates.
Therefore, the Committee ensures that appropriate competitor and market peers are identified when reviewing relevant remuneration survey data.
Following consultation with external advisers and key shareholders, the remuneration framework set out within the Policy and Annual Report which follow reflect levels of remuneration which are considered necessary to enable Hunting to compete in this market place the Committee fully endorses this framework.
54 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Major decisions and substantial changes to remuneration Following measurement of the Total Shareholder Return made by the Committee in 2013 performance condition, a zero vesting of the grants made in 2011 Salary review the Committee decided to increase the base under the rules of the PSP was recorded.
The 2011 awards to the salary of the Finance Director to reflect his strong performance Chief Executive and Finance Director therefore lapsed with no in role and to bring his salary in line with Policy.
payments made to either executive.
Review of performance in 2013 the fixed and variable components of remuneration reported within the Annual Report At 31 December 2013, the accumulated incentive pool under the on Remuneration have been reviewed by the Committee and rules of the LTIP was $12.2m, resulting in awards of $2,674,732 and reflect Policy.
$657,479 to the Chief Executive and Finance Director respectively.
Design of the new 2014 Hunting Performance Share Plan following expiry of the 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan Further details of the emoluments of the executive Directors can LTIP and cancellation of the 2009 Performance Share Plan be found within the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 70 PSP, the Committee is tabling a new Hunting Performance to 77.
Share Plan the Hunting PSP which encompasses a number of performance targets for approval at the AGM in 2014.
The The Committee is of the view that the principles and policies Hunting PSP forms part of the Companys ongoing Policy, encompassed within the following report are fitting and details of which are set out in the reports that follow.
appropriate to Hunting given its international spread of operations Design of the Directors Remuneration Policy the Board and in particular its focus on the North American market place.
has reviewed the remuneration framework for both the The Committee commends the Policy and the Annual Report on executive and non-executive Directors and has finalised the Remuneration to you.
future Policy to be approved at the AGM in 2014.
Implementation of a Personal Performance Adjustor to the Annual Bonus Plan the Committee has reviewed the mechanism to apply discretion to the Annual Bonus and are introducing a personal performance adjustor which allows the Annual Bonus to be reduced to zero or to be increased by a Andrew Szescila factor of 1.25 times.
The adjustor will be applied subject to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Committee setting individual performance targets and their 6 March 2014 delivery at the end of each financial year.
However, the Committee will not award a bonus above the current plan maxima.
Modified Stock Ownership Requirements the Committee has reviewed a number of mechanisms to enhance the retention of shares under award to key employees and to align all award participants with the long-term interests of shareholders.
It is proposed that the enhanced Stock Ownership Requirements be introduced during 2014.
The Committee consulted with shareholders on all of these proposals and following amendments provides full details of the future Policy in the following report to be approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM in April 2014.
Performance and Context of Remuneration awarded in 2013 The Group reported underlying profit before tax of $196.1m which was 98% of the Annual Budget approved by the Board in December 2012.
Return On Capital Employed was 94% of the Annual Budget.
Using the formulae contained within the approved Annual Bonus Plan bonuses were paid of $647,285 and $238,684 to the Chief Executive and Finance Director respectively.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 55 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Policy Policy Overview Awards under the 2009 Performance Share Plan PSP begin to This report outlines the Directors Remuneration Policy the vest when the Total Shareholder Return of the Company is at the Policy framework proposed by the Hunting Board for the median of the peer group.
Awards under the 2004 Long Term executive and non-executive Directors of the Company which will Incentive Plan LTIP are designed to pay out when the increase be applied by the Company following approval by shareholders in average shareholder funds of the Group exceeds demanding with remuneration before this date being in line with the principles long-term growth targets.
Existing awards to the executive of this Policy.
Directors for these long-term incentive schemes will continue to 2016, following measurement of the respective performance The Policy for executive Director remuneration is designed to conditions.
comply with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and amendments to the Companies Act 2006 regarding New 2014 Hunting Performance Share Plan the Hunting PSP remuneration and to ensure that each Director is attracted, retained Following a review of the PSP and the LTIP and reflecting the and motivated to promote and achieve the long-term success of Committees drive to ensure the incentive plans in place remain fair the Group.
The Policy is divided between fixed and variable and demanding, a new long-term incentive plan, the Hunting PSP, incentives and is structured to link total reward to both corporate has been developed to replace both the PSP and LTIP.
The remuneration structures of the executive Directors will receive awards over Hunting shares which Chief Executive and Finance Director are based on externally will vest after three years, subject to performance conditions.
benchmarked data aimed at providing the executive Directors with Awards under the Hunting PSP for the executive Directors will be competitive levels of remuneration.
equally apportioned into three categories with each category subject to a performance condition: i relative total shareholder Non-executive Director fees are set at levels which take into return TSR, ii absolute growth in earnings per share EPS account the time commitment and responsibilities of each role.
and iii average return on capital employed ROCE.
Subject to Given the small size of the Hunting Board, each non-executive approval by shareholders, the first awards under the Hunting PSP Director is required to give an above average time commitment to will be made to the executive Directors and senior managers of the Group matters, which is reflected in the annual fees paid.
The fees Group after the April 2014 Annual General Meeting, with the first are benchmarked to other companies of a similar size, profile and vesting of these awards to occur in 2017. profitability and are reviewed annually by the executive Directors.
Enhanced Stock Ownership Requirements Fixed Emoluments In parallel to the introduction of the Hunting PSP, the Committee Fixed emoluments to the executive Directors comprise of base has considered ways to enhance share ownership and improve the salary, benefits including healthcare insurance, the provision of a alignment of participants in Huntings long-term incentive schemes company vehicle and fuel, and pension contributions suitable to with shareholders.
Subject to the approval of the Policy, enhanced the geographic location of the executive.
Base salaries are aimed at Stock Ownership Requirements will be implemented in Huntings the market mid-point.
long-term incentive arrangements, with the Chief Executive required to maintain a minimum holding of shares in the Company Variable Emoluments equal to a market value of 500% of base salary: the Finance Variable emoluments comprise of an Annual Bonus and Director a minimum holding of 200% of base salary and the participation in a number of long-term incentive schemes, as non-executive Directors a minimum holding of 100% of annual detailed in the following Policy.
Other executives of the Group will be required to build and maintain a minimum holding of shares in the Company equal to a The Remuneration Committee the Committee applies the market value of between 100% to 200% of base salary.
To achieve Groups Budget, agreed annually at each December meeting of the these requirements the guidelines require the retention of all vested Board, to benchmark the performance-linked annual cash bonus share awards, following the payment of relevant taxes, until the which is indexed to the Groups actual performance against ownership level is achieved.
From 2014, the bonus award may be subject to adjustment through the application of a personal performance adjustor, which Amendments to the Policy recognises the delivery of individual targets set by the Committee.
The oil and gas industry is increasingly a competitive market place, therefore recruiting and retaining the right individuals to deliver long-term shareholder growth is subject to increasingly challenging market conditions.
As a result, the Committee intends to keep the Policy under review, and will make any necessary revisions only after appropriate consultation and approval from shareholders has been received.
56 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Statement of Disclosure of Performance Targets The annual performance-linked cash bonus plan is measured against performance targets based on underlying profit before tax PBT and ROCE values contained within the Groups Annual Budget.
In the opinion of the Directors, this budget target information is commercially sensitive and would be prejudicial to the competitive interests of the Group.
Retrospective disclosures on the corporate performance against the Annual Budget will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Remuneration Committee Discretion The Committee has reviewed the policies for Director remuneration and proposes that discretion within the new framework will be limited to the following areas: annual base salary and fee reviews of the Directors: application of the personal performance adjustor to the annual cash bonus: application of the annual cash bonus following the exit of a Director: composition of the comparator group for the Hunting PSP: setting the performance targets for the Hunting PSP: and specific recruitment considerations if new Directors are appointed.
Where discretion is applied, the Committee will disclose the rationale for the application of discretion.
Further details are provided within the following policy section.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 57 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Executive Director Remuneration Policy Table Fixed Emoluments Remuneration Component Base Salary Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation and Award Basis Maximum Notes Retain and reward executives with Base salaries are set at competitive There is no prescribed maximum N A the necessary skills to effectively rates which take into account the annual increase.
The Committee is deliver the Company strategy.
individuals country of residence and guided by the general increase for primary operating location as well as the broader employee population, companies in the same market but on occasions may need to segment.
recognise, for example, development Aimed at the market mid-point.
in role, change in responsibility, and Annual increases take into account or specific retention issues.
inflation in the UK, US and increases across the total workforce.
Relocation and tax equalisation agreements are also in place for employees working across multiple geographic jurisdictions.
Remuneration Component Pension Arrangements and Benefits Provide normal pension and benefit The Group contributes on behalf of N A N A schemes appropriate to their country the Chief Executive currently of residence.
resident in the US to a US 401K tax Each executive Director is provided deferred savings plan and an with healthcare insurance and a additional deferred compensation company car with fuel.
The Group contributes on behalf of the Finance Director currently resident in the UK to a UK final salary defined benefits pension scheme.
58 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Executive Director Remuneration Policy Table continued Variable Emoluments Remuneration Component Annual Performance-Linked Cash Bonus Plan Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation and Award Basis Maximum Notes To incentivise annual delivery of Awards are made subject to plan rules Chief Executive N A financial and operational targets.
and to measurement against the Annual 200% of High reward potential for exceeding Budget.
Bonus is weighted 70% to budgeted PBT and 30% to budgeted ROCE.
Budgeted PBT for plan purposes is Finance Director before amortisation and items deemed 150% of exceptional within the Annual Budget.
Budgeted ROCE for plan purposes is profit from operations before amortisation and items deemed exceptional within the Annual Budget divided by the budgeted average capital employed.
Bonus begins to accrue when 80% of the Budget targets are achieved.
Level of bonus increases on a straightline basis from zero payment when 80% of Budget is achieved to a maximum when 120% of Budget is achieved.
For an on target performance defined as actual results equal to the Budget, the Chief Executive is paid 100% of base salary and the Finance Director is paid 75% of base salary.
The Committee implemented a personal performance adjustor to the annual bonus arrangements during 2014.
The Committee has the discretion to adjust the annual bonus using the performance adjustor.
The adjustor range is from 0 to 1.25 times of the annual bonus figure.
The personal performance targets linked to the performance adjustor will be disclosed on award of the bonus.
Clawback provisions were introduced in 2010 to allow for the bonus to be adjusted to zero.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 59 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Executive Director Remuneration Policy Table continued Variable Emoluments Remuneration Component Hunting PSP Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation and Award Basis Maximum Notes Recognition and reward to executive Annual grant of shares.
Chief Executive N A Directors for the creation of shareholder Vesting levels determined by Company 550% of value over the longer term.
performance over a three year period base salary.
This element provides full alignment to against i TSR of a bespoke peer group: shareholder interests.
ii EPS growth: and iii average ROCE.
Grant value of 450% of base salary for Finance Director the Chief Executive and 210% of base 450% of salary for the Finance Director.
Achievement of minimum performance target results in a 25% vesting of any element of the award.
Awards subject to clawback and malus provisions.
The maximum award noted provides the Committee with flexibility in cases such as recruitment.
The Committee has set the award levels of the current executive Directors and does not intend to increase these further.
Remuneration Component Stock Ownership Requirement To encourage the retention of shares The target holding of the Chief Executive N A N A under award to the executive.
is a target equal to the market value of To align the long-term interests of the 500% of base salary and for the Finance executive with shareholders.
All vested shares are to be retained, following the payment of relevant taxes, until the ownership requirement is achieved.
Directors have five years to achieve the required holding level.
60 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Executive Director Remuneration Policy Table continued Legacy Long-term Incentive Arrangements 2009 Performance Share Plan Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation and Award Basis Maximum Notes Recognition and reward to executive Annual grant of nil cost performance Chief Executive Awards under the Directors for the creation of shareholder shares or options.
200% of PSP, which are value over the longer term.
Vesting levels determined by TSR base salary.
subject to This element provides strong alignment measured over three years against a performance with the interests of shareholders.
Finance Director measurement, will 40% of shares vest for a median 200% of continue to vest up performance increasing on a straightbase salary.
to 2016 when the line basis to 100% for a top quartile final grants made in performance.
Face value of award to the Chief The PSP which Executive is 100% of base salary.
operated between Face value of award to the Finance 2009 and 2013 will Director is 80% of base salary.
be replaced by the Hunting PSP subject to shareholder approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 16 April 2014.
2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan Recognition and reward to executive Awards are made based on the Chief Executive Awards under the Directors for the creation of shareholder accruing of an incentive pool over 350% of LTIP will continue to value over the longer term.
2016, when the final The incentive pool only accumulates if grants made in 2013 increases to average shareholder funds vest.
are achieved throughout the period.
Finance Director The LTIP which If the accruing incentive pool equals 175% of operated between zero across the period, no payments base salary.
be replaced by the Chief Executive receives 35% of the Hunting PSP subject accumulated incentive pool, with actual to shareholder payout limited to a maximum of 350% approval at the of base salary.
Companys AGM on Finance Director receives 15% of the 16 April 2014. accumulated incentive pool with actual payout limited to a maximum of 175% of base salary.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 61 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Non-executive Director Remuneration Policy Table The remuneration of the non-executive Directors as adopted by the Company is designed to reflect the time and commitment of each to their respective roles.
Element Purpose and link Operation Fee detail Maximum to strategy Chairmans fees To attract and The Chairman is paid a single The current retain a fee for all his responsibilities fee for the high-calibre including chairing the Chairman is Chairman Nomination Committee.
$302,789 by offering Fees are determined by the 193,500. a market Board as a whole on Fees are competitive recommendation of the reviewed fee level.
executive Directors following annually in receipt of external fee December.
The fees paid to the noninformation and an executive Directors are assessment of the time benchmarked to other UK commitment and companies of a similar size responsibilities involved.
Given the small size of the Non-executive To attract The non-executive Directors The basic Board, each non-executive Director fees and retain are paid a basic fee.
The Board fee is Director is expected to give high-calibre Chairmen of the main board $93,888 an above average time non-executive Committees and the Senior 60,000 commitment to Group Directors Independent Director are with an matters and fees are based by offering paid an additional fee to additional fee on this increased a market reflect their extra of $15,648 commitment.
10,000 for The Companys Articles of fee level.
Non-executive Director fees the Audit and Association prescribe are determined by the Board Remuneration aggregate maximum fees for as a whole on Committee all non-executive Directors of recommendation of the Chairmen, $782,400 500,000 per executive Directors following and for the annum.
receipt of external fee role of Senior information and an Independent assessment of the time Director.
commitment and Fees are responsibilities involved.
reviewed The non-executive Directors annually in do not participate in the December.
Groups share plans and do not receive any other benefits.
Stock Ownership To align the Non-executive Directors are N A N A Requirements non-executive required to build up a Directors holding of shares in the interests to Company equal to a market the long-term value of 100% of the annual interests of fees paid and have five years shareholders.
to achieve the required holding level.
62 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Relevance to Employee Pay The Policy described above provides an overview of the structure that also operates and applies to the most senior executives in the Group.
While bonus and pensions arrangements are in place for most of the Groups employees, lower aggregate remuneration operates at below the executive Director and senior manager level with levels driven by market comparatives and the individual responsibilities of each role.
The oil and gas industry operates in an increasingly competitive labour market globally and, to reflect this, the Groups average employee costs, including base salary, benefits and bonuses, in the year increased 1%.
Average base salaries across the Group increased 1% compared to 2012.
Choice of Performance Metrics The corporate strategy includes promoting the long-term success of the Group by investing in its existing product and services portfolio through capital investment or by acquisition and growing the business in a way that is aligned to the evolving global energy industry.
The performance of the executive Directors in executing this strategy is evaluated by the following key performance indicators KPIs, which drive the variable components of the executive Directors emoluments.
KPI Element of remuneration Reason for use Underlying Profit before Taxation Annual Bonus PBT is a management KPI used to measure the underlying performance of the Group.
PBT reflects the achievements of the Group in a given financial year and recognises sustained profitability measured against an agreed Annual Budget.
Underlying Return on Capital Employed Annual Bonus Hunting PSP ROCE is a management KPI used to measure the underlying performance of the Group.
ROCE reflects the value created on funds invested in the short and medium term.
Total Shareholder Return PSP Hunting PSP To achieve sustained levels of shareholder return over the long term.
Underlying Earnings Per Share Hunting PSP To achieve sustained levels of earnings growth over the long term.
Taken together, the Committee believes that the executive Directors are appropriately incentivised to deliver both short and long-term performance based on these metrics.
Single Figure Remuneration Definition For the purposes of the Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration, the single figure remuneration presented comprises base salary, benefits including healthcare insurance and car benefits, tax equalisation, pension contributions incorporating where relevant the prescribed HMRC multiplier, annual cash bonus and vested PSP and LTIP awards during the financial year or where the performance period has substantially completed.
The single figure remuneration equates to Total Remuneration as shown on page 71 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 63 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Detailed Policy Base Salaries and Fees Base salaries and fees are reviewed annually.
In considering appropriate salary levels for the executive Directors, the Committee takes into account their experience and personal performance, the remuneration paid by comparable companies in terms of asset size, revenues, profits, number of employees, market capitalisation and the complexity and international spread of Group operations, as well as Group wide salary increases and applicable rates of inflation.
Other relocation and taxation agreements are also in place for key executives.
As part of the consultation process with major shareholders in 2013, the base salary of the Finance Director was reviewed.
The Committee concluded that in line with the Policy, his base salary should be increased towards the market mid-point.
As a consequence of this adjustment, the proposed long-term incentive awards to the Finance Director will be reduced to ensure his total emoluments, including base salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives, remain at the market mid-point.
Base fee increases for the non-executive Directors are based on benchmarked market data for fees paid by comparable companies.
Pension The Group contributes to the pension arrangements of both the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
Being a US based citizen, Dennis Proctor participates in the Groups US 401K tax deferred savings plan, with the Group making annual contributions to the plan equivalent to 2% of base salary at the current contribution limit.
In addition, the Group contributed a figure equivalent to 23% of his 2013 base salary to a deferred compensation scheme.
In practice this scheme is administered and operated on a money purchase basis.
Richard Hunting and Peter Rose are members of the Hunting Pension Scheme the Scheme, which is a defined benefit pension scheme.
The retirement age for the Directors under the Scheme is 60 and they are entitled to, subject to certain limits, a pension of up to two thirds of final salary.
Pensionable salary is the annual salary less an amount equal to the State Lower Earnings Limit.
Richard Hunting contributed 8.5% of his pensionable salary up until his Scheme retirement date of 31 July 2006.
Peter Rose contributes a similar proportion of his salary to the Scheme.
The Scheme provides all members with a lump sum death in service benefit of four times base salary and a spouses pension of two thirds of the members pension on the members death.
Bonuses and benefits do not qualify as pensionable salary.
Mr Rose is able to draw his pension on an unreduced basis from age 57 with the consent of the Company.
Benefits Other benefits provided to the executive Directors as part of their remuneration package include the provision of appropriate health cover, life and disability insurance, car and fuel benefits.
Annual Performance-Linked Cash Bonus An annual performance-linked cash bonus plan is in place for the executive Directors.
The plan, which is not pensionable, is designed to provide an incentive reward for performance and reflects the competitive markets in which the Group conducts its business.
In 2014 the bonus plan will be amended to allow the Committee to incorporate a personal performance adjustor to the bonus, ranging from 0% to 125% of the award value.
The Committee is committed to publishing the personal targets set for the executive Directors and, where the personal performance adjustor is applied, will provide detailed disclosures to investors.
This amendment allows the Committee to reduce the formula-driven bonus to zero or increase the bonus up to 1.25 times the award value but not greater than the plan maxima.
Long-term Performance Related Incentives The Group operated three long-term incentive plans during the year all of which align the incentive packages of executives with the long-term interests of shareholders.
The Hunting PSP is being proposed to shareholders, which will replace awards under the PSP and LTIP plans, details of which are set out below.
Performance Share Plan The PSP operated between 2009 and 2013 and will now, subject to shareholder approval, be cancelled and replaced by the Hunting PSP.
Awards under the PSP were granted annually and only vest if demanding performance conditions based on returns to shareholders are met.
Awards granted under the PSP, which are subject to a three year performance period, are based on the Groups TSR performance relative to the constituent members of the Dow Jones US Oil Equipment and Services and the DJ STOXX TM Oil Equipment and Services sector indices and if the Committee determines the Groups financial performance to be satisfactory.
These indices were considered by the Committee to be appropriate as they compare the Groups performance against other companies in the oil and gas services sector.
64 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Awards vest subject to the schedule outlined below: Groups TSR against the TSR of the members of the Comparator Group % of the award that vests Upper quartile 100% Between upper quartile and median On a straight-line basis between 40% and 100% Median 40% Below median 0% 2.
Long-Term Incentive Plan The LTIP, which operated between 2004 and 2013, was intended to link key executives remuneration to the long-term success and performance of the Group.
The plan has now expired and no further awards will be granted under the plan.
Subject to shareholder approval, the plan is being replaced by the Hunting PSP.
The LTIP is a performance-linked plan with an incentive pool, which is calculated using the sum of the Groups after tax operating income after deducting a 7% charge on average shareholders funds for the after tax cost of capital.
Determination of the incentive pool incorporates two components, the first being 2% of the absolute value added, and the second being 5% of the incremental value added.
These performance conditions align the interests of the executives with those of the Group and its shareholders and will only produce value to the participants if value is created for the Group.
Awards are determined for each participant at the beginning of a three year performance cycle and are settled at the end of each cycle either in shares or in cash.
The award for each participant is calculated as a percentage of the incentive pool resulting from the performance of the business over the performance cycle, as determined by the Committee.
Executive Share Option Plan ESOP The Group operated an ESOP between 2001 and 2008 to provide long-term incentives for executive Directors and senior executives of the Group.
From 2009, executive Directors are granted share-based awards under the PSP in place of grants under the ESOP.
No further grants will be made under the ESOP.
Hunting PSP The Committee has reviewed the remuneration arrangements for the executive Directors and after considering recent recommendations by UK institutional investor groups, has decided to cancel the PSP and to replace it with an alternative plan at the same time as the LTIP expires.
In place of these two long-term incentive plans, a single plan has been prepared by the Committee for approval by shareholders in April 2014, with the first grants under the Hunting PSP to be made once shareholder approval has been obtained.
Certain key shareholders were consulted on the new plans implementation during 2013.
Shares awarded to the executive Directors under the Hunting PSP are divided equally into the three tranches.
Each tranche is subject to a three year vesting period, and is also subject to a performance condition.
The three performance conditions are listed below: Relative TSR.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 65 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued More detail on the performance conditions is provided in the following table: % of award Performance condition Detail 33.33 TSR The Groups TSR will be measured over a three year period against a bespoke peer group selected from the same global market sector as Hunting.
25% of the award will vest if a median performance against the peer group is achieved, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% if a top quartile performance against the peer group is achieved.
33.33 Underlying EPS The Groups growth in EPS will be measured across the three year vesting period.
25% of the award will vest if earnings growth achieves a minimum growth target set by the Committee increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% if a stretch growth target set by the Committee is achieved.
33.33 Underlying ROCE The Groups ROCE will be measured across the three year vesting period.
25% of the award will vest if reported ROCE achieves a minimum target set by the Committee increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% if a stretch target set by the Committee is achieved.
The respective performance conditions will be measured at the end of the three year vesting period and awards to the executive Directors will be proportional to the total vesting level achieved.
The face value of the grant proposed for the Chief Executive is 450% of base salary and 210% of base salary for the Finance Director.
Dividends declared by the Company during the vesting period are added to the awards once the final vesting levels have been determined.
Executive Director Service Contracts All existing executive Directors Service Contracts are rolling one year agreements and contain standard provisions allowing the Company to terminate summarily for cause, such as gross misconduct.
The Chief Executive entered into an Employment Agreement with Hunting Energy Services Inc. a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, on 7 February 2001.
This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, USA.
Under the terms of the Agreement both Hunting Energy Services Inc. and the Chief Executive are required to give one years notice of termination.
The Agreement contains a pay in lieu of notice clause, which provides for payment of base salary, up to a maximum of one year, a performance bonus if earned and vacation pay based on an annual entitlement of five weeks.
There are special provisions on a change of control.
These provide for payment of an amount equal to the total of the base salary for one year and the average Performance Bonus over the immediately preceding two year period.
In addition, the Chief Executive would be entitled to continue to participate in the Group insurance programmes for 18 months following the change of control, and, unless otherwise provided in the relevant agreement, all share-based awards granted to him shall immediately accelerate and become exercisable as of the date of change of control.
The Finance Director entered into a Service Agreement with the Company on 23 April 2008.
Under the terms of the Service Agreement both the Company and the Director are required to give one years notice of termination.
The Company reserves the right to pay the Finance Director in lieu of notice whether given by the Company or by him which provides for payment of base salary up to a maximum of one year and bonus, which he would have been entitled to receive under his contract between the date of termination and the earliest date the appointment could otherwise be lawfully terminated, less income tax and National Insurance Contributions.
The Company also has the option to put the Finance Director on paid leave of absence following payment of a sum equivalent to salary and bonus based on the previous twelve month period, subject to him complying with the terms of his Service Agreement.
These conditions also apply on termination following a change of control and, in addition, the Finance Director would be entitled to an acceleration of all share-based awards which would immediately vest at the date of the change of control.
The Company has authorised the executive Directors to undertake non-executive directorships outside of the Group provided these do not interfere with their primary duties.
During the year neither executive Director held any external positions.
Non-executive Director Letters of Appointment On appointment each non-executive Director is provided with a letter of appointment which sets out the responsibilities and time commitments for the role.
Additional duties, as requested by the Nominations Committee, including chairing a Board Committee, are also incorporated into the letters of appointment and fees paid.
Non-executive Director appointments are usually for a fixed three year term, which can be terminated by either party at any time.
66 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Payment for Loss of Office The Committee has considered the Companys policy on remuneration for executive Directors leaving the Company and is committed to applying a consistent approach to ensure that the Company pays no more than is necessary.
The loss of office payment policy subject to existing Service Contract agreements is generally aligned with market practice and depends on whether the departing executive Director is, or is deemed to be treated as, a good leaver or bad leaver.
A good leaver is defined as an employee who has ceased to be employed by the Group due to death, ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, the employees company ceasing to be a Group member or for any other reason, if the Committee so decides.
In the case of a good leaver the policy normally allows: payment in lieu of notice equal to twelve months base salary, pension supplement and contractual benefits: the payment of a bonus for the period worked subject to the achievement of the relevant performance conditions: any unvested long-term incentives to vest subject to the achievement of the performance conditions and pro-rated based on the period of service.
If an employee departs the Group for any other reason than those specified in the good leaver definition above then he she is treated as a bad leaver and unvested long-term incentives lapse immediately on cessation of employment.
The Committee however in respect of bad leavers, retains discretion to satisfy bonus payments subject to performance conditions and pro-rating.
New Director Policies Appointment of New Directors As the Board of Hunting is refreshed, with new executive and non-executive Director appointments being made, the policy for remuneration for the new Board members, will align to those detailed above.
Hunting needs to be able to attract and retain the best executives and non-executive Directors in the market place.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the framework now in place will enable the Company to achieve its recruitment aims.
For executive Director appointments the fixed component of the total emoluments made will target the market mid-point, subject to geographic considerations and the specific labour markets of the candidate.
The Service Contracts will be rolling one year agreements with standard provisions.
The fixed components of emoluments will include base salary including any appropriate relocation or tax equalisation agreements, benefits including healthcare insurance, pension contributions and car benefits and other components deemed necessary to secure an appointment.
The variable components to the emoluments will be implemented in line with the policies above, subject to any future amendments to these arrangements being approved by shareholders.
Annual Performance-Linked Cash Bonus arrangements will include awards up to 150% and 200% of base salary for the new Finance Director and Chief Executive respectively.
The maximum awards under the Hunting PSP will be up to 450% and 550% of base salary for the new Finance Director and Chief Executive respectively.
The Committee anticipates market standard change of control provisions within new Service Contracts.
In addition, for new appointees the Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and therefore shareholders.
Any such payments would take account of remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
For non-executive Director appointments, benchmarked fees to companies of similar size and profile to Hunting will be applied.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 67 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration Scenarios for Executive Directors The total remuneration of the executive Directors under current arrangements for a fixed, target and maximum performance is presented in the chart below.
Fixed Annual Bonus PSP LTIP Chief Executive Maximum 17% 26% 13% 44% $5,978k Target 29% 22% 11% 38% $3,495k Fixed 100% $1,011k Finance Director Maximum 27% 27% 14% 32% $2,076k Target 42% 22% 11% 25% $1,315k Fixed 100% $554k Note: these charts are based on 2013 remuneration and are indicative as share price movement and dividend accruals have been excluded.
Assumptions made for each scenario are as follows: Fixed: latest known salary, benefits and pension as shown in the single figure table.
Target: fixed remuneration plus half of maximum annual cash bonus opportunity plus 50% vesting of awards under the PSP plus 50% vesting of awards under the LTIP.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus maximum annual cash bonus opportunity plus 100% vesting of all long-term incentives.
The Finance Director is paid in Sterling and the equivalent total remuneration scenarios are as following fixed 354k: target 840k and maximum 1,326k.
The Hunting PSP, subject to approval by shareholders in April 2014, is proposed to replace the PSP and the LTIP.
The remuneration scenarios of the executive Directors under future arrangements, if the Hunting PSP is implemented, are as follows: Fixed Annual Bonus Hunting PSP Chief Executive Maximum 17% 26% 57% $5,978k Target 29% 22% 49% $3,495k Fixed 100% $1,011k Finance Director Maximum 28% 30% 42% $2,266k Target 44% 24% 32% $1,449k Fixed 100% $632k Note: these charts are indicative as share price movement and dividend accruals have been excluded.
Assumptions made for each scenario are as follows: Fixed: proposed 2014 salary for the Finance Director and latest known benefits and pension as shown in the single figure table.
Target: fixed remuneration plus half of maximum annual cash bonus opportunity plus 50% vesting of awards under the Hunting PSP.
68 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance The Finance Director is paid in Sterling and the equivalent total remuneration scenarios are as following fixed 404k: target 926k and maximum 1,448k.
Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere in the Group The Committee considers the general basic salary increases for the broader employee population when determining the annual salary increases for the executive Directors.
Employees have not been consulted in respect of the design of the Companys senior executive remuneration policy.
Shareholder Consultation and Feedback The Committee consulted with major shareholders on the Policy and the Hunting PSP in the final quarter of 2013.
Following this consultation, minor revisions were made to the Policy and the proposals for the Hunting PSP.
The Policy, the Annual Report on Remuneration and the Hunting PSP will be tabled separately for approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM on 16 April 2014.
The Committee designs the Policy to be in line with Huntings strategic objectives but also takes into account shareholder feedback and the views of investor bodies.
Andrew Szescila Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 6 March 2014 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 69 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction The principles of the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy detailed on pages 56 to 69 have been in operation throughout 2013.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee will continue to implement these new policy proposals throughout 2014, subject to shareholder approval, which will include the introduction of awards under the proposed new 2014 Hunting Performance Share Plan the Hunting PSP.
Role, Membership and Attendance The Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of the executive Directors.
Remuneration of the non-executive Directors is agreed by the Board as a whole.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of the Finance Director and designated senior management and, when appropriate, are invited by the Committee to attend meetings but are not present when their own remuneration is considered.
The role of the Committee is set out in its terms of reference which are reviewed annually and can be found on the Groups website www.
The Committee met five times during the year with all members attending all meetings.
During the year the members of the Committee were: Director Latest appointment date Unexpired term as at 6 March 2014 Andrew Szescila 16 September 2011 6 months John Hofmeister 29 August 2012 18 months John Nicholas 29 August 2012 18 months External Advisers During the year, New Bridge Street, a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd, and Pearl Meyer and Partners were engaged by the Committee to provide remuneration consultancy services.
Both firms, whose initial appointment was subject to a formal tender process, are regarded as independent having been appointed by the Committee and acting under direction of the Committee.
The total cost of advice to the Committee over the year to 31 December 2013 was $279,747 and is higher than normal as it reflects fees paid in respect of the review of remuneration, subsequent development of proposals and in complying with new remuneration reporting and disclosure requirements.
Shareholding Voting at 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM At the AGM of the Company held in April 2013, the resolution to approve the 2012 Remuneration Committee Report received the following votes from shareholders: Number of votes % of votes cast For 89,551,126 77.8 Discretion 45,659 Against 25,531,104 22.2 Votes withheld 491,120 n a Total votes cast 115,619,009 100.0 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not included in the calculation of the % of votes cast.
The votes against the resolution to approve the 2012 Remuneration Committee Report reflect certain legacy elements of the Companys remuneration policies, including the threshold vesting of awards under the 2009 Performance Share Plan PSP and the use of discretion in respect of bonus awards to the executive Directors.
The Committee believes that the Policy submitted to shareholders for approval addresses these concerns.
70 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Director Remuneration audited Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Total Base Annual Other remuneration 1 2 3 4 6 8 salary fees Benefits Pension Sub total cash bonus PSP Awards LTIP Awards Sub total remuneration 2013 10 2013 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Executives Dennis Proctor 764 54 193 1,011 647 2,675 3,322 109 4,442 Peter Rose 376 36 142 554 239 657 896 1,450 Non-executives John Hofmeister 110 110 110 Richard Hunting 303 303 303 John Nicholas 110 110 110 Andrew Szescila 110 110 110 Total 1,773 90 335 2,198 886 3,332 4,218 109 6,525 Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Total Base Annual Other remuneration 1 2 3 5 7 9 salary fees Benefits Pension Sub total cash bonus PSP awards LTIP awards Sub total remuneration 2012 10 2012 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Executives Dennis Proctor 742 57 191 990 1,113 653 2,597 4,363 144 5,497 Peter Rose 369 34 403 476 269 647 1,392 1,795 Non-executives John Hofmeister 111 111 111 Richard Hunting 308 308 308 John Nicholas 111 111 111 Andrew Szescila 111 111 111 Total 1,752 91 191 2,034 1,589 922 3,244 5,755 144 7,933 Notes to table: 1.
Executive Directors salaries increased by 3% from 2012 to 2013.
Benefits include the provision of healthcare insurance, a company car and fuel benefits.
Dennis Proctors single figure pension remuneration represents the total Company contributions paid to his US pension arrangements which, in practice, are administered and operated on a money purchase basis.
Peter Rose is a member of a defined benefit pension scheme and the single figure pension remuneration has been calculated in a consistent way for 2012 and 2013 in accordance with the regulations and represents 20 times the increase in his accrued pension over 2013 and 2012 after allowing for CPI inflation and deducting his own pension contributions.
The 2012 comparator is nil due to the nature of the tax rules, the timing of the calculation and how these factors interact with the calculation of the single pension remuneration figure under the new directors disclosure requirements.
The bonus is comprised 70% based on a Profit Before Tax PBT target and 30% based on a Return on Capital Employment ROCE target.
In 2013, the PBT and ROCE targets achieved were 98% and 94% of those Annual Budget items respectively, leading to bonus payments equating to 85% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 64% of base salary for the Finance Director.
The bonus is comprised 70% based on a PBT target and 30% based on a ROCE target.
In 2012, the PBT and ROCE targets exceeded the Annual Budget by 14% and 2% respectively, leading to bonus payments equating to 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 112% of base salary for the Finance Director.
The Committee applied discretion to the bonus award to the Finance Director, with an additional payment of $59,857 for achieving personal performance targets.
The 2011 awards under the PSP had a 3 year performance period to 24 February 2014 and are included in 2013 as a substantial portion of the performance period was completed at the financial year end.
The awards were measured on 24 February 2014 and are subject to the performance conditions specified on pages 64 and 65, which resulted in a zero vesting.
No payments were therefore made to the Executive Directors.
The 2010 awards under the PSP with a 3 year performance period to 25 February 2013 partially vested on 7 March 2013 at 65.9% following an above median performance.
The respective payments were determined as per the PSP rules summarised on pages 64 and 65 of the Policy.
Dennis Proctor received 46,625 shares and Peter Rose received 19,196 shares.
The quarter-up price on the date of vesting was 898.62p.
Dividends declared over these shares during the performance period were also paid to the Chief Executive and Finance Director totalling $26,819 and $11,041 respectively and are included in the PSP award figure.
The $ exchange rate on the payment date of 14 March 2013 was 1.494.
In accordance with the rules under the 2004 Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP and the three year cycle ending 31 December 2013, the accumulated incentive pool totalled $12.2m, resulting in an entitlement of $2.7m to Dennis Proctor and an entitlement of $0.7m to Peter Rose.
Under the rules of the LTIP, Dennis Proctor is entitled to 35% of the accumulated incentive pool, while Peter Rose is entitled to 15% of the incentive pool.
The maximum levels of award to Dennis Proctor and Peter Rose are capped at 350% and 175% of base salary respectively.
In accordance with the rules under the LTIP and the three year cycle ending 31 December 2012, the accumulated incentive pool totalled $9.2m, resulting in a payment of $2.6m to Dennis Proctor and a payment of $0.6m to Peter Rose.
Other remuneration represents additional UK tax payable under a tax equalisation agreement.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 71 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued The remuneration of the Chairman, Peter Rose and the non-executive Directors is originally denominated in Sterling and is as follows: Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Base Annual Total salary fees Benefits Pension Sub total cash bonus PSP awards LTIP awards Sub total remuneration 2013 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executives Peter Rose 240 23 91 354 153 420 573 927 Non-executives Richard Hunting 194 194 194 John Hofmeister 70 70 70 John Nicholas 70 70 70 Andrew Szescila 70 70 70 Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Base Annual Total salary fees Benefits Pension Sub total cash bonus PSP awards LTIP awards Sub total remuneration 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executives Peter Rose 233 21 254 300 180 408 888 1,142 Non-executives Richard Hunting 194 194 194 John Hofmeister 70 70 70 John Nicholas 70 70 70 Andrew Szescila 70 70 70 Salary and Fees In December 2012, the executive Directors reviewed the non-executive Directors fees, following receipt of benchmarked data from New Bridge Street.
The review resulted in no changes to the fees payable in 2013.
In March 2013, the Committee increased the 2013 base salaries of the executive Directors by 3% over those paid in 2012, following receipt of benchmarked UK and US data from New Bridge Street and Pearl Meyer.
Pensions audited Dennis Proctor is a member of a deferred compensation scheme in the US, which is anticipated to provide a cash lump sum on his retirement.
In practice, this scheme is administered and operated on a money purchase basis.
In 2013, the Group contributed $177,908 2012 $175,733 to that arrangement.
There are no additional benefits provided on early retirement from this arrangement.
The Group also contributed $15,300 in 2013 2012 $15,000 to his US 401K tax deferred savings plan.
Peter Rose is a member of the defined benefit section of the Hunting pension scheme.
His accrued pension as at 31 December 2013 amounted to $144,000 p. a.
2012 $134,000 p. a. which includes a temporary pension of $9,000 p. a.
He is able to retire on 24 October 2018 age 60, his normal retirement age in that scheme, without any reduction on his main scheme benefits although there is a small part of his pension that is payable only from age 62 without reduction.
With Company consent Peter Rose is able to retire from age 57 without any actuarial reduction for early retirement applied to his accrued pension.
72 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Annual Performance-Linked Cash Bonus Plan The annual performance-linked cash bonus plan entitles the executive Directors to cash bonus payments when the actual financial results of the Group achieve preset financial targets based on the Groups Annual Budget.
The 2013 actual results were 98% of budgeted PBT and 94% of ROCE leading to a cash bonus payment of $647,285 for Dennis Proctor and $238,684 152,533 for Peter Rose.
The amounts paid reflect 85% and 64% of the base salaries for Dennis Proctor and Peter Rose respectively.
2011 PSP Vesting audited The 2011 awards granted under the PSP were measured by New Bridge Street on 24 February 2014 and resulted in a zero vesting.
The 2011 share grants to the Chief Executive and Finance Director duly lapsed with no payments made to either executive Director.
2010 PSP Vesting audited The 2010 awards granted under the PSP were measured by New Bridge Street on 25 February 2013 and resulted in a partial vesting of 65.9%.
The vesting date was 7 March 2013.
Vesting levels were calculated in accordance with the PSP rules summarised on pages 64 and 65.
Following this, Dennis Proctor received 46,625 shares and Peter Rose received 19,196 shares and a cash sum equivalent to the dividends declared over these shares during the vesting period.
Details of the 2010 award which vested to the executive Directors are as follows: Value of Number vested award, Value of of shares Number of excluding dividends Total value of awarded in shares vested dividends paid vested award Director 2010 in 2013 $ $ $ Dennis Proctor 70,751 46,625 625,962 26,819 652,781 Peter Rose 29,129 19,196 257,715 11,041 268,756 2013 PSP Grants On 20 March 2013, the Committee approved the allocation of nil cost share awards to Dennis Proctor and nil cost options to Peter Rose under the rules of the PSP.
Awards will vest on 20 March 2016, subject to a median or above TSR performance being achieved against Huntings relevant peer group.
For further information on the performance criteria please refer to pages 64 and 65.
Details of the grant are as follows: Face value Face value of minimum of maximum Award as Number award vesting award vesting % of of shares at 40% at 100% Director base salary awarded $ $ Dennis Proctor 100% 52,516 305,684 764,209 Peter Rose 80% 21,119 120,223 300,558 The face value of the 2013 award is based on the closing mid-market price on 19 March 2013 which was 909.5p.
2013 LTIP Vesting audited On 31 December 2013, the 2011 award under the LTIP for the three year period commencing 1 January 2011 was measured in accordance with the plan rules and resulted in an accumulated incentive pool of $12.2m.
The executive Directors were awarded the following: % of Value of Award as incentive pool award % of Director awarded $ base salary Dennis Proctor 35% 2,674,732 350 Peter Rose 15% 657,479 175 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 73 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2013 LTIP Grants Executive Directors and some senior executives are invited to participate in the Companys LTIP, with all awards subject to the performance conditions outlined in the Policy on page 65.
Awards are settled at the end of each performance cycle in cash or shares.
The determination of whether to deliver benefits under the LTIP in cash or shares is not made until after the awards vest.
Awards made to Dennis Proctor and Peter Rose for the three year performance cycle period ending 31 December 2013, 2014 and 2015 are summarised as follows: Interest in Interest in Interest in three year three year three year performance performance performance cycle awarded cycle awarded cycle awarded February 2011 March 2012 March 2013 and vesting and vesting and vesting 31 December 31 December 31 December 2013 2014 2015 at 1 January at 1 January at 1 January Director 2013 2013 2013 Dennis Proctor 35% 35% 35% Peter Rose 15% 15% 15% The award granted on 7 March 2013 for the three year performance cycle ending on 31 December 2015 is the last award under the LTIP.
Subject to shareholder approval, awards will be replaced by the Hunting PSP, detailed in the Policy on pages 65 and 66.
Payments to Past Directors and for Loss of Office audited During the year no payments were made to past Directors in the normal course of business or for loss of office.
Directors Shareholdings, Ownership Policy and Share Interests audited The interests of the Directors in the issued Ordinary shares in the Company are as follows: At At 31 December 31 December Director 2013 2012 Non-executive Chairman 1 Richard Hunting 463,306 678,306 as trustee 979,049 1,105,339 as director of Hunting Investments Limited 10,884,743 10,884,743 Executives 1 Dennis Proctor 1,267,097 1,220,472 1 Peter Rose 52,410 43,196 Non-executives 1 John Hofmeister 10,000 5,000 1 John Nicholas 5,000 5,000 1 Andrew Szescila 10,000 5,000 1.
Beneficial share ownership are those Ordinary shares owned by the Director or spouse which he is free to dispose of.
There have been no changes to the Directors share interests in the period 31 December 2013 to 6 March 2014.
74 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance In 2014, the Group will implement a share ownership policy which requires Directors and certain senior executives within the Group to build up shares to a certain multiple of their base salary or fee.
The multiple takes into account the post tax value of vested but unexercised share awards or options.
The proposed required shareholding of the respective Director and the current shareholding as a % of base salary as at 31 December 2013 is presented below: Achieved value of holding in shares including the post tax value of vested but unexercised share awards and options expressed as a % of Required % of base salary or fee as at Director base salary or fee 31 December 2013 Dennis Proctor 500 2,555 Peter Rose 200 237 Richard Hunting 100 1,951 John Hofmeister 100 116 John Nicholas 100 58 Andrew Szescila 100 116 Directors have five years from 1 January 2014 in which to address any shareholding multiplier shortfall.
The interests of executive Directors over Ordinary shares of the Group under the ESOP and the PSP are set out below: The vesting of options and awards are subject to performance conditions set out within the Policy on pages 64 and 65.
Nil cost share awards which are not yet vested or exercisable and still subject to the performance conditions being measured in accordance with the PSP rules.
Nil cost share options which are not yet vested or exercisable and still subject to the performance conditions being measured in accordance with the PSP rules.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 75 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued Executive Director Remuneration and Shareholder Returns The following chart compares the TSR of Hunting PLC between 2008 and 2013 to the DJ Stoxx TM Oil Equipment, Services and Distribution and Dow Jones US Oil Equipment and Services indices.
In the opinion of the Directors, these indices are the most appropriate indices against which the shareholder return of the Companys shares should be compared because they comprise other companies in the oil and gas services sector, in addition to being the comparator group for the PSP.
350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Hunting PLC DJ US Oil Equipment & Services DJ Stoxx TM Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution Source: Datastream The accompanying table details remuneration of the Chief Executive.
Single figure remuneration reflects the aggregate remuneration paid to the Chief Executive as defined within the Policy on pages 56 to 69.
Annual cash bonus percentages reflect the bonus received by the Chief Executive each year expressed as a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity.
Percentage vesting reflects the % of the ESOP which vested in the financial year and the % of the PSP where a substantial portion of the performance period was completed at the financial year end.
LTIP award percentage reflects the award value expressed as a percentage of maximum award opportunity received each year measured at 31 December.
Executive Director Remuneration and the Wider Workforce The changes to the remuneration of the Chief Executive in 2013 compared to 2012 and those of the total workforce are as follows: Chief Executive Employee Base salary 3% 1% Bonus 42% 4% Benefits 6% 1% 76 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Employee Remuneration Changes Benchmarked to Operational Performance In 2013 the Group paid $299.8m 2012 $286.1m in relation to employee remuneration: $20.4m 2012 $23.9m in relation to corporate taxation: $42.5m 2012 $35.9m in relation to dividends: and $95.0m 2012 $97.4m in relation to capital investments.
The choice of performance metrics represents the material operating costs of the group and the use of generated cash in delivering long-term shareholder value.
$m 2013 2012 299.8 300 286.1 250 200 150 97.4 95.0 100 42.5 50 35.9 23.9 20.4 0 Employee Tax paid Dividends Capital remuneration investment paid Implementation of Policies in 2014 The remuneration policies for 2014 will be applied in line with those detailed on pages 56 to 69.
In December 2013, the Board reviewed benchmarked non-executive Director fee data, resulting in no changes being made to fees payable to the non-executive Directors for 2014.
In March 2014, the Committee met and approved increases of 2.8% and 2.8% respectively to the base salaries of the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The annual performance-linked cash bonus for 2014 will be operated in line with the Policy detailed on page 59.
The Committee is committed to disclosing retrospective performance against the pre-set financial and personal performance targets.
Subject to approval of shareholders at the Companys AGM of the Group in April 2014, the Committee plans to grant nil cost share awards or options to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other senior executives of the Group under the Hunting PSP.
The awards will be in line with the rules of the Hunting PSP and subject to performance conditions as follows: Proportion of awards Performance condition Minimum performance target Maximum performance target 33.33% TSR 25% vests if median performance against a 100% vests if an upper quartile comparator group of companies is achieved.
performance against a comparator group of companies is achieved.
33.33% Underlying EPS 25% vests if absolute EPS growth across 100% vests if absolute EPS growth across the three year vesting period averages 6%.
the three year vesting period averages 15%.
33.33% Underlying 25% vests if average ROCE across the three 100% vests if average ROCE across the ROCE year vesting period averages 12%.
three year vesting period averages 17%.
Andrew Szescila Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 6 March 2014 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 77
