During the year the Committee has received external advice from Olswang, Towers Watson and the Groups Independent Financial Advisor, JLT, who advised on pension matters.
Towers Watson furnished the Committee with data of executive packages of other FTSE 250 companies.
The Company Secretary advises the Committee and attends all Committee meetings.
The Committee has met five times during the year and details of who attended are detailed on page 50.
The key discussions and tasks at the meetings are listed below: salary review for executive directors car allowance pension policy annual bonus short-term reward share schemes long-term incentive plan The Committee held discussions with the Board in relation to the Boards annual report to shareholders on the Groups policy on the remuneration of executive directors and in particular the Directors Remuneration Report, as required by the Companies Act 2006, the Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
No Board member is involved in deciding his own remuneration package.
Remuneration policy The Committee has given full consideration to the Principles of Good Governance as set out in the Code with reference to directors remuneration.
The main objectives of the policy are to ensure that pay and benefits packages are sufficiently competitive to attract, develop and retain high calibre executives.
In determining directors remuneration for the year the Committee took into consideration the pay and conditions of employees of the Group.
For all other senior staff directly reporting to the CEO, for example, the EMB, the CEO will brief the Committee annually regarding the overall value all components and structure of remuneration for the year and any revisions.
This allows the Committee to provide advice to the CEO in this respect, with the intent of ensuring an effective and competitive framework on which such individual remuneration is to be determined.
Directors remuneration The main elements of the executive directors remuneration currently are: Basic salary To review and determine the specific levels of basic salary, the Committee draws on a wide range of relevant data, market conditions, as well as Group and individual performance.
Pension There are no special arrangements in place for executives.
The maximum Company contribution is 7.5% of base salary on the basis of a 4.5% contribution by the executive.
The Company offers a salary sacrifice pension scheme to all employees.
Share incentives The Committee aims to ensure that executives and senior employees are fairly rewarded for their contribution to the success of the Group.
The Group currently operates an ESP and SAYE, both of which were approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2006.
Annual bonus The Group has an annual cash bonus plan.
All executive directors are eligible to receive 100% of salary.
Measures and targets were set at the start of the year relating to the achievement of budgeted profit.
