62 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd Additional notes to the future policy table OTHER EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICIES Setting of performance measures and targets Share ownership guideline The Committee reviews and selects performance measures annually, being informed by the short and long-term priorities of IMI at the time.
The Committee All executive directors are subject to the guidelines which require therefore considers the strategic plan and the key performance indicators them to build a shareholding worth 125% of salary within a five associated with this.
Details of these are included in the Annual Report each year.
year period of being appointed to the Board.
When assessing At the time of selecting performance measures, the Committee determines the performance targets that will apply in respect of each measure.
Factors that the compliance with this guideline the Committee reviews both the Committee may consider include the strategic plan, the annual budget, analysts level of beneficial share ownership and vested but unexercised forecasts, economic conditions, individuals areas of responsibilities and the share incentive awards on a post-tax basis.
Committees expectations over the relevant period.
To the extent an individual does not meet their share ownership Principles for the impact of corporate transactions guideline, up to half of any annual bonus is automatically In light of the sale of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising divisions during payable in shares.
Further encouragement to meet the guideline 2013, the Committee reviewed and approved principles that determine the way in which such a corporate transaction will impact remuneration.
It is clear that any is that a higher level of match is available under the Share corporate transaction, which is in the best interests of IMI and its shareholders, Matching Plan to those executives that own the desired level should not have an adverse impact on remuneration.
The principles included the of shares compared to those who do not.
need for management to be treated in a manner consistent with shareholders in respect to the rights to equity, that performance should be measured on a likefor-like basis, that there should be no compensation for adverse or favourable Exceptional circumstances tax consequences and that any changes to performance computations will be reviewed by the Companys auditors.
The Committee retains the authority to make emergency payments on terms outside of those set out elsewhere in this policy Differences in the remuneration policy for executives relative to the broader to the extent they are needed in truly exceptional circumstances employee population and are genuinely unforeseen.
Any such payments will be fully The remuneration framework in place for the executive directors is informed by disclosed on a timely basis.
the structure that sits beneath it for the broader employee population.
While absolute levels and the provision of certain components, benefits and allowances vary by country and level, the overarching themes are consistent: Appointments to the board salaries are reviewed annually with any increases made on a discretionary basis Base salary will be set taking into account factors including and informed by factors such as those set out in the policy table: market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost.
consistent with executive directors, senior managers participate in annual bonus The Committee may determine that an initial positioning below plans with measures linked to corporate, divisional and or local performance market is appropriate and: in those circumstances, realign base depending on their level: salary in the years following appointment, which may result in senior managers can be considered for awards under the Share Matching an exceptional rate of increase in the short-term.
Any reliance Plan, albeit subject to lower matching levels.
This is intended to encourage share ownership in IMI.
Senior managers and the broader employee on this principle will be noted at the time of appointment.
population can also be considered for discretionary share option awards without performance conditions.
The all-employee plans described in the Other components of annual remuneration will be set in line with policy table are offered on consistent terms to all employees in the countries the future policy table on pages 59 to 61.
The maximum bonus where the plans operate: and opportunity is 200% of salary, with a maximum opportunity under with respect to benefits and allowances, eligibility and provision varies by the Share Matching Plan of 400% of salary and a maximum level and local market practice.
For senior managers, it is standard to receive award under the Performance Share Plan of 200% of salary.
Pension provision below the Board is accrued at a lower rate, and can take the form of a cash allowance.
In aggregate, the theoretical maximum variable pay opportunity that can be awarded in one year will be 800% of salary.
As part of the appointments policy the Committee may also: continue with the provision of existing remuneration components relating to pension, benefits and allowances for internal appointments: provide benefits, allowances and or payments related to relocation: and or make a long-term incentive award on appointment, outside of the annual cycle, under existing shareholder approved share plans and or an individual award agreement to provide an immediate interest in company performance.
The Committee will determine the level of any award, performance conditions and time horizon informed by the business circumstances at the time.
The maximum value of such an award will be 200% of salary.
