Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Application of the directors remuneration policy in 2014 Annual incentive bonus Below we set out details of how the directors remuneration Mark Selways and Martin Lambs bonus opportunity was not policy will be implemented in 2014.
In addition we summarise subject to review in 2014.
Douglas Hurts bonus opportunity the terms of Martin Lambs retirement payments which will be was unchanged at 125% of salary.
Roy Twites bonus due during the course of 2014. opportunity increased to 125% of salary to take account of the scope of the role, performance, internal relativities Martin Lambs retirement payments and comparative market data.
The measures and weightings As announced in 2013, Martin Lamb notified the Board in are as described in the policy table.
The Committee has September 2013 of his intention to retire.
It was agreed that determined that the targets associated with the performance Martin would remain as a director until the Annual General measures are commercially sensitive and therefore is not Meeting, at which point he will step down as a director and disclosing them on a prospective basis.
This position will be retire, with the cessation of employment taking effect at the reviewed at the end of the financial year to determine whether end of his 12 month notice period in September 2014. any information will be disclosed at that time.
In line with his contractual rights, the Committee has approved Grants to be made under the share matching plan and agreed the following terms and payments which will be The executive directors, other than Martin Lamb, are eligible fully disclosed in next years single figure table: to participate in the SMP in 2014.
As in previous years, payment of salary frozen at 765,000, contractual benefits individuals may invest up to 100% of their maximum annual and pension allowance until cessation of employment: bonus opportunity into IMI shares: the limit being set on an annual basis by the Committee.
The Committee intends to eligible for a pro-rata annual bonus in respect of the time allow such a maximum level of investment in 2014. served as a director in 2014, payable at the usual time around March 2015: Mark Selway will invest his entire 2013 bonus into IMI shares under the SMP, but will not make any further investment.
under the terms of the plan rules, the Committee has Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite will participate in the SMP pro-rated the outstanding 2013 share awards under both under the normal terms of the plan.
the Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan on a financial year basis to 31 December 2014.
Performance Vesting will continue to be based on an EVA performance over will be measured and applied in the normal manner to a three-year period, with the measure, targets and vesting determine vesting, with the shares released on the normal schedule consistent with grants made in 2013. vesting date for each award: and Grants to be made under the performance share plan pension benefits are being provided as described elsewhere The executive directors, other than Martin Lamb, are eligible in this report, on the basis of service up to the date of to participate in the PSP in 2014.
As part of Mark Selways retirement.
The pension payable from the IMI Pension Fund appointment the Committee agreed to make an aggregate the Fund is reduced for early payment, in accordance with long-term incentive award in 2014 worth 200% of salary.
the Fund rules, as Martin Lamb is retiring prior to age 55.
As such, he will receive a PSP award worth 149% of salary The Company has, however, asked the Trustee to defer and an SMP award worth 51% of salary in 2014.
Performance pension payments until Martin Lamb reaches age 55 share awards of 100% of salary will be made to Douglas Hurt January 2015, and to increase the pension that would and Roy Twite, but not to Martin Lamb.
Vesting of these awards otherwise have been payable from that date to reflect this will be subject to EPS growth 50%, relative TSR 25% and period of deferral.
The exact sums will be disclosed in an organic revenue growth 25%, with measures, targets and appropriate manner when they are known.
the vesting schedule consistent with grants made in 2013.
Executive director fixed pay Fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors Salaries effective in January 2014, or at date of appointment The Chairmans sole remuneration consists of a fee from in respect of Mark Selway, were agreed taking into account 1 January 2014 of 300,000 per annum inclusive of all a range of factors including the performance of the Group, Committee and other work.
This is the first time the Chairmans comparative market data and salary increases for other fee has been reviewed since his appointment on 1 November employees.
The average increase for employees was 3.2%, 2011.
It was agreed to increase the Chairmans remuneration compared to 3.1% for the executive directors.
Mark Selways on the basis that the amount is fixed for two years from and Martin Lambs salaries were not subject to review in 2014: 1 January 2014 and 25% would be taken as shares to the salaries for Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite increased by 3.1% be retained until retirement.
A review of the non-executive directors base fees, committee Other elements of fixed pay benefits and pension will chairman and senior independent director fees will be carried be unchanged.
