Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Introduction IMIs remuneration philosophy The Remuneration Committee the Committee The Committee aims to ensure that remuneration presents the Directors Remuneration Policy generally, and incentives in particular, Report, which will be put to shareholders for provide strong alignment between individual a binding vote at the Annual General Meeting performance, business performance and to be held on 8 May 2014 Resolution 2.
The remuneration policy to shareholder approval, the effective date of this also recognises that IMI operates in global and policy will be 9 May 2014. highly competitive markets with the vast majority of its activities outside the UK.
The intention of the Committee is that the policy would normally remain in place for three years.
The policy is to provide competitive remuneration However, as some of the share plans are due packages to attract, motivate, reward and to expire in 2015 and a review of all our incentive retain executives of the calibre required, and to arrangements is underway in 2014, we will need align their interests with those of shareholders to return to shareholders at the 2015 Annual by relating a significant component of the General Meeting.
The remuneration policy that we summarise in The Committee believes it is important to this section is consistent with the policy that has maintain the flexibility to respond to individual been in place at IMI for a number of years.
However, its normal approach This policy is broken into a number of sections: has been to pay salaries within appropriate market competitive ranges, combined with a future policy table for executive directors, realistic potential for above-market total which sets out the components of our annual compensation if performance is outstanding.
remuneration: The policy of the Committee is to set performance an illustration of the sensitivity of pay conditions for incentives which are both stretching outcomes to IMIs performance: but also reasonably attainable in the environment other relevant policies relating to executive in which the Company is then operating.
director remuneration, including recruitment, service contracts, appointments and terminations: remuneration policies that relate solely to the Chairman and non-executive directors: and the contextual information the Committee considers, when making decisions on executive directors remuneration.
58 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd M W Selway Illustrations of the application of IMIs remuneration policy Long-term incentives Bonus To illustrate the opportunity available to our executive directors, Fixed pay and the sensitivity of pay to performance, the adjacent graphs set out pay outcomes for three performance scenarios: 000 5,000 minimum where pay is limited to fixed, non-performance 4,084 related components based on 2014 salaries and the 4,000 corresponding pension and benefits as disclosed in 2013 : 37% 3,000 on-target where bonus vests at target levels for each 2,151 executive, and long-term incentives vest at threshold 15% 2,000 37% assuming targets are calibrated such that the lower end of 35% the vesting schedule is representative of on-target : and 1,084 1,000 maximum, where all variable pay components vest in full.
50% 100% 26% Minimum On-target Maximum The charts adjacent are based on actual SMP and PSP awards for 2014 vesting in 2017 in order to best reflect the application of the policy in that year.
No share price growth or dividend Salary 750 750 750 assumptions are made and all-employee share plans are Pension 30% 30% 30% excluded.
Benefits 109 109 109 Please note that Martin Lamb has been excluded from the Annual Bonus 0% 100% 200% information along side as he will not be a serving director at SMP 0% 5% 51% the date the policy takes effect.
Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Future policy table executive directors Component & purpose Operation Annual opportunity Fixed elements of executive remuneration Salary Reviewed annually with any change normally effective from Salaries effective 1 January 2014: 1 January.
Reflects individual 750,000 M W Selway performance and When setting salary, the Committee takes into account the level 430,000 D M Hurt and R M Twite personal contribution of increase for a reference group of comparable employees in to delivering the Group the senior leadership team, market data, business performance, 765,000 M J Lamb until retirement strategy.
They are set in external economic factors, the complexity of the business and The policy is that normally any salary increase for an the context of total pay the role, cost, and the incumbents experience and performance.
executive director will be in line with those of the wider levels.
Increases beyond this may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as a change in responsibility after taking into account the factors noted alongside.
Pension A cash allowance in lieu of pension is paid monthly.
To the extent Up to 30% of salary required by law, part of this allowance will be paid into a defined Provides for retirement Legacy obligations of 35% of salary for appointments to the contribution pension arrangement.
With the Committees approval and supports succession Board before October 2013 will continue to be honoured.
the executive directors may redirect all or part of the balance of this planning.
allowance into a defined contribution pension arrangement.
Benefits The policy provides a normal range of benefits to executive The values of benefits vary significantly year-on-year directors.
These include but are not limited to: depending on the age and health of the individual, the cost Protects the wellof providing them and the country in which the executive is being of executives non-cash: private healthcare for themselves and their family, based.
However, the range of the benefits is not expected and to provide fair and life insurance, and other minor ancillary benefits: and to change from year to year.
reasonable market cash and taxable allowances: car and fuel allowance, personal tax competitive benefits.
Should it be appropriate to relocate an executive director advice and two annual round trips for the Chief Executive and his or to recruit an executive director from overseas, flexibility spouse to return to his home location.
Where it is in IMIs interests is reserved to provide benefits that ensure that the individual to request that executives work in a different country or region then and IMI can both achieve this commercial purpose.
we will pay relocation and provide benefits and allowances in line with IMIs Global Mobility Policy.
Expenses that are incurred by an executive director in undertaking their role are reimbursed.
All-employee share plans all-employee share plans do not have an associated performance framework All-Employee UK Plans Share Plans UK SAYE: an HMRC approved Savings Related Share Option In line with the statutorily defined limits with respect to Encourages share Scheme which is open to all of the Groups UK employees, including investments, awards and discounts on the price of ownership amongst the UK-based executive directors.
the broader employee Employee Share Ownership Plan: a HMRC approved Share population and Incentive Plan which is open to all of the Groups UK employees, aligns interests of IMI including the UK-based executive directors.
employees with those of shareholders.
In addition Global Plans: All-employee share purchase plans operate in Eligible employees including executive directors can invest provides a tax efficient countries outside the UK.
The vehicle and manner of award varies subject to the plan limits that apply to all participants, which investment vehicle for by country depending on local market restrictions and the plan vary by local market and plan.
60 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd Future policy table executive directors contd Component Purpose Operation Variable components of executive remuneration Annual Incentive Bonus Drives and rewards performance against annual financial, strategic The payment of awards under the plan is determined by the and operational goals, which are consistent with the medium to Committee based on annual performance relative to set targets long-term strategic goals of IMI, also taking into account individual which are reviewed at the end of the year.
Share Matching Plan Incentivises long-term value creation, aligning the interests of Executives can invest a value up to a maximum of their Annual SMP executives and shareholders through the delivery of awards in shares.
The selected performance metrics support the long-term strategy Compulsory investment is required annually to the value of of IMI and the vehicle and time horizon provides a retention tool for up to 50% of any net Annual Incentive Bonus earned if the key executives.
executive has not achieved their share ownership guideline.
The use of matching shares further aligns the interests of executives Invested shares attract the grant of a matching share award, with those of shareholders by both requiring and encouraging which can take the form of nil-cost options or deferred awards.
This complements the share ownership Invested shares are returned to the participant in full at the guideline which is set out on page 62. end of the three-year performance period or sooner at the participants request.
The matching shares vest at the end of the thr ee-year vesting period provided the performance conditions are satisfied and the participant remains an IMI employee or is a good leaver and has retained the invested shares.
Dividends or equivalent value payments accrue and are payable in cash or shares in respect of vested awards up to the point of exercise.
Clawback provisions are included in the plan rules.
Performance Share Incentivises long-term value creation, aligning the interests of The Committee can make annual share-based awards, which Plan PSP executives and shareholders through the delivery of awards in shares.
can take the form of nil-cost options.
Dividends or equivalent The selected performance metrics support the long-term strategy value payments accrue and are payable in cash or shares in of IMI and the vehicle and time horizon provides a retention tool respect of vested awards up to the point of exercise.
Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual opportunity Performance The policy is to pay annual bonuses up to a maximum of 200%.
In respect The payment of bonus will depend on performance relative to pre-determined of 2014, the chief executives bonus maximum will be 200% of salary: measures and targets over the course of a financial year.
for the other executive directors it will be 125% of salary.
The Committee determines the measures and targets annually to ensure As a percentage of maximum opportunity, the following amounts are alignment with strategy.
Normally these will be a combination of measures payable for the corresponding levels of performance: linked to the financial and non-financial performance of IMI.
For 2014 the measures and their weightings are profit before tax and exceptional Threshold minimum : 0% items 35% : Group adjusted earning per share EPS 15% : organic revenue Target: 50% growth 15% : cash conversion 15% : health, safety and environment 5% : and personalised non-financial measures 15%.
Maximum: 100% The level of opportunity depends on the role, the level of investment and whether or not an executive has met the share ownership requirements.
The maximum opportunity is 400% of salary for the Chief Executive.
The different permutations are summarised below: Maximum match Investment Compulsory Voluntary Chief Executive 1.25:1 2:1 Others 1:1 2:1 In 2014 this equates to the following maximum value as a percentage of salary: Investment Compulsory Voluntary The release of matching and performance share awards will depend on performance relative to pre-determined measures and targets over three Chief Executive 250% 400% consecutive financial years.
Others 125% 250% The Committee will determine measures and targets annually to ensure continuing alignment with strategy.
As a percentage of maximum opportunity, the following amounts are For 2014 the measures and their weights are the same as in 2013, namely: payable for the corresponding levels of performance: SMP: Growth in Economic Value Added EVA 100% Threshold minimum : 10% PSP: EPS growth 50% : relative total shareholder return TSR 25% : Maximum: 100% and organic revenue growth 25%.
Other points on the vesting schedule will be set by the Committee when the performance targets are set.
Normal award: 100% of salary Maximum award: 200% of salary The proportion of the award that vests for achievement of the performance targets are: Threshold minimum : 25% Maximum: 100% Other points on the vesting schedule will be set by the Committee when the performance targets are set.
