64 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd Payment Agreed departure Differences in a change in control situation Salary, pension The Committee may make payment in lieu of notice.
and benefits Annual bonus Individuals can be considered for a bonus: factors such as time Performance to the date of the event taking place will be considered in served during the performance period and performance can be determining whether any bonus should be payable, subject to the overall taken into account.
maximum applicable to the relevant individual.
For directors appointed prior to September 2013, there remains a bonus entitlement if a change in control has taken place within the 24 months prior to termination.
In this scenario, the director is entitled to a bonus, or compensation in lieu of bonus, in respect of the relevant calendar year.
Share Matching Invested shares: Similar to agreed departure.
Plan Invested shares are transferred back on cessation or at the end A reduction in the exercise period for vested but unexercised awards.
Performance and time elapsed will be taken into account, but the Committee Matching shares: may enable awards to vest in full.
Performance measured at the end of the performance period, or at the date of cessation of employment.
In certain situations as defined in the plan rules rollover awards can be offered, taking into account performance and time elapsed, although these Pro-rating for time elapsed at cessation of employment will be can be disapplied by the grantor.
The Committee can reduce or increase the exercise period for unvested and vested but unexercised awards.
Performance Performance measured at the end of the performance period, Similar to agreed departure.
Share Plan or at the date of cessation of employment.
A reduction in the exercise period for vested but unexercised awards.
Pro-rating for time elapsed at cessation of employment will be Performance and time elapsed will be taken into account, but the Committee considered by the Committee.
may enable awards to vest in full.
The Committee can reduce or increase the exercise period for In certain situations as defined in the plan rules rollover awards can be unvested and vested but unexercised awards.
offered, taking into account performance and time elapsed, although these can be disapplied by the grantor.
Other The Committee may approve other limited payments which Similar to agreed departure.
may include legal fees connected to the departure, untaken holiday, out-placement and repatriation.
Enhanced As described above in respect of Martin Lambs service contract.
This does not apply to any other director.
Pension Existing arrangements that apply to persons who are appointed as executive director will continue to apply.
Considerations taken into account when setting our The Committee did not consult with employees when preparing directors remuneration policy the Directors Remuneration Policy for this report.
Shareholder views Employment conditions at IMI The Committee has a standard annual agenda item whereby When setting the salaries for executive directors the Committee the feedback from shareholders and investor advisory bodies is takes into account a number of factors as noted in the future presented and discussed following the Annual General Meeting.
policy table on pages 59 to 61 and these include the broader This feedback is sought and collated by the Company Secretary.
More specifically: The feedback that the Committee receives then informs the Committee reviews budgeted salary increases across the discussions for the formulation of future policy and subsequent Group on a country-by-country basis when assessing the remuneration decisions.
For example, following feedback in appropriateness of any increases for the Directors: and 2013 the Committee chose to reduce pension contributions from 35% of salary to 30% of salary for new appointments to in making decisions the Committee also takes account the Board.
of the internal relativities against the reference group and Furthermore, as appropriate, representatives of the Committee within the wider senior management team and general will meet with shareholders on specific matters, which may be employee population.
Details of these comparison metrics will be included in the Annual Remuneration Report each year.
