DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Committee DEAR SHAREHOLDER Our remuneration policy seeks to achieve a balance between the interests of our employees and long-term shareholders.
Executive Director and senior management rewards are, therefore, weighted towards performance related elements with targets incentivising the delivery of our strategy over the short and long term.
Last year I referred to the overall review of remuneration policy which the Remuneration Committee had undertaken, as a result of which we amended performance criteria in a number of areas to better align these with our organic growth strategy.
The external environment since then has been very challenging.
Remuneration outcomes linked to performance with respect to 2013 have re ected this.
There will be no vesting of LTIP awards made in November 2010, or SMS awards made in February 2011.
With regard to the annual incentives, performance on market share Michael Herlihy was achieved in some, but not all, markets: but overall targets for volume and revenue Chairman were not met.
However, a continued focus on cost management ensured that pro t targets were partly met.
This resulted in an annual incentive payout for Executive Our remuneration Directors of 34 per cent of the maximum opportunity.
We remain committed to our strategy but are also looking to free up additional funds strategy is focused to invest behind it and to right size the business in the face of declining demand, on supporting our particularly in Western Europe.
At a time when the associated restructuring programmes are affecting many of our staff, the Executive Directors and senior management have business strategy in taken the view that it would be inappropriate for them to receive salary increases: there the drive to maximise will, therefore, be no change in base salaries or performance related pay opportunities for this population in 2014.
There were also no base pay increases for the wider long-term sustainable management population.
This year shareholders will be asked to vote separately on our Remuneration Policy and our Annual Report on Remuneration.
Our current Remuneration Policy is set out on pages 64 and 68.
We set out on page 69 in the Annual Report on Remuneration how the policy was implemented in 2013 and how we plan to implement it in 2014.
Members Decisions for 2013 Material changes for 2014 Michael Herlihy Approving managements proposed Implementation of new SMS and Chairman salary freeze in 2014.
LTIP schemes which were approved Ken Burnett at our 2013 AGM.
2013 annual bonus payment David Haines calculated to be 34 per cent of No other substantial changes: all Susan Murray the maximum opportunity.
maximum opportunities will remain the same in 2014 as in 2013.
Berge Setrakian LTIP shares granted in November Mark Williamson 2010 lapsed in November 2013.
Malcolm Wyman SMS shares granted in February 2011 will lapse in February 2014.
Trevor Williams In relation to the retirement of Secretary Robert Dyrbus, con rming all elements of remuneration will be actioned in line with policy with no discretions exercised in his favour.
Agreement of new Finance Directors remuneration package in line with the Groups policy and with no buyout of existing awards.
No discretions exercised in favour of management other than those customary, for example those in respect of early exercisable leavers within the share plans.
62 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS During the course of the year, the Committee considered the We consider carefully all the feedback we receive from retirement of the current Finance Director, Robert Dyrbus, and shareholders and look forward to continued dialogue on the recruitment arrangements for our new Finance Director, these matters.
The payments made to both Robert Dyrbus and Oliver Tant are in line with our policy and re ect best market practice.
Details of these arrangements are set out on page 73.
In the course of the year we also received feedback and views from shareholders on a number of matters related to remuneration, referred to in more detail on page 69 below.
M H C Herlihy Shareholders do not speak with a single voice and, as a Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Committee, we have to balance individual perspectives with our overall responsibility to ensure that remuneration arrangements enable us to attract, motivate and retain employees of the requisite quality to optimise sustainable shareholder returns.
GOVERNANCE All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive The role of the Remuneration Committee Directors, which we see as fundamental in ensuring Executive The Board recognises that it is ultimately accountable for Directors and senior executives remuneration is set by people executive remuneration but has delegated this responsibility who are independent and have no personal financial interest, to theCommittee.
other than as shareholders, in the matters discussed.
The Committees principal function is to support the Groups To reinforce this independence, a standing item at each strategy by ensuring that its delivery is supported by the Committee meeting allows the members to meet without any Companys overall remuneration policy, as described below.
Executive Director or other manager being present.
It also determines the speci c remuneration package, including During the year Iain Napier Company Chairman, Alison Cooper service contracts and pension arrangements, for each Executive Chief Executive, Robert Dyrbus Finance Director and John Director and our mostsenior executives.
Downing Company Secretary were consulted, including to The Committee held five meetings during the financial year.
provide a performance context to target setting, and invited toattend, where appropriate.
Trevor Williams Deputy Company The Committees responsibilities include: Secretary also attended each meeting as secretary to ensuring the Groups remuneration arrangements support its the Committee.
strategy, align with its values and drive performance: The Group Human Resources Director and the Group Head of maintaining a competitive remuneration policy appropriate Compensation and Bene ts also attended and provided internal to the business environment of the countries in which we support and advice on market and regulatory developments operate, thereby ensuring we can attract and retain high in remuneration practice and our employee share plans.
calibre individuals: Their attendance ensured the Committee was kept fully abreast of pay policies throughout the Group, which it then takes into aligning senior executives remuneration with the interests of account when determining the remuneration of the Executive long-term shareholders whilst ensuring that remuneration is Directors and our most senior executives.
fair but not excessive: No-one is allowed to participate in any matter directly concerning assessing the output from the Board evaluation process insofar the details of their own remuneration or conditions of service.
as it relates to the Remuneration Committee: This Policy Report has been prepared in accordance with the making recommendations to theBoard in respect of our provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and The Large Chairmans fees: and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and setting targets for theperformance related elements of Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
remuneration packages: It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
oversight of our overall policy for senior management In this Report we describe how the principles of good remuneration and of our employee share plans: and governance relating todirectors remuneration, as set out in ensuring appropriate independent advisors are appointed to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, are applied provide advice and guidance to the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee con rms that throughout the financial year the Company has complied The Committees full terms of reference provide further details of with these governance rules and best practice provisions.
the role and responsibilities of the Committee and are available on the Companys website.
The Regulations require our Auditors to report to shareholders on the audited information within this Report and to state whether, in their opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in accordance with the Act.
The Auditors opinion is set out on page 84 and we have clearly marked the audited sections of the Report.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Directors Remuneration Report POLICY REPORT Our policy is to attract, motivate and retain individuals of the calibre necessary to run a group of the scale and complexity of Imperial Tobacco.
Furthermore, we offer packages that are signi cantly weighted towards performance based elements with measures that re ect individual, functional and corporate performance.
The aim is to set targets that are both stretching and achievable.
Whilst our incentive plans provide for the Committee to exercise discretion in the determination of vesting, this discretion is only used in exceptional circumstances and any such discretion which is exercised will be disclosed, at the latest, in the report on implementation of the Remuneration Policy for the year in question.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors It is intended that the Remuneration Policy, set out in this report, if approved, will, for the purposes of section 226D 6 b of the Act, take effect after the AGM on 5 February 2014.
Purpose and Link Element to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Salary and Attract and retain Reviewed annually by the Committee taking into account each No prescribed Fees high performing Directors performance together with changes in role and responsibility.
maximum annual individuals re ecting increase.
Salary and fee increases are generally effective from 1 October.
market value of role The Committee also and the Directors The Committee considers pay data against two comparator groups, takes into account skills, experience one being companies from FTSE size peers, the other international each Directors and performance.
sector peers, with secondary reference to companies in the performance, FTSE 30 and FTSE 50 excluding financial sector companies.
together with These comparisons serve to fide ne a playing eld within which changes in role and an individuals rewards need to be positioned.
In determining responsibility: it also individual remuneration, the primary factors taken into account considers general are the scale of the challenges intrinsic to that individuals role: increases for the their ability and experience and their performance.
Bene ts Competitive Bene ts include provision of company car, health insurance, life The level of bene t bene ts taking into insurance and permanent health insurance which are provided provision is xed.
account market directly or through the Company pension scheme.
value of role and Opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan.
bene ts offered to the wider UK Provision of relocation assistance upon appointment if when management applicable.
Annual Incentivise delivery At least two thirds of the bonus will be linked to key financial metrics.
Chief Executive: Bonus of Group strategic All nonfinancial metrics will be subject to financial underpins.
Performance below the threshold results in zero payment.
Payments enhance rise from 0% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for levels of Other Executive performance.
performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
Directors: 150% of base salary or Bonus up to 100% of salary or such lower sum asdetermined by the such lower sum Committee is paid in cash CashElement.
Amounts over this level will as determined by be paid indeferred shares to be held for a minimum of threeyears.
Claw back provisions are in place for the three years following payment of annual bonus.
64 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Purpose and Link Element to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Share Incentivise the Executives may elect to invest some or all of the equivalent of the Maximum match Matching delivery of Group gross Cash Element of their annual bonus in shares.
invested plus Awards granted from February 2013 Promote share shares equivalent Awards have a performance period of three financial years and the ownership to the value of the level of vesting is based on financial measures with underpins.
the Imperial In respect of each performance element, performance below the Tobacco threshold target results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each performance management team element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance which has been an between the threshold and maximum targets.
integral part of There is no opportunity to re-test.
Claw back provisions are in place.
Dividends accrued on vested shares are paid at the time ofvesting.
Awards granted before February 2013 Awards based on an earnings per share EPS performance condition only.
It is intended that these awards will vest or not in line with the performance condition and other rules of the share matching scheme SMS prevailing at the date of grant.
Long Term Incentivise Awards granted from February 2013 Chief Executive: Incentive long-term Awards have a performance period of three financial years starting at 200% of base Plan Group financial the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made and are salary in shares.
performance based 50% on relative total shareholder return TSR vs a peer group Other Executive in line with the and 50% on financial measures with underpins.
Directors: 150% Groups strategy In respect of each performance element, performance below the of base salary in and long-term threshold target results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each performance shares or such shareholder returns.
element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance lower sum as Align Executive between the threshold and maximum targets.
determined by interests with the Committee.
those of long-term There is no opportunity to re-test.
For all Executive Claw back provisions are in place.
Directors shares Dividends accrued on vested shares are paid at the time ofvesting.
equivalent to the value of the Awards granted before February 2013 dividend roll-up.
Prior to February 2013 awards were based 50% onanEPS performance condition and 50% on relative TSR performance conditions only.
It is intended that these awards will vest or not in line with the performance conditions and other rules of the LTIP prevailing at the date of grant.
Pensions Attract and retain Pension provision for Executive Directors is provided in line with other Current policy high performing employees through the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in the UK.
is for a fide ned Executive Directors.
Executive Directors who joined the Fund prior to 1 October 2010 are contribution and members of the fide ned bene t section whereas Executive Directors cash supplement joining the Fund on or after this date are offered membership of the limit of 26% fide ned contribution section.
Executives have the option to receive of salary.
a cash supplement in lieu of membership of the Fund, or in lieu of Existing members accrual on pensionable salary above the Funds earnings cap, or in of the fide ned lieu of future service accrual.
bene t section Members of the fide ned bene t section of the Fund accrue pension at have a cash in a rate between 1 47th and 1 60th of pensionable salary.
Further detail lieu of pension is provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 72. accrual limit of 35% of salary.
The rules of the Fund detail the pension bene ts which members can receive on retirement, death or leaving service.
The Committee may amend the form of any Executive Directors pension arrangements in response to changes in pensions legislation or similar developments, so long as any amendment does not increase the cost to the Company of a Directors pension provision.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 65 Directors Remuneration Report Payments from Existing Awards Subject to the achievement of the applicable performance conditions, Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy detailed in this report.
Performance Measure Selection The measures used under the annual bonus plan are selected annually to re ect the Groups key strategic initiatives for the year and re ect both financial and nonfinancial objectives.
The Committee considers the combination of measures in the SMS and LTIP, i. e. adjusted EPS, net revenue and relative TSR, remain the most appropriate measures of long-term performance for the Group.
TSR aligns with the Companys focus on shareholder value creation and rewards management for out performance of sector peers.
EPS provides strong line-of-sight for executives and supports the Groups long-term strategy.
Net revenue supports the Companys focus on organic growth.
Performance targets are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment.
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, responsibility, individual performance and pay levels in comparable companies.
All managers are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
Other employees are eligible to participate in performance led annual bonus plans.
Opportunities and speci c performance conditions vary by organisational level with business area-speci c metrics incorporated where appropriate.
Senior executives are eligible to participate in the LTIP c. 50 individuals and most members of the Corporate Management Group are eligible to participate in the SMS c. 1,000 individuals, with the performance criteria for the SMS applying only to our most senior managers.
The total remuneration of the Executive Directors for a minimum, target and maximum performance is presented in the chart below.
The charts are indicative as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
Assumptions made for each scenario are as follows: Minimum: xed remuneration only i. e. latest known salary, bene ts and pension.
Target: xed remuneration plus half of maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 25% vesting of awards under the SMS and LTIP.
Note that Imperial Tobacco does not have a stated target for its financial measures or incentive payouts.
Maximum: xed remuneration plus maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 100% vesting of SMS and LTIP.
66 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Executive Directors Service Agreements and Loss of Of ce Payments The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service agreements normally continue until the Directors agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree, are terminable on no more than one years notice and provideno entitlement to the payment of apredetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances.
In addition, in some limited cases, career counselling may be provided after the cessation of employment for a fide ned period.
There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors service agreements, except forthose set out in the table below.
The Executive Directors service agreements contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary, pension contributions, and 5 per cent of base salary in respect of other bene ts butthese are at the Companys sole discretion.
The Company is unequivocally against rewards for failure.
The circumstances of the termination including the individuals performance and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate losses are taken into account in every case: our policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Executive Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and any such payments would be paid monthly in arrears.
The service agreement for Robert Dyrbus was, however, entered into at the time of the demerger of the Company from the Hanson Group in 1996 and theprovisions dealing with compensation on termination following a change of control in his service agreement were agreed at that time.
For Executive Directors leaving employment with Imperial Tobacco, for speci ed reasons including death, redundancy, retirement, ill health and disability, the business or company in which the participant is employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of control, annual bonus awards will be based on performance, adjusted for time served and paid at the same time as for other employees and with the usual deferral requirement: however, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to adjust the timing and pro-rating to take account of any prevailing exceptional circumstances.
Under the rules of the SMS and LTIP, outstanding awards vest if a participant leaves for speci ed reasons, including death, redundancy, retirement, ill health and disability, the business or company in which the participant is employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of control.
In these circumstances a participants awards vest as the Committee determines having regard to the time the award has been held and theachievement of the performance criteria.
The awards will vest either on termination of the executives employment with the Group or at the normal vesting date, as the Committee determines in its absolute discretion.
If thetermination of employment is not for one of thespeci ed reasons and the Committee does not exercise its discretion to allow an award to vest, a participants awards lapse entirely.
Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control Mrs A J Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Mr R Dyrbus 21 August 1996 Terminable on 12 months notice Payment of a liquidated sum calculated by reference to bene ts receivable during the notice period Mr M R Phillips 31 May 2012 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Recruitment of Executive Directors The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration policy inforce at the time of appointment.
The Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and, therefore, shareholders.
Any such buyout payments would be based solely on remuneration lost when leaving the former employer and would re ect the delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares, options, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
The Committee may need to avail itself of the current Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R if required in order to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of the relevant individual.
However, the Committee has the discretion in unforeseen and exceptional circumstances to offer awards of variable remuneration in excess of the maximums stated in the policy table if judged necessary to procure the services of the most appropriate candidate.
If it were to do so, any such arrangements would be put to shareholders at the following AGM.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms on grant.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the first AGM following their appointment.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses, as appropriate and within the limits set by the Remuneration Committee.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Directors Remuneration Report Policy in Respect of External Board Appointments We recognise that external non-executive directorships are bene cial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
Eachserving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as the chairman of a FTSE100 company.
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Policy for Non-Executive Directors Element Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Fees Attract and retain high Reviewed annually by the Board after No prescribed maximum performing individuals.
recommendation by the Committee in respect annual increase.
Portion of fees applied to oftheChairman.
Aggregate annual fees purchase of shares to Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective limited to 2.0 million by align interests with those from 1October.
The Board and, where appropriate, the Committee considers pay data at comparator companies of similar scale.
The Senior Independent Director and the chairmen ofthe Audit and Remuneration Committees receive additional fees.
No eligibility for bonuses, retirement bene ts or to participate in the Groups employee share plans.
Bene ts Travel to the Companys Travel to the Companys registered of ce is recognised Grossed-up costs registered of ce.
as a taxable bene t. oftravel.
Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements but the terms of their appointment, including the time commitment expected, are recorded in letters of appointment which are available for viewing at our registered of ce during normal business hours and both prior to and at the AGM.
In line with our annual review policy, the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment were reviewed and con rmed by the Board on 31 January 2013.
Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that theChairman and Non-Executive Directors will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, nocompensation is payable ontermination.
Shareholding Guidelines Whilst placing signi cant weight on our annual performance, our overall remuneration package aligns the long-term interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders with those of management by incentivising the growth in the value of the business over the long term.
To support this alignment, we have adopted a set of share ownership guidelines as we believe Executive Directors and other senior managers should be encouraged to hold a substantial portion of their personal wealth in our shares.
Over a period of five years from appointment, Executive Directors are required to build a holding in the Groups shares to a minimum value broadly equivalent to three times their respective base salary.
Other senior management are expected to investat a level equivalent to between once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade.
Failure to meet the minimum shareholding requirement is taken into account when determining eligibility for LTIP awards.
Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment.
Consultation with Employees Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committee does consider the general basic salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining remuneration policy forthe Executive Directors.
68 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Compared to Other Employees The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group.
However, there are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior employees, which the Remuneration Committee believes is necessary to re ect the different levels of responsibility.
The key difference in policy is the increased emphasis on performance related pay for Executive Directors.
Consideration of Shareholder Views The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at its first meeting following the AGM.
This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during any other meetings with shareholders, is then considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee notes that shareholders do not speak with a single voice, but we engage with our largest shareholders to ensure weunderstand the range of views which exist on remuneration issues.
When any material changes are made to the Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration Committee chairman will inform major shareholders in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss these.
HOW THE COMMITTEE IMPLEMENTED THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30SEPTEMBER 2013 Linking Remuneration with Strategy We focus on delivering high quality sustainable sales growth whilst effectively managing our costs and cash ows.
Ensuring that our sales growth drivers and key enablers are supported and their delivery incentivised by our remuneration policy is key to maximising long-term returns to shareholders.
Alignment with Sales growth is at the heart of our strategy.
This is supported by the inclusion of the drivers of sales growth our Strategy within our variable remuneration both the annual bonus and our share plans.
Stretching performance targets incentivise the delivery of sales and the creation of shareholder value.
Managing our costs and cash ows are the other elements of our strategic focus.
Pro tability, mainly in the form of earnings per share, forms a major part of the measurement in both the annual bonus and the share plans.
Alignment with Employees at all levels are encouraged to have an interest in the Companys shares through both direct share our Shareholders holdings and through our share plans, with more senior employees subject to shareholding requirements, thus aligning their interest to shareholders.
The value of their overall remuneration is, therefore, heavily dependent on the performance of our share price.
Attracting and Our Remuneration Policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate a high quality pool of talented employees Retaining the at all levels who are incentivised to deliver our strategy through clear links between reward and performance, Right People without encouraging them to take undue risks.
We believe it is important to ensure that management is competitively rewarded in relation to peers and the other opportunities available to them whilst ensuring we neither pay more than necessary nor reward failure.
Our policy is, therefore, signi cantly weighted towards performance based elements.
Implementing Executive Policy and Practice In implementing the Companys Remuneration Policy, the Committee recognises that striking the right balance in nding a fair outcome in setting a competitive level of total remuneration is a matter of judgement.
In forming this judgement, the Committee considers pay data at comparator companies of similar scale and operating in a similar sector.
Comparisons with other companies, however, do not determine what remuneration the Company offers but, at most, serve to fide ne a playing eld within which an individuals rewards need to be positioned.
In determining that positioning, the primary factors taken into account are the scale of the challenges intrinsic to that individuals role, their ability and experience and their performance.
We align the interests of long-term shareholders and employees at all levels by, wherever possible, giving our employees the annual opportunity to build a shareholding in the Company through our employee share plans, with over 30 per cent of eligible employees participating in one or more plans.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Directors Remuneration Report Single Total Figure of Remuneration for Each Director Audited 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Share Share 2013 2012 Salary Salary Taxable Taxable Annual Annual plans plans Pension Pension 2013 2012 1 2 3 4 000 and fees and fees bene ts bene ts bonus bonus vesting vesting bene ts bene ts Total Total Executive Directors Mrs A J Cooper, Chief Executive 920 860 16 16 626 881 678 449 348 2,011 2,783 Mr R Dyrbus, Finance Director 665 655 27 27 339 503 1,100 233 229 1,264 2,514 5 Mr M R Phillips, Corporate Affairs Director 435 145 11 4 185 93 291 215 163 846 696 2,020 1,660 54 47 1,150 1,477 2,069 897 740 4,121 5,993 Non-Executive Directors Mr I J G Napier, Chairman 450 450 2 1 452 451 Dr K M Burnett 73 73 29 23 102 96 6 Mr D J Haines 73 48 4 2 77 50 7 Mr M H C Herlihy 93 88 2 2 95 90 Ms S E Murray 73 73 1 1 74 74 Mr B Setrakian 73 73 38 25 111 98 7 Mr M D Williamson 116 96 2 1 118 97 7,8 Mr M I Wyman 98 86 15 1 113 87 1,049 987 93 56 1,142 1,043 1 Taxable bene ts principally include the provision of a company car 15,000 in respect of Alison Cooper, 19,000 in respect of Robert Dyrbus and 11,000 in respect of Matthew Phillips, fuel and health insurance.
Bene ts in kind for the Non-Executive Directors relate to the reimbursement of travelling expenses to Board meetings held at the Companys registered of ce.
2 Annual bonus paid for performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2013.
3 Share plans vesting represent the value of SMS and LTIP awards where the performance period ends in the year.
Comparator gures represent the actual value of awards vesting or options granted, except for Robert Dyrbus who has yet to exercise and the value is based on the share price at date of vesting.
4 Further details are contained in the Executive Directors pension section on page 73.
5 Matthew Phillips was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012.
6 David Haines was appointed to the Board on 2 February 2012.
7 Includes payment in respect of Senior Independent Director fee of 25,000 per annum and chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of 20,000 in respect of the Remuneration Committee and 25,000 inrespect of the Audit Committee.
Mark Williamsons fee as Deputy Chairman is 100,000 per annum.
8 Malcolm Wyman was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2011.
Alison Cooper is a Non-Executive Director of Inchcape PLC and was permitted to retain the 52,000 fees received from this position in the financial year.
All expense payments made to Directors were made on the basis of reimbursement of expenses incurred.
No payments were made by way of taxable expenses allowances.
No Directors waived their fees.
Additional Notes to the Single Total Figure of Remuneration Audited This section sets out supporting information for the single total gure columns relating to annual bonus, share plans, and pension bene ts.
In particular, it provides information on the extent to which annual performance conditions have been satis ed for the annual bonus, and the extent to which three year performance conditions have been satis ed for each share plan, namely the SMS and LTIPschemes.
Determination of 2013 Annual Bonus Annual bonus payments were determined with reference to performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2013.
Theperformance measures and targets are set out below: Maximum Actual Actual percentage percentage Performance target performance of bonus of bonus Adjusted EPS growth constant currency 3% 9% 6% 50 25 1 2 Net revenue growth Threshold performance target not achieved 20 nil 1 2 Volume growth Threshold performance target not achieved 15 nil 1 Nonfinancial Market share targets in five speci c major markets 3 out of 5 15 9 Achievement of bonus for 2013 100 34 1 Subject to an EPS underpin.
2 This information, including the underpin, is considered commercially con dential and, therefore, will not be disclosed.
70 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS In accordance with our policy, any annual bonus earned up to 100 per cent 85 per cent for the Corporate Affairs Director of base salary is paid in cash and is eligible for investment in our SMS.
Any bonus payable in excess of this level is used to purchase shares inthe Company which the Director is required to retain for a minimum of three years.
These shares are not eligible for investment in theSMS.
For annual bonus payments paid with respect to the financial year ending 30 September 2013, no bonuses were deferred in shares.
No element of the annual bonus is guaranteed.
Annual bonuses for Executive Directors and certain key executives are subject to claw back during the three years following the end of the financial year in which they are earned.
Claw back would be applied in the event of gross misconduct by the employee or misstatement of results where this had the effect of increasing the level of bonus that would otherwise have been paid.
Share Matching Scheme SMS awards were made to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Corporate Affairs Director in February 2011 which will vest in February 2014 based on an EPS performance condition measured over the three financial years to 30 September 2013 as set outbelow.
Threshold Actual Actual vesting Maximum level percentage Performance target performance of award of vesting vesting Adjusted EPS 3% 6% average annual growth over UK in ation 2% 50% 100% nil Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards were made to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Corporate Affairs Director in November 2010 which will vest in November 2013 based on performance conditions, measured over the three years, as set out below.
Threshold Maximum Actual Actual vesting percentage percentage Performance target performance of award of award of award Adjusted EPS 3% 10% average annual growth over UK in ation 2% 6.25 50 nil 1 TSR against comparator group Threshold exceeds bottom 6companies Maximum exceeds bottom 1 company 9companies exceeded 7.5 25 nil TSR against FTSE 100 Threshold exceeds 50% ofcompanies 43% of Maximum when 75% of companies companies exceeded exceeded 7.5 25 nil Achievement of LTIP for 2013 100% nil 1 The companies comprising the comparator group are: AB InBev Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A S Diageo PLC Heineken NV Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Japan Tobacco Inc. Philip Morris International Inc. Pernod Ricard SA Reynolds American Inc. SABMiller PLC The TSR calculations, performed independently by Alithos Limited, use the share prices of each comparator group company, averaged over a period of three months, to determine the initial and closing prices.
Dividend payments are recognised on the date shares are declared ex dividend.
The Committee considers this method gives a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
PwC perform agreed upon procedures in respect of the EPS performance conditions for both the SMS and LTIP performance assessments.
Sharesave Plan We believe that our Sharesave Plan is a valuable way of aligning the interests of a wide group of employees with those of our long-term shareholders.
Annually we offer as many employees as practicable, together with our Executive Directors, the opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan.
Options over shares are offered at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the closing mid-market price of our shares on the London Stock Exchange on the day prior to invitation.
The Sharesave Plan allows participants to save up to 250 per month over a period of three years, and in the UK only three or five years, and then exercise their option over shares.
In common with most plans of this type, no performance conditions are applied.
In the financial year ending 30 September 2013, Sharesave awards vested for Robert Dyrbus and Matthew Phillips as set out on page 80.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Directors Remuneration Report Total Pension Entitlements Audited The Executive Directors who served during the financial year are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund the Fund, which is the principal fide ned bene t scheme operated by the Group in the UK.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002, the Fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60.
Robert Dyrbus opted out of Fund membership in respect of future service accrual as a result of registering for enhanced protection with HMRC.
Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips have not opted out of future service accrual.
Robert Dyrbus is in receipt of a salary supplement of 35 per cent of salary, which is in lieu of future pensionable service accrual and arises because his accrued pension on 6 April 2006 was well below the maximum pension of two thirds of salary.
Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips are also in receipt of a salary supplement.
Prior to 6 April 2006 their pension bene ts were limited by the effect of HMRCs earnings cap.
Although this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Fund did not disapply it in respect of past pensionable service but maintained its own earnings cap going forward.
For service from 6 April 2006 onwards and for pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap, the standard Fund bene t is a pension at the lower accrual rate of 1 60th with a 50 per cent spouses pension, and member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable.
As an alternative to extra pension accrual on this top slice of salary through an unfunded unapproved retirement bene t scheme UURBS, Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips each receive a salary supplement of 12 per cent of this amount.
In each case these salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to re ect the value of the bene ts of which they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employers national insurance contributions.
The supplements are noncompensatory and non-pensionable.
Robert Dyrbus started to draw his pension during the course of the year on 13 November 2012, as is permitted under the Fund rules.
The accrued pension gure at 30 September 2013 and the value of total pension bene ts at 30 September 2013 represent the bene ts accrued as at 13 November 2012 and are consistent with those disclosed at 30 September 2012.
Between 13 November 2012 and 30 September 2013, Robert Dyrbus was a Flexible Bene ts member of the Fund.
However, no additional pension was accrued over this period.
Matthew Phillips elected to use the Funds scheme pays facility to settle his Annual Allowance charge of 45,219.00 for the 2011 12 tax year.
His accrued pension was reduced by 4,176.89 a year to offset this tax payment.
This reduction to pension is re ected in the accrued pension gure as at 30 September 2013 it is also re ected in the value of the bene ts as at 30 September 2013.
Oliver Tant joined the Company on 16 September 2013 and the Board on 1 October 2013.
He is a member of the Funds fide ned contribution section and receives bene ts in line with the Companys policy.
The following table provides the information required by both the Listing Rules and Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations and gives details for each Executive Director of: the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he or she had left service at the year end any potential UURBS entitlement is included : the increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increases for in ation, calculated in accordance with the Listing Rules: the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension calculated in accordance with the Listing Rules: the normal retirement ages: the value of the pension bene ts at the start and end of the year, as calculated in accordance with the Regulations: the value of the pension bene ts earned over the year, excluding any Directors contributions and any increases for in ation, calculated in accordance with the Regulations: and any payments in lieu of retirement bene ts.
None of the Executive Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
72 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Executive Directors Pension Disclosures Audited Extra information to be disclosed under 2013 Directors Listing Rules Single Figure numbers Remuneration Regulations Increase in accrued Transfer value Payment pension of increase in lieu of Value x 20 net of net of retirement over year in ation in ation and bene ts net of Total Value x 20 Value x 20 Accrued pension Pensionable during employee i. e. pension directors pension Normal at start at end 000 Age at service at the year contributions supplement contributions bene ts retirement of year of year 30 09 2013 30 09 2013 01 10 2012 30 9 2013 000 000 000 000 000 age 000 000 Mrs A J Cooper 47 14 129 152 19 227 86 363 449 60 2,580 3,040 Mr R Dyrbus 60 31 330 331 nil nil 233 nil 233 60 6,600 6,620 Mr M R Phillips 42 13 74 82 5 53 28 187 215 60 1,480 1,640 Payment for Director Retiring Audited Robert Dyrbus will step down from the Board on 5 November 2013 and will retire from the Company on 31 December 2013.
In accordance with our policy, Robert Dyrbus bonus in respect of the 2013 financial year, as detailed in the single total gure of remuneration table, will be paid on 16 December 2013.
His bonus in respect of the proportion of the 2014 financial year prior to his retirement will, subject to satisfaction of the appropriate performance conditions, be paid on 16 December 2014.
In accordance with our policy at the time the awards were granted, vesting of his outstanding SMS and LTIP awards will be based on performance measured to 30 September 2013 and be pro-rated for time served to his date of retirement, 31 December 2013.
The awards expected to vest and their illustrative values are shown on page 79.
Recruitment of New Executive Directors Oliver Tant joined the Board as an Executive Director on 1 October 2013 and will succeed Robert Dyrbus as Finance Director on 5 November 2013.
He joined the Board on a salary of 575,000, a maximum bonus opportunity of 150 per cent of salary with any payment above 100 per cent of salary deferred in shares for three years, the opportunity to participate in the SMS, an LTIP award of 150 per cent of salary, and a fide ned contribution pension of 26 per cent of salary.
Statement of Change in Pay of Chief Executive Compared With Other Employees Chief Executive All Employees Percentage Percentage to 30 September change change 2013 2013 vs 2012 2013 vs 2012 Salary 920,000 7% 3.5% Bene ts 16,000 0% 3.5% Bonus 625,600 29% 5.7% Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend plus share buybacks.
Percentage million unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 change 1 Overall expenditure on pay 1,004 996 0.8 Dividend paid in the year 1,065 983 8.3 Share buyback 500 528 -5.3 1 Excludes employers social security costs.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Directors Remuneration Report Share Interests and Incentives Audited All Executive Directors who served in the financial year, with the exception of Matthew Phillips who was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012, currently own shares outright, at a level exceeding their required shareholding as described in the section on Shareholding Guidelines on page 68 based on a share price of 22.87 being the closing price on 30 September 2013.
Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: Shares held Options held Vested but Unvested and Unvested and subject subject to subject to Vested Shareholding Current Owned to holding performance continued but not required shareholding Requirement 1 outright period conditions employment exercised % salary % salary met Executive Directors Mrs A J Cooper 158,084 4,027 318,134 440 300 403 Yes Mr R Dyrbus 416,903 3,097 197,430 264 14,541 300 1,446 Yes Mr M R Phillips 42,619 640 80,535 459 300 227 No Non-Executive Directors Mr I J G Napier 19,799 N A Dr K M Burnett 2,373 N A Mr D J Haines 409 N A Mr M H C Herlihy 4,218 N A Mrs S E Murray 3,255 N A Mr B Setrakian 1,515 N A Mr M D Williamson 3,448 N A Mr M I Wyman 3,316 N A 1 Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares.
Variable Award Grants Made During the Year Audited Awards were made in the financial year ending 30 September 2013 under both the SMS and LTIP.
Detail of these awards is provided below, and is summarised in the tables on pages 78 and 79.
Share Matching Scheme Executive Directors were provided the opportunity in February 2013 to invest their prior year cash bonus in the SMS.
The resulting SMS awards granted and the associated performance conditions are set out below.
Amount of End of 1 Number of shares Face value eligible bonus Threshold vesting performance period Performance condition 2 Mrs A J Cooper 37,197 860,000 100% 50% 30 September 2015 3 year adjusted EPS growth 2 Mr R Dyrbus 21,741 502,650 100% 50% 30 September 2015 3 year adjusted EPS growth 2 Mr M R Phillips 10,914 252,330 100% 50% 30 September 2015 3 year adjusted EPS growth 1 Valued using the share price at the date of grant 15 February 2013 being 23.12 per share.
2 Vesting occurs as per the vesting schedule below.
Adjusted EPS growth Awards vesting Below UK in ation plus 3 per cent per annum Zero At UK in ation plus 3 per cent per annum 50% At UK in ation plus 6 per cent or more per annum 100% Sliding scale applies for performance between in ation plus 3 per cent and in ation plus 6 per cent.
74 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Long Term Incentive Plan In line with our policy, Executive Directors were granted LTIP awards in November 2012.
The resulting number of LTIP shares and the associated performance conditions are set out below.
Number of nil cost Amount of End of Threshold Weighting 1 options Face value base salary performance period vesting of award Performance condition 2 Mrs A J Cooper 73,688 200% 30 September 2015 12.5% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 1,840,000 3 30.0% 25% TSR relative to FTSE 100 30.0% 25% TSR relative to bespoke 3 comparator group 2 Mr R Dyrbus 39,917 996,750 150% 30 September 2015 12.5% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 3 30.0% 25% TSR relative to FTSE 100 30.0% 25% TSR relative to bespoke 3 comparator group 2 Mr M R Phillips 21,776 543,750 125% 30 September 2015 12.5% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 3 30.0% 25% TSR relative to FTSE 100 30.0% 25% TSR relative to bespoke 3 comparator group 1 Valued using the share price at the date of grant 3 December 2012 being 24.97 per share.
2 Adjusted EPS vesting occurs as per the vesting schedule below.
Sliding scales applies for performance between minimum and maximum vesting levels.
Adjusted EPS growth Awards vesting Below UK in ation plus 3 per cent per annum Zero At UK in ation plus 3 per cent per annum 50% At UK in ation plus 6 per cent or more per annum 100% 3 TSR relative to the FTSE 100 and TSR relative to the bespoke comparator group vesting occurs as per the vesting schedule below.
Shares vesting as percentage of number relating Relative TSR performance to relative TSR performance condition Below median of peer group nil At median of peer group 30% Between median and upper quartile Between 30% and 100% pro rata Above upper quartile 100% Companies Comprising the Bespoke Comparator Group AB InBev Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A S Diageo PLC Heineken NV Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Japan Tobacco Inc. Philip Morris International Inc. Pernod Ricard SA Reynolds American Inc. SABMiller PLC REMUNERATION DECISIONS TAKEN IN 2012 13 Salary Each year the Committee sets base salaries for the next financial year after consideration of market data for each position based on several comparator groups which re ect the Companys size, sector and global reach.
Consideration is given to the effect an amendment to an individuals base salary would have on their total remuneration package.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
This years review was again conducted in the context of the need to apply appropriate restraint in pay levels whilst also being cognisant of what is a highly competitive international market for executive talent.
The Committee accepted the Executive Directors request not to receive an increase in remuneration.
Salary Salary 2012 13 2013 14 Change Mrs A J Cooper 920,000 920,000 0% Mr R Dyrbus 664,500 664,500 0% Mr M R Phillips 435,000 435,000 0% Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 75 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Bonus Performance Targets Our shareholders and other stakeholders place signi cant weight on our annual performance.
We, therefore, think it is appropriate to have a major element of Executive Directors remuneration targeted at incentivising delivery of the Groups annual objectives and enhancing performance against key financial and nonfinancial targets.
For the next financial year the performance measures have been set out in the table below.
Maximum Performance target of bonus Adjusted EPS growth Commercially con dential 50% Net revenue growth Commercially con dential 20% Volume growth in growth brands Out-performance of market growth 10% Nonfinancial Market share targets 20% At this point, the above targets which will be impacted by the Groups fide-stocking programme are considered commercially con dential but, to the extent that any bonuses are paid, they will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2014 Annual Report.
The Committee is not of the view that such targets will necessarily always be con dential but will review this on a year by year basis.
Share Plan Awards In line with our policy, Executive Directors are allowed to invest the cash element of their annual bonus in the SMS and receive annual awards under the LTIP.
As in prior years, awards are expected to be granted under these schemes over the next financial year, and all awards will be subject to performance conditions as summarised below.
Performance condition Weighting in SMS Weighting in LTIP TSR 50% Net revenue growth 50% 25% Adjusted EPS growth 50% 25% When setting the performance criteria the Committee takes account of the Groups long-term plans and analysts forecasts.
For both the adjusted EPS and net revenue targets, the performance criteria use growth in absolute terms rather than relative to in ation and apply to a three year performance period.
Performance Criterion TSR Element The performance criterion for the TSR element will be based on a single comparator group including over 40 companies across a broadly fide ned consumer goods sector and will be applied to 50 per cent of the LTIP.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Compound annual growth in net revenue Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 3% per annum nil 3% per annum 25% 3% to 7% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 7% per annum or higher 100% In order to ensure that net revenue growth is not overly incentivised at the expense of pro tability, an EPS underpin will apply in respect of the net revenue growth elements for the Executive Directors.
This will require that a minimum level of adjusted EPS growth will have to be achieved in order for any awards under the net revenue growth element to vest the EPS underpin.
Performance Criterion EPS Element This criterion will be used for 50 per cent of the SMS and 25 per cent of the LTIP awards.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 5% per annum nil 5% per annum 25% 5% to 10% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 10% per annum or higher 100% In order to ensure that adjusted EPS growth is not achieved without due regard to the capital required to achieve such growth, an underpin based on Return on Invested Capital ROIC will apply in respect of the EPS elements for the Executive Directors.
ROIC is a measure ofpro tability versus the Companys total utilised capital including goodwill and so is particularly useful to incentivise an appropriate approach towards acquisitions.
The ROIC measure excludes the effect on goodwill and acquired intangibles of exchange rates and changes from amortisation and impairment.
The ROIC underpin will require that a minimum level of ROIC will have to be achieved in order for any awards under the EPS growth element to vest the ROIC underpin.
Under the rules of the SMS and LTIP, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the dateof acquisition.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.
Voting on the Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM At the 2013 AGM a small number of shareholders expressed concerns with various aspects of our remuneration.
These concerns included the size of the Chief Executives salary increase, the range of EPS performance in the LTIP, and the use of two long-term plans i. e. the SMS and LTIP.
The Committee noted that its approach to the Chief Executives salary, which was to recruit at a more conservative salary level and increase over time as performance merits, had been communicated to investors at the time of appointment and subsequently reiterated: it remains of the view that this approach is in shareholders best interests.
The SMS promotes investment in our shares and long-term ownership among a large group of senior managers, and overall levels of long-term incentives i. e. SMS and LTIP combined for Executive Directors are well within market norms.
The Committee also noted that the setting of financial targets re ects prevailing economic conditions and is aligned with the Groups strategic aims.
At the AGM held in 2013, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were as follows: Votes for including Total votes Total votes discretionary Percentage Percentage cast excluding cast including Resolution votes for Votes against against votes withheld Votes withheld votes withheld Approval of Directors Remuneration Report 674,938,111 89.6 78,711,855 10.4 753,649,966 4,315,837 757,965,803 Share Matching Scheme renewal 659,012,506 88.3 87,187,958 11.7 746,200,464 11,765,339 757,965,803 Long Term Incentive Plan renewal 704,089,334 94.4 42,107,229 5.6 746,196,563 11,769,240 757,965,803 Votes withheld are not included in the final proxy gures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
Since the AGM one shareholder has adopted a public policy which seeks a minimum holding period of five years between the date of grant of any shares and the sale of those shares.
Given our substantial shareholding requirements and the fact that our Executive Directors normally retain their vested shares, the Committee is not currently persuaded that such a rule is necessary for Imperial Tobacco.
We shall, however, continue to follow discussions on this point and keep the matter under review.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 77 Directors Remuneration Report Advice Provided to the Committee New Bridge Street NBS was reappointed by the Committee as its principal external adviser but with a new advisory team following a tendering process in 2011.
NBS advises on all aspects of our remuneration policy and practice and reviews our structures against corporate governance best practice.
NBS also presented a review of developments in UK corporate governance and remuneration and reporting regulations to keep Committee members up-to-date with new developments and evolving best practice.
NBS is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its Code of Conduct which sets out guidelines to ensure that its advice is independent and free of undue in uence.
NBS parent companies, Aon Hewitt Limited and Aon plc, provide other human resources and insurance services respectively to the Group.
Appropriate structures are in place to ensure the independence of NBS advice to the Committee.
During the year NBS was paid fees of 181,832.
Other companies which provided advice to the Committee are as follows: Towers Watson provided market pay data to ensure the consistent application of our Remuneration Policy for Executives.
During the year it was paid fees of 55,000 for these services.
Towers Watson also provided actuarial services to the Group: Allen & Overy LLP is available to provide legal advice to the Committee as and when required.
It was not used during the financial year.
Allen & Overy LLP also provided other legal services to the Group: Alithos Limited undertakes total shareholder return TSR calculations and provided advice on all TSR related matters.
During the year it was paid fees of 19,500.
Alithos Limited provided no other services to the Group:  LLP PwC, our Auditors, perform agreed upon procedures on earnings per share EPS calculations used in relation to our employee share plans performance criteria.
During the financial year PwC were paid 1,575 in respect of services to the Committee.
All of these advisors were appointed by the Committee which remains satis ed that the provision of those other services in no way compromises their independence.
OTHER INFORMATION This section sets out the interests of Directors in all the Companys share plans, information on our Employee Bene t Trusts, and share plan ow rates.
There have been no changes in any Executive Directors contingent rights since 30 September 2013.
78 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS During February 2013 the SMS relating to annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2009 matured.
The performance criterion was met in full.
In respect of annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2012, our Executive Directors elected to invest the equivalent of their entire SMS Eligible Bonus in the form of our shares under the scheme.
These matched shares are shown within contingent rights arising above.
It is currently anticipated that in February 2014 the Executive Directors will again invest the equivalent of their entire SMS Eligible Bonus in the scheme.
In respect of the February 2011 award, based on adjusted EPS to the end of the financial year the award will lapse in full.
Interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2013 indicate that, in the event that only this level of performance were maintained over the relevant performance periods, 51.8 per cent of the February 2012 would vest and the February 2013 awards would lapse.
Award will lapse if not exercised on or before 10 November 2019.
2 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 11 November 2012 and 10 November 2019.
3 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 3 November 2013 and 2 November 2020.
4 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 2 November 2014 and 1 November 2021.
5 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 3 December 2015 and 2 December 2022.
There have been no changes in any Executive Directors awards since 30 September 2013.
During the year, the November 2009 November 2012 award vested partially on 11 November 2012.
Based on adjusted EPS and TSR performance to the end of the financial year, approximately 19.6 per cent of the adjusted EPS element vested, approximately 73.8 per cent of the TSR relative to the FTSE 100 element vested and none of the TSR relative to the comparator group element vested.
The remaining shares under award lapsed.
In respect of the November 2010 November 2013 award, based on adjusted EPS and TSR performance to the end of the financial year the entire award will lapse.
Interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2013 indicate that, in the event that only this level of performance were maintained over the relevant performance periods, 13.8 per cent of the adjusted EPS element of the November 2011 November 2014 would vest and the other elements would lapse and the entire November 2012 November 2015 awards would lapse.
The illustrative values based on the average share price for the three months to 30 September 2013 22.23 and performance criteria are as follows: November 2014 November 2015 Number Illustrative value Number Illustrative value of shares 000 of shares 000 Mrs A J Cooper 5,220 116 1 Mr R Dyrbus 2,150 48 Mr M R Phillips 884 20 1 Pro-rata to expected date of retirement.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 79 Directors Remuneration Report Executive Directors Share Options Under the Sharesave Plan 2 Gains on exercise Market price Granted Lapsed Exercised at date of Range of exercisable During Balance at during during during exercise Balance at Exercise price dates of options held at the year 2012 1 01 10 2012 the year the year the year 30 09 2013 30 09 2013 000 000 Mrs A J Cooper 440 440 20.45 01 8 15-31 1 16 440 440 9 Mr R Dyrbus 232 232 22.06 15.63 01 8 13-31 1 14 5 264 264 20.45 01 8 15-31 1 16 496 232 264 55 Mr M R Phillips 232 232 22.06 15.63 01 8 13-31 1 14 5 264 264 20.45 01 8 15-31 1 16 195 195 18.40 01 8 16-31 1 17 496 195 232 459 55 1 Any option not exercised by the end of the range of exercisable dates will lapse.
2 Gains made on exercise are calculated as the difference between the option price and the market price on the date of exercise.
Aggregate gains during the year were 10,236 2012: 19,925.
There have been no changes in any Executive Directors share options since 30 September 2013.
Our middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2013, being the last trading day of the financial year, was 22.87 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 21.20 to 25.34.
Full details of the Directors share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at our registered of ce.
Award Dates Our policy is to grant awards under all our employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle.
80 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Review of Past Performance The chart below shows the value of 100 invested in the Company on 1 October 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index for each of our financial year ends to 30 September 2013.
We have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as it provides the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking our corporate performance over a five year period.
Total Return Indices Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 175 150 125 100 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Imperial Tobacco FTSE 100 Change in Chief Executive Remuneration 2013 2012 2011 2010 2010 2009 1 1 1 2 Alison Cooper Alison Cooper Alison Cooper Alison Cooper Gareth Davis Gareth Davis Total remuneration 000 2,011 2,793 2,737 1,347 5,453 5,099 Annual Bonus as a percentage of maximum 34 51.2 33.1 84.7 84.7 85.2 Shares vesting as a percentage 3 of maximum nil 58.0 71.6 80.8 46.9 74.5 1 Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting that were granted prior to appointment as Chief Executive.
2 Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting on retirement.
3 Based on performance conditions applicable on date of retirement.
Operating Executive excluding Executive Directors 000 2013 2012 Base salary 2,161 2,154 Bene ts 190 155 Pension salary supplement 152 137 Bonus 716 1,346 1 LTIP annual vesting nil 2,025 2 SMS annual vesting nil 662 3,219 6,479 1 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of exercise.
2 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of vesting.
Note: aggregate remuneration paid to or receivable by Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Operating Executive for qualifying services in accordance with IAS 24, which includes National Insurance and similar charges, was 8,954,612 2012: 15,173,257.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 81 Directors Remuneration Report KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2013 AUDITED 000 2013 2012 Short-term employee bene ts 7,431 7,910 Post employment bene ts 1,050 934 Other long-term bene ts Termination bene ts Share-based payment in accordance with IAS 24 2,140 5,864 6,341 14,708 The credit in 2013 is principally due to the non-achievement during the year of performance conditions which were previously expected to be achieved.
Employee Bene t Trusts Our policy is to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans from either market purchased ordinary shares or ordinary shares held in treasury, distributed through our employee bene t trusts: The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Bene t Trust the Executive Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Bene t Trust the 2001 Trust together the Employee Bene t Trusts.
As at 30 September 2013, we held 98,688,532 ordinary shares in treasury which can be used to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans either directly or by gifting them to the Employee Bene t Trusts.
Options and awards may also be satis ed by the issue of new ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary shares held by the Employee Bene t Trusts are as follows: Ordinary shares Balance at Acquired Distributed Balance at under award at 01 10 2012 during year during year 30 09 2012 30 09 2013 Surplus shortfall Executive Trust 813,127 nil 94,371 718,756 841,917 123,161 2001 Trust 3,236,274 400,000 1,093,599 2,542,675 4,532,527 1,989,852 Share Plan Flow Rates The Trust Deeds of the Employee Bene t Trusts and the rules of each of our employee share plans contain provisions limiting options and awards to 5 per cent of issued share capital in five years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee share plans, with an additional restriction to5 percent in 10 years for executive share plans.
Currently, an aggregate total of 0.5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital including shares held in treasury is subject to options and awards under the Groups executive and all employee share plans.
Since demerger in 1996, the cumulative number of shares under option and awards granted pursuant to all of the Companys employee share plans totals 3.3 per cent of its issued share capital.
Following initial grants on demerger, subsequent annual grants have averaged 0.3 per cent of issued share capital including shares held in treasury.
Summary of Options and Awards Granted Cumulative options and awards granted Options and awards granted during the year as a percentage of issued share capital as a percentage of issued share capital Limit on awards including those held in treasury including those held in treasury 10% in 10 years 1.9 0.2 5% in 5 years 0.9 0.2 5% in 10 years executive plans 1.3 0.1 For the Board M H C Herlihy Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 5 November 2013 82 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Financial Statements and Notes Contents GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 84 Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 131 Consolidated Income Statement 87 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 133 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 88 Notes to the Financial Statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 134 Consolidated Balance Sheet 89 Principal Undertakings 137 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 90 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 91 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting Policies 92 2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 97 3 Segment Information 98 4 Pro t Before Taxation 101 5 Restructuring Costs 101 6 Directors and Employees 102 7 Net Finance Costs 102 8 Taxation 103 9 Dividends 104 10 Earnings Per Share 105 11 Intangible Assets 105 12 Property, Plant and Equipment 108 13 Joint Ventures 109 14 Inventories 109 15 Trade and Other Receivables 110 16 Cash and Cash Equivalents 110 17 Trade and Other Payables 110 18 Borrowings 111 19 Financial Risk Factors 112 20 Derivative Financial Instruments 117 21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 121 22 Retirement Bene t Schemes 122 23 Provisions 126 24 Share Capital 126 25 Share Schemes 126 26 Treasury Shares 128 27 Commitments 129 28 Legal Proceedings 129 29 Acquisitions 129 30 Net Debt 129 31 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt 130 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 83
