Remuneration Report Stephen Davidson We have explained in more detail the respective roles of our Chairman, Remuneration Committee Executive Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer and why we believe retaining Andy Sukawaty as Executive Chairman up to 31 December 2014 is, in the Boards strongly held view, in the Annual Statement interests of Inmarsat.
We are undertaking the largest and most important investment in the history of the Company.
During this phase the Board has no doubt that deploying the strongest and Dear Shareholder most experienced team available to deliver and capitalise on the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors GX programme and to ensure the continuing development and Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013. performance of our existing business is paramount.
The Company delivered a satisfactory set of results for 2013 Reflecting Mr Pearce being a newly appointed Chief Executive considering the impact of the significant reduction in the US Officer, the Committee took the decision to increase his salary government defence budget.
Revenues were US$1,261.9m over several years to reflect his growing experience and bring him 2012: US$1,337.8m with profit before tax of US$189.1m towards the appropriate remuneration level for the role, taking 2012: US$293.6m.
We paid an increasing dividend for 2013, account also of the performance of the business, shareholder with a full year dividend of 46.61 cents US$ per share returns and remuneration decisions across the Group.
We have increased there were no salary increases awarded across the Company, our dividend payments every year since our IPO in 2005. reflecting the revenue dip in our US business and therefore a focus Group-wide on managing costs.
The Committee will be Our 2013 report reflects the new reporting regulations which reviewing in July 2014 what level of increase should be awarded have been introduced to increase the transparency of Executive to Mr Pearce to move him back into line with the previously remuneration arrangements.
Our reporting this year has two intended staged increases.
sections: the first is the Policy Report which outlines our Remuneration Policy, setting out components of pay, how they The Committee has not exercised its discretion in adjusting are linked to business strategy, and the framework for assessing remuneration outcomes during 2013: any instances of such during performance for the Executive Directors.
The second section is the 2014 will be disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Annual Report on Remuneration which reviews how the policy was implemented in 2013 and includes a table showing a single figure of During 2013, our Chief Financial Officer resigned and left the total remuneration for Executive Directors.
It also summarises how Company in early January 2014.
There were no favourable terms the Remuneration Policy will be implemented in 2014.
We hope for Mr Medlocks departure: in particular, no annual bonus was the detail will provide the transparency sought by the introduction paid and his entitlement to share awards lapsed.
A replacement of the new regulations and welcome feedback from shareholders.
Chief Financial Officer has been appointed on terms which are within the Remuneration Policy detailed on the following pages.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the remuneration arrangements to ensure they remain aligned with business strategy I am again able to report to shareholders that our Executive and help reinforce the Groups continued success hence providing Directors hold in excess of 5x their salaries by way of their sustained long term value to shareholders.
We firmly believe that significant equity ownership by management creates the strongest alignment We also considered the feedback we had received from with shareholders.
shareholders before and following our 2013 AGM and have reflected on the voting and comments we received.
During 2013, Our long term business model requires the nurturing of longwe engaged with our top shareholders and shareholder agencies serving executives.
We are fortunate to have such an executive regarding the various aspects of our Remuneration Policy how team which understands the business cycles and has the we intended to implement the policy in 2014, in particular with experience to optimise Inmarsats opportunities.
reference to the size of Performance Share Plan PSP awards to Resolutions to approve the Remuneration Policy subject to a our Executive Directors.
We have confirmed that the levels of share binding vote and the Annual Report on Remuneration subject awards for our Executive Chairman will be lower than in previous to an advisory vote will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
years, and in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Additionally, we are seeking shareholder approval for new share plans at our AGM in Stephen Davidson 2014, and to simplify the documentation for the executive plans, Chairman, Remuneration Committee the executive share plans will be contained within one umbrella 6 March 2014 plan which will ensure common clauses for termination, change of control and other similar matters.
INMARSAT PLC 54 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for performance in the current year and expectations for future years Executive Directors which shareholders are asked to approve at as incorporated into our Long Range Financial Plan LRFP, pay the 2014 AGM and will become effective from 6 May 2014. arrangements in the wider Inmarsat workforce, and the global economic situation.
Where appropriate, we will consult with The Groups Remuneration Policy is designed to deliver rewards shareholders in advance of major changes in the Remuneration that enable it to attract, retain and motivate talent of the highest Policy or individual remuneration arrangements.
The Committee appropriate quality, linking rewards to the achievement of financial is committed to the principle that the Company should pay at the and strategic goals of the Group.
When determining Remuneration appropriate level to recruit and retain executives, and incentivise Policy, we take into account all factors which we deem necessary, them to achieve the Companys objectives which will create value including the Groups overall business strategy, business for shareholders.
How does this link Component to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance Basic salary Paying marketSalaries are reviewed annually with any Salary increases will be applied in line with not applicable competitive base salaries, increase usually made in July or following the outcome of an annual salary review.
commensurate with a material change in responsibilities.
The the individuals role, Committee will determine any increases The maximum annual salary increase responsibilities and to be made.
will normally be in line with the average experience allows us to increase applied to the UK workforce.
recruit and retain Executive Any increase is determined by a formal However larger increases may be awarded Directors of the calibre appraisal by the Committee, taking into in certain circumstances including, but required to implement our account market pay levels, a review of not limited to, an increase in scope or strategy.
salaries against companies of similar size, responsibility of the role: to apply salary complexity and type, Group performance, progression for a newly appointed as well as the remuneration arrangements Director: where the Directors salary has operated throughout the Group, with fallen behind market positioning.
Where reference to UK based employees in increases are awarded in excess of that particular for pay comparison levels.
for the UK employee population, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
As previously disclosed to shareholders, it is anticipated that the CEOs salary will increase at a greater level than that for the general employee population as his salary was intentionally set below market rates on appointment because he was new to the role as CEO.
Benefits in kind We provide cost-effective Provision of death, disability and medical The benefits provided may vary by role not applicable benefits which support the insurance cover which can include spouse and levels of cover provided reflect market wellbeing of employees.
Life assurance of practice and the individual circumstances 4 x salary, paid holiday and medical checkof the Executive Directors.
It is not anticipated that the current cost of If required, the company would provide benefits as set out in the Annual Report on access to independent financial and legal Remuneration would increase materially advice on a case by case basis.
over the period for which this policy will apply.
Cash in lieu of a company car is provided to one director although it is not The Committee retains the discretion anticipated this will be offered generally to approve a higher cost in exceptional to Executive Directors.
circumstances e. g. relocation or in circumstances where factors outside These benefits are non-pensionable.
the Companys control have changed materially e. g. market increases in insurance costs.
Pension We provide defined The Executive Directors are eligible to Maximum employer contributions are not applicable contribution pension participate in the Companys defined currently 12.5% of the capped salary arrangements, or cash in contribution pension plan arrangements or under the UK pension plan, and a capped lieu of pension.
other similar pension plans as appropriate monetary amount set by the IRS in the to the Executive Directors nationality or United States for the 401 K US pension location.
Contributions are based on a percentage The Committee may review pension of salary which is currently limited to a contribution levels in the future if pensions cap.
The Company also operates benchmarking reflects that the current an auto-enrolment pension scheme which contribution levels and method of an Executive Director could participate in calculation are off-market.
Any increase in instead of the main pension plan.
contributions would not result in a pension contribution in excess of 20% of the uncapped basic salary.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 55 Remuneration Report continued How does this link Component to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance Annual cash bonus We provide an annual Bonus payment levels are determined Maximum opportunity: Bonus is based on achievement bonus to incentivise the by the Committee annually by reference 125% of salary.
of annual financial and personal achievement of annual to performance against targets set at objectives.
financial and operational the start of the financial year.
Personal Target opportunity goals in line with objectives are set annually by the 75% of salary.
The personal element will not be Group strategy.
weighted more than 30% of the total in any year Performance metrics are In exceptional circumstances, the selected to support the Committee has the ability to exercise At the end of the financial year, the annual business strategy discretion to override the formulaic Committee uses its judgment to which we believe also bonus outcome within the limits of the apply a corporate multiplier to the lead to enhancement of scheme where it believes the outcome financial element of the bonus in shareholder value.
is not truly reflective of performance, the range of 1x to 1.6x based on and to reflect the actual delivery of the achievement of the financial value to shareholders.
Any discretionary targets and the Committees adjustments will be detailed in the broad assessment of Company following years Annual Report on performance.
Details of the measures and The Committee may exercise its discretion weightings applicable for the to clawback bonuses in certain exceptional financial year under review are circumstances which may include but are provided in the Annual Report not limited to gross misconduct, fraud on Remuneration.
Currently or a significant downward revision of the the financial measures used are financial results of the Group.
revenue, operating and capital expenditure.
The Committee may change the measures used if other measures are deemed more suitable to allow delivery of the Companys strategy.
Bonus Share Plan We provide the opportunity We make annual monetary awards which Maximum opportunity for all Executive The Committee sets annual BSP to participate in the BSP convert to a number of shares subject to Directors is up to 200% of salary 300% in performance measures currently as it links the delivery of achievement of agreed annual financial exceptional circumstances.
based on the same financial short-term financial and targets.
The resulting shares vest over objectives as for the annual cash operational performance the subsequent three years, subject to Currently the Committees intention is to bonus plan and may change these to sustained shareholder continued employment.
make awards of up to 200% of salary for for future awards as it considers value creation.
the Executive Chairman and 150% of salary appropriate.
Additional shares in lieu of accrued for the CEO.
Participation in the BSP dividends over the vesting period are reinforces continued awarded only on the number of shares Threshold performance results in 62.5% delivery of the LRFP.
conversion of the monetary award into shares.
Unvested awards and vested awards that have not yet been transferred to the Executive Director are subject to clawback, i. e. forfeiture or reduction in exceptional circumstances.
Such circumstances may include but are not limited to gross misconduct, fraud or a significant downward revision of the financial results of the Group.
Performance We believe the PSP aligns We make annual awards of shares, which Maximum opportunity for all Executive The performance measures and Share Plan PSP executives interests with vest after at least three years subject to Directors is up to 200% of salary 300% in respective weightings may vary long-term shareholder performance over a three-year period.
year-on-year to reflect strategic value creation through priorities, and will include rewarding the delivery Additional shares in lieu of accrued Threshold performance will result in the a financial market measure.
of a mix of financial dividends over the vesting period are vesting of 30% 0% of the maximum award Currently the measures include measures and relative total awarded only on the number of shares under the TSR EBITDA elements.
an element for relative TSR and shareholder return TSR.
The intended award levels are included The financial performance Unvested awards are subject to clawback, in the Annual Report on Remuneration Details of the measures and measures in the PSP i. e. forfeiture or reduction in exceptional on page 67. weightings applicable for the reflect the value drivers circumstances.
Such circumstances financial year under review are in the LRFP.
may include but are not limited to provided in the Annual Report gross misconduct, fraud or a significant on Remuneration.
Changes to downward revision of the financial results weightings and performance of the Group.
targets will be retrospectively explained to shareholders.
Employee share To encourage share We operate employee share savings plans Participation levels set by HMRC or not applicable plans ownership across all for our global workforce where, depending relevant local laws from time to time.
employees as allowed on location, savings periods of between by HMRC and relevant local 2 and 3 years operate.
We will look at opportunities to offer other employee share plans in the future.
INMARSAT PLC 56 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Replacement share plans The PSP currently has two performance requirements, i. e. EBITDA The Inmarsat plc Executive Share Plan ESP, if approved by growth and the Companys share price performance against the shareholders at the AGM, will replace the BSP, the PSP and the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts.
These measures are Restricted Share Plan RSP which expire in 2015.
No further linked to our long-term business strategy, and support shareholder awards will be made under the BSP, PSP and the RSP once the value creation.
It is expected that similar targets to those set out above for the BSP Under the ESP the Company can grant Bonus Share Awards and and the PSP will apply to the first awards granted under the ESP.
Performance Share Awards, which replicate the existing BSP and The Committee retains the ability to adjust and or set different PSP respectively and provide the same link to the Companys performance measures following a corporate event such as a strategy as those plans.
The maximum opportunity for Executive change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Directors in respect of Bonus Share Awards and Performance Share Group business or a change in prevailing market conditions which Awards will remain the same as set out in the table above for BSP causes the Committee to determine that the measures are no and PSP awards.
The Company will also be able to grant Restricted longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they Share Awards under the ESP.
Restricted Share Awards will not be achieve their original purpose.
subject to performance conditions, and will not be granted to Executive Directors except on recruitment, as explained below in Remuneration policy for other employees the approach to recruitment remuneration.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Inmarsat Group are determined on the same principle as for remunerating Executive The Company is also seeking shareholder approval at the AGM for Directors, in that reward should support our business strategy.
the Inmarsat plc 2014 Sharesave Plan and the Inmarsat plc 2014 It should be sufficient to attract and retain high-performing Share Incentive Plan, to replace the existing Sharesave Plan and individuals.
Share Incentive Plan that expire in 2015.
Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in these plans.
As a global business we accept that there may be different local arrangements that are appropriate to apply but overall, this Payments from existing variable pay awards principle applies across the different geographies in which we Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any operate.
Employees receive variable pay which gives them award made prior to the approval and implementation of the incentives appropriate to their role in the organisation and is Remuneration Policy detailed in this report.
Any commitment reflective of how we deal with Executive Directors too.
made which is consistent with the Remuneration Policy in force at the time the commitment was made will be honoured, even when In general, the remuneration policy and principles which apply it is not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time such to other senior executives is consistent with that set out in this commitment is fulfilled.
All employees participate in bonus schemes.
Group senior executives are eligible to participate in Details of outstanding awards to Executive Directors are provided executive share plans the BSP and some also participate in the in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
PSP whilst some senior executives are eligible to participate in Performance measurement selection separate share plans which operate under the BSP with divisionThe Companys strategy is embedded in its LRFP.
For each of the specific targets.
These executives will be eligible to receive similar Companys incentive plans, stretching targets are set against the awards under the ESP.
Achievement of these targets delivers to shareholders the All employees are eligible to participate in employee share plans value inherent in the LRFP.
which are generally the UK Sharesave Scheme or an equivalent Our existing incentive plans and the proposed ESP excluding international plan.
Participation is on generally the same terms restricted share awards and all-employee share plans all have subject to local regulations.
Performance targets are Shareholding guidelines set to be stretching, taking into account the Companys strategic The guideline for Executive Directors is that they hold 5x base priorities and the economic environment in which the Company salary in beneficially owned ordinary shares.
Targets are set taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups LRFP, broker forecasts, and For new Executive Directors, we would expect the individual to historical performance.
build up a shareholding to the 5x guideline over a period of time, generally within five to seven years.
The annual cash bonus plan and BSP reflect the financial targets which the Board believes are key to driving the business.
The use of revenue growth, operating expenditure and capex accruals support the annual business strategy as well as value creation for Inmarsats shareholders.
The BSP also has a requirement for an EBITDA target to be achieved, which ensures the quality of earnings.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 57 Remuneration Report continued Pay scenario charts The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the two current Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of pay under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target, and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on Inmarsats current Remuneration Policy, applied to salaries as at 1 January 2014.
Note that the projected values exclude the impact of any share price movement.
Each element of remuneration reflects the following assumptions: Minimum: includes fixed remuneration only, i. e. base salary, taxable benefits and pension.
Target: includes fixed remuneration plus the amounts for on-target performance under the annual cash bonus plan 60% of maximum and BSP 62.5% of maximum monetary value of 200% and 150% of salary for the Executive Chairman and CEO respectively, and threshold performance under the PSP 30% 0% of maximum under the TSR EBITDA elements, based on maximum opportunities of 200% and 150% of salary for the Executive Chairman and CEO respectively.
Maximum: includes fixed remuneration and maximum payment under all incentive plans.
Chairman: Andrew Sukawaty CEO: Rupert Pearce 000 000 4,500 3,000 3,944 2,388 3,600 2,400 31% 28% 2,700 1,800 2,131 1,435 9% 7% 51% 1,800 1,200 52% 58% 60% 716 472 900 600 100% 100% 34% 18% 33% 20% 0 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Long term remuneration Approach to recruitment remuneration External appointments In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the approved Remuneration Policy.
In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new Executive Director, we will take into consideration all relevant factors including but not limited to quantum, the type of remuneration arrangements for other Inmarsat executives and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both our Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary.
The Remuneration Policy in place will apply to the new appointment unless there are variables to the appointment which are noted below and are agreed by the Committee as appropriate to offer.
INMARSAT PLC 58 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, we will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted for example, cash or shares, the time over which they would have vested and the share price at the time of buy-out.
Generally buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis.
The Committee has the discretion to determine whether such buy-outs shall be granted as Bonus Share Awards, Performance Share Awards or Restricted Share Awards under the ESP.
The Committee may also avail itself of the provision in the Listing Rules Chapter 9.4.
2 regarding long-term incentive awards in relation to the buy-out of awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Component Approach Maximum annual value Basic salary To be determined by reference to relevant market pay levels, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and the current salary of the incumbent in the role.
Pension and To be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current policy, and as well as any benefits expatriation allowances and any necessary expenses relating to an Executive Directors relocation on appointment.
Sharesave To be entitled to participate on identical terms to other employees.
Scheme Annual cash The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees.
The Committee 125% of salary bonus will determine on a case by case basis whether the executive will receive the full annual payment or a pro-rata amount.
Bonus Share To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as Up to 200% of salary Awards described in the policy table.
300% in exceptional circumstances Performance To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as Up to 200% of salary Share Awards described in the policy table.
300% in exceptional circumstances Restricted To make awards of shares which vest in accordance with a schedule which will be agreed Up to 200% of salary Share Awards by the Committee, subject to continued employment only.
Awards will typically be made to 300% in exceptional facilitate the buy-out of awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer, and the vesting circumstances schedule will typically match that of the awards forfeited.
Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends over the vesting period are awarded only on the number of shares that vest.
Internal appointments Any individual who is promoted to become an Executive Director will be treated on the same basis as if they were an external hire in respect of the elements of remuneration and benefits.
Where the new appointee has an initial salary set below market, any shortfall will be managed with phased increases over a period of several years, subject to the executives development in the role.
Such individuals are also eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to their appointment to the Board.
Non-Executive Directors For the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director, the individual will receive a letter of appointment which will summarise the time requirement expected of them and set out details of their fees base fee and committee membership fee.
Fees will be the same level as for other Non-Executive Directors, except where the Nominations Committee determines that a different level is appropriate based on individual contribution.
Reasonable expenses will also be paid and cover will be provided to all Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, under the Companys Directors & Officers insurance policy.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Non-Executive To attract and retain The Non-Executives are paid a basic fee.
To avoid setting expectations, Director fees high-calibre Nonthere is no maximum fee level.
and Committee Executive Directors The Committee Chairman and other members fees by offering a market of the Board Committees Audit, Remuneration, Aggregate fees are currently limited competitive fee level.
Nominations and the Senior Independent Director to 750,000 by the Companys Deputy Chairman are paid supplements to reflect Articles of Association, and will be their additional responsibilities.
increased to 1m subject to approval by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
The Board Chairman will be paid a single fee for all his responsibilities.
The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors in respect of the year under NED fee levels are reviewed periodically by the review and for the following year Chairman and Executive Directors with reference to are disclosed in the Annual Report market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies on Remuneration.
and a recommendation is then made to the Board.
The Chairmans fee will be reviewed by the Committee taking As the position of non-executive into account fee levels at the same set of companies, and Chairman will be a new position will be approved by the Board.
If any changes are to be effective from 1 January 2015, made, they are usually effective in July.
there is no fee for this position currently payable.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 59 Remuneration Report continued Service contracts and exit payment policy Executive Director Date of service contract Term of office Notice period Andrew Sukawaty 17 June 2005 Indefinite until termination Twelve months written notice by either party by Company or Director Rupert Pearce 18 January 2012 Indefinite until termination Twelve months written notice by either party by Company or Director The Company in its absolute discretion may agree a shorter notice period with the departing director.
All directors have a clause to allow a payment in lieu of notice to be made.
For Mr Pearce and all new Executive Directors, the Company may make such payments monthly up to 12 months and these payments shall be reduced if the executive finds alternative employment.
Severance payments in relation to the service contract are limited to no more than one years base salary plus other benefits, which may include annual bonus subject to performance conditions being fulfilled and pro-rated for time and payable at the normal annual bonus payment date, unless the Committee believes this is unreasonable given the circumstances for departure or unless dictated by applicable law.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: In discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or By way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
The Committee retains discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts and vesting of share-based awards, as well as the timing of vesting, taking into consideration the circumstances in which an Executive Director leaves.
The rationale for any discretion exercised will be provided in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards Annual bonus Good leaver see below for definition Normal payment date Performance against targets will be assessed at the end of the year in the normal way and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time served during the year All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable BSP Good leaver see below for definition Normal vesting date, although the Any earned but not yet transferred Committee has discretion to accelerate shares will be retained.
The treatment of unvested shares is at the Committees discretion All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable PSP Good leaver see below for definition Normal vesting date, although the Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated Committee has discretion to accelerate for time and subject to performance conditions being met All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable RSP Good leaver see below for definition Normal vesting date, although the Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated Committee has discretion to accelerate for time All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable Employee Share Plans Good leaver see below for definition Share options can be exercised for a The individual will be entitled to exercise certain period of time after departure his share options in accordance with HMRC approved rules.
All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable INMARSAT PLC 60 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 The treatment under the ESP of awards held by leavers will be the Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service and same as described in the table above for BSP, PSP and RSP awards.
their appointment will normally terminate on: A good leaver is the departure of an Executive Director for A Director choosing to resign voluntarily: reasons of ill-health, redundancy, retirement, death or any other A Director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy reason which the Committee in its absolute discretion permits.
or illness: Termination for cause is regarded as a bad leaver and no awards If the Nominations Committee does not approve the extension shall vest.
of the appointment: A Director is found guilty of misconduct: Upon a change of control of the Company, share awards may be A Director is not re-elected by the shareholders following transferred to participants within such period as the Committee retirement at an AGM.
may permit based on the extent to which the Committee determines that the performance conditions have been met.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive an annual bonus and do Alternatively, participants shall be required to give up existing share not participate in any of the Companys incentive plans.
They awards and receive shares in the new company being equivalent receive no benefits.
The Company reimburses the reasonable to the original award.
For the annual bonus, the Committee will expenses they incur in carrying out their duties as Directors.
assess performance against targets at the point of change of control and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time and External appointments paid immediately.
The final treatment for the annual bonus Executive Directors serving as Non-Executive Directors on the remains subject to the Committees discretion.
board of other companies are permitted to retain all remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships subject to a maximum In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors of two external board appointments.
Directors accepting such service contract other than in accordance with the terms of his positions shall take into account any guidelines for external contract, the Committee will act in the best interests of the directorships as contained in the Corporate Governance Code, Company and ensure there is no reward for failure.
When subject at all times to pre-authorisation of the appointment by the determining what compensation, if any, is to be paid to the Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman.
departing Executive Director, the Committee will give full consideration to the circumstances of the termination, the Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company Executive Directors performance, the terms of the service contract Although we do not consult directly with employees on executive relating to notice and payments in lieu of notice, and the obligation remuneration policy, the Committee takes into consideration the of the Executive Director where it is in the service agreement to remuneration arrangements for the wider employee population in mitigate any loss which he may suffer as a result.
making its decisions on remuneration for senior executives.
This relates to philosophy around levels of base salary, operating bonus Although the Company would seek to minimise termination costs, plans for all employees, pension entitlement and benefit provision the Committee may in appropriate circumstances provide other also being available across the Group.
elements in a leaving Executive Directors termination package, including without limitation compensation for the waiver of The Group consults with its employees on general employment statutory rights in exchange for him executing a settlement policies in a range of ways, including formal consultation forums agreement, payment of the departing Executive Directors legal in some countries where it operates.
Our staff are encouraged fees in connection with his termination arrangements, and payment to provide feedback directly to their line managers or to the of outplacement fees.
In addition, the Committee may determine HR team or to a confidential email address.
that the Director should continue to be engaged by the Company on a consultancy arrangement or other terms following cessation Consideration of shareholder views of his directorship.
When determining remuneration, the Committee considers shareholder views and the guidelines of investor bodies.
The Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Name Date of appointment letter Date of appointment Company Secretary engage pro-actively with major shareholders Simon Bax 28 May 2013 18 June 2013 and shareholder representatives whenever appropriate.
The Sir Bryan Carsberg 18 April 2005 22 June 2005 Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders on Stephen Davidson 16 June 2005 22 June 2005 Remuneration Policy or individual arrangements, and is committed to consulting shareholders in advance of major changes.
Details of Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 18 April 2005 22 June 2005 votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years Kathleen Flaherty 9 May 2006 9 May 2006 remuneration report are provided in the Annual Report on Janice Obuchowski 6 May 2009 5 May 2009 Remuneration section of this report.
Abe Peled 10 May 2013 18 June 2013 John Rennocks 5 January 2005 4 January 2005 Appointments are initially for three years and unless agreed by the Board, they may not remain in office for a period longer than six years, or two terms in office, whichever is the shorter.
The Corporate Governance Code has special provisions regarding determination of the independence of directors when they have served for more than nine years.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 61 Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration The following section provides details of how Inmarsats Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee after Remuneration Policy was implemented during the financial year consultation with the Board in September 2012 following a ending 31 December 2013 and how the Committee intends to tendering process, and continued to act as the Committees implement the policy in 2014. independent external adviser during the year.
Keplers responsibilities include a mandate to review our remuneration The Regulations require our external auditors to report to principles and practices against corporate governance best shareholders on the audited information within this report and practice.
Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman and is to state whether, in their opinion, the relevant sections have a signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants been prepared in accordance with the Act.
The external auditors which can be found at www.
opinion is set out on pages 72 to 74 and we have clearly marked Kepler provides no  services to the the audited sections of the report.
Company and is therefore considered independent.
During 2013, Keplers fees were based on time and materials, and fees Remuneration Committee membership in 2013 excluding VAT and expenses totalled 33,700 2012: 31,300.
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
We had four scheduled meetings during the year to Summary of shareholder voting at the 2013 AGM discharge our responsibilities.
Committee membership and The following table shows the results of the advisory shareholder attendance are set out in the table below: vote on the 2012 Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM: Number of scheduled meetings in 2013 Attendance Total number of votes % of votes cast Stephen Davidson Committee Chairman 4 4 For including discretionary 209,314,041 64.24 Sir Bryan Carsberg 4 4 Against 116,507,794 35.76 Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 4 4 Total votes cast Kathleen Flaherty 4 4 excluding withheld votes 325,821,835 100% Simon Bax 1 1 Votes withheld 13,582,712 During the year, the Committee operates to a forward agenda We engaged with shareholders before and after the 2013 AGM which ensures that items are discussed at the appropriate time to understand their views regarding executive remuneration at during the year.
Such items are the review of achievement of Inmarsat, specifically around the level of share awards made to financial targets forming part of the annual bonus awards: the Executive Chairman.
We reiterated the rationale for the performance of each of the Executive Directors against their current Board structure where we have an Executive Chairman individual objectives: determination as to whether the performance and CEO as explained in the Corporate Governance Statement conditions have been met for the Bonus Share Plan and the on page 44 and for the level of share awards made.
In relation to Performance Share Plan: consideration as to whether any salary share awards for 2014, the Committee intends to make an award increase should be awarded to Executive Directors and senior to the Executive Chairman of no more than 200% of salary, which executives taking account of the plans for the wider workforce: is in line with our Remuneration Policy.
During the year, we also review of the expenses incurred by the Directors: levels of awards reviewed the EBITDA targets used in the Performance Share Plan under share plans to Executive Directors and senior management.
and believe, in the context of current market conditions, a review of our LRFP and current performance, the EBITDA range to be used Advisers for the 2014 award will be sufficiently stretching for the three-year During 2013, the Committee was advised internally by Andrew performance period.
The Committee will continue to engage with Sukawaty Executive Chairman, Rupert Pearce Chief Executive shareholders to facilitate their understanding of the Company, the Officer, Rick Medlock Chief Financial Officer, Debbie Jones environment in which it operates and how this translates into our Senior Vice President, Corporate Development whose executive Remuneration Policy.
responsibilities include human resources and Alison Horrocks Senior Vice President, Corporate Governance and Company Secretary.
John Rennocks, the Companys Deputy Chairman also attends the meetings and contributes to the discussion.
No member of management is present at a Committee meeting when their own arrangements are being discussed.
INMARSAT PLC 62 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the prior year: Andrew Sukawaty Rupert Pearce Rick Medlock 000 000 000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 6 Basic salary 615 615 451 431 340 308 1 Taxable benefits 24 29 7 9 5 7 2 Pension 77 77 14 14 17 16 3 Annual bonus 627 652 469 514 238 4 Bonus share plan 1,168 1,565 493 615 5 Long term incentives 900 7 Other 13 13 13 Total 2,511 3,851 1,434 1,596 362 582 1.
T he taxable benefits received by the Executive Directors include healthcare benefits, a car allowance for one Director and benefits relating to staff entertaining.
The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by Directors for travel to board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are domiciled.
These travel expenses are subject to a specific deduction under HMRC rules and are not taxable.
The tax due in respect of the staff entertainment benefit is settled by the Company.
R epresents the pension payment made by the employer to the pension scheme and or to the individual Director as cash in lieu of pension see page 66 for details.
R epresents the annual bonus payment in relation to the financial year see page 64 for details.
R epresents the face value of the shares to be awarded under the Bonus Share Plan in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2013 and awarded under the Bonus Share Plan in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2012 see page 65 for details.
R epresents the value of Performance Share Plan awards based on the value at vesting of shares vesting on performance over the three-year periods ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012.
For both periods, there was no vesting of shares see page 65 for details.
Mr Sukawatys figure also includes the value at vesting of a CEO Share Award made in 2007 with a performance period ending September 2012 based on a share price of 5.60 in November 2012.
M r Medlocks basic salary for 2012 reflects a short period of unpaid leave.
Other represents the value of Sharesave awards, based on the discounted share price at grant.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the prior year: Base fee 000 Additional fees 000 Taxable benefits 000 Total 000 Name 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Simon Bax 26.8 2.4 29.2 Sir Bryan Carsberg 50.0 50.0 9.0 7.0 1.0 60.0 57.0 Stephen Davidson 50.0 50.0 19.0 16.0 1.0 70.0 66.0 Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 98.0 100.0 9.0 9.0 107.0 109.0 Kathleen Flaherty 50.0 50.0 4.5 4.5 54.5 54.5 Janice Obuchowski 50.0 50.0 4.5 4.5 54.5 54.5 Abe Peled 26.8 2.4 29.2 John Rennocks 94.1 94.1 10.0 10.0 104.1 104.1 The fee for Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd included a fee as a Non-Executive Director of Inmarsat Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary in the US.
As at 31 December 2013, this fee was US$76,905 converted from Sterling at the spot rate at each payment date.
The taxable benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors were associated with accommodation costs incurred with attendance at two-day Board meetings.
The tax due in respect of these benefits is settled by the Company.
The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by the Non-Executive Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are domiciled.
These travel expenses are subject to a specific deduction under HMRC rules and are not tax deductible.
The fee for John Rennocks includes the work he undertakes as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2013 Annual cash bonus in respect of 2013 performance In 2013, the annual cash bonus was based on the achievement of Group financial targets and individual performance objectives.
80% of the bonus is linked to financial performance, as measured through revenue 50% of financial element, operating expenditure 35% and capital expenditure 15%.
The remaining 20% of the bonus is linked to personal performance, as appraised against achievement of challenging objectives set by the Committee at the start of the year.
Personal performance targets are clearly defined and measurable, and are linked to Group strategic and operational performance.
The outcomes under the financial and personal elements are calculated, and the Committee exercises its judgement in applying a corporate multiplier to the financial elements of the bonus based on the achievement of the financial targets, along with a broader assessment of Company performance and individual contributions over the year.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 63 Remuneration Report continued Actual bonus In January 2013, the Committee reviewed the above three financial outcome Bonus paid performance elements in respect of the current year, and Maximum for 2013 for the 2012 determined them to remain appropriate measures to use for the Target bonus bonus financial year financial year Name % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary annual bonus plan for Executive Directors.
The Committee will Andrew Sukawaty 75% 125% 102% 106% disclose the 2013 financial targets in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
We believe the targets used are commercially Rupert Pearce 75% 125% 104% 114% sensitive if made public in the same reporting period as to which Rick Medlock 50% 100% nil 76% they apply.
Mr Medlock resigned during the year and was not in office when Examples of the personal objectives for the Executive Directors bonus payments were to be paid.
He received no bonus payment for 2013 are noted below.
Some have been excluded where we for the 2013 financial year.
believe they may be commercially sensitive if published.
BSP award in respect of 2013 Executive Chairman: An allocation of shares will be made in respect of the March 2013 Ensure CEO success through a constructive and supportive monetary awards based on Company performance for the financial teaming relationship.
The award will be calculated using Assist the CEO generally in support of business success.
the mid-market closing price of the Companys ordinary shares on the day following the announcement of the Preliminary Results in Manage the Board and Board evaluation process effectively.
The performance measures, weightings and actual Support the Inmarsat-5 satellite programme delivery.
performance against target were as follows: Maintain relationships with major shareholders and the investment community.
Performance Weighting Participate in Inmarsat business development efforts in measure % of maximum Actual performance against target China, India and Russia.
Revenue 50% Revenues were US$1,261.9m, which is between target and Chief Executive: stretch Lead the second phase of the Group restructuring process Operating 35% Operating expenses were through its 2013 milestones.
expenditure US$613.1m which performed Integrate the new joiners to the Executive Team to become better than stretch an effective decision-making and support group.
Capital 15% Capital expenditure accruals were Maintain good relations and communications as CEO with expenditure US$656.6m which performed the marketplace, investors and government constituencies.
better than stretch Deliver on the 2013 financial budget as to revenues and EBITDA performance.
The minimum EBITDA level required before any share award could be made was exceeded.
Based on performance achieved against Chief Financial Officer: each of the targets, 73% of the monetary award will be converted Assume reporting responsibility for Commercial Management to shares.
Maximum Support the design, development and implementation of the monetary Conversion BSP second phase of an internal reorganisation.
Executive Director award rate outcome Play a leading role in Investor Relations activities and implement Andrew Sukawaty 1,618,000 73% 1,181,200 a more detailed Board update programme.
Rupert Pearce 676,500 493,845 Consider and advise on long-term distribution policy for Rick Medlock 408,912 No conversion the Group.
Close monitoring and management of Group financial As the conversion from monetary award to shares is calculated performance to budget on revenue, costs and capex.
after the preliminary results announcement is made, the exact number of shares to be awarded is not known at the date of this In 2013, revenues were US$1,261.9m, which is between report.
Details of shares awarded will be reported via an RNS to target and stretch performance.
Operating expenses were the London Stock Exchange.
These shares will generally vest in US$613.1m which performed better than stretch: capital March 2015, 2016 and 2017.
Details of the shares awards including expenditure accruals of US$656.6m also performed better performance targets will be included in the 2014 Annual Report than stretch.
A corporate multiplier was applied to the financial on Remuneration.
element of the bonus based on these results and the Committees judgement of broader Company performance.
The maximum and target annual bonus amounts that could be made and actual cash bonus which will be awarded to each Executive Director are set out in the next column.
INMARSAT PLC 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 2011 PSP vesting The Executive Directors received PSP share awards in 2011 which are due to vest in 2014 subject to performance over the three years to 31 December 2013.
Performance targets for these awards are as follows: 3-year EBITDA growth p. a.
Less than 5% 5% 8% 3-year TSR relative to FTSE350 Upper quartile No vesting 75% 100% excluding investment trusts Median No vesting 30% 75% Below median No vesting No vesting No vesting Straight-line vesting applies between 30% and 100% vesting.
We had negative EBITDA performance for the period 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013 of 1.7% adjusted with Committee judgement and TSR performance was ranked 33rd percentile relative to the FTSE350 excluding investment trusts.
As a result, no award will vest based on the performance period to 31 December 2013.
There are no provisions for the re-testing of performance under the PSP.
Scheme interests awarded in 2013 audited BSP award in respect of 2012 An allocation of shares was made in respect of the March 2012 BSP monetary awards based on Company performance for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The share award was based on the mid-market closing price of the Companys ordinary shares following the announcement of the Preliminary Results in March 2013.
The performance targets for the financial year ended 31 December 2012 were achieved in full, and the maximum monetary awards were converted to a number of shares, vesting in March 2014, 2015 and 2016.
Maximum Date of Awards made Market price at Face value at Executive Director monetary award Conversion rate share award during the year date of award date of award Andrew Sukawaty 1.56m 100% 8 March 2013 240,639 6.50 1.56m Rupert Pearce 615,000 100% 8 March 2013 94,579 6.50 615,000 Rick Medlock 397,007 not applicable Mr Medlock resigned during 2013 and his BSP award lapsed upon his departure from the Company on 3 January 2014.
2013 PSP In March 2013, the Directors received PSP share awards which will vest subject to performance over the three years to 31 December 2015.
Awards made Market price at Face value at Executive Director Date of grant during the year date of award date of award Vesting Date Andrew Sukawaty 19 March 2013 201,262 6.8725 1.383m 19 March 2016 Rupert Pearce 19 March 2013 98,435 6.8725 676,000 19 March 2016 Rick Medlock 19 March 2013 59,499 6.8725 409,000 Mr Medlock resigned during 2013 and his PSP award lapsed upon his departure from the Company on 3 January 2014.
Mr Sukawaty will remain in an executive position until 31 December 2014.
He will therefore be entitled to a pro-rata PSP award of 2 3rds of the award shown above which will vest at the normal vesting date subject to performance conditions being achieved.
The PSP targets for EBITDA and TSR, which each represent 50% of the award are: EBITDA annualised growth : Below 1% no vesting occurs Between 1-3.5% straight line vesting occurs At or above 3.5% 100% vests Relative TSR performance against the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts Below median no vesting At median 30% vesting Median to upper quartile straight line vesting occurs Upper quartile 100% vests INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 65 Remuneration Report continued Pension audited An Executive Director can become a deferred member of the pension plan and receive a capped employer contribution paid as additional salary.
The maximum which can be paid is 12.5% of capped salary.
The capped salary level increases nominally each year.
The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys defined contribution pension plan arrangements.
None participate in the defined benefit plan.
Pensionable salary is currently limited to basic salary and subject to a UK Pension Plan Scheme Specific cap and US Internal Revenue Service earnings caps.
Messrs Pearce and Medlock are members active and deferred, respectively of the defined contribution pension plan for employees who will draw a UK pension: Mr Sukawaty is a member of the US 401 K plan and has also made additional one-off employee contributions to the UK defined contribution pension plan.
Mr Sukawaty is entitled to an annual salary supplement equal to 12.5% of the difference between his basic salary and the US Internal Revenue Service capped basic salary in lieu of the employer pension contribution.
Mr Medlock became a deferred member of the defined contribution pension plan and instead receives an annual salary supplement which is equivalent to 12.5% of the capped salary.
The normal retirement date under the UK pension plan is age 65 with an employee able to retire from age 55.
In the US plan, the normal retirement date is age 59.5.
There are no additional pension benefits payable if a Director retires early.
The current employer contributions subject to the UK Pension Plan Scheme Specific cap of 141,000 for the 2013 14 tax year and US Internal Revenue Service earnings caps as appropriate are: Andrew Sukawaty 12.5% of capped salary was paid in 2013, which is 8,120 in employer contributions Rupert Pearce 10.0% of capped salary was paid in 2013 which is 13,980 in employer contributions Exit payments made in the year audited Mr Medlock, who resigned as a Director and left on 3 January 2014, did not receive any exit payments in 2013.
Further, the Committee has not made any exit payments to Mr Medlock in 2014.
Payments to past Directors audited No payments were made to past Directors.
External appointments Two of the Executive Directors held positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors.
The fees they received relating to the 2013 financial year were as follows: Name Company in which Non-Executive Directorship held 2013 Fee Andrew Sukawaty Ziggo B. V. 190,000 BSkyB 40,000 Rick Medlock Momondo Group Ltd formerly Cheapflights Media Ltd 50,000 Edwards Vacuum Ltd 90,000 Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2014 Base salary Executive Director remuneration will be reviewed in July 2014 which is the same time for the general workforce.
No salary increases were made during 2013.
Salary at Salary at 1 July 2013 1 July 2012 Name 000 % change 000 Andrew Sukawaty 615 615 Rupert Pearce 451 451 Rick Medlock 341 341 We have already indicated to shareholders that the Committee expects to increase Mr Pearces salary each year to reflect his demonstrated development in the Chief Executive role and the performance of the business.
We previously noted that we expected the level of annual increase for Mr Pearce in July 2013 the last salary review date to be around 10%.
However, given no salary increase was awarded to Mr Pearce in 2013, in line with the salary freeze for the wider employee population, a higher than normal increase may be awarded in 2014 and 2015 to reflect the appropriate level of base pay for him.
The Committee will determine the levels of future increases considering both his individual and the Companys performance, and with reference to market pay levels.
His current salary level of 451,000 is well below the median level for CEOs of FTSE 50-150 sized companies.
The Executive Chairman will not have any adjustment made to his base salary for 2014.
INMARSAT PLC 66 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Pension A new CFO will join the Company on 2 June 2014 and will be paid, Pension payments or cash payments in lieu of employer pension receive benefits and participate in share plans in accordance with contributions for 2014 will be made in accordance with the the Remuneration Policy.
Remuneration Policy table set out on page 55, and will be on Non-Executive Director fees the same basis as those made in 2013.
Fees paid as follows for a NED: Amount Annual cash bonus Basic fee 50,000 The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in Chairman of Audit Committee 10,000 2014 will remain unchanged from the opportunity in 2013, and will Chairman of Remuneration Committee 10,000 be 125% of salary.
Chairman of Nominations Committee 5,000 Committee membership per committee 4,500 As in 2013, 2014 bonuses will be based 80% on financial targets Deputy Chairman SID inclusive of 94,085 including revenue, operating expenditure and capex accruals, all additional Committee fees and 20% on individual performance, with a corporate multiplier applied based on the achievement of the financial targets and The Non-Executive Directors did not receive any fee increase in the Committees judgment of overall Company performance.
Fees will next be reviewed in July 2014 and any increases will The Committee has determined that performance targets will be for the decision of the Board, excluding the Non-Executive not be disclosed on a prospective basis for reasons of commercial Directors.
sensitivity, but will be disclosed on a retrospective basis in due course when they are no longer considered commercially sensitive.
Total shareholder return The following graph shows the Companys performance over the Share Awards: last five years, measured by total shareholder return on a holding in BSP the Companys shares compared to a hypothetical holding of A 2014 monetary BSP award will be made during the open shares in the FTSE 350 index excluding investment trusts.
The period following the announcement of the Companys 2013 FTSE 350 index excluding investment trusts has been used Preliminary Results.
The level of award for Messrs Sukawaty and because the Board felt it represented the most appropriate index Pearce will not exceed the normal levels of a maximum of 200% for comparison over this period as it provides a view of our of maximum annual bonus potential.
It is expected that the level performance against the broad equity market index.
For the 2014 of award will be 200% and 150% of salary for Mr Sukawaty and and future reporting periods, the Board intends to compare Mr Pearce respectively.
Inmarsats performance against a new index, the FTSE 50-150 The financial targets will be linked to the 2014 performance of excluding investment trusts to align with the TSR comparator Inmarsat plc, requiring achievement of targets for revenue, opex, group used under the PSP and to more closely match the market capex accruals and EBITDA to allow conversion of the monetary size of our business.
award to a share award in March 2015.
They are the same weightings as for the annual cash bonus.
Shares would vest in 250 Inmarsat plc  March 2016, 2017 and 2018.
FTSE 350 Excluding Investment Trusts  200 PSP A PSP award will be made during the open period following the announcement of the Companys 2013 Preliminary Results in March 150 2014.
There will be a three year vesting period.
It is expected that the level of award will be 150% of salary for Mr Pearce and 200% 100 for Mr Sukawaty.
50 The PSP awards for 2014 will vest after three years based on two performance conditions being met: EBITDA growth over the Source: Bloomberg three year performance period and the Companys TSR relative 0 performance.
The FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts has 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 been selected as the TSR benchmark to more closely match the market size of our business.
He will therefore be entitled to a pro-rata PSP award of 1 3rd of the award which will vest at the normal vesting date subject to performance conditions being achieved.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 67 Remuneration Report continued CEO five-year earnings history audited The total remuneration of the Chief Executive for each of the previous five financial years is shown in the following table.
The information shows single figure remuneration, the annual bonus outcome as a percentage of the maximum, the short term share award and the long term share award vesting outcomes as a percentage of the maximum.
For the years 2009, 2010 and 2011, the Chairman and Chief Executive was the same individual reflecting a salary for the combined role: Andrew Sukawaty AS.
Rupert Pearce RP became Chief Executive on 1 January 2012.
Please refer to page 63 for detail of the single remuneration figure.
W e are only required to show the single figure remuneration for each year for the Chief Executive but as in 2012 and 2013 Mr Sukawaty was the highest paid Director as Executive Chairman, we have also included the single figure for his remuneration.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration The data for other employees relates to the average pay across staff based in the UK, which is deemed to be the most appropriate employee group.
The data is based on all UK employees, including Executive Directors apart from the CEO and the senior management team.
During 2013, there was a pay freeze which was applied across the business.
T axable benefits represents healthcare benefits: for the CEO it is different compared to the single remuneration figure as the amount here excludes costs for staff entertainment.
R epresents the annual bonus payment for the financial year just ended plus the monetary value of the shares to be awarded under the Bonus Share Plan corresponding to the financial year just ended.
The number of employees is based on those who were in employment for the whole year.
The reporting periods are 1 January to 31 December 2012 and 2013.
Relative importance of spend on pay To assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay, the below shows remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to shareholders dividends and share buy-back and other significant spend.
Capital expenditure has been presented as a measure of significant spend as it shows the investment being made in the Companys future growth.
US$ in millions 700 2013 2012 657 560 490 420 280 245 233 203 197 140 0 Total employee pay Dividends and share buy-back Capital expenditure on 5% increase 3% increase an accuruals basis 34% increase INMARSAT PLC 68 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Directors shareholding audited The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2013 based on a share price of 7.56 as at 31 December 2013: Shares held Unvested and 1 Shares held Shares held Unvested and subject to Shareholding Current as at as at subject to performance required shareholding Requirement 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 deferral conditions % salary % salary met?
Andrew Sukawaty 922,867 812,274 621,764 606,537 500% 1760% Yes Rupert Pearce 575,686 623,376 156,237 276,833 500% 950% Yes Rick Medlock 324,447 319,447 136,266 201,092 500% 560% Yes Simon Bax 3,000 Sir Bryan Carsberg 16,327 16,327 Stephen Davidson 1,500 1,500 Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 21,727 21,727 Kathleen Flaherty 3,073 3,073 Janice Obuchowski 7,000 7,000 Abe Peled John Rennocks 43,326 43,326 The unvested and subject to performance conditions includes the PSP award made in 2011 which will lapse in 2014 because performance conditions have not been achieved.
Includes the unvested and subject to deferral shares under the BSP.
There were no changes in Directors interests from 31 December 2013 to 6 March 2014.
The Executive Directors current shareholdings are significantly over the guideline shareholding requirement of 500% of salary, which ensures close alignment of their long term interests with those of shareholders.
This information is accurate as at 31 December 2013.
Mr Medlock left the Company on 3 January 2014 and any shares that had not vested lapsed upon his departure.
Several of our Non-Executive Directors have share interests in excess of 1x salary, although there is no formal shareholding requirement.
Directors interests in shares in Inmarsat long-term incentive plans and all-employee plans audited This information is accurate as at 31 December 2013.
Inmarsat 2005 Sharesave Scheme Options Options held at Granted Exercised held at Date from 1 January during during 31 December Option price which Expiry 2013 the year the year 2013 per share exercisable Date Andrew Sukawaty 3,137 1,960 3,137 1,960 4.59 February 2016 July 2016 Rupert Pearce 3,137 1,960 3,137 1,960 4.59 February 2016 July 2016 Rick Medlock 3,137 1,960 3,137 1,960 4.59 February 2016 July 2016 The three Executive Directors exercised their 2008 Sharesave share option on 1 February 2012 at a price of 3.06 per share and continue to hold the shares as part of their beneficial holdings.
T he number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date.
On 8 May 2013, Mr Sukawaty sold sufficient shares to cover tax and national insurance and retained the balance at a price of 6.66 per share, representing a monetary value of 530,555.
Mr Pearce retained all the vested shares and Mr Medlock sold 60,452 vested shares at a price of 6.66 per share, representing a monetary value of 402,610.
The shares vest in three equal instalments and the last instalment vested in May 2013.
The shares vest in three equal instalments, the second instalment vested in May 2013 and the remaining instalment will vest in March 2014.
The shares vest in three equal instalments with the final instalment in March 2015.
The shares vest in three equal instalments with the final instalment in March 2016.
Vesting for the 2010 PSP is linked to the same performance conditions as for the 2011 PSP.
No amount of the 2010 PSP vested in 2013 as performance conditions were not met.
No amount of the 2011 PSP will vest in 2014.
V esting for the 2012 PSP is linked 50% to EBITDA and 50% to TSR relative to the FTSE350 excluding investment trusts over the three years to 31 December 2014.
Under the EBITDA element, 0% vests for EBITDA growth of 5% p. a. and full vesting occurs for 8% p. a. with straight line vesting between these two points.
Under the TSR element, 30% vests for median TSR and full vesting occurs for upper quartile TSR with straight line vesting between these two points.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 6 March and signed on its behalf by: Stephen Davidson Chairman, Remuneration Committee 6 March 2014 INMARSAT PLC 70 Annual Report & Accounts 2013
