Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy The policy for Executive Directors, set out below, will apply from the date of the 2014 AGM subject to approval, and is available to view at www.
The Committee will consider the remuneration policy annually to ensure it remains aligned with strategic objectives.
However, it is intended that the policy set out below will apply for three years from the 2014 AGM: if any amendments need to be made to the policy within that timeframe, it will first be presented to be voted upon by shareholders.
Future policy table How the element supports our strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework Salary Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months from 1 April.
Over the policy period, salaries for current The results of an individuals annual performance appraisal give an overall personal 100% cash Executive Directors will increase in line performance rating, which is taken into account when reviewing salary levels.
The Committee considers: with the range of increases applying to the Recognises the market value of business performance: corporate UK and US employee population, the role and the individuals skill, current remuneration against internal and external benchmarks:and other than where there is a change in role performance andexperience.
average salary increases for the wider IHG workforce.
or responsibility, or a significant variance to the market arises, that warrants a more significant increase.
Any such changes will When external benchmarking is used, the comparator groups arechosen having regard to: be fully explained.
size market capitalisation, turnover, profits and the number of employees: diversity and complexity of the business: Newly promoted or recruited Executive geographical spread of the business: and Directors may on occasion have their salaries set below the benchmark policy relevance to the hotel industry.
level while they become established in role.
In such cases, salary increases may be higher than the corporate UK and US employee population until the target positioning is achieved.
1 Annual Performance Plan APP Reviewed annually with targets set in line with key strategic priorities.
Maximum annual award is 200% of salary.
i 70% is based on EBIT achievement vs target.
50% cash and 50% IHG shares Includes facility to use regional or global measures or a combination thereof.
ii 30% is based upon key non-financial measures aligned to strategicpriorities: deferred for three years the weighting, measures and targets relating to this element of the APP are determined Awards are made annually, 50% in cash after the end of the relevant financial year and 50% See page 83 for approach regarding Drives and rewards annual by the Committee on an annual basis.
in the form of IHG share awards which vest after three years subject to leaver provisions.
performanceagainst both financial Target award is 115% of salary: threshold is 50% of target award for each measure.
The Committee has discretion to make awards wholly in cash rather than part-cash and andnon-financial metrics.
The Committee may vary the relative weighting of EBIT and other metrics from year to year.
The share awards are made in the form of conditional awards or forfeitable shares, the latter Personal performance may also be taken into account in determining awards under the APP.
Aligns individuals and teams with having the right to receive dividends and vote at general meetings.
The Committee may exercise reasonable discretion to adjust an award made under the APP upwards or downwards after application of the performance measures to take into account Aligns short-term annual performance any relevant factors, including but not limited to, performance relative to IHGs competitors Malus applies to awards.
with strategy to generate long-term and extent of achievement across all measures, provided that in no case will an award exceed returns to shareholders.
Executive Directors are expected to hold all shares earned net of any shares sales required to meet personal tax liabilities, until the guideline shareholding requirement is achieved For information on performance measures used in 2013 and 2014 see pages 88 and 97.
300% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 200% for other Executive Directors.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Annual conditional awards of IHG shares, or options over IHG shares, which vest after The maximum annual award is 205% of The measures are as follows and targets are reviewed and may be changed by the Committee 100% shares a period of three years, or such longer period as the Committee determines, subject to salary.
The Committee has no current annually to ensure alignment with strategic objectives: the achievement of corporate performance targets.
intention to award more than the policy Drives and rewards delivery of i 25% relative net rooms growth and 25% relative RevPAR growth: maximum, but if exceptional and sustained long-term performance The Committee may also impose such post-vesting holding periods as it may, at its 20% threshold vesting if equal to average growth of comparator group: unforeseen circumstances arise that on measures thatare aligned with discretion, determine.
maximum vesting if ranked as 1st in the comparator group: and warrant it, the Committee has discretion the interests ofshareholders.
The Committee also has discretion to make awards in cash rather than shares.
to increase this to 300% of salary under straight-line vesting in between.
Any such award will be ii 50% relative TSR: Malus applies to awards.
20% threshold vesting if equal to comparator group: maximum vesting if 8% or more per year ahead of comparator group:and Executive Directors are expected to hold all shares earned net of any shares sales required See page 83 for approach regarding to meet personal tax liabilities, until the guideline shareholding requirement is achieved straight-line vesting in between.
All targets measured over a performance period of at least threeyears.
The measures operate on the basis of appropriate comparator groups of companies, which the Committee determines on an annualbasis.
The Committee will review the vesting outcomes under all of the LTIP measures at the end of each three-year cycle against an assessment of Group earnings and the quality of financial performance over the period, including sustainable growth and the efficient use of cash and capital.
If the Committee determines that the vesting outcomes do not appropriately reflect the financial performance of the Group, itmay reduce the number of shares that vests.
The Committee may also adjust awards if a significant one-off event happens that makes the original performance measures no longer appropriate.
For information on performance measures used in 2013 and 2014 see pages 90 and 97.
1 The term Annual Performance Plan includes cash and deferred IHG share awards granted to Executive Directors and other senior employees under the rules of the IHG Annual Bonus Plan for financial years 2012 and 2013.
78 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION How to use this report Salary The 2013 Directors Remuneration Report uses colour Benefits coding throughout the Directors Remuneration Policy APP and Annual Report on Directors Remuneration to denote LTIP different elements of remuneration, as follows: Pension Future policy table How the element supports our strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework Salary Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months from 1 April.
Governance 79 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued Future policy table continued How the element supports Performance our strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity framework Pension The following plans are operated: Salary is the only element of remuneration None.
Provides funding for UK executives, the executive defined for retirement.
contribution section of the InterContinental Current contribution levels are as follows: Hotels UK Pension Plan IC Plan : executive defined contribution section of Helps recruit for UK executives, the InterContinental the IC Plan and ICETUS: 7.5% employee andretain.
Executive Top-Up Scheme ICETUS : contribution with 30% matching Companycontribution: for US executives, a DC 401 k Plan US 401 k Plan and a DC Deferred US 401 k Plan: 2%-75% employee Compensation Plan US Deferred contribution with 4% matching Compensation Plan : and Companycontribution: and for non-UK and non-US executives, the US Deferred Compensation Plan: up to 75% InterContinental Hotels Group International employee contribution with 2% matching Savings and Retirement Plan, and other Company contribution and 8%-20% local plans.
additional Company contribution if certain conditions are met.
A cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions is offered.
These may be increased by the Committee in exceptional circumstances where market Until 30 June 2013, IHG operated an executive conditions so warrant.
defined benefit section of the IC Plan in which Richard Solomons participated.
This closed to future accruals for existing members from 1 July 2013.
Under the phasing out of Enhanced Early Retirement Facility, Richard Solomons could now retire with no reduction to his pension from approximately age 58 and no earlier.
Retirement before age 58 is allowed under the facility but abatement to the pension will apply.
This provision only applies on the consent of the Company.
Benefits IHG pays the cost of providing the benefits The value of benefits is dependent on None.
ona monthly basis or as required for location and market factors.
consistent with Benefits may include the cost of independent role location.
financial advice, car allowance company car, private healthcare medical assessments Helps recruit and other benefits provided from time to andretain.
Benefits would be restricted to the typical level in the relevant market for an Executive Director.
Benefits may also include relocation and expatriate or international assignment costs where appropriate, including for example: cost of living allowance: travel costs: housing allowance: professional advice: education allowances: tax equalisation: medical expenses: and relocation allowance.
Relocation and expatriate or international assignment costs would be restricted to the typical level in the relevant market for an Executive Director.
80 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Illustrative scenarios Below is an illustration of the value that could be received by each Executive Director under the Directors Remuneration Policy in respect of2014, showing: minimum, which includes salary, benefits and employer pension contributions only total fixed pay : on-target, which includes total fixed pay and assumes an on-target award for the APP 115% of salary and 50% of maximum LTIP award vesting: and maximum, which includes total fixed pay and a maximum award under the APP and LTIP.
The salaries included are those that will apply from 1 April 2014.
The benefit values included are estimates.
The amounts shown in relation to APP and LTIP do not take account of any potential share price appreciation.
Governance 81 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued Notes to Future Policy table Use of discretion by Remuneration Committee 1.
Malus in incentive plans For awards made from January 2012, the APP and LTIP rules allow the Committee discretion to reduce the level of unvested share awards if circumstances occur which, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, justify a reduction in one or more awards granted to any one or more participants.
The malus provisions relate to unvested awards only.
The circumstances in which the Committee may consider it appropriate to exercise its discretion include the following: misconduct that causes significant damage or potential damage to IHGs prospects, finances or brand reputation: and or actions that lead to material misstatement or restatement of accounts.
This may include, where appropriate, negligence on the part of Executive Directors.
This feature helps ensure alignment between executive reward and shareholder returns.
Other uses of discretion The Committee reserves certain discretions in relation to the outcomes for Executive Directors under the Companys incentive plans.
These operate in two main respects: enabling the Committee to ensure that outcomes under these plans are consistent with the underlying performance of the business and the experience of shareholders: and enabling the Committee to treat leavers in a way that is fair and equitable to individuals and shareholders under the incentive plans.
The Committee will also use its judgement as to what is appropriate within the terms of the Directors Remuneration Policy to make decisions that do not involve the exercise of discretion.
The discretions that can be applied in the case of leavers under the APP and LTIP are set out in the section on Policy on payment for loss of office on page 84.
In all cases, the discretions are reserved as part of the Directors Remuneration Policy in order to allow the Committee flexibility to ensure that remuneration outcomes for Executive Directors are consistent with business performance, at the same time as providing a high degree of clarity for shareholders as to remuneration structure and potential quantum.
Any exercises of discretion by the Committee will be fully disclosed and explained in the relevant years Implementation of Remuneration Policy report.
The following key discretions apply under the incentive plans: APP LTIP The Committee may exercise reasonable discretion to adjust The Committee will review the vesting outcomes under all of anaward made under the APP upwards or downwards, after the LTIP measures at the end of each three-year cycle against application of the performance measures, to take into an assessment of Group earnings and the quality of financial account any relevant factors including, but not limited to, performance over the period, including sustainable growth performance relative to IHGs competitors and extent of and the efficient use of cash and capital.
If the Committee achievement across all measures, provided that in no case determines that the vesting outcomes do not appropriately will an award exceed the maximum opportunity stated.
reflect the financial performance of the Group, it may reduce the number of shares that vests.
Corporate transactions If there is a takeover or merger: APP LTIP During a performance period: awards for that period will be The vesting of unvested awards may be accelerated and the pro-rated to the date of the event, or such later date as the Committee will determine the extent of vesting, taking account of Committee may determine, and will consist of a cash award and the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed, and not a deferred share award, unless the Committee determines the degree to which performance conditions have been satisfied.
There will be no acceleration of award unless the The Committee will procure, as soon as reasonably practicable, Committee determines otherwise.
the delivery to each participant of the vested shares in a After the end of a performance period and before the making Conditional Award or payment of the cash so determined.
of awards: awards for that period will be made in full, and will If the takeover or merger involves the exchange of IHG shares for consist of a cash and not a deferred share award, unless the shares in another company, the Committee may, in its discretion, Committee determines otherwise.
There will be no acceleration determine that the existing award will be replaced by a right to of award unless the Committee determines otherwise.
the appropriate number of shares in that other company.
Unvested deferred share awards will vest unless the Committee The Committee has discretion to take such action as it may decides otherwise.
If the takeover or merger involves the think appropriate if other events happen which may have an exchange of IHG shares for shares in another company, the effect on awards.
Committee may, in its discretion, determine the existing deferred share award will be replaced by a right to the appropriate number of shares in that other company.
The Committee has discretion to take such action as it may think appropriate if other events happen which may have an effect on awards.
82 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Pensions Approach to recruitment remuneration Enhanced Early Retirement Facility EERF The remuneration of any new Executive Director will be Under the EERF, executive participants of the defined benefit determined in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy section of the IC Plan have an option, with the Companys on pages 78 to 86 and the elements that would be considered by the agreement, to retire without reduction to their pension if they are Company for inclusion are: within five years of their normal retirement date.
Approximately 42 salary and benefits, including defined contribution executives are eligible to participate in this facility.
pensionparticipation: As set out in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement, participation in the APP with 50% cash and 50% IHG deferred this facility will be phased out commencing in 2014, with the effect share elements: that any participant currently aged 50 or below would only take an pro-rated for the year of recruitment to reflect unreduced pension from age 60, the contractual retirement age.
theproportion of the year remaining after the date of commencement ofemployment: and For those currently over 50, an unreduced pension will be available at a point between age 55 and age 60, depending on how close the if commencement date is after 1 October in the year, participant is to age 55 at the time the phasing out commences in noaward would normally be made for that year.
As a result of the phasing out of the EERF, Richard Solomons participation in the LTIP: could retire, with no reduction in his pension, from approximately age 58 and no earlier.
pro-rated awards would be made in relation to LTIP cycles outstanding at the time of recruitment: but This provision only applies on the consent of the Company.
no pro-rated award would be made for an LTIP cycle that has InterContinental Executive Top-Up Scheme ICETUS less than nine months to run at the date of commencement In 2014, the Company is looking to reduce the risks and volatility of employment.
from the remaining unfunded ICETUS pension arrangements by In addition, the Committee may, in its discretion, compensate offering members anopportunity to cash-out the ICETUS element a newly recruited Executive Director for incentives forgone of their pension onabasis that is fair and reasonable, both to them from a previous employment as a result of their resignation.
Currently, 11 employed UK executives The Committee would seek validation of the value of any potential participate inthe ICETUS arrangement.
This is part of the process of redrawing IHGs pension Awards made by way of compensation for incentives forgone arrangements and minimising the future risks to the Company.
would be made on a comparable basis, taking account of performance achieved or likely to be achieved, the proportion of the performance period remaining and the form of the award.
Compensation would, as far as possible, be in the form of IHG LTIP or deferred share awards, in order to immediately align a new Executive Director with IHG performance.
The maximum annual level of variable remuneration that may be granted to a newly-recruited Executive Director would be in line with that of the existing Executive Directors: APP award: 200% of salary, of which 50% of any award will be paid in cash and 50% in the form of IHG shares deferred for three years: and LTIP award: 205% of salary for a full LTIP cycle commencing after appointment, plus pro-rated awards in relation to LTIP cycles outstanding at the time of recruitment up to a further 205% of salary.
This excludes any remuneration that constitutes compensation for incentives forgone and any relocation and expatriate or international assignment costs.
Governance 83 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued Policy on payment for loss of office Contractual notice period and pay in lieu their losses by, for example, finding new employment, there will All current Executive Directors have a rolling service contract accordingly be a corresponding reduction in compensation witha notice period from the company of 12 months.
As an payablefor loss of office.
alternative, the Company may, at its discretion, pay in lieu of that notice.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will An Executive Director may have an entitlement to compensation be given in the event of grossmisconduct.
in respect of their statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK or other relevant jurisdiction.
Payment in lieu of notice could potentially include up to 12 months salary and the cash equivalent of 12 months pension There were no contractual provisions agreed prior to contributions, and other contractual benefits.
Where possible, 27 June 2012 that could affect the quantum of loss of office theCompany will seek to ensure that where a leaver mitigates payments to ExecutiveDirectors.
Policy for determination of termination payments APP award for year of termination including after year Unvested APP Reason for termination Salary and contractual benefits end but before payment deferred share awards Unvested LTIP awards Good Leaver including: Paid up to termination date.
Pro-rated award for year Vest on usual Vest on usual vesting 1 3 Ill-health injury disability of termination.
date to extent performance Pay in lieu of notice, 2 3 Redundancy No accelerated payment.
Retirement Award made 50% cash and Number of shares 50% in IHG shares deferred vesting pro-rated 2 Employing company or for three years from grant.
undertaking transferred outside the Group Other reason determined by the Committee in the case of LTIP only Death Paid up to date of death.
Pro-rated award for year Accelerated vesting Accelerated vesting: of death paid fully in of award: Committee Committee has 2 cash, accelerated.
has discretion to discretion to determine determine otherwise.
number of shares vesting, taking into account proportion of performance period elapsed and extent to which performance conditions are satisfied.
2, 4 2 Other Leaver including: Paid up to termination date.
No award for year of Forfeited.
In case of resignation after financial Gross misconduct year end but before award date, cash portion only of 2 award will be paid.
1 Committee has discretion to exceptionally pro-rate to a later date see below.
2 Committee has discretion to determine otherwise see below.
3 Committee has discretion to accelerate vesting see below.
4 In the event of a termination in connection with a takeover or reconstitution unvested APP deferred share awards will have accelerated vesting on the date of termination, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Exercise of discretion LTIP The Committee would only exercise the discretions available in the Subject to the circumstances surrounding the termination, APP and LTIP plan rules relating to: theCommittee, in its discretion, may treat an individual as a Good Leaver for the purposes of the LTIP.
The Committee will whether an award is made or an unvested award forfeited: and consider factors such as personal performance and conduct, the extent and timing of any such award or forfeiture overall Group performance and the specific circumstances of the Executive Directors departure including, but not restricted in exceptional circumstances, for example permanent disablement.
to, whether the Executive Director is leaving by mutual agreement Notice periods would not usually be included in the pro-ration with the Company.
If an individual is not a Good Leaver then they of APP and LTIP awards for a leaver.
The Committee would only will be treated as an Other Leaver, as set out above.
exercise its discretion to include some or all of the notice period in such pro-ration in exceptional circumstances, such as ill health, and would not do so in circumstances of poor performance.
84 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Consideration of shareholder views Service contracts and notice periods for Executive Directors The Committee actively engages with shareholders on remuneration matters.
Following face-to-face discussions with a number of The Committees policy is for all Executive Directors to have rolling shareholders in the autumn of 2012, major shareholders were service contracts with a notice period of 12 months.
All new approached prior to the 2013 AGM and offered the opportunity to appointments will have 12-month notice periods, unless, on an discuss any aspect of our approach to remuneration.
A programme exceptional basis to complete an external recruitment successfully, of interactions with shareholders willcontinue in 2014. a longer initial notice period reducing to 12 months is used.
This is in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group All Executive Directors appointments and subsequent re-appointments are subject to election and annual re-election The Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions by shareholders at the AGM.
of employees throughout the Group when determining remuneration for its Executive Directors.
The Committee would increase an Details of current Executive Directors contracts Executive Directors salary in line with the general UK and US 1 Executive Director Date of original appointment Notice period workforce other than when there is a change in role or Richard Solomons 10 February 2003 12 months responsibility, or a significant variance to the market arises, Kirk Kinsell 1 August 2010 12 months warranting a larger increase.
Tracy Robbins 9 August 2011 12 months Newly promoted or recruited Executive Directors to the Board Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson 1 January 2014 12 months may, on occasion, have their salaries set below the benchmark 1 policy level while they become established in role.
In such cases, The capital reorganisation of the Group, effective on 27 June 2005, entailedthe insertion of a new parent company of the Group.
All Executive Directors serving salary increases may be higher than the general UK and US at that time signed new letters of appointment effective from that date.
The workforce until the target positioning is achieved.
dates shown above represent the original dates of appointment ofeach of the Executive Directors to the Groups parent company.
Group employees salaries are compared to cross-industry standards to ensure fair pay for that job.
The Company does Non-executive directorships of other companies not directly consult with employees as part of the process of The Company recognises that its Executive Directors may be determining Directors remuneration.
However, questions on the invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies performance of Executive Committee members, including the and that such duties can broaden experience and knowledge, Executive Directors, are included in the Companys annual and benefit the Company.
While formal comparison Therefore, Executive Directors are permitted to accept one measurements were not used in determining Executive Director non-executive appointment in addition to any positions where remuneration, the Committee made decisions in the knowledge the Director is appointed as the Groups representative, subject of incentive arrangements of the rest of the Group, upon which to Board approval, as long as this is not, in the reasonable opinion the Committee is briefed regularly.
of the Board, likely to lead to a conflict of interest.
Executive Remuneration policy for other employees Directors would generally be authorised to retain the associated fees received.
The Companys policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors is consistent with that of other senior employees.
This group of Current Executive Directors do not hold any non-executive approximately 48 people also participates and receives deferred directorships of any other company.
share awards under the APP.
Eligibility to participate in the LTIP extends to a wider set of around 258 employees in total.
Outside the senior employees group, the composition of remuneration differs and annual incentives relate to measures relevant to the individuals role.
Plans for corporate employees are typically based on a combination of individual performance and the Groups earnings before interest and tax EBIT.
Market-competitive specialist plans apply in certain areas such as corporate reservations, sales and hotel development.
Incentive plans for General Managers of IHG owned, leased and managed hotels commonly include targets based on gross operating profit, guest satisfaction and employeeengagement.
Eligibility for, and participation in, benefits and incentive plans differs depending on location, seniority, length of service and otherfactors.
Governance 85 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors The policy for Non-Executive Directors, set out below, will apply for three years from the date of the 2014 AGM, and is available to view at www.
If any changes are made to the Policy within that timeframe, it will be presented to be voted upon by shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the APP, LTIP nor any IHG pension plan.
How the element supports our strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Fees and benefits Non-Executive Directors fees Fee increases would be in Non-Executive Directors are cash and benefits are set by the line with median FTSE 100 not eligible to participate in Chairman of the Board and increases.
This may be any performance-related Market competitive to attract Executive Directors: the exceeded where market incentive plans.
Non-Executive Directors who Chairmans fees are set by conditions so warrant.
have a broad range of skills and the Committee.
experience that add value to our IHG pays the cost of providing business and help oversee and Fees are reviewed annually benefits as required.
and fixed for 12 months from 1 January.
Recognises the market value of Consideration is given to: the role and the individuals skill, - business performance: performance andexperience.
- current remuneration against external benchmarks: and - average salary increases for wider IHG employee population.
When external benchmarking is used, the comparator groups are chosen having regard to other FTSE 100 companies.
Benefits include travel and accommodation in connection with attendance at Board and Committee meetings.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in IHG incentive or pension plans.
A single fee is determined for each Non-Executive Director role rather than different elements being applied to directorship, Committee and chair roles.
Details of letters of appointment and notice periods for Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment, which are available upon request from the Company Secretarys office.
Patrick Cescau, appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 1 January 2013, issubject to 12 months notice.
Other Non-Executive Directors are not subject to notice periods.
All Non-Executive Directors appointments and subsequent re-appointments are subject to election and annual re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
Non-Executive Director Committee appointments Date of original appointment Notice period N Patrick Cescau 1 January 2013 12 months A N R Ian Dyson 1 September 2013 n a A N R David Kappler 21 June 2004 n a A C N Jennifer Laing 25 August 2005 n a N R Jonathan Linen 1 December 2005 n a A N Jill McDonald 1 June 2013 n a C N R Luke Mayhew 1 July 2011 n a A C N Dale Morrison 1 June 2011 n a C N R Ying Yeh 1 December 2007 n a A N Committee Audit Committee member Nomination Committee member membership key C R Corporate Responsibility Remuneration Committee member Committeemember 86 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report on Directors Remuneration The Annual Report on Directors Remuneration explains how the Directors Remuneration Policy for 2013 was implemented and the resulting payments each of the Directors received.
The notes to the single figure table provide further detail, including measures and outcomes for 2013 where relevant, for each of the elements that make up the total single figure of remuneration in respect of each of the Executive Directors.
This report is subject to an advisory vote at the 2014 AGM.
2 Tom Singers APP award figure for 2012 includes a cash payment of 480,000 which he received in March 2012 to compensate him for forgone incentives from his previous employer.
As a result of Tom Singers resignation from IHG with effect from 1 January 2014, Tom Singer will receive only the 50% cash portion of the 2013 APP award, in accordance with plan rules.
3 Based on share price as at 31 December 2013 of 2,013p.
4 Based on share price on date of actual vesting of 1,953p.
5 Richard Solomons participated in the executive defined benefit section of the IC Plan in 2012, which closed to future accruals for existing members on 30 June 2013.
See page 91 for further details.
Governance 87 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued Notes to Single total figure of remuneration Executive Directors Salary: salary paid for the year: for Kirk Kinsell this shows actual salary paid converted into sterling.
Benefits: principal taxable benefits arising from the individuals employment in 2013 are set out in the table below: Financial Taxable Expatriate-related 4 Company car Healthcare counselling Life cover expenses benefits Director 1 3 Richard Solomons 20,220 2,139 nil nil 11,661 nil 5 Kirk Kinsell nil 5,247 3,195 2,747 13,395 60,554 2 3 Tracy Robbins 15,468 1,328 nil nil 4,504 nil 2 3 Tom Singer 19,290 nil nil nil 9,537 nil 1 P11D value of the company car.
3 Life cover is provided through the IC Plan and, therefore, is not an individual taxable benefit.
4 Includes expenses that are taxable, such as travel and accommodation to attend Board meetings away from home locations.
5 Kirk Kinsell received expatriate benefits relating to his international assignment prior to taking up his Board appointment as President, The Americas, on 13June2011.
This included tax equalisation on the vesting of LTIP awards granted whilst on assignment.
2013 APP The weighting, measures and targets relating to the APP are determined by the Committee, on an annual basis, in line with our strategic objectives.
The measures for 2013 were: Guest satisfaction as measured by the Guest HeartBeat score: year-on-year improvement: Employee Engagement survey score: : and EBIT achievement against target corporate and regional.
Performance Payment The 2013 targets were set taking measures structure Opportunities intoaccount: 20% Guest 50% IHG shares Target: the Groups growth ambitions: HeartBeat deferred for 115% of salary the objective of setting stretch three years per annum 10% Employee APP targets forsenior executives based Engagement on continuous improvement through Maximum: 50% cash 200% of salary maintaining or increasing 70% EBIT per annum achievement levels: and market expectations, circumstances and relative performance at the time.
A combination of global and regional targets were used.
Executive Directors with only global roles were subject to global measures.
KirkKinsell was subject to partly regional measures, reflecting his regional role as President, The Americas.
In common with shareholders, Executive Directors were eligible to receive dividends or dividend equivalents on the deferred share awards from the date of grant.
Why do we use these measures?
Guest HeartBeat score Employee Engagement survey score EBIT vs target Guest HeartBeat is part of the guest We measure employee engagement EBIT is a key measure of business satisfactionsurvey.
because our brands are, effectively, a performance for our shareholders.
promise kept by our people, as engaged It is an overall guest satisfaction score It is a function of other critical measures: colleagues, to deliver a great guest relating to hotel visits.
net rooms growth, RevPAR, profit margin experience.
It is a robust measure of the strength of Engaged employees are key to our brands.
Inclusion in the APP provides executive Our Employee Engagement survey is a focus on this key performance metric at long-established tool in our business.
88 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Award levels relate to achievement against target under each of the measures, as shown below: Guest HeartBeat Employee Engagement EBIT Total award 20% of award 10% of award 70% of award % of salary Threshold 50% 50% 90% Achievement vs target 50% of target payment 50% of target payment 50% of target payment 57.5% Award level 11.5% of salary 5.75% of salary 40.25% of salary Target 100% 100% 100% Achievement vs target 100% of target payment 100% of target payment 100% of target payment 115% Award level 23% of salary 11.5% of salary 80.5% of salary Maximum 200% 200% 110% Achievement vs target Maximum payment Maximum payment Maximum payment Award level 200% 40% of salary 20% of salary 140% of salary The actual award level was determined on a straight-line basis The Guest HeartBeat target for 2013 was based on scores compiled between threshold and target, and target and maximum, and directly from guest feedback.
Guest HeartBeat measures overall relates to achievement vs target under each measure: guest satisfaction with a hotel visit, based on a 10-point scale.
It takes a common and consistent approach for all brands in all regions.
The Threshold is the minimum level that must be achieved for there targets were set taking into account corporate strategic objectives at to be an award in relation to that measure: for achievement global and regional levels with a focus on year-on-year improvement below this, no award is made.
in guest service scores and the quality of IHG branded hotels.
Target is the target level of achievement and results in a target Our Employee Engagement survey scores are already high against award for that measure 115% of salary.
benchmarks both globally and in our priority markets, such as Greater Maximum is the level of achievement at which a maximum China: IHG has seen an 18 percentage point increase across the Group award for that measure is received 200% of salary.
According to our third-party survey administrator, Threshold award was subject to a global EBIT affordability gate TNS, who provides similar services to many other companies, such that: Employee Engagement survey scores for high-performing companies the top 7% of companies have remained flat since 2010, and service if global EBIT was below 85% of target, no award would be companies have reduced by an average of 1.5% year-on-year.
In this made: and context, the Committee considered setting a target based on further if global EBIT was between 85% and 90% of target, half of any year-on-year improvement to be stretching.
The Employee award relating to the Guest HeartBeat and or Employee Engagement survey covers all employees and those working in our Engagement survey measures would bemade.
owned and managed hotels excluding our joint venture partners.
Outcome for 2013 audited information Group EBIT achieved for 2013 was 102.5% of target.
For The Americas, EBIT achievement was 101.2% of target.
The EBIT element of Kirk Kinsells award was based 50 50 on Group The Americas results and for the other Executive Directors, it is based wholly on global results.
Based on performance, the following table shows the level of 2013 awards.
Under the terms of the APP, participants are subject to an automatic adjustment to their award if they do not fully exceed targets on a range of regional and organisational objectives.
50% will be paid in cash and 50% in deferred IHG shares that will vest after three years in February 2017.
The deferred share awards are made in the form of forfeitable shares that receivedividends during the three-year vesting period and include the right to vote at shareholder meetings, apart from Kirk Kinsell, whose deferred share award is in the form of a conditional share award with dividend equivalents.
Guest HeartBeat Employee Engagement EBIT Total Achievement Award as Achievement Award as Achievement Award as Award as Director vs target % % of salary vs target % % of salary vs target % % of salary % of salary Richard Solomons 100.1 25.0 200.0 23.0 102.5 100.6 148.6 Kirk Kinsell 100.1 24.8 200.0 23.0 101.8 95.4 107.4 Tracy Robbins 100.1 25.0 200.0 23.0 102.5 100.6 148.6 1 Tom Singer 100.1 25.0 200.0 23.0 102.5 100.6 74.3 1 As a result of Tom Singers resignation from IHG with effect from 1 January 2014, Tom Singer will receive only the 50% cash portion of the 2013 APP award in accordance with the plan rules.
2013 Group EBIT includes certain liquidated damages payments LDs, and in determining the outcome under the APP, the Committee has applied a discount to these payments to reflect the resulting loss of future income to the Group.
In addition, the Committee has exercised discretion to adjust regional EBIT achievement levels.
The percentage by which global EBIT is reduced by way of discount to the LDs received, has also been applied to reduce each regions EBIT for the purposes of determining APP awards.
Actual 2013 targets under each measure are not disclosed as they are, in the opinion of the Directors, commercially sensitive.
Disclosurewould provide IHGs major competitors with an unfair commercial advantage as these companies are either unlisted or listed on a stock exchange other than the London Stock Exchange, and therefore not subject to the same regulations.
Governance 89 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued 2011 13 LTIP The performance measures for each three-year LTIP cycle are set by the Committee.
Awards are made annually and eligible executives will receive shares at the end of that cycle, subject to achievement of the performance measures.
The performance measures for the 2011 13 cycle were: relative growth in net rooms over three years: relative like-for-like RevPAR growth over three years: and IHGs TSR relative to the Dow Jones Global Hotel DJGH index.
Growth in net rooms and RevPAR is measured on a relative basis against the comparator group, comprising the following major, globally branded competitors: Accor, Choice, Hilton, Hyatt, Marriott, Starwood and Wyndham.
These performance measures are also used for the 2012 14 and 2013 15 LTIP cycles, granted in 2012 and 2013 respectively.
Performance Payment Opportunities measures structure Target: 25% net rooms 102.5% of salary per annum 100% IHG LTIP 25% RevPAR shares Maximum: 205% of salary 50% TSR per annum Why do we use these measures?
Net rooms growth RevPAR growth TSR vs DJGH This measures the net growth in the total This measures success in growing our rates This measures the return to shareholders by number of IHG hotel rooms over the duration for the rooms we have open for the duration investing in IHG relative to our competitors of the cycle relative to our major global of the cycle relative to the RevPAR growth of in the appropriate comparator group, competitors.
Together with the RevPAR our major global competitors.
measure, it provides focus on ensuring a balance between the quality of IHG hotels and the speed at which IHG grows.
In order to generate higher returns for our shareholders, we need to increase revenue share, improve operating efficiency and grow margins through increasing the number of rooms we have available to sell, as well as generating more RevPAR for those rooms.
By focusing on both net rooms growth and RevPAR growth, we are rewarding the balanced approach to growth that will support the long-term increase in shareholder value.
Outcome for 2011 13 cycle audited information This cycle vested on 19 February 2014 as follows: Maximum award Outcome Performance Threshold Maximum Threshold % of salary at Actual performance % of maximum measure performance performance maximum vesting Weighting date of award vs comparator group award vesting st Average of the 1 in the Net rooms comparator comparator 20% 100% 25% 51.25% Below average 0% growth group group st Average of the 1 in the Slightly above RevPAR growth comparator comparator 20% 100% 25% 51.25% 9% average group group Growth equal Growth exceeds Growth TSR to the DJGH the index by 8% 20% 100% 50% 102.5% exceeded index by 50% index per year or more 10.4% Total vesting 59% outcome Net rooms and RevPAR growth were measured by reference to the three years ending 30 September 2013: TSR was measured by reference to the three years ending 31 December 2013.
Pension benefit: the value of Company contributions to pension plans and any cash allowances paid in lieu of pension contributions.
For 2012, the figure for Richard Solomons shows the increase in his pension value as a member of the executive defined benefit section of the IC Plan, which arose principally from his salary review when appointed Chief Executive Officer in July 2011.
The defined benefit section of the IC Plan closed to future accruals for existing members on 30 June 2013 and therefore the 2013 pension figure for Richard Solomons also includes a cash allowance in lieu of pensions contributions for the period from 1 July 2013.
90 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Total pension entitlements audited information From 2014, two changes to pension arrangements are being made Richard Solomons 2013 pension benefits are as follows: in line with the objective of significantly reducing the defined benefit liability and risks in the Companys balance sheet.
Directors contributions Richard Solomons is eligible for the Enhanced Early Retirement for the year 17,760 Facility EERF, which is available to all members of the plan.
Deemed capital value of accrued 1 Richard Solomons facility is being phased out in line with all benefits as at1 January 2013 7,544,000 other plan members meaning that he could retire without Deemed capital value of accrued 1 benefits at 31December 2013 7,886,000 reduction to his pension from approximately age 58 and no earlier.
Increase in transfer value This provision only applies on consent of the Company.
Prior to over the year 342,000 the phasing out, Richard Solomons was eligible to retire without Absolute increase in accrued reduction from age 55. pensionper annum 17,100 Although the EERF is non-contractual, as part of the consultation Increase in accrued pension with employees and the plan trustees with regards to the changes ie excluding inflation per annum 5,400 in the defined benefit section of the IC Plan in June 2013, it was 1 The capital values disclosed above are based on the HM Revenue & agreed at that time that the EERF would be retained.
However, Customs methodology of valuing pensions at 20 times their annual the decision has now been made to phase out this facility as part amounts, which is in line with the Single Figure value stated elsewhere in these Accounts: the 2012 Accounts included values of the process of redrawing the Companys pension arrangements.
calculated on an actuarial basis, which was in line with regulations The EERF terms require an executive to obtain Company consent.
Richard Solomons participated in the executive defined benefit section of the IC Plan and the unfunded InterContinental Executive Accrued value of annual pension 272,050 of which: Top-Up Scheme ICETUS until June 2013, when they both closed to if retired at 31 December 2013 49,640 is funded future accruals.
222,410 is unfunded Accrued value of annual pension 394,300 of which: As set out in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement, at 31 December 2013, assuming 71,950 is funded in 2014 the Company is looking to reduce the risks and volatility retirement at normal age 322,350 is unfunded from the remaining unfunded ICETUS pension arrangements by 9 October 2021 offering members an opportunity to cash out the ICETUS element Additional annual pension benefit 78,860 of which: of their pension on a basis that is fair and reasonable, both to them onearly retirement under EERF 14,390 is funded at 31December 2013 64,470 is unfunded and to shareholders.
Currently, approximately 11 UK employed In addition, in 2013 Richard Solomons received a cash executives participate in the ICETUS arrangement.
allowance in lieu of pension contributions of 110,850.
This is part of the process of redrawing IHGs pension arrangements The breakdown of the pension element of the single figure and minimising the future risks to the company.
In the event the for2012 and 2013 for Richard Solomons is as follows: cash-out offer is accepted by an Executive Director, details will be 2013 2012 disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Directors Remuneration.
000 000 This is in relation to previously disclosed benefits.
Pension benefit under defined benefit 135 1,140 section of IC Plan Themain features of the executive defined benefit section of the Cash allowance in lieu of IC Plan, which is a funded, final salary, occupational scheme are: 111 pensioncontribution normal pension age of 60 9 October 2021, for Richard Solomons : Total 246 1,140 th pension accrual of 1 30 of final pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service: life assurance cover of four times pensionable salary: pensions payable in the event of ill-health: and spouses, partners and dependents pensions on death.
Following the closure of these arrangements to future accrual from July 2013, Richard Solomons receives a cash sum in lieu of pension contributions.
Governance 91 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued Tracy Robbins did not participate in any IHG pension plan in 2013.
Kirk Kinsell participates in the US 401 k Plan and the US Deferred As a result of the reduction in the Lifetime Allowance in 2012, Compensation Plan.
The US 401 k Plan is a tax qualified plan contributions ceased and instead Tracy Robbins receives a cash providing benefits on a defined contribution basis, with the allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
For 2013, the cash member and relevant company both contributing.
The US Deferred allowance received was 126,400.
Compensation Plan is a non-tax qualified plan, providing benefits on a defined contribution basis, with the member and the relevant Tom Singer did not participate in any IHG pension plan and for company both contributing.
Contributions made by, and in respect of, Kirk Kinsell in these Life assurance cover of four times pensionable salary was also plans for the year ended 31 December 2013 were: provided for both Tracy Robbins and Tom Singer.
1 Item Directors contributions to US Deferred 164,912 Compensation Plan Directors contributions to US 401 k Plan 14,720 Company contributions to US Deferred 107,726 Compensation Plan Company contributions to US 401 k Plan 6,528 58 Age at 31 December 2013 1 Sterling values have been calculated using an exchange rate of $1 0.64.
Scheme interests awarded during 2013 audited information During 2013, awards relating to shares were granted under the 2013 15 LTIP.
Awards were made to each Executive Director over shares with a value of 205% of salary using an average share price over the three business days immediately prior to grant.
These are in the form of conditional awards over IHG shares and do not carry the right to dividends or dividend equivalents during the vesting period.
These awards will vest, and the shares will be transferred to the award holder in February 2016 to the extent performance targets are met see page 90 for an explanation of the performance measures.
Market price per Face value of Number of shares 1 share at grant award at grant received if minimum 2 Executive Director Award date Maximum shares awarded 000 performance achieved 2013 15 cycle Richard Solomons 5 April 2013 76,319 19.85 1,515 15,263 Kirk Kinsell 5 April 2013 53,049 19.85 1,053 10,609 Tracy Robbins 5 April 2013 43,819 19.85 870 8,763 3 Tom Singer 5 April 2013 56,883 19.85 1,129 11,376 1 Share price was the closing mid-market share price on 4 April 2013.
2 Minimum performance is equal to 20% of maximum award.
3 Tom Singers award lapsed as a result of his resignation with effect from 1 January 2014.
The vesting date for these awards is the day after the announcement of our annual results in 2016.
Net rooms growth and RevPAR growth will be measured by reference to the three years ending 30 September 2015: TSR will be measured by reference to the three years ending 31December 2015.
Other outstanding awards During 2012, awards relating to shares were granted under the 2012 14 LTIP, as shown below on the same basis as the 2013 15 LTIP cycle shown above.
These awards will vest in February 2015 to the extent performance targets are met see page 90 for an explanation of the performance measures.
Market price per Face value of Number of shares 1 share at grant award at grant received if minimum 2 Executive Director Award date Maximum shares awarded 000 performance achieved 2012 14 cycle Richard Solomons 5 April 2012 103,722 14.25 1,478 20,744 Kirk Kinsell 5 April 2012 68,463 14.25 976 13,692 Tracy Robbins 5 April 2012 59,270 14.25 845 11,854 3 Tom Singer 5 April 2012 51,789 14.25 738 10,358 1 Share price was the closing mid-market share price on 4 April 2012.
3 Following Tom Singers resignation with effect from 1 January 2014, Tom Singers award will vest in line with the LTIP plan rules on a pro-rated basis for the proportion of the performance period in which Tom Singer remained in employment, as determined by the Committee.
The pro-rated award is shown in the table above.
Vesting will not be accelerated.
The vesting date for these awards is the day after the announcement of our annual results in 2015.
Net rooms growth and RevPAR growth will be measured by reference to the three years ending 30 September 2014: TSR will be measured by reference to the three years ending 31 December 2014.
92 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Current position on outstanding awards Details of the performance measures and potential vesting outcomes for outstanding awards as at 31 December 2013 are as follows: Performance Threshold Maximum Threshold Maximum award Potential vesting measure performance performance maximum vesting Weighting % of salary outcome 2013 15 cycle Improved Net rooms Average of the 1st in the performance 20% 100% 25% 51.25% growth comparator group comparator group needed to achieve threshold vesting Improved Average of the 1st in the performance RevPAR growth 20% 100% 25% 51.25% comparator group comparator group needed to achieve threshold vesting Improved Growth exceeds Growth equal to the performance TSR the index by 8% 20% 100% 50% 102.5% DJGH index needed to achieve per year or more threshold vesting 2012 14 cycle Improved Net rooms Average of the 1st in the performance 20% 100% 25% 51.25% growth comparator group comparator group needed to achieve threshold vesting Improved Average of the 1st in the performance RevPAR growth 20% 100% 25% 51.25% comparator group comparator group needed to achieve threshold vesting Growth exceeds Maximum vesting if Growth equal to the TSR the index by 8% 20% 100% 50% 102.5% current performance DJGH index per year or more maintained Share options Between 2003 and 2005, grants of options were made under the IHG Executive Share Option Plan.
No price was paid for the grant of these options.
The performance conditions that applied to these options were satisfied when they became exercisable.
No executive share options have been granted since 2005.
Options vested but unexercised Options exercised Director 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 1 Richard Solomons nil 330,870 330,870 nil Kirk Kinsell nil nil nil 109,150 1 Share price on date of exercise was 1,942p.
Option prices during the year ranged from 438.00p to 619.83p per IHG share.
The closing market value share price on 31 December 2013 was 2,013p and the range during the year was from 1,737p to 2,039p per share.
Share price range data was provided by Bank of America Merril Lynch.
The gain, before tax, made by Richard Solomons on the exercise of options during the year 2013 was 4,663,884.
London and New York Stock Exchange announcements concerning this option exercise were made on 22 May 2013.
No options were exercised by any other Director during the year.
Governance 93 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information The Committee believes that share ownership by Executive Directors and senior executives strengthens the link between the individuals personal interests and those of shareholders.
Guideline Executive Director shareholding requirement Executive Directors are expected to hold all shares earned net of any share sales required to meet personal tax liabilities, until the guideline shareholding requirement is achieved.
Shares and awards held by Executive Directors as at 31 December 2013: % of salary Director Guideline shareholding Shares held outright Total shares & awards held Richard Solomons 300 1,011 1,985 Kirk Kinsell 200 519 1,580 Tracy Robbins 200 407 1,423 Tom Singer 200 199 1,044 Percentagesare based on shareholding and a share price of 2,013p per share as at 31 December 2013.
2 Awards not subject to performance conditions.
3 Awards still subject to performance conditions as set out on page 97.
Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer The table below shows the percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer compared to UK employees between 2012 and 2013: Chief Executive Officer UK employees We believe that an appropriate comparator group is UK-based 1 Salary 2.7% 3.5% employees because: 2 Taxable benefits -29.0% 0.0% the structure and composition of remuneration for that group 3 Annual incentive 11.0% 16.0% most closely reflects that of the Chief Executive Officer: and 1 The percentage change for UK employees shown is the budget for the 2013 the same UK market dynamics will apply to salary movements, annual pay review and promotions market adjustments during 2013. providing a better like-for-like comparison than an international 2 Based on taxable benefits for tax year ending 5 April in relevant year.
Change shown assumes very good performance individual performance rating and global responsibilities in role.
For the annual incentive, the comparator group used is the grade of executives below Executive Committee level, who are subject to the same performance measures as the Chief Executive Officer.
94 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Relative performance graph and table Throughout 2013, IHG was a member of the FTSE 100 share index and for remuneration purposes used a TSR comparator group of theDJGH index.
Accordingly, the Committee has determined that these are the most appropriate market indices against which to test theGroups performance.
The graph below shows the TSR performance of IHG from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2013, assumingdividends are reinvested, compared with the TSR performance achieved by the FTSE 100 index and the DJGH index.
TSR: InterContinental Hotels Group PLC vs FTSE 100 and Dow Jones Global Hotels indices InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 500 450 DJGH Index 400 FTSE 100 Index 350 300 250 200 150 100 Source: Datastream 50 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Chief Executive Officers remuneration The table below shows the single figure of total remuneration for the incumbent Chief Executive Officer for the five years to 31 December 2013: Financial year ended 1 31 December Chief Executive Officer 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Richard Solomons n a n a 4,724 4,881 3,149 Single figure 000 Andrew Cosslett 1,953 5,430 3,770 n a n a Annual incentive Richard Solomons n a n a 83.0 68.0 74.0 received 2 3 % of maximum Andrew Cosslett nil 100.0 43.0 n a n a Shares received Richard Solomons n a n a 73.9 100.0 59.0 under the LTIP % of maximum Andrew Cosslett 46.0 73.8 61.6 n a n a 1 Andrew Cosslett retired on 30 June 2011 and Richard Solomons was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2011, having previously held the position of Chief Financial Officer and Head of Commercial Development: the single figure value is the total remuneration received by each Director for that year.
2 There was no annual incentive award paid in respect of financial year ended 31 December 2009.
3 No deferred shares were awarded in respect of the 2011 ABP.
Andrew Cosslett received his award as 100% cash pro-rated to 30 June 2011.
Relative importance of spend on pay Remuneration advisers The table below sets out the actual expenditure of the Group The Committee continued to retain  LLP in2011, 2012 and 2013 on employee remuneration and distributions PwC throughout 2013 as independent advisers.
Fees of 132,050 to shareholders and shows the difference in spend between were paid to PwC in respect of advice provided to the Committee on thoseyears: executive remuneration matters in 2013.
This was in the form of an 2013 % 2012 % 2011 agreed fee for support in preparation of papers and attendance at Item $m change $m change $m meetings, with work on additional items charged at hourly rates.
Remuneration paid to PwC also provided tax and other consulting services to the Company 1 1 all employees 656 5 626 1 634 during the year.
Distributions: The terms of engagement for PwC are available from the Company Final dividend Secretarys office on request.
previous year 115 113 102 Ordinary interim dividend 63 61 46 PwC was appointed following acompetitive tender process.
2 3 Special dividend 355 505 0 The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from PwC 4 5 Repurchase of own shares 283 107 0 was objective and independent as PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group.
Members of this group adhere Total distributions 816 3.8 786 431 148 to a voluntary Code of Conduct that sets out the role of executive 1 Restated for the adoption of IAS 19R Employee Benefits.
remuneration consultants in the UK and the professional 2 A special dividend of $1.33 per share was paid to shareholders on 4October standards they have committed to adhere to when advising 2013.
3 A special dividend of $1.72 per share was paid to shareholders on 22October remuneration committees.
4 Under the authority granted by shareholders at the General Meeting held on 8October 2012 and the AGM held on 24 May 2013, 9,773,912 shares were purchased in the period from 8 October 2012 to 31 December 2013 for a total consideration of $283m.
5 Under the authority granted by shareholders at the General Meeting held on 8October 2012, 4,143,960 shares were purchased in the period to 31 December 2012 for a total consideration of $107m.
Governance 95 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued Payments to past Directors audited information Special dividends paid to Executive Directors In February 2013, Andrew Cosslett received 80,403 shares when The Company paid special dividends to its shareholders on the 2010 12 LTIP vested.
These relate to awards made while 22October 2012 and 4 October 2013.
Andrew Cosslett was Chief Executive Officer.
The share price at The 2012 special dividend was accompanied by a share vesting on 20 February 2013 was 1,953p.
consolidation in order to maintain comparability as far as Sir Ian Prosser, who retired as a Director on 31 December 2003, possible of the share price before and after the payment of had an ongoing healthcare benefit of 1,379 during the year.
Neither LTIP award holders nor IHG Executive Share Option Plan holders were entitled to receive Payments for loss of office audited information the special dividend.
Executive Directors holding forfeitable There were no payments made for loss of office in 2013. shares under theABP the predecessor plan to the APP received the specialdividend and their share awards were subject to Voting at IHG Annual General Meetings the shareconsolidation.
At IHGs most recent AGMs, the annual advisory vote in respect of The 2013 special dividend was not accompanied by a share the Directors Remuneration Report was as follows: consolidation.
Neither LTIP award holders nor IHG Executive Share AGM Votes for Votes against Abstentions Option Plan holders were entitled to receive the special dividend.
160,795,577 26,762,429 Executive Directors holding forfeitable shares under theABP 2013 1,226,617 85.73% 14.27% received the special dividend.
203,110,989 9,651,718 2012 1,750,533 Kirk Kinsell holds some of his ABP deferred shares in the form 95.46% 4.54% of conditional awards, which were not eligible to receive the 180,843,226 7,062,882 2011 9,927,433 96.24% 3.76% special dividend, rather than forfeitable shares.
To ensure equity of treatment with other Executive Committee members, a dividend The vote at the 2011 AGM related to the 2010 Remuneration Report, equivalent was paid in respect of these awards to Kirk Kinsell.
which contained details of the introduction of new LTIPmeasures for the 2011 13 cycle relative net rooms and RevPAR growth.
Single total figure of remuneration: Non-Executive Directors audited information 6 Fees 000 Benefits 000 Total 000 Non-Executive Director 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 1 Patrick Cescau 400 nil 14 nil 414 nil 2 David Webster nil 406 nil 12 nil 418 3 Ian Dyson 23 nil 1 nil 24 nil David Kappler 109 105 2 2 111 107 Jennifer Laing 80 78 2 3 82 81 Jonathan Linen 69 66 90 64 159 130 4 Jill McDonald 40 nil 3 nil 43 nil Luke Mayhew 91 88 2 2 93 90 Dale Morrison 69 66 22 16 91 82 Ying Yeh 69 66 72 11 141 77 5 Graham Allan nil 31 nil nil nil 31 1 Patrick Cescau was appointed as Chairman of the Board on 1 January 2013.
2 David Webster retired as Chairman of the Board on 31 December 2012.
3 Ian Dyson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2013.
4 Jill McDonald was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2013.
5 Graham Allan resigned as Non-Executive Director on 15 June 2012.
6 Benefits include taxable travel and accommodation expenses to attend Board meetings away from home location: under concessionary HM Revenue & Customs rules, non-UK based Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Linen, Dale Morrison and Ying Yeh are not subject to tax on travel expenses for the first five years.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee which is agreed by the Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board, taking into account fees paid in other companies of similar complexity.
These fees also reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of the roles.
Accordingly, higher fees are payable to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee David Kappler and the Chairmen of the Remuneration Luke Mayhew and Corporate Responsibility Committees Jennifer Laing.
The Chairmans fees are agreed by the Committee.
Non-Executive Directors fee levels are reviewed annually.
96 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2014 We set out below a statement of the implementation of the For TSR, threshold performance 20% vesting is achieved when Directors Remuneration Policy in 2014. growth is equal to the DJGH index and maximum performance 100% vesting is achieved when growth exceeds the index by Salary: Executive Directors 8% peryear or more.
2014 2014 2013 2013 Fees: Non-Executive Directors Executive Director $ $ Richard Solomons 765,000 739,000 The following fee levels will apply from 1 January 2014: Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson 420,000 Non-Executive 2014 2013 1 Kirk Kinsell 793,500 774,000 Director Role Tracy Robbins 437,000 424,300 Patrick Cescau Chairman of the Board 412,000 400,000 1 Senior Independent Director Kirk Kinsell is paid in US dollars and his annual base salary for 2013 and2014 is shown in US dollars above.
The equivalent sterling values calculated using David Kappler and Chairman of Audit 111,750 108,500 an exchange rate of $1 0.64 are: 2013 494,635: and2014 507,096.
Committee Chairman of Remuneration Luke Mayhew 93,750 91,000 The overall budget for salary increases for IHG corporate Committee employees in the UK and US, and the overall increase in the Chairman of Corporate Jennifer Laing 82,500 80,000 Executive Directors salaries for 2014 is as follows: Responsibility Committee Others Non-Executive Director 70,500 68,500 UK corporate employees US corporate employees Executive Directors 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% David Kappler will step down as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2014 and retire as a Non-Executive Director on 31 May 2014.
Performance measures and targets With effect from 1 April 2014, Ian Dyson will become Chairman of The performance measures and targets for the 2014 APP and the Audit Committee and his annual fee will increase to 93,750. the 2014 16 LTIP cycle are the same as for the 2013 APP and the 2013 15 LTIP cycle respectively.
With effect from 31 May 2014, Dale Morrison will become Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and his annual fee will 2014 APP increase to 93,750.
For 2014, the Committee has approved a maximum opportunity of 200% of salary 50% cash and 50% IHG shares deferred for three years.
Luke Mayhew, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 17 February 2014 Awards will be based on individual and Group achievement using performance measures relating to: Guest satisfaction Guest HeartBeat 20%: Employee Engagement 10%: and EBIT 70%.
For Guest HeartBeat and Employee Engagement, the 2014 targets are set as an improvement over 2013 scores.
The 2014 EBIT element relates to the 2014 EBIT target figure.
The actual targets under the performance measures for the APP for2014 are not and will not be disclosed as they are, in the opinion of the Directors, commercially sensitive.
Disclosure would provide IHGs major competitors with an unfair commercial advantage as these companies are either unlisted or listed onastock exchange other than the London Stock Exchange, andtherefore not subject to the same obligation to disclose incentiveplan targets.
2014 16 LTIP cycle For the 2014 16 LTIP, the Committee has approved awards to Executive Directors over shares with a maximum value of 205% of salary.
Share awards will vest after three years if the following performance conditions are met: 25% relative net rooms growth: 25% relative RevPAR growth: and 50% relative TSR vs the DJGH index.
For net rooms and RevPAR growth, threshold performance 20%vesting is equal to the average of the comparator group: and maximum performance 100% vesting is achieved when IHG is firstin the comparator group.
Governance 97 Staybridge Suites Hamilton Downtown, Ontario, Canada 1997 Staybridge Suites Staybridge Suites hotels, launched in 1997, isIHGs extended-stay brand for business and leisure travellers who spend an extended time away from home and prefer a warm, home-like and community environment.
196 properties: 21,518 rooms open 80 properties in the pipeline 98 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group Financial Statements Candlewood Suites St. Joseph, Missouri, US 2003 Contents Candlewood Suites 100 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Candlewood Suites is IHGs extended-stay brand 101 Independent Auditors UK Report inNorth America aimed at providing guests with 103 Independent Auditors US Report a relaxed, casual and home-like environment at 104 Group income statement great value.
Thetwo brand hallmarks of the 105 Group statement of comprehensive income Candlewood Cupboard and Lending Locker 106 Group statement of changes in equity depict the trust system, which has always 109 Group statement of financial position prevailed for the brand.
110 Group statement of cash flows 111 Accounting policies 312 properties: 29,778 rooms open 117 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 80 properties in the pipeline Group Financial Statements 99
