Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement Format of this report This year sees the introduction of a binding shareholder vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy see pages 78 to 86 in addition to the advisory vote on the Annual Report on Directors Remuneration see pages 87 to 96.
The new regulations and guidelines have helped clarify best practice in sharing information with shareholders.
Consistent with our historic approach of transparency with shareholders, our 2012 Directors Remuneration Report reflected as much as possible of the direction and spirit of the then draft new rules.
The 2012 Directors Remuneration Report won the PwC Building Public Trust Award for Executive Committee membership Remuneration Reporting in the FTSE 100.
Luke Mayhew Chairman Board changes Members Ian Dyson, David Kappler, Jonathan Linen, Ying Yeh Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 January 2014 following the resignation of Tom Singer with effect from that date.
Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson For full biographies, please see pages 57 to 59. was previously Chief Financial Officer of IHGs Europe and Asia, Middle East and Africa regions.
Paul Edgecliffe-Johnsons annual Dear Shareholder salary on appointment was 420,000, with the first review date 2013 corporate performance and incentive outcomes being 1 April 2015.
The usual annual and long-term incentive award levels will apply.
IHG continued to deliver sustainable and attractive returns for shareholders in 2013, as shown by the financial corporate Directors Remuneration Policy at IHG performance indicators in the table below.
Our Remuneration Policy remains largely unchanged from last This is the first year in which the Annual Performance Plan APP year.
In presenting the policy we have looked to explain how the has included measures of guest satisfaction Guest HeartBeat elements relate to the business strategy and also clearly identify and employee engagement: overall there were encouraging where the Committee has reserved the ability to use its discretion performance improvements at both global and regional levels.
to ensure that actual remuneration reflects underlying business performance and shareholder return.
Under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP 2011 13 cycle, strong three-year Total Shareholder Return TSR resulted in maximum We believe that the current policy as a whole is well-aligned to vesting of this element 50% of total award.
However, there was only the business strategy and growing long-term shareholder value.
partial vesting for the Revenue per available room RevPAR growth We are comfortable that the outcomes have reflected business element 25%, and no vesting against the net rooms growth target performance.
During 2013, the Committee discussed a number 25%.
This LTIP cycle was the first with relative RevPAR and rooms of issues that were raised by shareholders in the context of the growth targets.
public debate about executive remuneration.
These included Executive Director shareholdings, the use of the TSR as an LTIP Executive Director remuneration has reflected this overall measure and pension arrangements.
performance with APP awards slightly above target and comparable to last year, and 59% vesting under the 2011 13 Executive Director shareholdings LTIP cycle, down on last years full vesting.
We encourage senior executives to hold shares.
The Chief Executive Officer has a minimum requirement to hold 300% of salary in shares: other Executive Directors 200%.
At the end of 2013, Corporate performance indicators 2013 2012 2011 the Chief Executive Officer held 1,011% of salary in shares owned Operating profit before 10.4% 10.4% 25.9% outright and a further 974% of salary in unvested share awards.
1 2 3 exceptional items $668m $605m $548m Given this level of shareholding, we do not consider it necessary at this Full-year dividend per time to change our policy or require a post-vesting holding period.
share excluding any 70 64 55 special dividends and 43.2p 41.2p 34.5p Use of TSR as an LTIP measure capital returns We believe that the combination of TSR, relative growth Three-year total in net rooms and RevPAR, provides the right balance and 18.4% 28.2% 29.8% TSR annualised focus for driving and rewarding long-term success at IHG.
1 However, we do understand that achievement of these measures Includes three liquidated damages receipts in 2013: $31m in The Americas, $9m in Europe and $6m in AMEA.
has to be underpinned by improvements across a whole range 2 Includes one significant liquidated damages receipt in 2012 of $3m in of financial performance metrics.
To support this, during 2013, The Americas.
3 the Committee decided to reserve the discretion to review the Includes two significant liquidated damages receipts in 2011: $10m in The Americas and $6m in AMEA.
vesting outcomes under all of the LTIP measures at the end of each three-year cycle against an assessment of the Groups With effect from 1 January 2013 the Group has adopted IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits resulting in the following additional charges to earnings and the quality of financial performance over the operating profit: $5m for the six months ended 30 June 2012: $9m for the period, including sustainable growth and the efficient use of 12 months ended 31 December 2012: $6m for the six months ended 30 cash and capital.
June 2011 and $11m for the 12 months ended 31 December 2011.
74 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Pension arrangements New incentive plan rules We are continuing to make progress in reducing the risks and The rules of our annual and long-term incentive plans are due potential liabilities from our legacy UK defined benefit pension to expire in 2015, and, in line with good practice, we will present scheme.
This was closed to new members in 2002 and closed updated rules for these plans to shareholders at the 2014 AGM at to future accruals in June 2013, following which the plan liabilities the same time as the Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual of the defined benefit section of the InterContinental Hotels UK Report on Directors Remuneration and Implementation of Pension Plan were also secured with an insurer.
We continue to Remuneration Policy in 2014.
These rules reflect the policy set out work to remove defined benefit liabilities and risks from the in this Directors Remuneration Report.
The focus in 2014 is on the historic Conclusion Enhanced Early Retirement Facility EERF pension arrangements, the InterContinental Executive Top-Up Scheme ICETUS and the The Board recommends this Directors Remuneration Policy Six Continents Executive Top-Up Scheme SCETUS.
It will provide the framework to allow us to recruit, motivate and retain the talent IHG needs and to ensure A relatively small group of executives have had a non-contractual the alignment of executive remuneration with the creation of opportunity to retire at 55 without a reduction in their pension value for shareholders.
This requires the consent of the Company.
This facility will be phased out.
As part of this phasing out there will be an This Directors Remuneration Report was approved by the Board immediate increase in the age from which most participants are on 17 February 2014. eligible to request the facility.
Richard Solomons facility is being phased out in line with all other plan members.
Luke Mayhew, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee During 2014, we also plan to offer members of the ICETUS SCETUS, 17 February 2014 the unfunded, unregistered top-up plan, an opportunity to receive a cash alternative to benefits under the ICETUS SCETUS.
This will be calculated at a rate which is fair and reasonable, both to scheme members and shareholders.
Richard Solomons currently participates in the ICETUS arrangement.
Following these changes, we will have largely completed the process of redrawing IHGs UK pension arrangements and minimising the risks to the Company going forward from the historic defined benefit arrangements: these changes should significantly reduce IHGs pension liability risks.
Content of the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report 76 Governance 77 Strategic context 78-86 Directors Remuneration Policy 87-96 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration 97 Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2014 At the Companys forthcoming AGM on 2 May 2014, the Directors Remuneration Policy will be subject to a binding vote by shareholders, and the Annual Report on Directors Remuneration and Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2014 together are subject to an advisory vote by shareholders.
Governance 75 Directors Remuneration Report continued Governance Remuneration Committee and consideration ofmatters the Committee reserves the discretion to determine that relating to Directors remuneration payouts in the LTIP be adjusted if they are not consistent with the Committees assessment of the Groups earnings and the The Committee comprises the following members, all of whom quality of the financial performance over the relevant were independent Non-Executive Directors: performance period: and Number of for awards under the Companys incentive plans made from Member Role Date of appointment meetings attended January 2012, malus provisions, which allow for the value of Luke Mayhew Chairman 1 July 2011 6 6 1 awards to be reduced or extinguished before vesting, may be Ian Dyson Member 1 September 2013 3 3 used by the Committee in any situation of misconduct that 2 David Kappler Member 21 June 2004 5 6 causes significant damage or potential damage to IHGs Jonathan Linen Member 1 December 2005 6 6 prospects, finances or brand reputation, and or actions that Ying Yeh Member 1 December 2007 6 6 leadto material misstatement or restatement of accounts.
1 Ian Dyson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 September2013.
2 David Kappler missed one committee meeting due to a prior commitment Key issues discussed in 2013 meetings known to the board in advance.
In 2013, the Committee met six times at which the following Patrick Cescau Chairman of the Board attended all but the matters were discussed: September meeting.
Richard Solomons ChiefExecutive Officer Date Key issues discussed and Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, Human Resources 14 February 2012 Executive Committee annual and Group Operations Support attended all meetings.
performance and salary review 2013 Executive Committee key Jennifer Laing attended the February and May meetings and performance objectives DaleMorrison attended the May meeting.
They are both members 2012 Annual Bonus Plan ABP and 2010 12 of the Audit, Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
LTIP results Jean-Pierre Nol Senior Vice President, Global Reward 2013 APP structure attended all meetings and provided advice to the Committee 2013 15 LTIP targets and awards on remuneration proposals as required.
2013 Remuneration Committee agenda 2012 Directors Remuneration Report No individual was present when their own remuneration was beingconsidered.
2 May Review of approach to performance management Governance LTIP: review of TSR measure The Committees remit is set out in its terms of reference, 2013 Remuneration Committee agenda whichare reviewed annually and were updated by the Board in December 2013.
They are available on the Companys website 18 June Directors Remuneration Report: new disclosure requirements at www.
com investors under corporate governance 2013 APP: overview and projections committees, orfrom the Company Secretarys office on request.
LTIP: operation of the measures Responsibilities AGM update The Committee agrees, on behalf of the Board, all aspects of 26 September Directors Remuneration Report: new the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Executive disclosure requirements Committee, and agrees the strategy, direction and policy for the Linking LTIP with individual performance remuneration of other senior executives who have a significant 2013 incentive plan target projections influence over the Companys ability to meet its strategic objectives.
Structure of ABP and APP deferred shares Committee approach to managing risk 1 November 2014 APP: approach to target setting The approach to remuneration is to directly link it to IHGs strategy.
Structure of APP deferred share awards Risk management is a key part of IHGs responsible business Approach to potential introduction of practices and the Committee considers risk mitigation as central to employee share plan the way that incentive arrangements are structured, for example: 11 December 2013 APP: approach to measurement the APP and LTIP are all structured so as to have a balance of oftargets measures that ensure senior executives are not incentivised to 2014 Executive Committee Key behave in a way that could adversely affect the sustainable growth  of the Group and the long-term interests of its shareholders.
LTIP and APP: new plan rules Forinstance, in the 2013 and 2014 APP, the drive for short-term 2013 Directors Remuneration Report financial results is balanced by performance measures focused Update on incentive plan achievement on guest satisfaction and employee engagement: 2014 Remuneration Committee agenda Approach to LTIP discretion and Executive Director Shareholdings Remuneration Committee terms ofreference Pensions Details of remuneration advisers to the Committee can be found on page 95.
76 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strategic context Key remuneration principles Link with strategy IHGs executive remuneration principles are designed to drive the Our strategy for high-quality growth detailed on pages 18 and 19, delivery of strategic objectives by: is the driver of our reward structure.
attracting and retaining high-quality executives in an environment The Key Performance Indicators KPIs set out on pages 38 and 39, where compensation is based on global marketpractice: monitor our success in achieving our strategy and measure the progress of our Group to deliver high-quality growth.
They are aligning rewards for executives with the achievement of organised around the elements of our strategy: Winning Model, business performance targets, strategic objectives and Targeted Portfolio and Disciplined Execution and are reflected returns to shareholders: in IHGs annual and long-term incentive plans as shown below: supporting equitable treatment between members of the same executive team: and facilitating global assignments and relocations.
IHGs remuneration structure for senior executives places a strongemphasis on performance-related reward.
The Committee believes that it is important to reward management, including the Executive Directors, for targets achieved, provided those targets arestretching.
Value creation: Superior shareholder returns Winning Model Targeted Portfolio Preferred brands Superior owner Attractive markets delivered through proposition our people 5 1 Highest opportunity 4 2 Effective channel segments Build and management leverage scale 3 Managed and Strong brand portfolio franchised model & loyalty programme Relative TSR growth reects Disciplined Execution value created for shareholders and is a key element of the Scale and efficiency Investment in developing great Commitment to responsible Long Term Incentive Plan.
of operations talent and technology platforms business practices KPIs reected Long Term Incentive Plan Measures balance the quality of hotels with the speed at in incentive which we grow: plans Relative net rooms growth Supports our business model, segment and market strategies to grow IHG System size Net rooms supply Relative RevPAR growth Reects the sustainable power of our brands and our scale, and focuses growth on quality Global RevPAR rooms in key markets Relative TSR Provides alignment with shareholder returns Annual Performance Plan Measures provide focus on key drivers of sustainable growth: Guest HeartBeat Guest HeartBeat The Guest HeartBeat score reects guest satisfaction and is an indicator of the strength of our brands Employee Engagement Employee Engagement Engaged employees are key to our survey scores business and our people deliver our preferred brands Revenue KPIs EBIT Provides annual focus on earnings growth driven by core operating inputs, namely rooms growth, RevPAR, fee revenue and profit margins Governance 77
