Governance Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder A personal element to leaders annual incentive measures to On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our ensure a focus on the delivery of key pre-determined Remuneration Report for 2012 13 which will be strategic objectives.
proposed for approval by advisory vote at the 2013 AGM.
The table on page 60 p rovides further detail on the link between We have followed closely the widespread debate on the issue our strategy and remuneration.
of executive pay during the last year and, in the spirit of The Remuneration Committee welcomes the opportunity that transparency, we have made signi cant enhancements to the this Report provides to explain our remuneration policy and to Remuneration Report for 2012 13 which re ect the proposals receive feedback from our shareholders.
The Remuneration from the Department of Business, Innovation & Skills BIS.
Committee noted that the Remuneration Report 2011 12 AsIwrite, the BIS proposed revised directors remuneration received a 97.7% vote in favour at the 2012 AGM.
However, we reporting regulations are subject to Parliamentary assent and it consider carefully all shareholder views expressed.
In the lead is anticipated that they will come into force on 1 October 2013, up to the 2012 AGM, shareholders and their representative so we are not in a position to re ect the final regulations at this bodies raised two points on which I would like to take this time.
However, we have endeavoured to comply with the spirit opportunity to comment: of the draft regulations by making additional disclosures, including: The Remuneration Committees decision to increase the maximum bonus potential for the Chief Legal Of cer to 200% a single number for the remuneration of each executive of base salary for super-stretch performance and 100% for director: target performance.
This decision was taken to provide an enhanced Remuneration Policy Table which provides equity and consistency across the incentive framework for greater detail on each element of pay, including the link to the three executive directors and to re ect Victoria Hulls strategy, performance metrics and changes in the year: contribution to the Group: and a chart detailing what reward executive directors could The fact that additional payments were made to the former receive for achieving minimum, target and maximum levels Chief Executive Ulf Henriksson who left the Group in March ofperformance: and 2011 in May 2012 in relation to a release and waiver of claims a table providing a five-year analysis of the pay of the he might have had against the Company.
approved by the Remuneration Committee to expedite We are conscious of the complexity that these additional negotiations with Mr Henriksson, and to provide the disclosures present.
We have strived to make the Remuneration necessary legal protection for the Company.
Report as easy as possible to digest and provide our On re ection, the Remuneration Committee remains satis ed shareholders with the information required to assess the that the two decisions outlined above were appropriate and in decisions made by the Remuneration Committee in a the best interests of the Company.
In general, the Remuneration Report 2011 12 was well received Our remuneration strategy has remained consistent at Invensys and, in particular, there were supportive comments in relation to over many years.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Remuneration Committees decision not to make bonus pay should re ect performance with a high proportion of total payments to executive directors for 2011 12, given the overall reward based on growth in pro t and the creation of disappointing financial performance of the Group.
despite the Remuneration Committees assessment that this As outlined in the Chief Executives Statement on pages 8 and was largely due to legacy issues and that the executive 9, the Company has had a transformational year.
This has been directors had met or exceeded their personal performance re ected in the remuneration outcomes for executive directors targets for the year.
The fact that the Remuneration Committee for 2012 13 with annual bonuses close to maximum payout.
has approved the payment of near maximum bonus payments for 2012 13 recognises the transformational year for Invensys With regard to the 2010 LTIP Award, this will vest at 47.2% for and demonstrates our strong link between pay and the Chief Executive.
This vesting re ects average performance performance.
over a three-year period to 31 March 2013, which has included some disappointments as well as successes.
Going forward we will review our remuneration strategy to ensure we continue to incentivise the delivery of strong financial There will be no base salary increases for the executive results and the creation of shareholder value.
The decision to freeze executive directors salaries was taken, on the recommendation of the Chief Executive, against the background of the restructuring of the Group resulting from the sale of the Invensys Rail division.
Our reward policy is aligned with our broader strategic goals asfollows: Dr Martin Read A high proportion of remuneration is directly linked to the Chairman of the  annual and long-term performance of the Group.
Base salaries are, on the whole, set at levels which are around marketmedian for the sectors and countries in which we operate.
High levels of reward can only be achieved by delivering our strategic financial performance goals: A clear line of sight between leaders rewards and the business for which they are responsible: and Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 57 Alignment strategy, pay and performance The tables below provide a summary of the key remuneration outcomes The contents of the Remuneration for 2012 13 and the structure for 2013 14.
Report are as follows: 59 1Remuneration Committee Base salary Members Governance Base salaries have been frozen at prior year levels for the three Effectiveness of the Remuneration executive directors for 2013 14: Committee Chief Executive 669,500: Role Chief Financial Of cer 370,800: and Activities of the Remuneration Committee Chief Legal Of cer 350,200.
2 Remuneration strategy 60 andpolicy Remuneration Policy Table for Annual incentives executive directors Strategic alignment of reward Bonus payments for 2012 13 were close to maximum, re ecting the Pay for performance: illustrative transformational year for Invensys: scenario analysis Maximum bonus payment was 200% of base salary based Cash distribution statement ont he achievement of super-stretch performance: Remuneration policy Executive directors received bonus payments of 198.6% of Base salary salary for 2012 13, of which 98.6% of salary will be paid in Annual incentive arrangements deferred shares: and Long-term incentive arrangements Structure of bonus plan unchanged for 2013 14.
Pension arrangements Other bene ts Restricted Share Plan RSP Savings Related Share Option Scheme Dilution limits Long-term incentives Share Ownership Guidelines With regard to the Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP : External directorships 2010 Award will vest at 47.2% for the Chief Executive as a result Tax loans ofthe EPS-based element being close to the maximum vesting Former Chief Executives level and the TSR-based total shareholder return element Service contracts providing zero vesting: and Share performance and An LTIP award will be made in 2013 14 with a value of 200% of Chief Executive pay salary for the executive directors, using EPS and TSR TSR performance graph performance measures on a similar basis to previous awards.
Single total gure 3 Chairman and non-executive 6 8 directors Chairmans appointment, terms andfee Non-executive directors appointments, terms and fees 4Directors emoluments 69 andinterests in shares andshareplans audited information Remuneration Directors interests in shares Directors fide ned bene t pension entitlements 58 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance New Bridge Street part of Aon Hewitt Limited The Remuneration Committee is satis ed that 1 Remuneration Committee provided the Remuneration Committee with it has fully discharged its responsibilities under data in relation to total shareholder return its terms of reference.
1 Members TSR and ranking information for the 2007 Dr Martin Read Chairman The fee arrangements for non-executive Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP.
The 2 Francesco Caio directors are a matter for the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee was provided with Paul Lester Company and the executive directors of the legal advice from Fresh elds Bruckhaus Michael Parker Board and further detail is set out on page 6 8.
Deringer LLP, who are also lawyers to the Sir Nigel Rudd Company.
Activities of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee met on five Notes The key matters considered by the occasions during the year and details of 1 Deena Mattar will join the Remuneration Committee with Remuneration Committee during 2012 13 members attendance are set out on page 45. effect from the 2013 AGM.
were to: 2 Retiring with effect from the 2013 AGM.
One of the meetings included a strategy session which focused speci cally on the review executive directors and GLT appropriateness of the remuneration policy for remuneration, including base salary and Governance the following financial year.
incentive arrangements: All members are independent non-executive approve the outturn of performance targets directors, other than Sir Nigel Rudd, the Communication with shareholders is given a for the Executive Bonus Plan for the prior Chairman of the Company.
At the invitation of high priority and the Chairman of the year and the structure and performance the Chairman of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee held discussions targets for the current year: Committee, other non-executive directors also with shareholders on relevant matters during approve annual awards under the 2007 LTIP attend meetings.
The executive directors, the course of the financial year.
and the Restricted Share Plan RSP : Chief Human Resources Of cer and the Vice Effectiveness of the Remuneration assess performance conditions relating to President Total Reward are invited to attend Committee executive share awards under the 2007 LTIP meetings, other than when their own The internal Board evaluation detailed on vesting during the year: remuneration is being considered.
The page 48 con rmed that the Remuneration recommend the change to the 2007 LTIP Chairman of the Company does not attend Committee was operating effectively, focused rules to allow, at the discretion of the when his fee is under review.
One of the Remuneration Committee, awards to vest To ensure that the Groups remuneration recommendations from the evaluation was that early rather than only in compassionate practices remain market competitive and the Remuneration Committee should review circumstances: compliant, advice during the year was received the remuneration strategy for appropriateness approve termination packages for leavers from Kepler Associates, the independent in light of the reorganised Group.
within the GLT: consultants to the Remuneration Committee, approve a settlement with HMRC relating to Role on issues relating to the remuneration the former Chief Executive: The Remuneration Committee has a number arrangements for the executive directors approve supplementary incentive of responsibilities as set out in its terms of and other senior leaders in the Group.
arrangements for senior leaders in the reference which are available in full on the Invensys Rail division aimed at rewarding Kepler Associates was appointed by the Groups website.
In summary the key successful completion of the sale of the Remuneration Committee in 2010.
Their responsibilities are to: division: reporting relationship is to the Chairman of the recommend to the Board the broad policy agree the treatment of LTIP awards for Remuneration Committee, although they work for the remuneration of the Chairman, executives leaving with the sale of Invensys with management in supporting the executive directors, Company Secretary, Rail and through reorganisation of the Remuneration Committee.
During the year, the Group Leadership Team GLT and Group: they have provided advice to the certain leaders below the GLT whose consider the implications of the proposed Remuneration Committee on a broad range of remuneration is above a certain level and, return of cash and share consolidation on issues including executive base salaries, total within the terms of this agreed policy, share awards: remuneration market positioning, incentive approve individual remuneration packages: undertake the annual review of its terms of design and corporate governance issues as approve the targets for any performancereference and the annual assessment of they relate to remuneration.
The role of Kepler related incentives and approve the total independent adviser services and costs: Associates is to provide independent advice to annual payments made under such plans: and the Remuneration Committee and they have review the design of all share incentive plans monitor discussions around executive pay no delegated authority to make any decisions and determine the performance conditions: including the revised remuneration reporting on behalf of the Remuneration Committee.
ensure that contractual terms on requirements published by BIS.
Kepler Associates does not provide any other termination, and any payments made, are advice to the Company.
Fees paid to Kepler fair to the individual and the Group, that Associates for advice to the Remuneration failure is not rewarded and that the duty to Committee during 2012 13 were 88,720.
A mitigate loss is recognised: copy of the terms of appointment of Kepler oversee any major changes in employee Associates is available on the Groups website.
bene t structures throughout the Group: Kepler Associates is a member of the and Remuneration Consultants Group and select independent consultants to advise adheres to its code of conduct.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 59 Remuneration Report continued 2 Remuneration strategy and policy Remuneration Policy Table for executive directors The table below summarises the key elements of pay for executive directors and describes the purpose and link to strategy, operation, maximum opportunity, performance metrics and changes in the year.
Element of package Purpose Policy Summary of operation Base salary Recognise the market value of Salary set re ects the Paid monthly in cash.
Reviewed annually and xed for the the role and an individuals individuals skills, experience 12months commencing 1 April.
skills, contribution, experience and performance.
Base salary reviews take account of prevailing market practice, and performance.
Set pay in a competitive range economic conditions and the levels of base salary review Supports the recruitment and by reference to relevant provided to the broader employee population.
comparators taking into Executive directors base salaries were not increased for account companies with a 2013 14.
Their salaries remain at: Chief Executive 669,500: similar market capitalisation, Chief Financial Of cer 370,800: and Chief Legal Of cer revenue and which operate in a 350,200. relevant sector.
It is anticipated that for incumbent executive directors, any increase in base salaries for 2014 15 will not exceed general market movements and salary increases elsewhere in the Group.
Bonus determined by reference Target level of bonus set at 100% of base salary.
Incentivise executives to to financial and personal Maximum bonus opportunity 200% of base salary.
achieve speci c and stretching targets.
Weightings for 2013 14 are EPS 50%: free cash ow 25%: and pre-determined goals over a Stretch bonus potential set by personal goals 25%.
reference to UK and Bonus up to target performance level paid in cash: bonus Reward on-going personal international market earned in excess of target performance level will be paid in contribution to the success of comparators currently 150% of deferred shares released after three years, subject to the the Group.
executive director not being dismissed for cause.
Focus executives on targets Maximum bonus opportunity of No changes to target calibration, measures or weightings are relevant to the Groups current up to 200% of target bonus for currently envisaged for 2014 15. strategic goals.
achievement of truly exceptional Deferred share element aligns super-stretch financial and interests with our shareholders.
2007 LTIP Drive and reward the delivery of Invensys operates one Annual award level will be 200% of base salary and subject to a sustained underlying EPS and longterm incentive plan which three-year performance period ending 31 March 2016.
was approved by shareholders Awards for executive directors will vest subject to the following Align interests of executives and at the 2007 AGM.
performance conditions: 50% TSR performance: and 50% EPS shareholders through building a Maximum normal annual grant compound annual growth rate CAGR for 2013 14 against an shareholding.
of 200% of base salary: actual underlying EPS gure for continuing operations of 8.5p.
award levels determined by details of the 2007 LTIP performance conditions are provided in individual performance.
Shares will only vest if the Remuneration Committee is satis ed that the underlying performance of the Group has been suf cient.
The Remuneration Committee will consider the future long-term remuneration strategy in light of the refocusing of the Group following the sale of the Invensys Rail division.
If this review were to result in any signi cant change to the remuneration strategy, shareholders would be consulted as appropriate.
Pension or cash Reward on-going contribution Facilitate the accumulation of an Chief Executive entitled to pension allowance equal to 30% of allowance during Invensys career.
appropriate level of postbase salary in lieu of pension entitlement currently paid in part Provide market-competitive retirement bene ts.
as a contribution to a personal pension scheme.
To better manage pension Chief Financial Of cer and Chief Legal Of cer have fide ned expense and mitigate risk, the bene t pension arrangements with respect to base salary up to fide ned bene t scheme was a speci ed salary cap, with a cash allowance of 30% of base closed to new entrants in 2004. salary in lieu of pension accrual on salary above that level.
It is anticipated that any new executive director would be offered a pension allowance equal to 30% of base salary in lieu of pension entitlement.
Share Ownership Align interests of executive Executive directors are required Executive directors will retain all shares net of taxes acquired Guidelines directors with those of to build and maintain a through the vesting of executive share awards until target shareholders.
shareholding of 200% of base holding is achieved.
Existing shareholdings and market salary.
purchased shares are also taken into account.
Service contracts Provide an appropriate level of Notice periods not to exceed Executive directors contracts provide for 12 months notice.
protection to both the executive 12 months except, where Termination payments may be made on a phased basis, and Invensys.
necessary, for a transitional reducing if the director obtains alternative employment.
Provide for mitigation and or phasing of any payment.
60 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Strategic alignment of reward Our approach to remuneration aims to balance risk and reward, encompassing all elements of remuneration including xed pay, incentives, bene ts and career development opportunities.
Base salary and bene ts Shortand medium-term incentives Long-term incentives To enable Invensys to retain and enhance deep To enable Invensys to deliver strong Group To enable Invensys to deliver long-term pro t domain knowledge: performance through sustainable growth: growth and superior returns to shareholders with our leaders sharing in this success: Remunerating executive directors and senior At Group-level, focus on EPS and cash ow: leaders at a level and in a manner that is capable Business targets focus on growing orders and LTIP measures target three-year EPS growth 1 of attracting, retaining and motivating high-calibre operating pro t, balanced with strong cash and above-market returns to shareholders: people: and delivery: Share Ownership Guidelines create an Being market-competitive in the context of our Alignment to lines of business: and alignment of interest between shareholders and reward packages.
A personal element to re ect the achievement of executives: and key strategic priorities.
We encourage a high-performance culture that clearly links executive remuneration to the performance of the Group and the individual.
Note 1 Operating pro t is calculated after charging exceptional items.
Pay for performance: illustrative scenario analysis In line with the current BIS proposals, the chart below shows the potential pay opportunity for each of the elements of the executive directors remuneration under three different scenarios of minimum, target and maximum performance levels for 2013 14.
Wayne Edmunds max target min David Thomas max target min Victoria Hull max target min 0 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m 2.0m 2.5m 3.0m 3.5m 4.0m Base salary Retirement benets Other benets Annual incentive LTIP Assumptions Component Base salary As at 1 April 2013: Chief Executive Mr Edmunds 669,500, Chief Financial Of cer Mr Thomas 370,800, ChiefLegal Of cer Ms Hull 350,200.
Retirement bene ts Cash allowance paid plus where relevant fide ned bene t pension as additional value calculated as per draft BISregulations.
Other bene ts Value of other annual bene ts received.
Min Target Max Annual incentive 0% of salary 100% of salary 200% of salary LTIP 0% of salary 100% of salary 200% of salary 0% vesting 50% vesting 100% vesting Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 61 Remuneration Report continued Cash distribution statement Indetermining base salary, the Remuneration In respect of 2012 13 actual performance, the The chart below shows that the executive Committee is mindful of the pay and element of executive directors bonus based directors aggregate total remuneration conditions of employees in the rest of the on underlying EPS paid at the super-stretch equates to 0.17% of the Groups operating Group and has received relevant data from level of 200% of target payment and the cash ow.
theChief Human Resources Of cer to support element based on free cash ow paid at just its decisions.
In establishing individual salary below super-stretch.
Also, in recognition of the levels, the Remuneration Committee is performance of the executive directors in this 2012 13 cash ow distribution to conscious that it should pay no more than is transformational year for the Group, in which stakeholders % necessary to retain and motivate the their personal goals were met in full, all three executive, while ensuring business objectives executive directors received the super-stretch Staff 81.87 are ful lled.
There is no automatic annual base level of payment for personal performance.
Taxation 3.71 In aggregate, the bonus payment to the Shareholders 3.12 There will be no base salary increases for the executive directors in relation to 2012 13 Investing activities 11.13 executive directors for 2013 14.
This was performance was 198.6% of base salary.
proposed by the Chief Executive to support The 2012 13 bonus earned in excess of 100% the cost savings being achieved through the of target for incumbent members of the GLT Group restructuring.
ispaid in deferred shares in accordance with The Remuneration Committee considers the the rules of the Deferred Share Plan, which Remuneration Policy current base salary levels appropriate to meet are transferred to the individual after three The Remuneration Policy is to provide its objectives of incentivising the executive years for executive directors or two years competitive remuneration for the delivery directors and maintaining competitive pay other GLT members.
oftarget performance, while rewarding levels.
The next salary review date for the exceptional personal and Group performance In relation to the 2012 13 bonus, the executive executive directors will be during 2014 15. with upper quartile levels of remuneration.
directors will receive deferred shares with a TheRemuneration Committee believes that value of 98.6% of base salary in June 2013, Annual incentive arrangements the total reward package provides a strong link vesting in June 2016.
A payment equal to Performance-related bonuses may be paid to to, and a good balance between, annual and 100% of base salary i. e. 100% of target for executive directors and senior leaders under long-term performance.
theexecutive directors, will be paid in cash the Executive Bonus Plan EBP.
The EBP subject to statutory tax withholdings in In setting the Remuneration Policy, the provides annual incentives to encourage the June2013.
Remuneration Committee is cognisant of the achievement of pre fide ned annual financial need to balance risk with reward and remains objectives and personal targets to focus on Having reviewed the results achieved against satis ed with its reward practices.
The the most critical measures of business the financial performance targets set for Remuneration Committee considers risk success, while rewarding executives for 2012 13, the Remuneration Committee is eachyear and has discretion to adjust the outstanding performance.
In this way, the EBP satis ed that the targets set were challenging.
calculation of any financial outturns for seeks to align the interests of shareholders incentive purposes if it considers that and participants.
Executive Bonus Plan 2013 14 disproportionate risk has been taken to The targets for executive directors for 2013 14 For 2012 13 and 2013 14, the Remuneration deliverperformance targets.
are set out in the table below: Committee approved the following performance calibration for the EBP: Underlying Free cash Personal Base salary EPS ow performance The Remuneration Committee determines the Threshold Target Stretch Super-stretch 50% 25% 25% level of base salary for each executive director 10% 100% 150% 200% annually.
For 2011 12, the Remuneration of target of target of target of target The Remuneration Committee has carefully Committee commissioned a full total payout payout payout payout reviewed the financial and personal remuneration benchmarking report from performance targets to be applied for the Kepler Associates which provided relevant The bonus payment available to executive EBPfor 2013 14 and, after considering comparator pay analyses across a range of directors for target performance is 100% of external benchmarks, is of the opinion that international companies which competed with base salary, resulting in a maximum bonus they are set at appropriately stretching levels.
the Group and also benchmarked pay against opportunity for the achievement of superBonus payments may also be in uenced FTSE companies of similar market stretch performance of 200% of base salary through the exercise of discretion by the capitalisation and or revenue.
Any bonus earned 2013 14, the Remuneration Committee asked in excess of target by GLT members will be Kepler Associates to provide external market Executive Bonus Plan 2012 13 paid in deferred shares as set out previously.
data on the level of base salary increases The performance conditions for executive Deferred shares are only forfeitable in the amongst comparator companies to further directors for 2012 13 are set out in the table event of dismissal for cause.
inform its decisions as, given the restructuring below: of the Group, the timing was not thought appropriate to conduct a full benchmarking Underlying Free cash Personal EPS ow performance exercise.
50% 25% 25% The Remuneration Committee additionally considers speci c factors relating to the In line with the EBP rules, the salary used individual including personal performance, forbonus calculation purposes is the salary internal relativities, wage in ation elsewhere effective from 1 April 2012 adjusted for any inthe Group and more general market promotion increases.
62 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Long-term incentive arrangements delivering stretching internal financial targets.
The use of an adjusted base EPS gure of The 2007 LTIP was approved by shareholders In the opinion of the Remuneration Committee 17.2p for awards granted in 2012 13 means at the 2007 AGM and since then the Company these TSR and EPS targets are appropriately that the CAGR target is signi cantly more has made annual awards under this plan.
stretching than it would be using the maximum annual award level for executive underlying EPS for 2011 12 of 13.4p.
With regard to the EPS part of the awards that directors and other participants is normally were granted in 2012 13, the EPS CAGR With regard to the base EPS gure for 2013 14 200% of base salary, although the target would normally use the EPS for the prior LTIP awards, the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee has discretion year as the base i. e. EPS for 2011 12.
The con rmed the use of reported underlying EPS tomake awards in excess of this level in Groups reported EPS for 2011 12 was for 2012 13 for continuing operations i. e. 8.5p exceptional circumstances.
depressed due to the loss of pro t associated as the earnings for Invensys Rail are reported Vesting of awards is based on meeting with certain projects as discussed in the as discontinued operations.
stretching performance targets over a Annual Report and Accounts 2012 and the Following the completion of the return of cash three-year performance period and, subject Remuneration Committee therefore decided and share capital consolidation relating to the tomeeting all relevant conditions, shares will that the 2011 12 reported EPS did not form an sale of the Invensys Rail division, the normally be released to participants as soon appropriate base on which to apply the CAGR Remuneration Committee will consider the as possible following the third anniversary of target for the purpose of LTIP performance impact of these events on the targets for the award.
The satisfaction of all performance measurement.
Reported underlying EPS for subsisting LTIP awards.
targets is subject to external veri cation.
In determining the adjusted base EPS gure of 17.2p for awards For awards to be granted in 2013 14, the granted in 2012 13, the Remuneration Remuneration Committee considered all Committee took account of the: relevant factors and determined that the two components of the award, measuring TSR historical EPS performance of the Group: and EPS, continue to provide a focus on both exceptional impact which certain projects comparative shareholder returns and had on pro tability in 2011 12: and need to set performance conditions which are both stretching and achievable.
For 2012 13 and 2013 14 the performance criteria for the LTIP awards to executive directors measured over a three-year period are set outbelow: Award Performance measure Outline of performance measure Target calibration 50% of award Total shareholder Chosen to reinforce the focus on delivering high 25% will vest for performance equal to the return TSR levels of return to shareholders.
unweighted median of the Index constituents.
th Measured on a local currency basis.
100% will vest for actual upper quartile 75 Comparator group comprises constituents of percentile performance.
Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Vesting between these points will be on a 1 Index.
2 In relation to the 2012 Award, the performance period for the Company and each constituent of the Index is based on the three-month average to 31 March 2015 compared with the three-month average to 31 March 2012.
3 In relation to the 2013 Award, the performance period for the Company and each constituent of the Index is based on the three-month average to 31 March 2016 compared with the three-month average to 31 March 2013.
50% of award Compound annual Chosen to provide a focus on delivering 25% will vest for underlying EPS CAGR of 5%.
growth rate CAGR stretching internal financial targets.
100% will vest for underlying EPS CAGR of inunderlying EPS The Remuneration Committee has discretion to 15%.
exclude from the calculation one-off items of a Vesting between these points will be on a non-recurring nature to ensure that the primary straight-line basis.
focus is on growth in underlying EPS.
In relation to the 2012 Award, growth is measured from a base of 17.2p, this being an adjusted underlying 2011 12 EPS as explained above.
In relation to the 2013 Award, growth is measured from a base of 8.5p, this being the underlying EPS gure for continuing operations following the sale of the Invensys Rail division.
Notes 1 The Index was selected as the comparator group because its constituents represent a wide grouping of over 100 companies that have businesses that are, in whole or in part, similar to or in competition with some or all of those operated by Invensys, and cover a wide geographic range including the Americas, Europe and Asia Paci c. 2 Awards granted under the 2007 LTIP in 2012 13.
3 Awards granted under the 2007 LTIP in 2013 14.
com 63 Remuneration Report continued The Remuneration Committee will in all In the event of a change of control during the Pension arrangements casesretain discretion to ensure that, as performance period, performance will be The Chief Executive receives a cash anadditional condition for the vesting of measured at the latest possible date before allowance in lieu of pension with a value anyshares in respect of the TSR or EPS the change of control takes place to determine of 30% of base salary.
component of the award, the underlying the proportion vesting based on performance.
As both the Chief Financial Of cer and the overall performance of the Group has been The proportion of the award that may be Chief Legal Of cer joined Invensys prior to satisfactory.
Factors that will be taken into released will then be time pro rated.
Subject to thede ned bene t plan being closed to account will include consistency of earnings performance conditions, the Remuneration newparticipants in 2004, both continue to and the Groups cash position.
Vested awards Committee has discretion to disapply the participate in a fide ned bene t plan for part will include an additional number of shares impact of time pro rating and to permit up to ofbase salary.
These fide ned bene t representing the value of any dividends that 100% of awards to vest on a change of control arrangements are based on a speci ed salary would have been paid on those vested shares if, due to exceptional business circumstances and are partly funded externally through had they been held throughout the vesting to be assessed by the Remuneration aregistered pension scheme and partly period.
The performance conditions do not Committee, returns to shareholders are reserved for within the Company.
The apply to 30% of an award for participants considered to be at a superior level.
speci ed salaries covered by the fide ned below GLT level.
This is to address speci c bene t arrangements are 280,000 and recruitment and retention issues facing the 2010 Award under the 2007 LTIP 321,360 with regard to the Chief Financial Group.
For awards granted in 2012 13 and For awards granted under the 2007 LTIP in Of cer and Chief Legal Of cer respectively.
2013 14, for the GLT members who are not 2010 2010 Award the performance condition The pension bene t on the difference between executive directors, the percentage of shares was measured over the three-year period to actual salary and the level covered by the under award to which performance conditions 31 March 2013.
Following determination of the fide ned bene t arrangements is delivered do not apply will be 20% of the award or less TSR provided by an independent third party through a cash allowance with a value of to better re ect the ability of these senior and EPS performance conditions, the 30%of that difference.
executives to in uence Group performance.
Remuneration Committee determined that the threshold level of vesting for the TSR portion of If a participant is dismissed for cause before Other bene ts the 2010 Award had not been achieved: this shares are released, they will be forfeited.
Other bene ts provided for executive directors portion of the 2010 Award 50% of the total Ifaparticipants employment ceases due include the provision of a cash allowance in award for executive directors will therefore toill-health, disability or any other reason place of a company car, typical life assurance lapse.
With regard to the EPS portion of the determined at the discretion of the permanent health insurance bene ts, private 2010 Award 50% of the total award for Remuneration Committee, the financial medical insurance and annual health checks.
executive directors, the 2010 Award granted performance tests will be measured at the In addition, the Company pays certain to the Chief Executive will vest at 94.4%.
normal vesting date but can be accelerated third-party fees incurred for UK and US tax Therefore 47.2% will vest in aggregate as a atthe discretion of the Remuneration lings and relevant immigration matters for the proportion of the initial award.
Subject to the outcome of the Chief Executive who is a US citizen.
financial performance tests, the award will In respect of the Chief Financial Of cer and then be pro rated based on the period of Chief Legal Of cer, their 2010 Awards were Restricted Share Plan RSP service, save that the Remuneration granted prior to their appointment as executive The Company operates its RSP to grant Committee may moderate the application of directors and performance conditions did not executive leaders other than executive the pro rata reduction if it considers that the apply to 30% of their awards: this portion of directors restricted share awards, nominal nil participants contribution to the business shares vested following the third anniversary of price options or cash awards over Invensys would not be properly recognised if the award the date of grant.
Release of shares is generally subject was scaled down.
If a participant resigns, their Award subject to a performance test, the TSR to continued employment at the relevant date, award will lapse unless the Remuneration element 35% of the total award lapsed and although shares may be released early on a Committee exercises its discretion.
the EPS element 35% of the total award will pro rated basis in fide ned good leaver cases vest at 94.4%.
Therefore 63.0% will vest in or for any other reason at the discretion of the Previously, the Remuneration Committee aggregate as a proportion of the initial award.
onlyh ad discretion to accelerate vesting in compassionate circumstances.
However, at the General Meeting of the Company held in December 2012, a change to the 2007 LTIP leaver terms was approved so that, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, awards can vest early in such circumstances that the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate.
64 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Savings Related Share Option Scheme Following the completion of the sale of Dilution limits The Company operates its Savings Related Invensys Rail, participants at Invensys Rail in The Company has at all times complied with Share Option Scheme the Scheme in the UK the UK and overseas holding awards granted the dilution limits set out in the rules of its share and certain other countries.
Participants are in 2011 were permitted by the Scheme rules to plans principally a limit of 10% in 10 years.
In granted an option to purchase Invensys exercise their options early, using the savings the 10-year period to 31 March 2013, awards shares at a discounted price set at the date of they had made from the commencement of made under the Companys share schemes invitation, using the proceeds of a savings the 2011 contract.
Participants were permitted represented 4.0% 2012: 4.2% of the account to which they make monthly to purchase a pro rated number of shares Companys issued ordinary share capital.
contributions of up to 250 for a three-year under option at the original option price of Shares to satisfy the deferred share element period.
Executive directors are eligible to 2.46 per share.
of the Executive Bonus Plan and the RSP are participate in the Scheme, which operates in purchased in the market and therefore do not the UK within speci c tax legislation.
The count towards the dilution limits.
Scheme is not subject to performance If the proposed return of cash to shareholders conditions.
An offer was extended under the and subsequent share consolidation takes Scheme to eligible employees in 2009 10 and place as planned, this will have an impact on 2011 12.
Awards granted in 2009 10 matured the share dilution limits outlined above.
in September 2012 and participants were entitled to purchase their shares under option at the original option price of 1.75 per share.
Share Ownership Guidelines The Remuneration Committee believes that the interests of executives should be closely aligned Category % of base salary with those of shareholders and, to support this, executives are required to build up and maintain Executive directors 200% a shareholding over time under the Share Ownership Guidelines.
The qualifying interests are GLT 50% shown in the adjacent table.
Under the guidelines, executives should retain at least 50% of the All other LTIP 25% participants shares 100% of shares for executive directors vesting under any of the executive share incentiveplans or the payment of annual incentives in shares other than to meet any tax obligations, until such time as the minimum level of qualifying interest is reached.
Executives are not required to take additional steps beyond the vesting of share incentives to accumulate their qualifying interest.
The following table provides an analysis of current executive director compliance with the Share Ownership Guidelines.
Value of shareholding Value of as % of shareholding Qualifying inter est Value of qualifying as % of 1 1 Base salary requirement Shareholding shareholding interest base salary 2 Wayne Edmunds 669,500 1,339,000 89,180 353,242 26 53 David Thomas 370,800 741,600 376,030 1,489,455 201 402 Victoria Hull 350,200 700,400 217,404 861,137 123 246 Notes 1 The shareholding is the balance of shares held as at 13 May 2013 and the value of the shareholding is based on the share price on the same day which was 396.1p this being the last practicable date before publication of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
Deferred shares which have been awarded to Mr Edmunds and Ms Hull as set out on page 71 are not included in the shareholding balance as, under the Share Ownership Guidelines, these only count as a qualifying interest when the award vests: however, this is under review as deferred shares are only forfeitable in the event of dismissal forcause.
2 During his time as an executive director of the Company, Mr Edmunds has not sold any Invensys shares resulting from the vesting of executive awards other than for tax withholding purposes.
ItisMrEdmunds current intention to reinvest the proceeds resulting from the proposed return of cash in Invensys shares.
This will ensure that he continues to move towards his 200% qualifying interest.
Qualifying interest as % of salary Wayne Edmunds 200% 53% David Thomas 200% 402% Victoria Hull 200% 246% Requirement Current value Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 65 Remuneration Report continued External directorships Tax loans Former Chief Executives The executive directors are permitted to hold It is the Companys policy that if, as a result Under the terms of a settlement agreement not more than one external non-executive ofthe Company recharging a proportion of concluded with a former Chief Executive, Ulf directorship in order to broaden their anexecutives employment costs to a US Henriksson who retired from the Board on experience for the bene t of the Company.
business, the executive incurs temporary 24March 2011, and as disclosed in the Such appointments are subject to approval double taxation by UK and US tax authorities, Annual Report and Accounts 2012, the bythe Board and the executive director may a US subsidiary of the Group may advance Company agreed to be responsible for the retain any fees paid in respect of such aloan to the executive equal to the amount cost of any settlement with HMRC regarding adirectorship.
ofsuch double taxation, pending a refund certain non-business use by Mr Henriksson of from HMRC.
a company driver and car fuel bene ts which None of the executive directors held external potentially gave rise to a personal taxable directorships during the year.
Mr Edmunds incurred both US and UK tax bene t. In accordance with this arrangement, liabilities in respect of his employment duties the Company has during 2012 13 paid undertaken for the Company in the US in 123,689 to HMRC in full settlement of these 2009.
Invensys Systems, Inc. advanced a loan liabilities for all relevant years.
to Mr Edmunds on 24 May 2012 in respect of temporary double taxation equal to 78,498.
In respect of the loan advanced to Mr Part of the loan 12,966 was repaid by Mr Henriksson in relation to UK and US double Edmunds during the year.
The balance of the taxation as detailed previously, a taxable loan was repaid to Invensys Systems, Inc. on bene t of 12,507 arose representing the 13 May 2013 following HMRC refunding the notional interest charge on the loan.
In April 2013, the Company received a request As described in the 2012 Remuneration from a former Chief Executive, Mr Allen Yurko Report, in 2009 10 Ulf Henriksson a former who resigned from the Company in July Chief Executive incurred both US and UK tax 2001, for the payment of expenses relating to liabilities in respect of his employment duties his relocation back to the US, anticipated in undertaken for the Company in the US in June 2013.
This request for the payment of 2009.
Invensys Systems, Inc. advanced a loan such expenses is based on correspondence to Mr Henriksson in June 2010 equal to with the Company in June 2001.
This loan is still outstanding and Company is considering its response willbe repayable to Invensys Systems, Inc. tothisclaim in light of the time elapsed.
onHMRC refunding the amount to MrHenriksson.
Service contracts Policy The Code and guidelines issued by institutional investors recommend that notice periods of no more than 12 months be set as an objective for executive directors and that any payments to a departing executive director should be determined having full regard to the duty of mitigation, other than in the case of termination for cause or where a contract contains speci c termination payment provisions.
It is the Companys policy to achieve these objectives wherever possible.
It is the Companys intention that new executive service contracts continue to contain provisions allowing the Company to terminate employment by making a payment in lieu of notice and allowing contractual offset for future earnings.
Speci c contracts Set out below is a summary of the main provisions of the service contracts of the executive directors: Director Date of contract Notice period Summary of the main termination provisions Wayne Edmunds 17 May 2011 12 months Other than in the case of summary termination, the Company may terminate the David Thomas 8 November 2011 12 months executive directors service contract by making a payment in lieu of notice equal Victoria Hull 15 May 2012 12 months to the value of the base salary and contractual bene ts including a pension allowance of 30% of base salary they would have received during their notice period.
Any payment due under these provisions may be made to them in equal monthly instalments and the Company may reduce the payment by 50% if the director obtains alternative employment.
The executive directors service contracts entitle them, in the event of a material adverse change to their title, responsibilities or status following a change of control of the Company, to terminate their employment and receive a payment equal to the payment in lieu of notice.
66 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Share performance and Total shareholder return Chief Executive pay The adjacent graph illustrates the Companys TSR performance i. e. share price assuming 180 reinvestment of any dividends over the past five years relative to the FTSE 350 Index.
This Index has been selected because the Company has been a constituent for the 140 whole of the period illustrated.
The table below details the Chief Executives single gure remuneration over the same five-year period.
100 60 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 At 31 March Invensys plc FTSE 350 Index Source: Thomson Reuters This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2013, of 100 invested in Invensys plc on 31 March 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Year ended 31 March 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Wayne Edmunds Single gure remuneration n a n a 24 3,849 865, 380 2,732,042 Annual bonus outcome % of max n a n a 53 0 99 LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a n a 65 0 47 Ulf Henriksson Single gure remuneration 6,425, 158 6,95 1,828 4,611, 125 n a n a Annual bonus outcome % of max 50 75 81 n a n a LTIP vesting outcome % of max 95 51 50 n a n a Single gure Retirement bene ts the value of the cash Annual bonus bonus paid for performance The table below sets out a single gure for the allowance paid plus where relevant fide ned in 2012 13. total remuneration due, or which will become bene t pension arrangements as additional LTIP value of the 2010 LTIP Award which will due, to each executive director for 2012 13. value achieved calculated as per the draft vest in June 2013 based on performance to The gures have been calculated as follows: BIS regulations.
31 March 2013 using the average share price Base salary the actual salary earned during Other bene ts the value of other annual over the three months to 31 March 2013 2012 13. bene ts received.
com 67 Value Remuneration Report continued Non-executive directors appointments, The portion of the fee paid in shares helps to 3 Chairman and non-executive terms and fees align the interests of the non-executive directors Non-executive directors serve the Company directors with those of shareholders.
Each Chairmans appointment, terms and fee under letters of appointment that do not non-executive director commits to retain their Sir Nigel Rudd, who was appointed a contain any notice period and are initially shares for the period of their directorship.
non-executive director and Deputy Chairman appointed for a term of three years.
In on 1 January 2009, was appointed Chairman accordance with the Code all directors other of the Company on 17 July 2009 the terms of than those retiring seek re-election annually which were governed by a contract dated by shareholders.
Following the extension Non-executive directors do not participate in of his appointment as Chairman for a further any bonus or performance-related plans or The Remuneration Report was approved by three-year term, he now serves under a any of the Companys share incentive plans or the Board of directors on 15 May 2013 and contract dated 18 December 2012 which pension schemes.
Appointments of nonsigned on its behalf by: contains the same terms as set out in his executive directors are terminable without original contract.
The contract requires, payment or compensation by either the except in the case of dismissal for cause, Company or the director giving written notice.
On early termination, at the request of the Company, Fees for non-executive directors other than the any compensation would be subject to Chairman are determined by a committee of mitigation.
the Board comprising the Chairman and the executive directors.
They are subject to the Sir Nigel Rudd spends, on average, two days limits set out in the Articles of Association and per week in his role as Chairman.
The Dr Martin Read are determined by taking account of time Company funds the cost of a car and driver Chairman of the Remuneration Committee commitments and responsibilities, together based on twofths of the annualised cost of with comparative market rates and the provision of such services.
The fee structure for the Sir Nigel Rudds fee is 270,000 per annum non-executive directors is set out below: and he participates in the same arrangement as the other non-executive directors, whereby Non-executive directors fees 8,000 of his fee per annum is paid in shares.
1 Basic fee 52,000 The Remuneration Committee is responsible Additional fee for chairing for reviewing the Chairmans fee.
The committees Chairman is not involved in any decision on his Audit 14,000 own remuneration.
The fees currently paid to Remuneration 10,000 the Chairman and the other non-executive Additional fee for Senior 10,000 directors are subject to the limits set out in the Independent Director Companys Articles of Association.
Note Following consideration of the Chairmans fee 1 Basic fee includes 8,000 paid in shares.
The Remuneration at a meeting of the Remuneration Committee table on page 69 includes that part of the fee used to purchase held in May 2013, it was decided not to shares and the shares are included in Directors interests also on page 69. increase the Chairmans fee for 2013 14.
2 Ms Hull was appointed a director of the Company on 29 November 2011 and her emoluments for 2011 12 relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2012.
3 Mr Thomas was appointed a director of the Company on 28 July 2011 and his emoluments for 2011 12 relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2012.
4 The fee structure for the non-executive directors including the Chairman includes 8,000 per annum which, after tax, is used to buy ordinary shares in the Company for each non-executive director as described on page 6 8.
The shares purchased on their behalf are included in Directors interests set out below.
5 Taxable and other bene ts for executive directors comprise items such as cash allowance in lieu of a company car, life assurance permanent health insurance and private medical insurance.
All executive directors are entitled to such bene ts.
In respect of Mr Edmunds, the bene t for 2012 13 includes 10,108 relating to fees incurred for UK and US tax lings and a notional interest charge on the loan made in relation to the UK and US temporary double taxation as detailed on page 66.
6 No directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 2012: nil.
7 Ms Mattar was appointed a director of the Company on 19 May 2011 and her emoluments for 2011 12 relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2012.
Directors interests in shares Ordinary shares The bene cial interests of the directors and their families in the shares of the Company are set out below: 2,3 As at 31 March 2013 Notes ordinary shares of 10p each As at 1 April 2012 Francesco Caio 1 5,812 4,331 Wayne Edmunds 89,180 87,756 Bay Green 1 20,940 18,710 Victoria Hull 217,404 290,357 Paul Lester 1 4,904 3,498 Deena Mattar 1 3,489 1,790 Michael Parker 1 12,175 10,416 Dr Martin Read 1 6,119 4,539 Sir Nigel Rudd 1 17,314 15,849 David Thomas 376,030 363,659 Pat Zito 1 23,943 21,966 Notes 1 As described on page 6 8, as part of the non-executive directors fee arrangements, a proportion of their fee including that of the Chairman is used to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
2 The mid-market closing price of an ordinary share on 29 March 2013 the last trading day prior to the year end was 350.8p.
Between 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013, the highest mid-market closing price was 366.8p and the lowest mid-market closing price was 186.1p.
3 There have been no further changes in the interests of directors between 1 April 2013 and 15 May 2013.
com 69 Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentive awards Long-term incentive awards are granted to executive directors as well as other senior employees under various plans operated by the Company.
Awards held by executive directors are detailed below.
2007 LTIP Awards are normally subject to a three-year performance period, commencing at the start of the financial year during which the award is granted.
Further information about the 2007 LTIP and the relevant performance conditions relating to these conditional awards are set out on pages 6 3 to 6 4 of this Report and in Note 28 to the Group Financial Statements.
2 Following consideration of the performance conditions of the 2009 Award, the Remuneration Committee determined that the threshold underlying EPS CAGR and TSR performance had not been met and shares subject to these targets lapsed.
In respect of Ms Hulls and Mr Thomas 2009 Awards these were granted prior to their appointment as executive directors and 30% of the Award was not subject to performance conditions: therefore, in aggregate, Ms Hulls and Mr Thomas 2009 Awards vested at 30%.
A further 3,303 and 1,088 shares representing accrued dividends were issued to Ms Hull and Mr Thomas.
3 Awards granted to Ms Hull and Mr Thomas under the 2007 LTIP in 2010 were made prior to their appointment as executive directors and therefore 30% of these awards are not subject to performance conditions.
Following consideration of the performance conditions for the 2010 Award, the Remuneration Committee has determined as outlined on page 64 that the threshold TSR performance has not been met and this portion of the 2010 Award will lapse: the EPS portion of the 2010 Award will vest at 94.4%.
Therefore, in aggregate, 47.2% of the initial award will vest for Mr Edmunds and 63.0% will vest for Ms Hull and Mr Thomas.
4 The award granted to Ms Hull under the 2007 LTIP in 2011 was made prior to her appointment as an executive director and therefore 30% of this award is not subject to performance conditions.
5 The award granted to Mr Thomas under the 2007 LTIP in 2011 was made prior to his appointment as an executive director but during his appointment as Acting Chief Financial Of cer and 100% of this award is subject to performance conditions.
6 Award granted as nominal price option and, as such, can be exercised during a three-month period following the vesting date.
70 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Restricted Share Plan RSP RSP awards are satis ed by the transfer of existing issued shares.
The vesting period for awards normally falls between one to three years.
These are normally granted to executive leaders excluding executive directors.
The following RSP Award was granted to Ms Hull while she was employed as Group General Counsel and Company Secretary but prior to her appointment as an executive director.
Further information about the RSP can be found on page 6 4 of this Report and at Note 28 in the Group Financial Statements.
Mid-market Mid-market closing closing share price share price Awards Awards at date at date granted vested As at awards awards Normal As at 1 April during during 31 March granted vested vesting Notes 2012 the year the year 2013 p p date Victoria Hull 2009 1 46,940 46,940 Nil 225 223 29 Jun 2012 Note 1 No awards lapsed or were forfeited during the year under review.
The Award shown in the table excludes shares representing accrued dividends which totalled 430.
Deferred Share Plan DSP Any bonus earned under the Executive Bonus Plan in excess of target is awarded as deferred shares to executive directors and other members of the GLT.
The shares are released to executive directors after three years.
The awards are satis ed by the transfer of existing issued shares.
Further information can be found on page 6 2 of this Report and in Note 28 in the Group Financial Statements.
Details of ordinary shares in the Company which have been awarded to executive directors under the DSP are set out below: Mid-market Mid-market closing closing share price share price Awards Awards at date at date granted vested As at awards awards Normal As at during during 31 March granted vested Deferral vesting 1 Notes 1 April 2012 the year the year 2013 p p period date Wayne Edmunds 2010 2 47,697 47,697 338 15 Mar 2010 - 17 Jun 2013 16 Jun 2013 2010 2 9,234 9,234 283 17 Jun 2010 - 17 Jun 2013 16 Jun 2013 2011 2 82,085 82,085 318 29 Jun 2011 - 29 Jun 2014 28 Jun 2014 Victoria Hull 2010 2, 3 23,810 23,810 Nil 338 201 15 Mar 2010 - 17 Jun 2012 16 Jun 2012 2010 2, 3 4,610 4,610 Nil 283 201 17 Jun 2010 - 17 Jun 2012 16 Jun 2012 2011 2 38,804 38,804 318 29 Jun 2011 - 29 Jun 2013 28 Jun 2013 Notes 1 No awards lapsed or were forfeited during the year under review.
The awards shown in the table exclude shares representing accrued dividends.
2 The 2010 and 2011 awards granted to Ms Hull were granted prior to her appointment as an executive director and, in accordance with their terms, were released two years after their date of grant.
Mr Edmunds 2010 and 2011 awards remain subject to a threeyear deferral period.
3 In respect of the release of Ms Hulls March 2010 and June 2010 awards, a further 795 and 152 shares were issued representing accrued dividends.
com 71 Remuneration Report continued Directors fide ned bene t pension entitlements For the year ended 31 March 2013, Mr Thomas and Ms Hull participated in fide ned bene t pension arrangements sponsored by the Company for part of their base salaries.
The speci c salaries covered by the fide ned bene t arrangements are 280,000 and 321,360 with regard to Mr Thomas and Ms Hull respectively.
Mr Edmunds does not participate in a fide ned bene t pension sponsored by the Company.
The fide ned bene t schemes provide bene ts which are part externally funded and part reserved for within the Company.
The amounts of cash allowances are speci ed in the Remuneration table on page 69.
The following table gives details of the individual directors pension values for the year ended 31 March 2013, including the disclosures required by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority: Pension entitlement for the year ended 31 March 2013 Increase Value of Transfer Transfer in transfer Pension Pension Increase increase in Single Age as at value at value at value 2013 accumulated at accumulated at Increase in in pension pension Cash pensions 31 March 31 March 31 March net of 31 March 31 March pension 2013 net 2013 net allowance value 2013 201 2 201 3 contributions 2012 2013 2013 of in ation of in ation 2013 2013 Victoria Hull 51 2,170,144 2,566,236 378,230 115,154 125,866 10,712 8,236 164,711 8,652 173,363 David Thomas 5 8 2,186,022 2,721,577 517,693 89,444 98,778 9,334 7,410 148,196 27,240 175,436 Notes 1 The gures above are in respect of bene t entitlements within both the Invensys Pension Scheme and the Supplementary Pension Arrangement.
Both Mr Thomas and Ms Hull contribute at 13% ofpensionable salary for bene ts in the Invensys Pension Scheme up to the Scheme earning limit of 137,400 for 2012 1 3 but that no contributions are payable for bene ts in the Supplementary Pension Arrangement.
2 The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the Invensys Pension Schemes standard cash equivalent transfer value basis, as set by the Schemes Trustees.
As required by the different regulations, allowance for the current 1% reduction applied to transfer values is made in the transfer values required under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 but no allowance is made for this reduction in the transfer values required under the Listing Rules.
72 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Report The directors submit their Report and the Review of the business: key sections audited accounts for the year ended Section Nature of relevant content Pages 31 March 2013 as set out on pages 78 to Chairmans Commentary on the Groups strategy and outlook 6 to 7 151 a nd page 15 6.
This Report should be Statement read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 56.
Chief Executives Commentary on the Groups strategy and outlook 8 to 9 Statement Principal activities The principal activities for the year are Key Performance A discussion of key financial performance measures 16 to 17 contained in the Business Review on Indicators pages1 5 to 40.
The principal subsidiaries which contributed to the Groups pro t or Financial A discussion of key financial performance measures 22 to 26 neta ssets in the year are listed on page 15 6. Review Financial Information on our use of financial instruments and 27 Business Review Policies adescription of our financial risk management objectives The Company is required by the Companies and policies Act 2006 to set out in this Report a fair review of the business of the Group during the Risks and Identi cation of principal risks and uncertainties facing 33 to 40 financial year ended 31 March 2013 and the Uncertainties the Group, their impact and mitigation position of the Group at the end of the year.
This review is contained in the Business Review section of the Annual Report and The Company offers a dividend reinvestment The Chairmans Letter and Notice of AGM Accounts 2013 on pages 15 to 40 with further plan DRIP, which enables shareholders to explains the Boards reasons for and commentary and speci c areas of note reinvest their dividends directly into Invensys recommendations regarding the re-election of incorporated into the sections shown in the shares.
For further information on the DRIP directors.
please contact Equiniti, the Companys The powers of the directors are determined by registrars.
The Business Review contains the information UK legislation and the Articles of Association required for a management report as set out in of the Company, together with any speci c Board of directors the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs authorities that may be given to the directors The current directors of the Company and and takes account of the best practice by shareholders from timeto-t ime, such as their biographical details are given on pages guidance contained in the Accounting the power to allot shares and the power to 42 and 43.
A statement of their remuneration Standards Boards Reporting Statement make market purchases of the Companys and interests in the ordinary shares of the Operating and Financial Review.
Further information regarding matters Company are set out in the Remuneration reserved for the Board is set out in the Report on pages 69 to 7 2. Dividend Corporate Governance Report on page 45.
The Board has recommended the payment of Francesco Caio and Pat Zito will not be a final dividend for the year of 2.85 pence per seeking re-election at the 2013 AGM and will Directors indemnity and insurance share which, subject to approval by retire from the Board at the close of that The Company maintains directors and shareholders at the AGM on 25 July 2013, will meeting.
of cers liability insurance which provides be paid on 2 August 2013 to shareholders on appropriate cover for legal actions brought The rules governing the appointment and the register at 21 June 2013.
With an interim against its directors or of cers.
retirement of directors are contained in the dividend of 1.75 pence per share paid during Companys Articles of Association, which the year, the total dividends payable in respect Acquisitions and disposals provides that any director appointed during of the year ended 31 March 2013 are 4.6 On 10 May 2012 Invensys acquired 100% of the year holds of ce only until the next AGM pence per share 2012: 4.4 pence per share.
the share capital of PHW Inc. a privately held and is then eligible for election by the The amount paid per share could increase manufacturer of cab signalling systems and shareholders and that, in any case, onethird dependent upon the share consolidation as other safety electronic train control systems of the directors or if their number is not a detailed below.
for the North America mainline and mass multiple of three the number nearest to one transit industries for a cash consideration of If the return of cash to shareholders and third shall retire from of ce and, if they wish, 12 million.
T he net assets acquired were subsequent share capital consolidation are put themselves up for re-election by the approximately 11 million.
approved by shareholders and take place as shareholders.
However, in accordance with planned, the Board has recommended that the Code, all directors other than Mr Caio and On 15 October 2012 the Group acquired the total amount of the final dividend will Mr Zito will seek re-election by shareholders Spiral Software, a planning, scheduling and remain the same, 23 million, but will be paid at the 2013 AGM.
crude oil management software company, on the smaller number of shares in issue headquartered in the UK, for a cash resulting from the share consolidation.
The net assets Therefore the amount paid per share would acquired were approximately 24 million.
increase and details of these changes will be On 28 November 2012 the Group set out in the circulart o shareholders announced the proposed disposal of the regarding the return of cash expected to be Invensys Rail division for a cash consideration issued on or around 21 May 2013. of 1,742 million to Siemens.
The transaction completed on 2 May 2013.
com 73 Directors Report continued Capital structure this authority during the year under review, Employee policy and development Details of the issued share capital, together other than to issue shares to satisfy awards Invensys has a range of active policies that with details of movements in the issued share under the Companys share incentive plans.
extend from business compliance, as re ected capital of the Company during the year, are The directors will seek to renew allotment in our Code of Conduct, to developing the full shown in Note 26 on page 12 7. authorities at the 2013 AGM in line with capabilities of our people.
We continue to guidelines issued by the Association of focus on promoting diversity and equal Further to the announcement on 28 November BritishInsurers.
opportunities in areas ranging from selection 2012, the directors are in the process of and recruitment to training and development implementing a return of cash and intend to In addition, the Company was authorised at so that we can meet the needs of our return 625 million of cash to shareholders.
the 2012 AGM to purchase in the market up businesses and customers around the world.
Information on the return of cash will be set out to 81,229,074 ordinary shares, representing If necessary, reasonable adjustments will be in a circular to shareholders which will be approximately 10% of the issued share capital made for the bene t of disabled employees.
issued as soon as practicable.
The return of of the Company.
This authority was not used People with disabilities are given full and fair cash is subject to the approval of Invensys by the Company and will not be renewed at consideration for employment and shareholders at a General Meeting which is the 2013 AGM.
subsequent training including, if needed, expected to take place in June 2013.
It is retraining for alternative work where intended that shareholders other than in the Substantial shareholders employees have become temporarily or US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan At the date of this Report, the Company has permanently disabled, career development and the Republic of South Africa will be able been noti ed, in accordance with the DTRs, and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes to elect to receive their cash as income, capital ofthe following interests in the ordinary share and abilities.
or deferred capital or a combination of the capital of the Company: three.
Following the return of cash, it is The Group recognises the need to consult and 1 % interest in issued proposed that a share capital consolidation systematically provide information on matters Name share capital take place which, subject to market that impact our employees.
To satisfy that BlackRock 4.37% indirect interest uctuations, w ill result in the share price being need, the Group provides employees with 2 0.73% nominal interest returned to approximately the same level as published financial and economic information before the return of cash.
through its consultative procedures and Legal & General 3.00% direct interest through groups such as the Invensys The Company operates an employee bene t Prudential 9.88% direct interest European Employees Forum, as well as trust in Jersey called the Invensys No.
2 0.04% indirect interest engagement with national works councils and Employee Bene t Trust EBT which may be Schroders 5.105% indirect interest trade unions.
Invensys encourages used to deliver ordinary shares in the employees involvement in the Companys ValueAct Capital 8.16% direct interest Company under certain executive share performance through the Invensys Savings Master Fund, L. P. schemes, as appropriate.
The EBT has an Related Share Option Scheme.
Invensys also independent trustee which waives its rights Notes encourages the involvement of technical, to dividends and to vote on the shareholding.
1 The percentage interests stated are as disclosed at the date professional and managerial level employees on which the interests were noti ed in accordance with Details of executive share schemes and in the Groups performance through the DTR5.
shares held by the EBT are set out in Notes 26 2 This interest is a contract for difference and does not carry Invensys Performance Management System, and 28 on page 12 7 and pages 1 28 to 13 2 any voting rights.
which reinforces the links between the Groups respectively.
business goals, the employees contribution Supplier payment policy Shares acquired through the Companys and his her remuneration.
Greater detail on It is the policy of the Group that subsidiary executive share plans rank pari passu with these topics and further information companies should develop long-term other shares in issue and have no special concerning employees including the Employee relationships with suppliers and establish rights or restrictions, save that certain share Engagement Survey, and social and terms of trade consistent with established awards involve retention periods after vesting.
community issues is set out in the Corporate practice in their country of operation, and to Further information is set out in Note 28 on Responsibility Report, which begins on ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms pages 128 to 13 2.
ofpayment and that such terms are followed.
use a proportion of their fees to purchase This policy is consistent with the UK shares in the Company which may not Charitable and political contributions Governments Prompt Payment Code, normally be transferred during a directors The Board is of the view that it is not towhich the Company is a signatory.
appropriate for the Company to make DetailsoftheCode can be found at: charitable donations at this time.
However, At the 2012 AGM, the directors were www.
uk many of the Groups subsidiaries are in uential authorised to issue relevant securities up to an companies and important employers in their The Company is a holding company and aggregate nominal amount of 26.8 million own countries or localities, and it is therefore hasno trade creditors.
approximately onethird of the issued ordinary believed to be in the best interests of the share capital as at 22 May 2012.
In addition, Group for those companies community or the directors were authorised to allot an extra charitable involvement to be maintained at onethird of the issued share capital in respect reasonable levels.
During the year, Group of a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
Renewal donations to charities and community causes was also sought for the directors authorisation worldwide were 0.2 million 2012: 0.2 to allot relevant securities and to allot equity million, with UK charities receiving nil securities for cash up to a maximum 2012:nil.
aggregate nominal amount of 4.1 million on a pre-emptive basis.
The directors did not use 74 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance At the 2012 AGM, shareholders passed a The executive directors service contracts On 2 May 2013 on receipt of the proceeds resolution, on a precautionary basis, to contain provisions which would take effect in from the sale of Invensys Rail, Invensys paid authorise the Company to make political the event of a change of control.
In the event of 225 million into a reservoir trust in favour of donations and or incur political expenditure as a material adverse change to their title, the Invensys UK Pension Scheme.
The such terms are fide ned in sections 362 to 379 responsibilities or status following a change of Reservoir Trust Deed contains a mechanism of the Companies Act 2006, in each case in control of the Company, they would be entitled for future payments to be made from the amounts not exceeding 25,000 in aggregate.
to terminate their employment and receive a reservoir trust to either the Pension Trustee or The fide nitions used in the Companies Act payment equal to the termination payment set the Company dependent on the funding 2006 are broad in nature and this authority out in the Remuneration Report on page 6 6. position of the Scheme, commencing in 2018. was sought to ensure that any activities The service contracts of a small number of Following this payment, and the receipt by the undertaken throughout the Group, which other key employees also contain provisions UK Pension Scheme of the 400 million could otherwise be construed to fall within entitling them to terminate employment and payment on the sale of Invensys Rail, the these provisions, could be undertaken without receive compensation in the event of a change fide cit reduction payments of 40-47 million inadvertently infringing them.
per annum previously agreed with the trustees willbe asked to renew this resolution at the ceased.
It is anticipated that no further 2013 AGM.
Auditor contributions will be payable into the Scheme In accordance with section 418 2 of the for the foreseeable future.
No political donations were made during the Companies Act 2006, each of the directors at year under review.
The Group proposes to return cash to the date of approval of this Report con rms shareholders of 625 million around 76 pence that, so far as they are aware, there is no Research and development per share from the proceeds of the sale, relevant audit information of which the The Group carries out research and subject to the approval of Invensys Companys auditor is unaware, and that the development in support of its activities.
During shareholders at a General Meeting which is directors have taken all the steps that they the year, expenditure on the research and expected to take place in June 2013.
It is ought to have taken as directors in order to development of new products and processes proposed that the return of cash will be make themselves aware of, and to establish for continuing operations amounted to followed by a share capital consolidation.
The that the auditor is aware of, any relevant audit 79 million 2012: 74 million.
return of cash will be accounted for in the year information.
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed ending 31 March 2014 as a reduction in willingness to continue in of ce as auditor and, Signi cant agreements retained earnings.
in accordance with the recommendation of the The Company is required to disclose any Audit Committee, resolutions proposing its Following the completion of the sale of contractual or other arrangements which it reappointment and to authorise the directors Invensys Rail on 2 May 2013, the Groups considers are essential to its business.
to determine its remuneration will be proposed revolving credit facility was reduced by Invensys critical relationships are with its at the 2013 AGM.
The Groups major customers and its suppliers of services, guarantee facility remains 350 million.
components and raw materials, as discussed Annual General Meeting in the Business Review on pages 15 t o 40.
The AGM of the Company will be held on Whilst the loss of, or disruption to, certain of Thursday 25 July 2013 at 11.00am at The these arrangements could temporarily affect By order of the Board of directors on Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad the operations of the Group, none of these 15May2013 Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
arrangements are considered to be essential.
The Chairmans Letter and Notice of AGM The Company is also required to disclose any gives full details of the meeting and the signi cant agreements that take effect, alter or resolutions to be proposed.
terminate on a change of control of the Company.
Pursuant to Schedule 7 of the Post balance sheet event Victoria Hull Large and Medium-sized Companies and On 28 November 2012 Invensys signed an Chief Legal Of cer & Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations agreement to sell Invensys Rail to Siemens for Company Secretary 2008, the directors disclose that in the event of a gross cash consideration of 1.7 billion.
The a change of control in the Company: i the consideration comprised 1.3 billion in Invensys plc banking facilities described in Note 21, totalling exchange for the shares of Invensys Rail and Registered in England & Wales 600 million at 31 March 2013, could cease to 0.4 billion paid to Invensys UK Pension number166023 be available to the Group: ii a Master Service Scheme.
The transaction completed on 2 May Agreement dated 15 May 2007, made with 2013 and will be accounted for in the year Genpact International, LLC for the provision of ending 31 March 2014. outsourced business services in relation to certain finance, IT and related functions, would become terminable at the option of the Company: and iii a Master Service Agreement dated 3 July 2009, made with Cognizant Technology Solutions U. S. Corporation for the provision of certain research and development services to the Invensys Operations Management division, would become terminable at the option of theCompany.
com 75 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Preparation of the Accounts The directors are responsible for The directors are responsible for keeping Directors responsibility statement preparing the Annual Report and the adequate accounting records that are We con rm that to the best of our knowledge: Financial Statements in accordance with suf cient to show and explain the transactions a the Group Financial Statements for the year applicable United Kingdom law and of the Company and of the Group and ended 31 March 2013, prepared in those International Financial Reporting disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time accordance with International Financial Standards adopted by the European the financial position of the Company and of Reporting Standards as adopted for use in Union or, in the case of the Companys the Group and enable them to ensure that the the European Union or, in the case of the Financial Statements, United Kingdom Financial Statements comply with the Companys financial statements, United Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
They are also Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company law requires the directors to prepare Practice, give a true and fair view of the Company and the Group, and hence for taking Company and Group Financial Statements for assets, liabilities, financial position and reasonable steps for the prevention and each financial year.
Under that law the pro t of the Company and the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
directors must not approve the Financial undertakings included in the consolidation Statements unless they are satis ed that they The Groups business activities, together with as a whole: and give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the factors likely to affect its future b the Business Review includes a fair review the Company and Group and of their pro t or development, performance and position are of the development and performance of the loss for that period.
In preparing the Company set out in the Business Review on pages 1 5 to business and the position of the Company and Group Financial Statements, the directors 40.
The financial position of the Group, its cash and the undertakings included in the are required to: ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities consolidation as a whole, together with a are described in the Financial Review on select suitable accounting policies and then description of the principal risks and pages 22 to 26.
Note 19 to the Financial apply them consistently: uncertainties that they face.
Statements includes: the Groups objectives, present information, including accounting policies and processes for managing its policies, in a manner that provides relevant, capital: its financial risk management reliable, comparable and understandable By order of the Board objectives: details of its financial instruments information: and hedging activities: and its exposure to provide additional disclosures when credit risk and liquidity risk.
The principal compliance with the speci c requirements risks and uncertainties facing the Group, in applicable accounting standards is along with mitigating actions, are set out insuf cient to enable users to understand onp ages 35 to 40. the impact of particular transactions, other Wayne Edmunds events and conditions on the entitys The Group remains generally in a sound Chief Executive financial position and financial performance: financial position with net cash, banking and facilities totalling 500 million in place until state that the Company and the Group have 2017, and well-established relationships with complied with applicable accounting key customers and suppliers.
Following the standards, subject to any material completion of the sale of Invensys Rail on departures disclosed and explained 2 May 2013, the Groups total banking facilities David Thomas intheFinancial Statements.
of 500 million comprise a cash facility Chief Financial Of cer of 150 million and a guarantee facility of 350 million.
The directors have a reasonable expectation 15 May 2013 that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence The directors of Invensys plc are listed for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they on pages 42 and 43. continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual Financial Statements.
76 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
