Governance Remuneration report Mary Harris, Chairman, Dear Shareholder, Remuneration Committee 2012 13 has been a year of good performance, despite tough trading conditions.
We have had record customer transactions, increased total sales by 4.3 per cent excluding fuel, improved underlying profit before tax by 6.2 per cent and grown our market share to 16.8 per cent, its highest for a decade.
This performance has been reflected in the payments under our incentive plans, where we have met, and in some cases exceeded, our stretching targets.
Our approach to pay is holistic, we consider the overall package, as well We are keen to ensure that our shareholders fully understand our as each individual element to ensure it is appropriately balanced.
We await the final announcement from the Department also take into account the pay and benefits of colleagues throughout for Business, Innovation & Skills BIS on the new reporting the business, are extremely mindful of the economic and political requirements.
While the new legislation will not come into effect until environment regarding executive remuneration and exercise appropriate October 2013, we have already adopted some of the future changes, judgement to ensure that rewards are reflective of underlying while retaining all content required under the existing regulations.
We are not proposing any changes to the remuneration policy for 2013 14 and the 2013 salary increases for Executive Directors Finally, I would like to thank Bob Stack, following his retirement last and managers were in line with colleague increases and below inflation.
year, for his leadership of the Committee since 2005, as well as welcoming John McAdam and Jean Tomlin to the Committee.
The over-arching principles of our remuneration policy are to balance We remain committed to rewarding the leadership team for the reward with performance and encourage sustainable shareholder value delivery of long-term shareholder value creation, while staying creation.
We ensure there is a sufficient weighting on variable pay to true to our Company values.
drive the delivery of business objectives, without undue risk-taking.
The variable pay arrangements throughout the Company have been structured to reward short-term financial and operating performance Annual Bonus, sustainable business development Deferred Share Award and creation of value to shareholders over the longer-term Future Builder: previously Value Builder.
Annual Bonus our profit and sales growth over the year have resulted in a record bonus pool of over 90 million, which was shared Mary Harris by over 134,000 colleagues across the business.
For the Executive Chairman, Remuneration Committee Directors the average payment is 85 per cent of the maximum, compared to 47 per cent last year.
Deferred Share Award following the delivery of strong financial and strategic performance during the year, awards were made at 83 per cent of the maximum.
Value Builder in May 2013, the fifth cycle of Value Builder, in which over 1,000 managers participate, will mature at a performance multiplier of 1.75 times 44 per cent of the maximum, reflecting our performance over the previous three years.
54 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Remuneration report continued Summary of performance and pay for 2012 13 sponsorship of the Paralympics clearly resonating with customers and Despite a challenging year for the retail sector and wider economy, we providing a great example of how our values make us different.
continued to deliver a good performance in 2012 13, outperforming the market and growing our market share.
Our colleagues and The charts below demonstrate the sustained performance and value Executive team worked hard to provide a great service for customers that we have delivered to our shareholders over an extended period.
and this, combined with a quality range of food and non-food, has Over the year the share price also rose from 3.03 to a high of 3.63 led to continued sales growth and profitability.
All of this was against at the end of the year.
3 U nderlying operating margin: underlying profit before tax before underlying net finance costs 2 Underlying profit before tax: profit before tax before any profit or loss on the disposal of and underlying share of post-tax results from joint ventures, divided by sales excluding VAT, properties, investment property fair value movements, impairment of goodwill, financing fair including fuel.
value movements, IAS 19 pension financing element and one-off items that are material and infrequent in nature.
As a Committee, we set highly stretching performance targets.
We consider that our incentive plan payouts for 2012 13 are reflective of our strong growth this year and highlight the link between reward and performance.
Incentive arrangement Performance achieved Payout Annual Bonus The Company achieved strong profit, sales and Bonuses awarded to Executive Directors customer satisfaction performance for 2012 13 averaged 85 per cent 2011 12: Annual financial, operating and 47 per cent of the maximum individual performance Executive Directors also performed well against their personal objectives Deferred Share Award The targets set were either achieved or Awards made to all participants including exceeded, providing a platform for the creation Executive Directors for 2012 13 were 83 Sustainable business development of shareholder value per cent 2011 12: 78 per cent of the maximum building for the future opportunity Value Builder Over the last three financial years, the Company Awards vested at 44 per cent 2012: made good progress in both cash generation and 43 per cent of the maximum opportunity Long-term the returns achieved on our assets performance The table below shows a breakdown of the Executive Directors total remuneration for 2012 13 and 2011 12.
The level of total remuneration reflects the Companys strong performance as demonstrated in the performance charts.
The 2011 12 figure is based on the share price on the date of vesting of 2.998.
For John Rogers includes Company contribution to a defined contribution plan.
3 Annual Bonus relates to performance during the financial year, paid in May following the relevant year-end.
4 Deferred Share Award relates to performance during the financial year, shares are granted in May following the relevant year-end and vest after a two-year deferral period.
5 The Long-Term Incentive Plan value relates to the Value Builder award vesting in May following the end of the relevant financial year, which is the third year of the performance period.
50 per cent of the shares are released in May after the end of the relevant performance period and the balance one year later.
The figures include accrued dividends and are based on the share price on the date of vesting for 2011 12 and the Q4 average share price for 2012 13.
For Mike Coupe, this figure also includes 2,420 relating to a SAYE share option which became exercisable during 2012 13 based on the share price on the first exercisable date.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 55 Governance Remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys This report website www.
This report is made by the Board on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
The first part of the report sets out the Tim Fallowfield, Company Secretary, acts as secretary to the remuneration policy, while the second part details the remuneration, Committee.
David Tyler, Justin King and Gwyn Burr, Customer Service pensions and share plan interests of the Directors for the 52 weeks to and Colleague Director to 16 March 2013, Angie Risley, Group HR 16 March 2013.
The Directors confirm that this report has been prepared Director from 7 January 2013 and Diana Breeze, Director of Corporate in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and reflects the provisions HR are invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Committee considers of Schedule 8 of the Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups their views when reviewing the remuneration of the Executive Directors Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008.
The Board has also applied and Operating Board Directors.
Individuals who attend Remuneration the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration Committee meetings do not participate in discussions concerning their contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code.
includes many of the future BIS reporting requirements, while retaining all content required under the existing regulations.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to appoint external advisers if it considers this beneficial.
Over the course of the year, the Committee A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting was supported by its appointed advisers, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, AGM on 10 July 2013 asking them to approve this report.
whose consultants attended all of the Committee meetings.
Deloitte provided the Company with unrelated advice and consultancy regarding Committee membership information technology, taxation and non-audit accounting matters.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Mary Harris member Towers Watson provided comparative data which was considered by throughout the year and Chairman from 11 July 2012, John McAdam the Committee in setting remuneration levels and it also provided appointed 11 July 2012 and Jean Tomlin appointed 1 January 2013. other services relating to pensions.
Deloitte and Towers Watson are Bob Stack was Chairman until 11 July 2012 and Anna Ford was a member members of the Remuneration Consulting Group and, as such, operate of the Committee to 31 December 2012.
All members of the Committee under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Role and responsibilities of the Committee Shareholder voting on the 2011 12 Report The Committee complies with relevant regulations and considers best The 2012 Remuneration Report received a vote of 96.52 per cent in practice when determining pay and policy.
The specific responsibilities favour 1,184 million votes at the last AGM, 3.48 per cent voted against of the Committee include: 43 million votes and 14.2 million votes were withheld.
Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for The Remuneration Committee values the views of the Companys the Chairman, Executive Directors and the Operating Board Directors: shareholders and guidance from shareholder representative bodies.
Setting individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman and Shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year, as well Executive Directors: as any additional feedback received during the year, is considered as part of the Companys annual remuneration review.
Recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for those members of senior management within the scope of the Committee, namely the Operating Board Directors and any other executive whose salary exceeds that of any Operating Board Director: Reviewing and noting the remuneration trends across the Company: Considering the achievement of the performance conditions under annual and long-term incentive bonus arrangements: and Approving the service agreements of each Executive Director, including termination arrangements.
56 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Remuneration report continued as required.
The table below shows the Principal activities and matters addressed standard items considered at each meeting, leading up to the meeting during 2012 13 in May where the key decisions regarding performance, outcomes and The Committee has a calendar of standard items within its remit and grants for the coming year are determined.
in addition it held in-depth discussions on specific topics during the year.
The Committee typically meets four times each year, or more Standard agenda items September Performance update on outstanding incentive awards Review of dilution under Company share plans Summary of share grants made in Q1 Corporate governance and market update Review of the Chairmans fee January Competitive review of Directors salary and total remuneration packages Performance update on outstanding incentive awards Initial discussions on long-term incentive plan for the next financial year Corporate governance update March Review of long-term incentive plan for the next financial year Directors salary review decisions Performance update on outstanding incentive awards May Review of performance and outcomes under the Annual Bonus and Deferred Share Award Review of performance and vesting under long-term incentives Determining incentive structure for the next financial year including finalisation of targets Remuneration report The Committee takes a rounded approach to pay and considers a Remuneration policy variety of factors when determining the remuneration policy, setting Our colleagues are central to the Companys ongoing success and the executives remuneration packages and implementing them.
It believes Companys overall reward strategy needs to support this.
Our objective it is important to exercise suitable judgement at all stages during the is to have a fair, equitable and competitive total reward package that process to ensure that executive pay levels appropriately reflect the supports our vision of being a place where colleagues love to work long-term shareholder experience.
and shop, encourages colleagues to perform in ways that deliver great The Committee regularly reviews the overall structure of remuneration service for customers and drives sales and provides opportunities for colleagues to share in Sainsburys success.
This overall reward strategy for senior executives to ensure that it continues to evolve alongside the objectives of the business and supports the interests of shareholders.
is the foundation for the remuneration policy for senior executives.
The over-arching objectives of the remuneration policy are to ensure When reviewing or amending remuneration arrangements, the Committee considers pay practices across the Company, the impact rewards are performance-based and encourage long-term shareholder value creation.
Reflecting the scope and responsibilities of senior on colleague behaviour, the cost to the Company, share dilution, stakeholder views including shareholders, governance bodies executives, the remuneration policy seeks to: and colleagues, best practice corporate governance and market Link rewards to the delivery of the business strategy, specifically the competitiveness, particularly within the retail sector.
It also considers five areas of focus as described in the Business review : the overall performance of the Company within the context of the retail market and the wider economic environment.
Support the Company values as outlined in our 20x20 Sustainability Plan: The table overleaf summarises each element of the remuneration Drive the right behaviours for long-term growth: package, with further details set out after the table.
Secure high calibre leaders who can deliver operational excellence: and Encourage executives to become shareholders in the Company.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 57 Governance Remuneration report continued Fixed pay Performance Changes to policy Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity metrics for 2013 Base salary Core element of Reviewed annually in March Salary increases for Executive None None remuneration used Directors will normally be within Judgement is used but to recruit and retain the range of those for the wider consideration is given to a number executives workforce of internal and external factors including role, responsibilities, Where the Committee considers scope, market positioning, inflation it necessary and appropriate, and colleague pay increases larger increases may be awarded in exceptional circumstances, or if an individual assumes substantially more responsibility Benefits Competitive benefits Benefits may include the provision The Committee keeps the benefit None None to assist recruiting and of company car benefits, private policies and the levels provided retaining executives medical cover, life assurance, under regular review long-term disability insurance and colleague discount Pension Provides an income JS Self Invested Pension Plan Dependent on the Executive None None following retirement and SIPP, a defined contribution plan Directors circumstances assists colleagues building and or a cash salary supplement wealth for their future Variable pay a significant portion of the total remuneration package is performance-related, aligning managements and shareholders interests Changes to Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics policy for 2013 Annual Reward performance on an Performance measured Maximum: Chief Executive Based on underlying None Bonus annual basis against key over one year, bonus 125 per cent of salary, profit at least 50%, financial, operational and payable in cash after other Executive Directors sales, customer-focussed individual objectives the year-end 90 per cent of salary measures and individual performance Bonus level determined by the Committee after Profit gateway must be the year-end based on achieved before any bonus performance against payments can be made targets Measures and targets are reviewed annually Deferred Recognise and reward Performance measured Maximum: Chief Executive Basket of metrics covering None Share Award for delivery of short-term over one year, award made 125 per cent of salary, financial performance, strategic and financial in shares deferred for two other Executive Directors returns to shareholders, objectives which contribute years 90 per cent of salary relative performance towards long-term against peers and strategic Award level determined sustainable growth goals by the Committee after Balance with Annual Bonus the year-end based on At least half of the to ensure management performance against award will be based on remain mindful of longtargets the delivery of financial term consequences of performance and returns Measures and targets are short-term actions to shareholders reviewed annually in light of the strategic plan Profit gateway must be achieved before any grants can be made Long-Term Recognise and reward Performance measured Core award: Chief For 2013 14 awards: None Incentive for delivery of Company over three financial years Executive 55 per cent of ROCE 50 per cent Plan performance and salary, other Directors 50 per cent vests following shareholder value over 50 per cent of salary Cumulative underlying the end of the performance the longer-term maximum 62.5 per cent cash flow from operations period and 50 per cent is 30 per cent Maximum multiplier: 4 times Share-based to provide deferred for a further year greater alignment with Relative sales 20 per cent Claw-back malus shareholder interests provisions apply An EPS gateway must be achieved before any awards vest Shareholding Alignment of Executive Guideline to be met within Guidelines are: Chief None None guidelines Directors with five years of appointment Executive 2.5 times salary, shareholders other Executive Directors 1.5 times salary 58 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Remuneration report continued Consideration of colleague pay and how the Justin King Remuneration Policy relates to the wider Company 7,000 When considering remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors, 5,791 the Committee takes into account, as a matter of course, the pay and 6,000 conditions of colleagues throughout the Company.
5,000 36% In particular, the Committee is kept informed of any major changes to 4,000 the pay and benefits of colleagues generally and the Committee takes 3,535 into account wider pay issues when determining Executive Directors 21% 3,000 30% remuneration.
17% 2,000 21% 1,279 Many aspects of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors 17% are consistent with the reward strategy for all colleagues across the 1,000 22% 100% 36% Company.
However, below executive level, pay and benefits are lower in 0 aggregate, driven by market comparatives and the nature of the roles.
Minimum On-target Maximum When considering salary increases for management the individuals performance and market rate for the role are considered, within the Mike Coupe scope of the overall salary pot.
For hourly paid colleagues a number of internal and external factors determine the rate of pay.
Executive 3,500 Director salary increases of around 2.1 per cent are in line with those 2,981 3,000 of the wider workforce averaging 2.2 per cent.
2,500 39% In terms of variable incentives, annual bonus plans are operated across the Company and are aligned under a common set of principles with 1,865 2,000 performance metrics tailored to different populations.
All colleagues bonuses include an element on sales and customer-focussed measures.
14% 1,000 18% 750 14% Long-term incentives are reserved for those senior executives expected 500 to have the greatest influence on Company performance over time.
40% 25% 100% All colleagues have the opportunity to become shareholders in the 0 Company through our all-employee share plans.
Minimum On-target Maximum Participation in a pension plan is also offered to all colleagues on a contributory basis, with the Company contribution varying by grade.
John Rogers The Committee is being kept up-to-date on the proposed closure of 3,000 the Defined Benefit Pension Plan for existing members, on which the 2,625 Company is currently consulting with its members.
Pensions autoenrolment launched in October 2012 and 57,000 colleagues were 2,500 enrolled, with an opt-out rate of around six per cent.
Overall, 96,000 39% 2,000 colleagues now participate in a Company pension plan.
1,637 A range of other benefits are also offered, including colleague discount.
1,500 32% 18% 1,000 14% Total remuneration under different 18% 649 14% performance scenarios 500 The Committee believes it is important for Executive Directors that 40% 25% 100% both a significant portion of the package is performance-related and a 0 significant proportion is delivered in shares to align their interests with Minimum On-target Maximum shareholders.
The balance between the fixed pay basic salary, pension LTIP DSA and benefits and variable pay Annual Bonus, Deferred Share Award Annual Bonus and Long-Term Incentive Plan changes with performance.
The variable Fixed pay proportion of total remuneration increases significantly for increased levels of performance.
At least 60 per cent of the package is delivered Minimum only fixed pay is earned and there are no payouts under any incentive plan.
through variable pay at on-target performance and this proportion On-target in addition to fixed pay, 50 per cent of the maximum potential under the Annual increases to at least three-quarters of the package at maximum levels Bonus and Deferred Share Award DSA is earned and a multiplier of 2.0 times is applied to Future Builder core awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Maximum the maximum potential under the incentive plans is earned.
The charts show for the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors their 2013 14 total remuneration potential under three performance scenarios excluding the effect of share price movements.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 59 000s 000s 000s Governance Remuneration report continued a variety of financial and operational targets that contribute to the Elements of remuneration achievement of longer-term strategic goals: some of these objectives Basic salary relate, either directly or indirectly, to the Companys values.
Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the Committee, taking account of a number of internal and external factors The maximum Annual Bonus opportunity remains unchanged from last including the role, responsibilities, job size and scope, as well as external year at 125 per cent of basic salary for the Chief Executive and 90 per pay data.
Furthermore, the Committee considers such information as cent of basic salary for the other Executive Directors.
economic factors, remuneration trends and focuses in particular on the general level of salary increases awarded throughout the Company.
The 2012 13 payment Committee uses the same approach when reviewing the salaries of the The performance measures for 2012 13 are the same as outlined above Operating Board Directors.
The Committee assessed performance against the targets following the end of the financial year and, in summary, the outturn is The external pay data provided to the Committee is sourced from as follows: relevant roles within the UK retail sector, in companies with annual sales revenues over 5 billion and also in companies with a market capitalisation ranging from 3 to 11 billion.
This approach ensures that Profit Sales Customer Individual focused performance the most appropriate available benchmark for the Directors specific position is obtained: however, in line with best practice, the Committee Above target applies judgement when considering market data.
Target The Committee reviewed the Executive Directors salaries for the start Threshold of the 2013 14 financial year.
In the context of another good year, the Committee agreed salary increases for 2013 14 that were in line with Below threshold those made to colleagues generally averaging 2.2 per cent consisting of a review for management and non-management central colleagues During the year the Company achieved strong year-on-year growth in of 2.0 per cent in March 2013 and for hourly paid retail colleagues of sales and profit and performed well against the stretching targets which 2.5 per cent in September 2012. were set across all elements of the plan at the start of the year.
Based on the above performance outcomes, the table below sets out the Salary effective from Salary effective from Per cent increase 18 March 2012 17 March 2013 Executive Directors bonus payments for 2012 13.
For information, the average bonus over the last three years has been: 2011 12 48 per cent Justin King 940,000 960,000 2.1 of salary, 2010 11 48 per cent of salary and 2009 10 92 per cent of Mike Coupe 575,000 587,000 2.1 salary.
John Rogers 510,000 520,000 2.0 Annual Bonus for 2012 13 Pensions Value Per cent of salary Per cent of maximum The Companys Defined Benefit Pension Plan was closed to new Justin King 996,000 106% 85% members on 31 January 2002 and none of the Executive Directors participate in it.
Mike Coupe 449,000 78% 87% John Rogers 390,000 76% 84% In lieu of pension plan participation, Justin King receives a pension supplement of 30 per cent of salary and Mike Coupe receives a pension The 2012 13 Annual Bonus for store colleagues was based on corporate supplement of 25 per cent of salary.
sales, availability and customer service targets measured in their individual stores.
This has resulted in a record bonus pool of over John Rogers participates in the JS Self Invested Pension Plan, a defined 90 million which will be shared by over 134,000 colleagues.
contribution arrangement which is open to all senior management.
In return for contributing five per cent of his salary, the Company Deferred Share Award contributes 12.5 per cent of his salary up to an internal earnings cap 2013 14 policy 137,400 for 2012 13.
He receives a pension supplement of 25 per cent Since 2009, the Deferred Share Award DSA has been used to drive of the pensionable salary he was paid in excess of the earnings cap.
performance against a diverse range of business-critical financial and non-financial scorecard measures.
This plan has become a vital part Benefits of the remuneration package and rewards Directors for achieving the Benefits for Directors include the provision of company car benefits, short-term objectives that will directly lead to building the sustainable, private medical cover, long-term disability insurance, life assurance and long-term growth of the Company.
Share-based awards are made colleague discount.
further ensuring alignment of Directors interests with shareholders.
Annual Bonus The DSA covers the top 45 managers in the Company, including 2013 14 policy Executive Directors.
The Committee has reviewed the DSAs All bonus plans across the Company are aligned under a set of common performance framework for 2013 14 and performance will continue to principles.
The Board and management plans continue to be based on be measured against a basket of key strategic measures aligned under profit and sales growth, customer-focussed measures and an element for four broad categories: individual performance.
Bonus awards are weighted to the achievement of profit at least 50 per cent and profit continues to act as the overall 1.
Financial performance: gateway measure for the plan, reflecting the emphasis on growing 2.
For 2013 14, the targets will be set to reward stretching year-on- 3.
Relative performance against peers: and year growth.
The Annual Bonus is paid in cash after the year-end.
The customer-focussed measures are based on availability which When developing the DSA, the Committee gave careful consideration is measured across all stores on a regular basis by an independent to the selection of its performance measures and targets, as well as third party, conducting random and unannounced store visits and a to the robustness of the plan design.
The Committee also agreed that customer service measure.
appropriate corporate responsibility targets would be included within the strategic goals category.
Individual performance objectives are set annually for each Executive Director and are reviewed by the Committee.
These objectives cover 60 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Remuneration report continued At least 50 per cent of the award will be based on the delivery of Relative performance financial performance e. g. profit and earnings per share and returns Our sales grew ahead of the market, with market share increasing to to shareholders e. g. Total Shareholder Return TSR and dividend 16.8 per cent despite the continuing difficult consumer environment.
The balance will be based on measures which will assess the The Company was the only one of the top four supermarkets to see a Companys performance relative to its competitors e. g. market share year-on-year market share increase.
For the 50 weeks from 18 March as well as key strategic and corporate goals, linked to the five areas of 2012 to 02 March 2013 we outperformed the Institute of Grocery focus.
In addition, no shares will be awarded unless the profit gateway Distribution IGD pool by 2.0 per cent source: IGD Market Track.
target as applied to the Annual Bonus is achieved.
As a further means We won the top award, Supermarket of the Year, in the Retail Industry of ensuring robust performance measurement, a feature of the plan Awards 2012 for the fifth time in seven years and for a third year is that during the year, the Committee receives an interim appraisal to running won the Convenience Chain of the Year award.
gauge the progress of performance and the plans effectiveness based on half-year results.
Strategic goals The Companys strategy continues to centre on our five areas of focus.
Performance is assessed over one financial year, but any shares These are underpinned by Sainsburys strong heritage and brand which awarded are deferred for a further two years.
The shares are subject consistently set it apart from major competitors.
Further details on the to forfeiture if the participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to corporate objectives can be found in the Business review and details of their release date.
Dividends accrue on the shares that vest in the form the corporate responsibility commitments are summarised on of additional shares.
We made good progress this year on Great Food.
Customers The maximum DSA award opportunities remain unchanged at 125 per increasingly buy into our own-brand food offer, which has grown by cent of basic salary for the Chief Executive and 90 per cent of basic nearly five per cent in the year and now accounts for half of our food salary for the other Executive Directors.
The successful re-launch of our core by Sainsburys range is now complete with over 6,500 lines, many of which are new or 2012 13 award improved.
Sales grew ahead of our major competitors comparable Following the year-end, the Committee conducted a rigorous ranges and by Sainsburys won the prestigious Grocer Gold Own assessment of performance.
Consistent with the underlying principles Label Brand of the Year award.
Our Taste the Difference range is also of the DSA, the Committee assessed achievements in the round and growing strongly at nearly 10 per cent and is gaining market share.
We also considered the manner in which these performance goals had been are about to start a re-launch of our basics brand, the second largest delivered, in particular how the overall performance of the Company value brand in the market, due to be complete by early 2014.
Overall, had contributed to its future, sustainable growth and success.
Sainsburys own-brand ranges rank second in market share of the top four supermarkets.
The Company performed well in 2012 13 and this flowed through to the basket of measures that determine awards under the DSA.
The Our non-food offer builds customer loyalty customers who buy Committee agreed that for 2012 13 awards would be made at 83 per clothing and general merchandise, as well as food, shop with us more cent of the maximum level.
For information, the previous levels of frequently and spend more than those who only buy food.
In February, awards have been: 2012 78 per cent of the maximum, 2011 83 we achieved the significant milestone of 1 billion in annual general per cent and 2010 88 per cent.
The table below sets out the merchandise sales, a reflection of the investment we have made in 2012 13 awards for the Executive Directors.
space and the quality of our offer.
We continued the development of our multi-channel offer.
Our Deferred Share Award for 2012 13 convenience business, which we have built and invested in over the past 15 years, has five million customer transactions each week Value Per cent of salary Per cent of maximum and sales of over 1.5 billion.
Convenience stores have delivered Justin King 975,000 104% 83% sales growth of over 17 per cent year-on-year, driven by both new space and like-for-like sales growth.
We have continued to open one Mike Coupe 430,000 75% 83% or two convenience stores each week, bringing our total number John Rogers 381,000 75% 83% of convenience stores to 523.
Our groceries online business is also growing strongly at around 20 per cent year-on-year, and we Although some of the specific measures and targets are commercially have the ability to deliver to over 96 per cent of UK households.
sensitive, the sections below present a selection of performance Sainsburys Bank has enjoyed another successful year, delivering highlights within each of the four categories.
its fifth consecutive year of profit growth, with our share of the joint venture post-tax profit up 38 per cent to 22 million.
We are pleased Financial performance to have reached an agreement with Lloyds Banking Group to acquire We performed strongly over the last year and underlying profit before their 50 per cent shareholding of Sainsburys Bank and take sole tax improved by 6.2 per cent to 756 million.
Underlying operating ownership which will allow future products to be even more tailored margin improved by two basis points to 3.56 per cent and underlying to Sainsburys customers.
basic earnings per share increased by 9.3 per cent to 30.7 pence.
During the year, we continued to develop new businesses.
We have formed a joint venture with Aimia, owner of the Nectar programme.
Returns to shareholders 2 The new company, I C Insight 2 Communication, will benefit The Company saw its eighth consecutive year of like-for-like sales customers through timely, relevant and accessible offers, based growth, with like-for-like sales including VAT, excluding fuel of 1.8 per on their likes and dislikes, while brands benefit from insight-based cent.
The strong sales performance helped to maintain a strong balance marketing solutions and a greater return on investment.
Also, with sheet, with return on capital employed ROCE of 11.2 per cent, a the purchase of a majority stake in Anobii, now operating as eBooks year-on-year increase of 12 basis points.
This has enabled the Company by Sainsburys, and our partnership with Rovi Corporation, an onto maintain a good level of returns to shareholders.
The proposed full demand video streaming service, we continue our drive into the online year dividend is 16.7 pence, up 3.7 per cent year-on-year 2011 12: 16.1 and digital entertainment market.
These new and exciting business pence.
The dividend is covered 1.83 times by underlying earnings and relationships underline our commitment to becoming a key player in our dividend yield and price earnings ratio remain amongst the highest the digital entertainment market.
TSR was assessed on both a relative and absolute basis over one, three and five-year periods.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 61 Governance Remuneration report continued This year we have added 14 supermarkets, 87 convenience stores percentage of salary and scaled according to grade.
The Chief Executive and eight extensions to our property portfolio a total of just over receives a core award of 55 per cent of salary and the other Executive one million sq ft, in line with our target of around five per cent gross Directors a core award of 50 per cent of salary.
Vesting of core awards is space growth.
Some of this additional space has enabled us to bring dependent upon performance against specific measures common for all our increasingly popular clothing and general merchandise ranges to participants tested at the end of a three-year performance period.
It has also enabled us to expand our coverage of the core award can grow by up to four times at stretch levels of performance.
UK to areas where our presence was previously limited only around The overall maximum award permitted by the rules of the plan is 250 per 22 per cent of the UK population do not live within a 15 minute drive of cent of salary including the performance multiplier.
Half of any vested shares are released at the end of the performance In the last five years, we have added 4 billion to the value of our period, while the remaining half are released after a further year.
property portfolio, the market value of which is now 11.5 billion.
Dividends accrue on the shares that vest, in the form of additional shares.
Activity during the year delivered profits of 66 million and over five years property profits have totalled 341 million.
The performance measures are reviewed each year by the Committee, We have a responsibility to protect our environment for future before a new grant is made, to ensure that they remain relevant and generations, help sustain the communities in which we operate and stretching.
The performance conditions applying to the 2013 grant are help our customers to Live Well For Less.
We are continuing to work the same as those used in 2012. towards our 20x20 Sustainability Plan comprising 20 ambitious goals we aim to achieve by the year 2020.
During the year we ran The Committee believes it is important that the performance conditions our second Million Meals Appeal, launched our Active Kids for All in the long-term incentive arrangement support the corporate Paralympics legacy plan and donated a record-breaking 41.5 million ambitions of the Company during the next phase of development.
to good causes in the year such as Comic Relief, the Royal British We operate in a dynamic market with evolving challenges and the Legion Poppy Appeal and our nationwide Local Charity Partnership Committee monitors this over time.
ROCE, cash flow and relative sales programme.
We were also awarded a number of environmental complement the Companys future strategy, as outlined in the Business accolades this year, including the top award of Sustainable Business review which will be achieved by delivering long-term sustainable of the Year at the Energy and Environmental Awards.
This was in performance in three key areas: recognition of our industry-leading work on carbon and energy Improving the returns from our existing supermarkets business both reduction, focus on recycling and water innovation.
food and non-food : Long-term incentives Driving growth through value-adding new stores and extensions: and 2013 14 policy Creating new business growth through investing further in our The long-term incentive vehicle in use at Sainsburys is known as existing convenience and online channels, building our presence Future Builder.
This arrangement was introduced in 2012 following in financial services and pursuing new opportunities, for example the amendment to the performance conditions.
Performance is now Energy and Pharmacy.
assessed against ROCE, cumulative cash flow from operations and relative sales measured against the IGD Index, with an earnings per The Committee retains the discretion to make adjustments to the share gateway.
Awards are made under the shareholder approved calculation of the performance measures for instance for material 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
acquisitions and disposals and one-off events not foreseen at the time the targets were set to ensure they remain true and fair reflections of Around 200 senior managers participate in this arrangement.
Future Builder, a core award of shares is granted, calculated as a Element Performance metrics ROCE ROCE reflects the return generated for shareholders, and as such is a critical measure of the quality of our business activity and the efficiency of capital use.
For the purposes of Future Builder, ROCE is based on the underlying operating profit for the business, including the underlying share of post-tax profit from joint ventures.
The capital employed figure excludes the impact of movements in the IAS 19 pension deficit.
Cumulative Cumulative underlying cash flow from operations measures the total flow of cash in and out of the business as well as underlying providing an assessment of underlying profitability.
cash flow from For Future Builder, the cumulative underlying cash flow is based on the reported cash flow generated from operations over operations the performance period after adding back net rent and cash pension costs.
Relative sales This is an important metric used across the retail sector.
Outperforming our direct peers on sales will be a key source of value for our shareholders and like-for-like sales are the biggest driver for profitability and returns.
Our relative sales performance is measured using the IGD Index.
The IGD Index measures growth in like-for-like sales excluding fuel across the market based on the performance of all of the Companys key competitors.
This is an independently audited index of sales efficiency, which is viewed as a robust reference point for performance across the food retail sector.
62 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Remuneration report continued 2013 Future Builder 2nd cycle considers that the stretch of the targets set for 2013 awards is The performance measures and targets for the 2013 Future Builder comparable to awards granted in previous years, and that the delivery grant are summarised in the table below.
Straight-line vesting will of stretch targets would result in significant shareholder value creation.
operate between the threshold and maximum targets.
The Committee Threshold Maximum Component Weighting 1.0x core award 4.0x core award Return on capital employed 50% 10.75% 12% Cash flow 30% 5,500m 6,500m Relative sales v IGD Index 20% Meet index Index 1.0% per annum EPS gateway No part of the award will be eligible to vest if compound EPS growth equivalent to 4% per annum is not achieved Claw-back 2013 vesting In 2012 the Remuneration Committee introduced claw-back malus Until 2012, long-term incentive awards were known as Value Builder in order to strengthen the Companys formal governance in line with awards.
The structure of the plan is the same as Future Builder but our existing philosophy, and in recognition of shareholders current different performance conditions applied.
The fifth cycle of Value concerns around executive remuneration.
This clause is intended to Builder made in 2010 is due to vest in May 2013, based on performance apply to all long-term incentive awards made following the introduction over 2010 11 to 2012 13.
The Committee determined performance in 2012. over the period should deliver a vesting multiplier of 1.75 times, based on adjusted ROCE of 13.5 per cent and cash flow per share CFPS The circumstances in which the clause may be invoked have been of 8.2 per cent.
This represents 44 per cent of the maximum award defined as follows: opportunity, which the Committee believes is a true and fair reflection of performance.
When assessing ROCE and CFPS performance for Financial accounts Material mis-statement of our the purposes of the plan, adjustments were made to take into account financial results additional investments, returns and one-off events not envisaged at the Actions conduct of participant Serious reputational damage time the targets were set.
One half of the award becomes exercisable in May 2013, with the remaining portion exercisable in May 2014.
Serious misconduct Fraud For information, the previous levels of vesting have been: 2012 vesting 1.7 times, 2011 vesting 1.9 times, 2010 vesting 3.2 times and 2009 vesting 3.7 times.
Should the Committee consider such events to have occurred, it will have discretion to: Performance conditions attached to outstanding long-term Reduce the number of shares under an unvested award: incentive awards The table below sets out the performance conditions attached to all Cancel an unvested award in full: or outstanding awards: the definitions for ROCE and CFPS previously used Impose further conditions on an unvested award.
can be found in the remuneration report for the relevant year of grant.
The structure of Value Builder and Future Builder awards are the same and both are granted under the 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Around In line with our 2020 target of increasing the number of colleagues with 3,200 colleagues could use their savings and a tax-free bonus to buy shares in the Company by 25 per cent, the Company provides two allSainsburys shares at a 3.31 option price.
The 2009 three-year employee share plans for colleagues, namely the Savings-Related Share SAYE matured at the same time covering around 7,800 colleagues Option Plan SAYE and the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan, of who could use their savings and a tax-free bonus to buy Sainsburys which the Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan is a part.
Executive Directors shares at a 2.73 option price.
Using the market price on the date of may participate in these plans in the same way as all other colleagues.
the first exercise, the value of all the shares subject to the maturity Justin King and John Rogers currently participate in both plans.
The Company currently has over 30,000 Coupe participates in the SAYE.
As these are all-employee plans there colleagues participating in the SAYE with around 59,000 individual are no performance conditions.
The Committee approves the adoption savings contracts.
or amendment of these plans and awards to Executive Directors.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 63 Governance Remuneration report continued policy.
The guidelines require Directors to build up a specified level Shareholding guidelines of shareholding within five years of appointment.
The guidelines are The Committee introduced shareholding guidelines in 2006 07, updated as follows: Chief Executive 2.5 times salary: Executive Directors 1.5 in 2010 11, to create greater alignment of the Directors interests with times salary and Operating Board Directors 1.0 times salary.
those of shareholders, which is a key objective within the remuneration 3 Name Shareholding as at Outstanding share awards Multiple of salary Guideline met at 1 2 16 March 2013 not subject to performance 16 March 2013 Justin King 825,979 1,411,294 5.8 times Yes Mike Coupe 866,411 561,707 7.2 times Yes John Rogers 210,806 364,434 2.7 times Yes 1 Shareholding as at 16 March 2013.
2 Outstanding share awards under Value Builder, DSA and Deferred Annual Bonus Plan that are no longer subject to performance conditions.
3 Calculated using i salaries as at 16 March 2013, ii share total based on total of shareholding plus net of tax value tax assumed to be 52 per cent of share awards not subject to performance and iii the closing mid-market share price on 16 March 2013 of 3.628.
Dilution Service contracts The Company ensures that the level of shares granted under the Justin King has a service contract which can be terminated by either Companys share plans and the means of satisfying such awards party by giving 12 months written notice.
If his service contract is remains within best practice guidelines so that dilution from employee terminated without cause, the Company can request that he works his share awards does not exceed ten per cent of the Companys issued notice period or takes a period of garden leave, or can pay an amount in share capital for all-employee share plans and five per cent in respect lieu of notice equal to one times basic salary for the notice period plus of executive share plans in any ten-year rolling period.
The Company 75 per cent of basic salary in lieu of all other elements of remuneration, monitors dilution levels on a regular basis and the Committee reviews except share plans.
If he is dismissed within six months of a change these at least once a year.
Up to 16 March 2013, an estimated 7.9 per of control, the above sum will become payable.
The contract contains cent of the Companys issued share capital has been allocated for restrictive covenants, which continue for 12 months after termination.
the purposes of its all-employee share plans over a ten-year period, If the service contract of Mike Coupe is terminated without cause, the including an estimated 3.7 per cent over ten years in respect of its maximum payment he would receive would be equal to one times basic executive share plans.
salary for the 12-month notice period plus 50 per cent of basic salary in lieu of all other elements of remuneration, except share plans.
He Performance graph is required to mitigate his losses and would receive phased payments, The graph below shows the TSR performance of an investment of 100 which would be reduced or terminated if he secured alternative in J Sainsbury plc shares over the last five years compared with an employment during the notice period.
His contract also contains equivalent investment in the FTSE 100 Index.
This has been selected to restrictive covenants, which continue for 12 months after termination.
provide an established and broad-based index.
An additional graph is It does not contain any specific provisions relating to change of control.
included which shows J Sainsbury plcs daily TSR since March 2012: In 2010, the Committee agreed that within future Executive Directors over the last year our TSR has exceeded the FTSE 100. service agreements the notice period would be 12 months and that the termination provisions would state that any severance payments TSR performance since March 2008 would be limited to one years salary and benefits, be made on a phased 130 130 basis and be subject to mitigation.
As is the current practice, if good leaver status is given, long-term incentive awards that vest following a 120 120 Directors employment termination will continue to be pro-rated for time 110 110 and performance.
Bonus awards will also be paid subject to time and performance for the financial year in which office is held if the individual 100 100 is considered to be a good leaver.
The service contract under which 90 90 John Rogers was appointed as Chief Financial Officer follows these 80 80 provisions in full: in addition, there are no specific terms relating to change of control.
70 70 The Executive Directors service contracts became effective on the 60 60 following dates: Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Justin King 29 March 2004 Sainsburys Mike Coupe 1 August 2007 FTSE 100 John Rogers 19 July 2010 TSR performance since March 2012 External appointments The Companys normal practice is that Executive Directors may take up 130 one public company non-executive role outside the Company, subject to a consideration of the role and the time commitment.
Directors are 120 entitled to retain the fees earned from such appointments.
Details of the Executive Directors external fees are set out on page 66.
110 100 90 Mar 12 May 12 Jul 12 Sep 12 Nov 12 Jan 13 Mar 13 Sainsburys FTSE 100 64 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Remuneration report continued Non-Executive Directors receive a basic annual cash fee: additional fees are Chairman paid to the Senior Independent Director and to the Chairmen of the Audit, The Chairman does not have a service contract: his letter of Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
Non-Executive appointment became effective on 1 October 2009 and he became Directors do not participate in any performance-related incentive plans Chairman on 1 November 2009.
He was appointed for an initial term of and receive no benefits other than a colleague discount card.
three years, renewable on a 12-month rolling basis and thereafter by mutual consent.
His appointment may be terminated at any time upon The Non-Executive Directors fees were reviewed during the year but no the serving of six months written notice by either party.
The fee levels are as follows: David Tyler receives a basic fee of 470,000 per annum.
His fees were Basic fee 60,000 reviewed during 2012 13 but no adjustment was made.
He devotes such Senior Independent Director fee 15,000 time as is necessary to perform his duties.
He does not participate Chairman of Remuneration Committee fee 15,000 in any performance-related incentive plans and the only benefits he Chairman of Audit Committee fee 15,000 receives are private medical cover, an annual medical assessment and a Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee fee 12,500 colleague discount card.
The effective dates of the Non-Executive Directors letters of Non-Executive Directors appointment are set out below: Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts.
They are Letter of appointment effective date appointed for an initial three-year period, which may be extended for a further term by mutual consent.
The initial appointments and any Matt Brittin 27 January 2011 subsequent re-appointments are subject to annual election or reMary Harris 1 August 2007 election by shareholders.
Their appointments may be terminated by Gary Hughes 1 January 2005 the serving of three months notice by either party.
John McAdam 1 September 2005 Jean Tomlin 1 January 2013 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 65 Governance Remuneration report continued The following section provides details of the remuneration, pension and share plan interests of the Directors for the 52 weeks ended 16 March 2013 and has been audited.
2 Anna Ford resigned from the Board on 31 December 2012.
3 Bob Stack resigned from the Board on 11 July 2012.
4 Darren Shapland resigned from the Board on 13 July 2011 and received 206,000 in cash and benefits in 2011 12.
In his capacity as Non-Executive Chairman of Sainsburys Bank, Darren Shapland earned a salary of 143,407 in 2012 13 until he resigned on 28 February 2013 2011 12: 107,308.
Val Gooding received fees of 18,000 in 2011 12.
5 Includes performance bonuses earned in the period under review but paid following the end of the financial year.
6 Justin King is not a member of the Companys pension plans and received 30 per cent of his basic salary as a cash pension supplement.
In addition to this supplement, 446 2012: 440 of interest has been earned on a notional fund during the year from his previous membership of the Executive Stakeholder Pension Plan.
Mike Coupe is not a member of the Companys pension plans and received 25 per cent of basic salary as a cash pension supplement.
John Rogers is a member of the Companys JS Self Invested Pension Plan.
Contributions to the JS Self Invested Pension Plan by the Company in 2012 13 in respect of his membership were 17,175 2011 12: 16,200.
He received a cash supplement equal to 25 per cent of the amount by which his salary exceeded the Companys earnings cap 2012 13: 137,400 2011 12: 129,600.
7 The totals for 2013 and 2012 in the case of John Rogers do not include deductions made from basic salary for Saving Money and Reducing Tax SMART pensions.
8 Benefits include a combination of cash and non-cash benefits.
Benefits for John Rogers and Mike Coupe include cash car allowance and private medical cover.
Justin King received non-cash benefits which include company car benefits and private medical cover.
David Tyler received non-cash benefits of private medical cover.
9 The deferred share award is an award of shares with the value shown above.
These shares are retained by the Company for two financial years and will not become exercisable by the participants until after the year-end in 2015.
10 D irectors are entitled to retain the fees earned from non-executive appointments outside the Company.
Justin King was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Staples, Inc. on 17 September 2007.
During the year 11,372 2011 12: 8,653 of restricted Staples stock was released to Justin and a further award over 13,715 shares was granted 2011 12: 11,372 restricted shares awarded.
Justin King is also a Director of Olympic Games and Paralympic Games Limited and a member of the London Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Justin received 8,000 2011 12: 10,500 during the year for his services which, after deductions for National Insurance, was donated directly to charity.
Mike Coupe was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Greene King plc on 26 July 2011 and received 43,000 2011 12: 29,604 for his services.
66 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Remuneration report continued ii Long-term incentive plans Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006 The table below shows the conditional awards granted under this Plan, which would be released if the Company achieves the performance targets for maximum vesting.
Number of Number of dividend Share price at shares lapsed shares Number Number of Maximum date of award during the allocated of options options held First exercise Last exercise 1 2,3 Date of grant share award pence year 17 May 2012 released 16 March 2013 date date Justin King 28.05.08 630,876 352.0 31,471 181,304 181,304 19.05.11 17.05.13 24.06.09 570,984 314.0 328,316 19,743 141,077 141,077 17.05.12 16.05.14 21.
2 The performance conditions attaching to the awards made between 2008 and 2011 are return on capital employed and growth in cash flow per share.
The performance conditions relating to the award made in 2012 are a combination of return on capital employed, cumulative underlying cash flow from operations and relative sales performance.
Further information is provided on pages 118 to 119.
The performance of the award made in June 2009 was tested in May 2012 and a multiplier of 1.7 was achieved.
The number of shares between the maximum multiplier 4.0 and the multiplier achieved have lapsed.
Half of the achieved award vested in May 2012 whilst the remainder of the achieved award will vest in May 2013.
The number of dividend shares which have been received on vested shares was determined by a five-day average share price from 10 to 16 May 2012.
3 The second half of the award which vested in May 2011 was released in May 2012.
Notes: The Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006 is a nil-cost option plan.
The exercise price is nil.
There were no options exercised under this Plan during the year.
Deferred Share Award The table below shows the number of deferred shares awarded to participants in May 2010, 2011 and 2012.
There are no further performance measures attached to the awards.
The Deferred Share Award is a nil-cost option plan.
The number of dividend shares which have been received on vested shares was determined by a five-day average share price following the announcement of interim and preliminary results 14-20 May 2010, 11-17 November 2010, 12-18 May 2011 and 10-16 November 2011.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 67 Governance Remuneration report continued Deferred Annual Bonus Plan The table below shows the maximum number of shares conditionally allocated to participants and what would be released to them in the form of nil-cost options.
This legacy plan is no longer operated.
Number of Matching dividend Deferred Maximum Share price at share award shares Number Number of bonus share matching date of award lapsed during allocated of options options held First exercise Last exercise 1 Date of grant award share award pence the year 17 May 2012 released 16 March 2013 date date Justin King 20.06.08 158,042 316,084 325.75 - 15,104 87,013 87,013 19.05.11 18.05.13 24.06.09 81,319 275,658 314.00 275,658 - - - - - Mike Coupe 20.06.08 18,292 36,584 325.75 - 1,748 10,071 10,071 19.05.11 18.05.13 24.06.09 23,280 78,920 314.00 78,920 - - - - - John Rogers 20.06.08 7,513 15,026 325.75 - 717 4,135 4,135 19.05.11 18.05.13 1 The maximum matching share award is the maximum award at the time the award is granted, which would become exercisable provided that the Company achieves first position within the comparator group of Ahold, Carrefour, Casino, Delhaize, DSG International, Home Retail Group, Kingfisher, Marks & Spencer, Metro, Morrisons, Next and Tesco.
The Companys relative performance is determined by reference to Total Shareholder Return.
Notes: The performance of the awards granted in June 2008 was tested and matching shares of 0.91 times an individuals deferral was achieved.
Half of the achieved award vested in May 2011 whilst the remainder of the achieved award was released in May 2012.
The number of dividend shares on the second vesting was determined by a five-day average share price from 10-16 May 2012.
The 2009 deferral was made on a net post-tax basis and it was released on 23 March 2012.
The matching shares lapsed as the performance conditions were not met.
iii Savings-Related Share Option Plan SAYE At the end of the year, the Directors SAYE share options were as follows: Number of options Date Midmarket Gains on Granted Exercised price on date option during the during the of exercise exercise Lapsed during Exercise price From which 17 March 2012 year year pence 000 the year 16 March 2013 pence exercisable Of expiry Justin King 3,030 - - - - - 3,030 297.0 01.03.14 31.08.14 Mike Coupe 3,324 - - - - - 3,324 273.0 01.03.13 31.08.13 John Rogers 6,302 - - - - - 6,302 238.0 01.03.17 31.08.17 Note: The SAYE Plan is an all-employee share option plan and has no performance conditions as per HMRC Regulations.
In the period from 18 March 2012 to 16 March 2013, the highest mid-market price of the Companys shares was 362.8 pence and the lowest mid-market price was 283.5 pence.
At 16 March 2013 the Companys share price was 362.8 pence.
iv Directors interests The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the shares of the Company are shown below: 2 Ordinary shares 1 17 March 2012 16 March 2013 8 May 2013 Justin King 825,519 825,979 826,039 Mike Coupe 866,411 866,411 866,411 John Rogers 192,496 210,806 210,866 David Tyler 50,000 50,000 50,000 Matt Brittin 1,000 1,000 1,000 Mary Harris 11,037 11,607 11,607 Gary Hughes 30,071 31,625 31,625 John McAdam 1,000 1,000 1,000 3 Jean Tomlin 0 0 0 1 The total includes shares purchased under the Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan between 16 March 2013 and 8 May 2013.
2 Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the Directors personal holdings and those of their spouses and minor children.
They also include the beneficial interests in shares which are held in trust under the Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan.
3 As at date of appointment.
Notes: The Executive Directors are potential beneficiaries of the Companys employee benefit trust, which is used to satisfy awards under the Companys employee share plans, and they are therefore treated as interested in the 5.3 million shares 2012: 5.9 million held by the Trustees.
Approved by the Board on 8 May 2013 Mary Harris Chairman, Remuneration Committee 68 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
