Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements Directors Remuneration Report 35 This is the Boards report to shareholders on directors remuneration and covers both executive directors and non-executive directors.
It has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board.
This report is subject to two votes at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM : a binding vote in relation to the Directors Remuneration Policy Part 1 of this report and an advisory vote in relation to the Annual Report on Remuneration Part 2 of this report, both of which are presented on the following pages.
Part 1 Part 2 Contents The directors remuneration policy report Annual report on remuneration The Boards report to shareholders on directors remuneration 38 1.1 Future policy 47 2.1 Single figure of remuneration for each director 36 Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration 43 1.2 Approach to recruitment remuneration Committee 50 2.2 Total pension entitlements 43 1.3 Service contracts 37 Remuneration Committee 51 2.3 Share incentive plan interests awarded 44 1.4 Illustrations of application of during the year 37 Statement of shareholder voting remuneration policy 51 2.4 Payments to past directors 45 1.5 Policy on payment for loss of office 51 2.5 Payments for loss of office 46 1.6 Change of control 52 2.6 Statement of directors shareholding 46 1.7 Consideration of employment conditions and share interests elsewhere in the Group 54 2.7 TSR performance summary 46 1.8 Consideration of shareholder views 54 2.8 Percentage change in CEO remuneration 54 2.9 Relative importance of spend on pay Audited Unless otherwise noted, the remaining sections of the Directors Remuneration Report are not subject to audit.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 36 Directors Remuneration Report continued Letter from the Chairman of the a balance of fixed and variable pay, which we and greater responsibility.
Bob has accepted Remuneration Committee intend will result in competitive total remuneration that in principle his salary should increase but for packages that reflect performance.
2014 has decided that, given the need to show leadership on cost saving measures, it would A priority for the Committee during 2013 was the Dear Shareholder be more appropriate to defer this increase for introduction of the new Long-Term Plan LTP Our Directors Remuneration Report DRR this 12 months.
The increase will now take effect which replaced the Long-Term Incentive Plan year follows the format laid out in the Large and on 1 January 2015.
Robin Watson has been LTIP and Long-Term Retention Plan LTRP Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts awarded a salary increase of 12.5% reflecting which was approved by shareholders at the and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the increased scale of the Wood Group PSN 2013 AGM.
As described in last years DRR, the which came into effect on 1 October 2013. business for which he is responsible including LTP covers both incentive and retention awards Those regulations aim to improve the management of the Turbine joint ventures.
and provides a framework which we believe transparency of reward arrangements and to Employer pension contributions to the GPP on will continue to support the achievement of the provide shareholders with a greater say over behalf of Robin will also increase from 10% to Groups strategic goals.
For executive directors remuneration policy as it relates to company 15%.
Other executive directors were awarded and senior executives, long-term incentives directors.
The Board is fully supportive of increases of 3% to base salary in line with granted in 2013 will continue to vest subject to these regulatory changes and we trust that employees generally.
The Committee consulted challenging TSR total shareholder return, AEPS shareholders welcome this new revised format.
major shareholders holding in aggregate 48% and, for certain participants, EBITA targets.
Whilst of the equity of the Company at that time in As a result of the above legislation, the DRR there is flexibility under the LTP to incorporate relation to the proposed salary increases and is now split into two parts.
Part 1 covers the up to 25% of the maximum award to be based no objections to the proposed increases were Directors Remuneration Policy which lays out upon clearly defined and measurable strategic received.
the Companys proposed future policy with key performance indicators this provision has not regard to directors remuneration and is subject been utilised to date.
In preparing the Directors Remuneration Report to a binding shareholder vote which will be held for 2013, the Committee has endeavoured to Group performance was good in 2013 with at least every three years.
This contains details provide full and clear explanations of decisions growth in EBITA of 16.1%, and in adjusted of the proposed policy as it applies to each made and the reasons for these.
At the 2014 earnings per share AEPS of 15.7%, which individual element of remuneration as well as AGM, shareholder approval will be sought for the contributed to annual bonuses at between containing scenario charts which illustrate the Remuneration Policy Report, which is intended 68% and 83% of maximum being awarded to potential value of overall remuneration.
Subject to to remain in effect for the next three years.
The 2013 performance also the policy report contained in Part 1 of the DRR the policy reflects existing approved share plans contributed to a strong performance in the LTIP being approved by shareholders, this policy will and remuneration practices, it does provide fourth cycle 2011 2013 with growth in AEPS become effective from the 2014 AGM.
sufficient flexibility to allow certain elements of over the three year cycle of 248% and TSR the remuneration package, such as annual salary Part 2 of the DRR contains the Annual Report performance against selected peer companies at or the selection of annual bonus targets, to be on Remuneration, which describes how the 3 out of 17. adjusted to respond to changing circumstances Companys policy has been implemented in the and to ensure that the package continues to During the year, the Committee considered the previous year and how it will be implemented support achievement of the Groups strategic Chairmans and executive directors remuneration in the coming year.
This includes details of all goals.
One change that has been included in the packages for 2014.
Allister Langlands elements of remuneration provided to directors policy, is that from 2014 the part of the annual remuneration from 1 January 2014 reflects his during 2013 and, as was the case previously, this bonus award that is deferred for two years role as part-time, non-executive Chairman.
As part of the DRR is subject to an annual advisory 50% of total bonus awarded, will be paid in was the case in 2013, he will not participate in vote by shareholders.
shares rather than cash to further strengthen the LTP and from 2014 will no longer receive pension alignment between executive management and As this is the first year the new format has accrual or annual bonus.
been used to report directors remuneration, was appointed Group CEO, the Committee shareholders will be asked to vote on two determined that his salary should be modestly separate resolutions, one in relation to the positioned with the intention to increase his salary Directors Remuneration Policy and another in to a more competitive level once he had further relation to the Annual Report on Remuneration, developed into the role and Allister Langlands both of which I hope you will be able to support.
had transitioned to a part-time non-executive Chairman role and transferred his remaining Our objective continues to be to provide a executive responsibilities.
Following review, the remuneration package to attract and retain David K Woodward Committee considered that Bob Keiller should executive directors and senior executives of Chairman, Remuneration Committee be awarded a salary increase of 12.5% reflecting the necessary calibre to support the successful the progress he has made since his appointment future growth of the business.
We do this through Members of the Remuneration Committee Neil H Smith retired from the Board and the R Committee on 31 December 2013.
David K Woodward Michel Contie Jeremy R Wilson John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 37 Remuneration Committee Meeting Regular standing items Other agenda items During 2013, the Remuneration Committee comprised four independent Confirmed executive directors Approved rules for the LTP February non-executive directors: David K Woodward Chairman, Michel Contie, Neil salaries for 2013 2013 H Smith and Jeremy R Wilson.
Neil H Smith retired on 31 December 2013.
Approved LTCIP and LTIP Confirmed executive directors grants for 2010 2012 cycle The Remuneration Committee advises the Board on executive remuneration annual bonuses for 2012 Revised Remuneration and sets the remuneration packages of each of the executive directors.
The Reviewed 2012 directors Committee Charter Committee has a written charter which is publicly available on the Groups remuneration report website.
Confirmed approval of ESOS Approved targets, May 2013 During the year, the Committee took advice from Deloitte LLP, who were and LTRP grants participants and retained as external advisors to the Committee.
Deloitte LLP is a member of communications for the LTP the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under 2013 2015 cycle the Code of Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK.
Deloitte received 60,700 for the provision of services to the Committee during the year.
These fees consisted of core services where the cost was Discussed bonus format for Reviewed changes needed August 2013 agreed in advance and additional services which were charged on a time 2014 for 2013 DRR and materials basis.
As well as advising the Remuneration Committee, Reviewed results of Deloitte LLP also provided tax and global mobility advice to the Group during remuneration benchmarking 2013.
The Committee has reviewed the advice provided by Deloitte during exercise for Group directors the year and is comfortable that it has been objective and independent.
The Committee has reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that Committee performance evaluation discussed there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
Where appropriate, the Committee receives input from the Chairman, Group CEO, Group Head of Human Resources and the Director of Compensation & Benefits.
This input never relates to their own remuneration.
The Company December Approved executive directors Reviewed draft DRR 2013 Secretary attends each of the Committee meetings in their role as Secretary salaries for 2014 2013 to the Committee.
Reviewed LTIP target Reviewed estimate of bonuses progress for 2011 2013 and The aim of the Committee is to establish an overall remuneration structure for 2013 2012 2014 cycles as well which will: as LTP target progress for 2013 2015 cycle attract, retain and motivate executives Reviewed pension reflect the size and complexity of the Groups business arrangements for Group directors take account of executives individual responsibilities and geographical location clearly align remuneration with the Groups long-term strategy in the pursuit of maximising shareholder value consider executive remuneration within the broader setting of pay conditions elsewhere within Wood Group Statement of shareholder voting The Committee is committed to shareholder dialogue.
Where there In setting remuneration policy the Committee gives full consideration to the are a substantial number of votes against any resolution on directors relevant provisions of the Governance Code and relevant regulations enacted remuneration, the Committee seeks to understand the reasons for any such under the Companies Act 2006. vote, and will detail here any actions in response to it.
During 2013, the Committee met four times to discuss the remuneration The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our previous issues arising and the operation of the remuneration policy.
The following remuneration report: table sets out what the Committee covered at each of those meetings.
Statement of shareholder voting a Item For Against Abstentions 250,820,561 7,807,841 9,722,401 Advisory vote on the 2012 Directors Remuneration 96.98% 3.02% Report 2013 AGM Note a A vote abstained is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the percentage of votes For or Against a resolution.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 38 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 1 Policy report This part of the DRR contains the directors remuneration policy.
In accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act, a binding shareholder resolution to approve this policy report will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
It is intended that this policy takes effect from the date of the 2014 AGM, subject to shareholder approval.
1.1 Future policy The tables below summarise the remuneration policy in relation to executive and non-executive directors.
Future remuneration policy for executive directors Purpose and link to strategic objectives Element of the Group Remuneration Policy details Operation Salary To provide an appropriate level of Typically reviewed annually by the Committee, with any changes approved and effective from 1 January although the fixed salary to attract Committee may make changes effective from any other date if it considers it appropriate.
and retain individuals with the qualities, Consideration is given to: skills and experience the scale, scope and responsibility of the individual executives role including any changes in responsibility: required to deliver our short and long-term the skills, experience and performance of the individual: strategic objectives.
the salary of individuals undertaking similar roles in companies of comparable size and complexity: business performance and the wider market and economic conditions: and the range of salary increases applying across the Group.
Having considered these items, the Committee determines appropriate levels of base salary.
Executive directors based in the US are paid locally in US dollars.
Salary levels of current executive directors for the 2014 financial year are shown on page 49.
Maximum opportunity There is no prescribed maximum salary.
Annual increases will normally be in line with comparable increases across the Group.
Higher increases may be awarded, at the Remuneration Committees discretion in certain circumstances.
For example, this may include: significant increase in the scope and or responsibility of the individuals role: or development of the individual within the role.
In addition, where an executive director has been appointed to the Board at a low starting salary, larger increases may be awarded to move them closer to salaries paid to individuals undertaking similar roles in companies of comparable size and complexity or other executive directors as their experience develops.
Performance metrics None John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 39 Future remuneration policy for executive directors Purpose and link to strategic objectives Element of the Group Remuneration Policy details Benefits To provide market Operation competitive benefits Benefits provided include car or car allowance, private medical insurance or contributory health and welfare cover to attract and retain for US based executive directors, dental insurance and permanent health insurance.
The types of benefits provided individuals with the are reviewed from time to time and may be adjusted by the Committee if deemed appropriate to ensure on-going qualities, skills and competitiveness.
experience required to deliver our strategic Where executive directors are required to relocate or complete an international assignment due to business objectives.
requirements, additional benefits such as relocation assistance or other expatriate benefits may be offered, if considered appropriate.
Benefits may also be varied according to local practice.
Maximum opportunity Given the complexity of assessing the future monetary cost of some benefits, the Committee has not set an absolute limit on the value of benefits delivered but aims to ensure that the level of benefits provided remains, in its opinion, appropriate.
Benefits are not performance related.
Bonus To incentivise Operation executives to deliver Bonuses are awarded annually based on performance in the relevant financial year.
The performance measures which strategic business apply to the bonus plan are chosen by the Committee at the start of the year to ensure the Company is focused on its priorities for the strategic objectives.
The Committee sets threshold, target and stretch objectives for each of the financial measures financial year with and determines the appropriate weighting for each.
Stretch objectives are also set in relation to the non-financial deferred payment element of the plan.
At the end of the year, the Committee reviews actual performance against the relevant measures.
designed to provide This outcome is then considered by the Committee in the context of underlying business performance.
The Committee additional alignment is able to adjust the outcome at its discretion to ensure it is fair and appropriate, taking into account the overall with shareholders and performance of the Company.
Where discretion is, or has been, used, this will be disclosed in the following years DRR reinforce retention.
At least half the value of any bonus earned is subject to automatic deferral for a further period of at least two years and, subject to legal restrictions or adverse tax consequences in foreign jurisdictions, will be awarded as shares.
Dividend equivalent payments will be accrued on the shares comprising the deferred bonus award prior to vesting and will be paid out proportionately with the award also in shares.
The vesting of any deferred bonus may be reduced or cancelled at the absolute discretion of the Committee.
Such circumstances include a material misstatement of the financial results of the Company or any business unit: a material failure of risk management by the Company or a relevant business unit: a serious breach of health and safety standards: serious reputational damage to the Company or a relevant business unit: or serious misconduct or fraud by the executive.
Details of awards to be made in 2014 are shown on page 49.
Maximum opportunity The maximum opportunity will not exceed 200% of base salary in respect of any financial year.
The 2014 bonus opportunity for executives will be 125% of salary.
Performance metrics At least 50% of the maximum potential bonus is based on financial measures with the remainder being based on non-financial measures.
The balance between financial and non-financial measures is reviewed annually and may be adjusted by the Committee if deemed appropriate to ensure alignment with overall Group objectives.
Non-financial objectives are measured annually against agreed team and or personal objectives and associated targets which are aimed at achieving business goals in line with the Groups Core Values.
Typically, these will include objectives linked to safety, risk management, business development, strategy, process improvements, working capital control and people development.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 40 Directors Remuneration Report continued Future remuneration policy for executive directors Purpose and link to strategic objectives Element of the Group Remuneration Policy details LongTo reward and Operation term retain executives The LTP is the Groups current long-term incentive plan for senior executives including executive directors and is incentives while aligning their based on a rolling performance cycle of at least three years.
Executive directors may be granted conditional share the LTP interests with those awards or nil cost options over shares in the Company at the start of the cycle or in the case of a new appointment, of shareholders at the earliest opportunity deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Awards may also be settled in cash.
by incentivising performance over Performance is measured over a period of at least three financial years.
Up to 80% of an award may vest on the the longer term.
Committees determination of the Groups performance over that period.
Performance Unless the Committee determines otherwise, to aid retention, the vesting of at least 20% of any award is normally measures are linked to deferred for a further period of at least two years or such other period to be determined by the Committee after the longer-term creation of Committees determination of Group performance.
The number of shares subject to award will, unless the Committee shareholder value.
determines otherwise, be increased to reflect the value of dividends that would have been paid on the award shares that vest between grant and vesting, assuming reinvestment of the dividends in shares on a simple basis.
For nilcost options, no shares will be awarded in lieu of dividends post-vesting i. e. between vesting and exercise.
The Committee reviews actual outcomes in the context of underlying business performance with the Committee able to adjust the outcome at its discretion and may, in its absolute discretion, choose to reduce or cancel unvested awards or impose further conditions on them.
Such circumstances include: a material misstatement of the financial results of the Company or any business unit: a material failure of risk management by the Group or a relevant business unit: a serious breach of health and safety standards: or serious misconduct or fraud by the executive.
Awards may be amended a in the event of any variation of share capital, demerger, delisting, special dividend rights issue or other event which may affect the current or future value and b in accordance with the rules approved by shareholders in 2013.
Maximum opportunity The maximum opportunity does not normally exceed 200% of base salary in respect of any financial year of the Company with the Committee having the discretion to award up to 250% of base salary in exceptional circumstances.
Where salary is materially amended during the performance period, the Committee may adjust the number of shares under award to reflect the salary change.
Performance metrics Awards made to the executive directors vest based on performance against a combination of performance measures.
At least 25% of the award will be based on TSR and a portion of the remainder will be based on financial measures.
During the course of a performance cycle, the Committee has the discretion to adjust the performance targets when it considers an amended target would be more appropriate and not materially easier to satisfy.
For threshold levels of performance, no more than 25% of the award vests, increasing on a straight line basis to 100% of the award for maximum performance.
Pension To aid attraction and Operation related retention of individuals New executive directors can choose to participate in the relevant local defined contribution pension arrangement benefits with the qualities, or receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension or a combination thereof.
Payment may be up to 15% of salary, with skills and experience Company contributions to the relevant local defined contribution pension arrangement being restricted to the limit for required to deliver our tax relief in place at the time.
shortand long-term strategic objectives, Life assurance cover of up to four times base salary and 8 times up to a maximum of 2,500,000 for the CEO is also allowing such provided.
executives to provide The level of pension provided and the associated level of life assurance cover are reviewed from time to time and may for their retirement.
be adjusted by the Committee if deemed appropriate to ensure on-going competitiveness.
Maximum opportunity For new executive directors, a maximum payment of up to 15% of base salary with life assurance cover of up to four times base salary capped at 1,500,000.
For existing executive directors, maintenance of existing arrangements.
Performance metrics Not performance related.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 41 Future remuneration policy for executive directors Purpose and link to strategic objectives Element of the Group Remuneration Policy details Legacy plans LongHistorical plan Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP To reward and term retain executives Operation incentives for the longer term whilst incentivising No further awards will be made under this plan.
performance The LTIP was based on three-year rolling performance cycles.
The 2011 2013 and the 2012 2014 cycles have and aligning their still to vest: they will do so in 2014 and 2015 with deferred elements in 2016 and 2017 respectively subject to the interests with those achievement of relevant performance targets.
Performance Each cycle awarded executive directors a combination of shares and restricted shares up to a maximum of 125% of measures linked to their base salary at the start of the cycle.
The number of shares awarded was calculated using the average share price long-term strategy in the period prior to the start of the cycle and, for non-UK employees, the applicable exchange rate.
of the Group and Performance is measured over a period of at least three financial years with one-third of the award vesting at threshold longer-term creation of performance.
20% of any award subsequently earned is made in forfeitable restricted shares and deferred for two shareholder value.
years after vesting to aid retention, with dividends accruing during this additional holding period.
The Committee may, in its absolute discretion, choose to reduce or cancel unpaid or unvested awards or impose further conditions.
Such circumstances include a material misstatement of the financial results of the Company or any business unit: a material failure of risk management by the Company, any Group member or a relevant business unit: a serious breach of health and safety standards: or serious reputational damage to the Company, any Group member or a relevant business unit as a result of serious misconduct or fraud by the Participant.
Maximum opportunity A maximum annual opportunity of 125% of base salary.
Performance metrics Awards made under the previous LTIP plan to the CEO and the CFO were based on TSR and AEPS weighted 25% and 75% respectively.
Divisional directors were also measured on Divisional EBITA, the split of measurement being TSR 25%, AEPS 37.5% and Divisional EBITA 37.5%.
Historical plan Long-term Retention Plan LTRP Operation No further awards will be made under this plan and existing awards will vest in the ordinary course.
The basis of the LTRP is that a bonus pool is generated annually based on the growth of the Groups AEPS in the previous year.
Awards under the LTRP are made wholly in the form of par value share options at a price of 4.286 pence per share.
There is a four year vesting period before options can be exercised.
Maximum opportunity A maximum annual opportunity of 50% of base salary.
Notes to the policy report for executive directors The performance metrics for those elements of variable remuneration which are subject to performance measures are chosen in light of their appropriateness to the In drafting this section of the DRR the Committee reserves the right to make any objectives of the Group, and the Committee sets targets against these measures at the remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any commencement of each performance cycle.
During the course of a performance cycle, discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they the Committee has the discretion to adjust the achievement levels required, but only so are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed that the new levels are considered as demanding as those first set.
i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in The bonus performance measures are chosen by the Committee at the start of the year consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes to ensure the Group is focused on its strategic objectives, providing an appropriate payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in balance between incentivising executives to meet financial targets for the year and to relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are deemed to be agreed at deliver specific business goals in line with the Groups Core Values.
the time the award is granted.
The Committee considers that strong performance under the LTPs performance measures should result in sustainable value creation over the longer-term, which is the ultimate goal of our strategy.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 42 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group The remuneration policy for executive directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration policy throughout the Group The Group aims to provide employees with remuneration packages that are market competitive within each employees country of employment.
Where appropriate, employees participate in the annual bonus and LTP arrangements, with their threshold, target and maximum levels of participation being set by reference to their position in the organisation and the local market in which they are employed The remuneration policy for executive directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay and long-term incentives than in the Groups workforce more generally.
The Committee considers this appropriate to ensure greater alignment between the reward arrangements of executive directors and the delivery of sustained results to shareholders Future remuneration policy for non-executive directors and Chairman Purpose and link to shortand long-term strategic objectives Element of the Group Remuneration Policy details Operation Fees and To attract and retain remuneration individuals with the The Chairman receives an all-inclusive remuneration payment which is reviewed annually by the Committee, with qualities, skills and changes ordinarily effective from 1 January.
experience required to provide a positive The fees for the non-executive directors are generally reviewed annually by the Board with increases effective from contribution to the 1 January if applicable.
Fee levels are typically set taking into account: the expected commitment levels and the skills and experience of the individual the fee levels paid to individuals undertaking similar roles in companies of comparable size and complexity Non-executive directors can elect to be paid in either pounds sterling or in US dollars at the applicable exchange rate at the time of payment.
Payments may be made in the form of either cash or shares.
Maximum opportunity No prescribed maximum for directors fees or chairmans remuneration although an aggregate maximum for directors fees of 500,000 is included in the Articles of Association.
Fees are set by the Board at a level considered appropriate to attract and retain the calibre of individual required but avoiding paying more than necessary for this purpose.
Fee increases may be made if considered appropriate in line with market movements.
Non-executive directors receive a base fee in relation to their role.
Additional fees may be paid for related duties including the senior independent directorship and for chairing, membership and attendance of certain Board Committees.
Notes to the future remuneration policy for non-executive directors Non-executive directors are reimbursed all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 43 1.2 Approach to recruitment remuneration 1.3 Service contracts The Committees approach where the Group appoints a new executive or Contract date Notice period non-executive director is typically to align the remuneration package with the a terms of the remuneration policy laid out in the relevant tables in section 1.1 Allister G Langlands 1 January 2014 6 months of this report.
Bob Keiller 1 November 2012 12 months In the event of internal promotion to the Board any commitments made Alan G Semple 1 May 2002 12 months before promotion will continue to be honoured under this policy even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when the Mike Straughen 23 April 2007 6 months commitment is fulfilled.
Robin Watson 1 January 2013 6 months As far as possible, the Committee will seek to structure all awards in line with the stated remuneration policy.
The Committee retains the discretion Note to deviate from the stated remuneration policy to ensure the hiring of a Currently working under notice and due to retire in May 2014. candidates of the appropriate calibre.
For example, the Committee may provide additional remuneration arrangements which may include additional None of the service contracts provide for predetermined amounts of benefits, if considered appropriate and with due regard to the best interests compensation to be paid in the event of early termination and there are no of shareholders.
further obligations contained within the executive directors service contracts To facilitate recruitment, the Committee may make one-off awards to buy which could give rise to any remuneration payment which has not already out variable pay or contractual rights which an individual would forfeit on been disclosed in this remuneration policy.
Any such buy-out would, where possible, Non-executive directors have each entered into letters of engagement be on a comparable basis and would take into account value, performance addressing remuneration, services to be provided, conflicts of interest and targets, the likelihood of those targets being met and vesting periods.
The letters of engagement do not have fixed terms to be paid Generally, buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis to those and are terminable with up to 90 days written notice.
None of the letters forfeited.
In considering its approach, the Committee will give due regard to of engagement provide for predetermined amounts of compensation in the all relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and the event of early termination and there are no further obligations contained jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from.
within the letters of engagement which could give rise to any remuneration Excluding the value of any potential buy-out, the maximum value of variable payment or loss of office payment which has not already been disclosed in remuneration offered at recruitment to any new executive director will be this remuneration policy.
This is within the maximum amounts currently laid The executive service contracts and the non-executive letters of engagement out in the relevant policy table detailed at section 1.1 of this report, namely are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
a maximum annual bonus opportunity of up to 200% of base salary and a maximum LTP award of up to 250% of base salary.
Shareholders will be provided with full details including the rationale for the relevant arrangements in the next published remuneration report.
For the recruitment of a non-executive director or Chairman, remuneration would be provided in line with that provided to the Companys other nonexecutive directors or Chairman.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 44 Directors Remuneration Report continued 1.4 Illustrations of application of remuneration policy As explained in the table in section 1.1 of this report a significant proportion of remuneration is linked to performance, particularly at maximum performance levels.
The bar charts below provide an indication of the level of remuneration that could be received by each director under the Companys remuneration policy in three assumed performance scenarios.
Notes laying out the basis of calculation and the assumptions used to compile these charts follow the charts.
The charts display remuneration in either pounds sterling or US dollars, depending on the location of the relevant director.
Note These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may Mike Straughen has notified the Board of his intention to retire during 2014, therefore he differ from that shown.
is not a participant in the Long Term Plan from 2014.
this report and for defined contribution pension or cash allowance in lieu of pension, the figure is based on the policy as laid out in the future policy table at section 1.1 of Minimum performance under this scenario, it has been assumed that each executive this report and the last confirmed salary: short-term and long-term incentives are based director receives his base salary, benefits and pension related benefits only.
on the policy as laid out in the future policy table at section 1.1 of this report and the In line with expectations target under this scenario, it has been assumed last confirmed salary.
Although the LTP allows for awards of up to 200% of base salary that each executive director receives their base salary, benefits and pension.
For the 250% of base salary in exceptional circumstances, the illustration reflects potential purposes of bonus, it has been assumed that annual bonus awards have been made awards to be made in 2014 150% of base salary for the CEO and 125% of base salary at target levels and that LTP performance is such that awards have vested at threshold for the other executives.
Under the LTP, dividends accrue during the performance level.
period and are paid in shares proportionately in respect of the number of shares which subsequently vest.
For reasons of clarity, any dividend accrual has been excluded from Maximum performance under this scenario, it has been assumed that each the charts above.
In line with the methodology outlined in the relevant legislation, no executive director receives his base salary, benefits and pension.
For the purposes of share price growth has been assumed for the purpose of these illustrations.
bonus, it has been assumed that annual bonus awards have been made at maximum levels and that LTP performance is such that awards have vested at maximum level.
The percentage figures contained within each of the bars illustrates the percentage of the total comprised by each of the parts.
The figure at the end of In all scenarios, fixed remuneration comprises base salary, benefits and pension.
The each bar is the total amount represented by each bar.
figures used in preparing the charts are as follows: salary is the last confirmed salary: benefits is the last known figure as set out in the single figure of remuneration table at John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 45 1.5 Policy on payment for loss of office under which executive directors are entitled to receive compensation upon It is the Companys policy for all executive directors to have service early termination, other than in accordance with the notice period.
Executive contracts which can be terminated by the director or by the Company on 6 directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the months notice, except in the case of the CEO and CFO or where historical Company or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, at the Companys agreements are in place when 12 months notice applies.
On termination of service contracts by the Group, in certain circumstances The Committees policy in respect of the different elements of remuneration executive directors are entitled to the payment of their remuneration, subject for executive directors leaving under different scenarios is as follows: to a general duty to mitigate their loss.
There are no specific provisions Payment Good leaver Other leaver Base salary, pension Paid up to the date of leaving, including any untaken holidays and, subject to mitigation, Paid for the proportion of the and benefits payment in lieu of notice where the Company considers it inappropriate for a departing notice period worked.
executive director to work the required notice period.
Disbursements such as legal costs, outplacement may be considered.
Annual bonus For reason of injury, disability, ill-health, retirement, sale of employing entity out of the Group and No entitlement to any award for in such circumstances as the Committee may determine otherwise including redundancy : the current year and the forfeit of any deferred awards from Paid up to the date of leaving based on completed months worked in the year with previous years not yet paid.
payment made on normal payment date once plan outcomes are known Any deferred amounts from previous years which are not yet paid are paid at the normal payment date for such deferrals On death, an immediate payment may be made, at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account performance and the proportion of the relevant bonus year served.
Deferred bonus amounts will vest in full at the time of death.
Long-term incentives For reason of injury, disability, ill-health, sale of employing company or business or, for any other All existing awards lapse.
reason determined by the Committee: Unless the Committee determines otherwise, where the executive director has completed the required period of service set by the Committee normally 18 months from the start of the performance period then awards will vest on a proportionate basis as if the participant had not ceased office or employment unless the Committee determines that awards should vest as soon as practicable following cessation The number of shares that vest in these circumstances shall be determined by the Committee taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time elapsed since grant For US executives who have completed the required period of service set by the Committee normally 18 months from the start of the performance period, where cessation of employment occurs before the Committees assessment of the performance condition, awards will vest on the date of such termination, unless the Committee determines awards should vest as soon as practicable following cessation of employment On death, unless the Committee determines otherwise, where the executive has completed the required qualifying period of service set by the Committee normally 18 months from the start of the performance period, unvested awards vest to the extent determined by the Committee taking into account the extent to which the performance condition has been satisfied and, if the Committee considers it appropriate, the period that has elapsed since grant.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 46 Directors Remuneration Report continued 1.6 Change of control In the event of a change of control, vesting of awards shares and or cash under the Companys shortand long-term incentive plans depends on the extent to which performance conditions have been met at that time.
Time pro-rating may be disapplied if the Committee considers it appropriate given the circumstances of the change of control.
In the event the Company is wound up or if there is a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may materially affect the current or future value of shares, the Committee may determine that awards may vest depending on the extent to which performance conditions have been met at that time.
1.7 Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee is mindful of pay and conditions in the wider workforce within the Group and is kept informed on the pay and benefits provided to employees below the level of executive director by the Group Head of Human Resources, including any relevant information received via employee feedback.
One particular factor considered by the Committee when reviewing the base salary increases for executive directors is the range of base pay increases which apply elsewhere in the Group.
Given the size of the Group and the way remuneration practice varies by jurisdiction, the Committee did not consider it appropriate to consult with employees across the Group on the remuneration policy for directors or to use any other remuneration comparison measurements linked to the pay and employment conditions of employees elsewhere in the Group when determining the quantum and structure of the directors remuneration.
1.8 Consideration of shareholders views The Committees policy is that shareholder consultation will take place in advance of any material change being proposed to the Directors Remuneration Policy as described above.
A summary of any such consultation and the Companys response to substantive points raised will be included in this section in future years.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 47 Part 2 Annual Report on Remuneration 2.1 Single figure of remuneration for each director The following tables set out the single figure of remuneration for the Chairman and each of the executive directors, split between those based in the UK and the US.
Chairman and executive directors UK based 000 Pension Long-term related a b c d e f Year Salary Benefits Bonus incentives benefits Total g Allister G Langlands 2013 400 14 298 803 258 1,773 2012 514 14 486 1,450 223 2,687 h Bob Keiller 2013 560 14 421 545 84 1,624 2012 405 21 383 155 61 1,025 Mike Straughen 2013 336 13 229 510 34 1,122 2012 327 13 315 922 31 1,608 Robin Watson Appointed 1 January 2013 2013 336 14 279 182 34 845 Mark H Papworth Resigned 30 June 2012 2013 159 159 2012 163 7 150 768 8 1,096 Leslie J Thomas Resigned 30 June 2012 2013 201 201 2012 413 7 150 768 13 1,351 Executive directors US based $000 Pension Long-term related a b c d e f Year Salary Benefits Bonus incentives benefits Total i Alan G Semple 2013 $634 $32 $480 $961 $188 $2,295 2012 $616 $31 $582 $1,737 $199 $3,165 i j Mark S Dobler Appointed 1 January 2013 2013 $386 $18 $286 $8 $698 Resigned 9 October 2013 Notes to the single figure of remuneration chairman and executive directors In 2012, Group EBITA actual performance was 102.6% of target with OCER actual performance at 100.8% of target producing a payment of 64% of base salary in respect a Salary received during the year.
Performance against personal objectives varied by each director with payments under this element ranging from 28.7% to 34.3% of base salary.
b Taxable benefits received during the year.
Taxable benefits include company car or 50% of the total bonus was deferred into cash for a further 2 years with continued car allowance, private medical, dental and contributory health and welfare cover as employment a requirement to receive payment other than for those classified as good applicable.
For those directors based in the US, the cost of benefits reflects the amounts leavers.
that would be chargeable to UK income tax if the director were resident in the UK for tax purposes.
d The value of long-term incentives which vested in respect of performance periods ending during the year inclusive of all amounts subject to further deferral.
Calculated c Bonus awarded in relation to the year inclusive of all amounts subject to further using the closing mid-market share price on 31 December 2013 of 6.86. deferral.
2013 - this figure relates to awards under the LTIP 2011-2013 cycle which vested at The bonus performance measures at maximum were split between financial 70% and 31 December 2013.
The LTIP performance measures were split between TSR and non-financial 30% measures.
The financial measures consisted of EBITA and DSO AEPS weighted 25% and 75% respectively for the CEO and CFO.
Divisional directors weighted 70% and 30% respectively.
Non-financial measures consisted of personal were also measured on Divisional EBITA, the split of measurement being TSR 25%, objectives.
No payment is made against EBITA performance if EBITA is 85% or less of AEPS 37.5% and Divisional EBITA 37.5%.
Maximum awards under the 2011-2013 target, with the maximum payment being made under this element 61.25% of base cycle were 125% of base salary at the start of the cycle.
No awards are made for salary when EBITA is 15% above target.
No payment is made against DSO performance less than the threshold performance for AEPS and Divisional EBITA where relevant, if DSO is 110% or more of target, with the maximum payment being made under this or 50th percentile for TSR.
On reaching the threshold or 50th percentile, one-third element 26.25% of base salary when DSO is 10% better than target.
A maximum of the AEPS and Divisional EBITA or TSR-related element becomes payable and on payment of 37.5% of base salary is made in respect of performance against personal reaching the maximum performance, or 75th percentile, 100% of the AEPS or TSR objectives.
Reporting of the specific financial and non-financial targets is considered element becomes payable.
For achievement level between threshold and maximum commercially sensitive and the Committee has therefore concluded it would not be in the or between the 50th and 75th percentile performance the allocation is on a straight line Companys interest to do so.
The TSR of the Group is compared to a peer group comprising Aker Solutions, In 2013, Group EBITA actual performance was 98.2% of target with DSO actual AMEC, Chicago Bridge & Iron Company, Fluor, Foster Wheeler, Jacobs Engineering, performance at 105.4% of target producing a payment of 47.1% of base salary in KBR, McDermott, Petrofac, Saipem, SBM Offshore, Sulzer, Technip, Weir Group, Worley respect of the financial measures.
Performance against personal objectives varied by Parsons and WS Atkins.
The AEPS targets for the 2011-2013 cycle were set at 82.5 each director with payments under this element ranging from 27.5% to 31% of base cents at the threshold and 90.0 cents at the maximum.
The relevant Divisional EBITA salary.
50% of the total bonus was deferred into cash for a further two years with targets were set consistently with the AEPS target.
Reporting of the specific detail continued employment a requirement to receive payment other than for those classified relating to Divisional EBITA is considered commercially sensitive and the Committee has as good leavers.
therefore concluded it would not be in the Companys interest to do so.
The actual AEPS achieved was 98.6 cents and Wood Group was ranked 3rd out of 17 companies for TSR John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 48 Directors Remuneration Report continued purposes resulting in 100% award on AEPS and TSR measures.
20% of the long-term The following table sets out the single figure of remuneration for each of the incentive amount was deferred for two years to aid retention with continued employment non-executive directors.
Further details on the non-executive director fee a requirement to receive payment other than for those classified as good leavers.
structure for 2014 is set out on page 49.
2012 - this figure relates to awards under the LTIP 2010-2012 cycle which vested at Non-executive directors single figure of remuneration 000 31 December 2012.
The LTIP performance measures were split between TSR and Year Fees Total AEPS weighted 25% and 75% respectively for the CEO and CFO.
Divisional directors were also measured on Divisional EBITA, the split of measurement being TSR 25%, Ian D Marchant 2013 60 60 AEPS 37.5% and Divisional EBITA 37.5%.
Maximum awards under the 2010-2012 2012 45 45 cycle were 125% of base salary at the start of the cycle.
No awards are made for less than the threshold performance for AEPS and Divisional EBITA where relevant, a Thomas M Botts 2013 54 54 or 50th percentile for TSR.
On reaching the threshold or 50th percentile, one-third 2012 0 0 of the AEPS and Divisional EBITA or TSR-related element becomes payable and on reaching the maximum performance, or 75th percentile, 100% of the AEPS or TSR Michel Contie 2013 53 53 element becomes payable.
For achievement level between threshold and maximum 2012 45 45 or between the 50th and 75th percentile performance the allocation is on a straight line basis.
The TSR of the Group is compared to a peer group comprising Aker Solutions, b Mary L Shafer-Malicki 2013 53 53 AMEC, Baker Hughes, Cameron International, Fluor, FMC, Foster Wheeler, Halliburton, Jacobs Engineering, KBR, National Oilwell Varco, Petrofac, Saipem, SBM Offshore, 2012 26 26 Schlumberger, Sulzer, Technip, Weatherford International, The Weir Group and Worley 2013 49 49 Neil H Smith Parsons.
The AEPS targets for the 2010-2012 cycle were set at 43.8 cents at the threshold and 49.4 cents at the maximum.
The relevant Divisional EBITA targets 2012 45 45 were set consistently with the AEPS target.
Reporting of all the specific detail relating to Jeremy R Wilson 2013 52 52 Divisional EBITA is considered commercially sensitive and the Committee has therefore concluded it would not be in the Companys interest to do so.
The actual AEPS 2012 43 43 achieved was 85.2 cents and Wood Group was ranked 2nd out of 21 companies for David K Woodward 2013 59 59 TSR purposes resulting in a maximum award on AEPS and TSR measures.
20% of the long-term incentive amount was deferred for two years to aid retention with continued 2012 49 49 employment a requirement to receive payment other than for those classified as good leavers.
Notes to the single figure of remuneration non-executive directors a Thomas M Botts was appointed 8 January 2013. e Pension figure reflects cash value of Defined Contribution pension contribution or cash alternative or, for defined benefits style arrangements, figures are calculated in b Mary L Shafer-Malicki was appointed 1 June 2012. accordance with the basis set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Further detail in relation to individual pension arrangements is provided in section 2.2 on page 50. f The single figure of remuneration, being the sum of columns a to e inclusive.
g Allister G Langlands was appointed Chairman at 1 November 2012.
His remuneration for 2012 largely reflects his previous role as Group CEO which he held up until his appointment as Chairman.
As reported to shareholders in the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report, his remuneration in 2013 reflected his significant time commitment to the Group in providing necessary continuity at the top level following his appointment as Chairman.
From 1 January 2014, the Chairmans remuneration is in line with comparable part-time non-executive Chairman roles.
h Bob Keiller was appointed Group CEO at 1 November 2012.
His remuneration for 2012 largely reflects his previous role as Wood Group PSN CEO which he held up until his appointment as Group CEO.
i Both Alan G Semple and Mark S Dobler are based in the US and receive their remuneration in US dollars.
All figures relating to these individuals in the above table are therefore expressed in US dollars.
j Mark S Dobler stepped down from the Board on 9 October 2013 to lead the proposed joint venture with Siemens AG therefore his details reflect the period up to this date.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 49 Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the LTP following financial year Awards of up to 125% of salary 150% to the CEO will be made to executive This section provides an overview of how the Committee will implement the directors.
remuneration policy in 2014, which will be in line with the details outlined in Awards made to the CEO and the CFO will be based on TSR and AEPS the future policy tables provided at section 1.1 of this report.
Divisional directors will also be measured on Divisional EBITA, the split of measurement being TSR 25%, Base salary AEPS 25% and Divisional EBITA 50%.
The table below shows base salaries for 2013 and 2014.
The performance measures have been chosen in light of their appropriateness to the objectives of the Group, and targets are set against Annual base 2013 annual salary from these measures at the commencement of each performance cycle.
During base salary 1 January 2014 % increase the course of a performance cycle, the Committee has the discretion to adjust the achievement levels, but only so that the new levels are considered Bob Keiller 560,000 560,000 0% as demanding as those first set.
Alan G Semple $634,000 $653,500 3% The TSR of the Group is compared to a peer group comprising the following Robin Watson 336,400 378,500 12.5% engineering construction and support services companies Aker Solutions, AMEC, Chicago Bridge & Iron Company, Fluor, Foster Wheeler, Jacobs Mike Straughen 336,400 346,500 3% Engineering, KBR, McDermott, Petrofac, Saipem, SBM Offshore, Sulzer, Technip, The Weir Group, Worley Parsons and WS Atkins.
The Remuneration Committee awarded Bob Keiller an increase of 12.5% to No awards are made for less than the threshold performance for AEPS GBP 630,000 with effect from 1 January 2014 to reflect his assumption of the full and Divisional EBITA where relevant, or 50th percentile for TSR.
On responsibilities and development in the CEO role.
After due consideration, Bob decided reaching the threshold or 50th percentile, 25% of the AEPS, Divisional that given the need to show leadership on cost saving measures he would defer the EBITA or TSR-related element becomes payable and on reaching the approved increase for 12 months.
maximum performance for AEPS and Divisional EBITA where relevant, or 75th percentile for TSR, 100% of the AEPS, Divisional EBITA or TSR Benefits element becomes payable.
For achievement level between threshold and The current executives will continue to participate in their existing benefit maximum for AEPS and Divisional EBITA, or between the 50th and 75th arrangements as stated in the future policy table.
percentile performance for TSR, the allocation is on a straight line basis.
Pension Chairman and non-executive director NED remuneration The current executives will continue to participate in their existing benefit The table below shows the Chairman and NED fee structure for 2014. arrangements as stated in the future policy table, except for Robin Watson who will receive an increase to 15% employer contribution from 1 January 2014 fees 2014.
Chairman of the Board remuneration 275,000 p. a.
Annual bonus Basic annual non-executive director fee 46,500 p. a.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the executives will remain at 125% of salary in 2014.
Additional fee for senior independent director 5,000 p. a.
Additional fee for Audit Remuneration Safety The table below provides further information on the performance measures 5,000 p. a.
& Assurance Chairs against which performance will be measured.
Additional fee per meeting for attendance of Audit Remuneration Safety & Assurance 1,000 per meeting Committee meetings Relative weighting Additional fee for Nomination Committee % of bonus opportunity 1,000 p. a. membership 60% Financial measures 50% EBITDA DSO 10% Personal measures 40% For 2014, the threshold EBITA performance required for a payment under this bonus element will be set at 90% of target.
Once 90% of EBITA target is achieved, bonus starts to accrue.
Maximum payment against this element is made when EBITA is 10% above budget.
No payment is made against Days Sales Outstanding DSO performance if DSO is 10% worse than target.
Maximum payment against this element is made when DSO is 10% better than target.
DSO is a key contributing factor to cash flow and the Committee believes incentivising management to reduce DSO remains the best route to drive improvement in cash flow.
Non-financial objectives are measured annually against agreed personal objectives and associated targets which are aimed at the achievement of the Groups business goals in line with the its core values.
For 2014, this will consist of personal objectives including objectives related to safety, and positioning for future growth.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 50 Directors Remuneration Report continued 2.2 Total pension entitlements Pension benefits provided to UK executive directors Allister G Langlands is provided with pension benefits by way of a combination of deferred benefits from the John Wood Group PLC Retirement Benefit Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme closed to new entrants in 2006, and an unfunded, unapproved arrangement.
Final pensionable salary for Allister G Langlands is capped from 6 April 2012 at 501,315 per annum, increasing at RPI plus 1.25%.
No further pension accrual is provided beyond 31 December 2013.
Allister G Langlands had the following accrued entitlements at 31 December 2013: Increase in accrued Accumulated total Age at Increase in accrued pension net of inflation accrued pension at 000 31 December 2013 Normal retirement age pension p. a. p. a.
31 December 2013 A G Langlands 55 60 19 13 286 Capitalised value of Capitalised value of increase in pension Accumulated total increase in pension entitlement net of accrued pension at entitlement over the Benefit settlements in Member contributions inflation and member 000 31 December 2012 year net of inflation the financial year during the year contributions A G Langlands 267 258 0 0 258 Note The above table has been calculated on the basis set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Any figures which relate to 2012 have been restated according to these new regulations.
Bob Keiller is provided with pension benefits via the Wood Group GPP, which is a defined contribution scheme.
A Company contribution of 15% of base salary is split between pension contribution up to the UK HMRC annual allowance and a cash payment in lieu of pension.
He is provided with life assurance cover of eight times basic salary up to a maximum of 2,500,000.
Mike Straughen receives a cash payment of 10% of base salary in lieu of pension provision and is provided with life assurance cover of four times basic salary.
Robin Watson is provided with pension benefits via the Wood Group GPP, which is a defined contribution scheme.
He is provided with life assurance cover of four times basic salary up to a maximum of 1,200,000.
Pension benefits provided to US-based executive directors Mark S Dobler participates in the Wood Group 401k plan, which is a defined contribution scheme.
A Company contribution of 5% of base salary is provided based on his personal contribution.
In 2012, he did not participate in any Company pension plan and did not receive any cash payment in lieu of pension provision.
He is provided with life assurance cover of $1,200,000.
Alan G Semple is provided with a pension arrangement of a defined benefit nature, providing an equivalent level of benefits to that provided in the John Wood Group PLC Retirement Benefit Scheme.
If he dies in pensionable service, his surviving spouse or dependants are entitled to a pension of half of the pension that would have been received at normal retirement date based on the final pensionable salary at the date of death.
Final pensionable salary is capped from 6 April 2012 at $640,599 per annum, increasing at RPI plus 1.25% and he is provided with life assurance cover of approximately four times basic salary.
Alan G Semples defined benefit pension arrangement will cease at the end of June 2014, and Alan G Semple will then receive a 15% p. a. contribution to a pension arrangement.
Alan G Semple had the following accrued entitlements at 31 December 2013: Increase in accrued Accumulated total Age at Increase in accrued pension net of inflation accrued pension at $000 31 December 2013 Normal retirement age pension p. a. p. a.
31 December 2013 A G Semple 54 60 16 12 184 Capitalised value of Capitalised value of increase in pension Accumulated total increase in pension entitlement net of accrued pension at entitlement over the Benefit settlements in Member contributions inflation and member $000 31 December 2012 year net of inflation the financial year during the year contributions A G Semple 168 242 0 54 188 Note The above table has been calculated on the basis set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 51 2.3 Share incentive plan interests awarded during the year The following table sets out the awards made to each of the executive directors under the Groups share based long-term incentive arrangements.
Share incentive plan interests awarded during the year Percentage Holding period Basis of Face value of vesting at Performance for 20% of Summary of performance a Director Type of award award the award threshold period award measures and targets Performance measures are 150% of TSR and AEPS weighted 25% Bob Keiller 840,000 salary and 75% respectively.
TSR is compared to an external comparator group.
The AEPS targets for the 2013-2015 cycles were set at 110 cents b Alan G Semple 487,850 at threshold and 130 cents at maximum.
Conditional award Two years from Performance measures are 1 Jan 2013 b Mark S Dobler of shares awarded 396,031 25% vesting of the TSR, AEPS and Divisional 125% of 31 Dec 2015 under the LTP award date EBITA weighted 25%, 37.5% salary and 37.5% respectively.
The AEPS Mike Straughen 420,500 targets for the 2013-2015 cycle were set at 110 cents at threshold and 130 cents at maximum.
The relevant Divisional EBITA targets were Robin Watson 420,500 set consistently with the AEPS target.
Note a The face value of the awards in calculated from the salary at the beginning of the cycle multiplied by the maximum award b The value of the awards for Alan G Semple and Mark S Dobler is calculated using an exchange rate of 1 $1.6255 which was set at the beginning of the performance cycle 2.4 Payments to past directors Other than as set out in section 2.1 of this report there were no payments made during 2013 to any individual who had been a past director of the Company which had not already been disclosed in previous Directors Remuneration Reports.
2.5 Payments for loss of office Other than as set out in section 2.1 of this report there were no payments made for loss of office to any director during 2013 which had not already been disclosed in previous Directors Remuneration Reports.
2.6 Statement of directors shareholding and share interests Shareholding guidelines were introduced at 1 July 2013 requiring the CEO to hold shares valued at 150% of base salary and the other executive directors to hold shares valued at 100% of base salary.
The holding is expected to be built up as quickly as after-tax share awards from long-term plans allow.
Shareholding at 31 December 2013 Value of shares held as a Shareholding guideline met at a Executive director not including connected persons multiple of salary 31 December 2013 R Keiller 1,582,321 19.4 Achieved A G Semple 420,798 7.5 Achieved R Watson 25,209 0.5 Accumulating M Straughen 163,289 3.3 Achieved Note a Calculated using the closing mid-market share price on 31 December 2013 of 6.86 and base salary levels at the same date.
The exchange rate at 31 December 2013 of 1 $1.6488 was used for those executive directors paid in US dollars.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 52 Directors Remuneration Report continued A summary of directors share interests and incentive plan interests are provided in the following two tables.
Details of directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company at 31 December 2013 were: Interests in share incentive Interests in share incentive plans, awarded without plans, awarded subject to Shares owned outright as at Shares owned outright as at performance conditions at performance conditions at a a Beneficial interest 1 January 2013 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 A G Langlands 990,605 792,865 216,715 R Keiller 1,569,721 1,582,321 309,022 A G Semple 603,104 420,798 231,106 b M S Dobler 11,664 n a n a n a M Straughen 145,848 238,289 193,440 c 83 25,292 80,000 163,198 R Watson 7,777 7,777 I D Marchant d T M Botts 4,634 4,634 M Contie 2,000 M L Shafer-Malicki N H Smith J R Wilson D K Woodward 21,000 21,000 Non-beneficial interest R Keiller 392,423 392,423 n a n a Notes on share interests a Declaration includes shares held by connected persons as defined for the purposes of section 96B 2 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 b M S Dobler appointed 1 January 2013 and stepped down from the Board on 9 October 2013 c R Watson appointed 1 January 2013 d T M Botts appointed 8 January 2013 None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, other than disclosed in note 33 to the financial statements.
At the date of this report the interests of the directors in the shares of the Company remain as stated.
Where applicable the December 2013 figures include interest in retained long-term plan awards.
The number of shares granted is determined by the extent to which the relevant performance conditions have been achieved at the end of the initial 3 year performance period.
The number illustrated in the above table represents the maximum number of shares that may be awarded.
20% of any award would require to be held for an additional 2 year period following completion of the initial 3 year performance period.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 54 Directors Remuneration Report continued 2.7 TSR performance summary 2.8 Percentage change in CEO remuneration TSR performance graph As the Company is included in the UK FTSE 250 index, but has been The following table provides a summary of the increases in remuneration included in the FTSE 100 index for part of the period under review, both the for the Group CEO as compared with the average increase for all other UK UK FTSE 250 and UK FTSE 100 indices are shown, by way of providing based employees in the Group.
The graph below compares the TSR on a holding of shares in John Wood Group PLC with the TSR on a holding of Percentage change in CEO remuneration shares in the companies in the UK FTSE 250 and 100 indices for the last five % change between 2012 and 2013 financial years.
b Salary Benefits Bonus TSR Wood Group, FTSE 250 and FTSE 100 a over the last five years, rebased to 100 CEO 7.28% 9.39% -11% 600 Average increase 3% 6% -4% John Wood Group PLC of all other UK UK FTSE 100 Index 500 employees in the UK FTSE 250 Index b c Group 400 Notes to the percentage change in CEO remuneration 300 a The position of Group CEO changed in November 2012, therefore for comparison purposes, the change figures are based on pro-rated salary, benefits and bonus for 2012 200 for Allister G Langlands and Bob Keiller for 2012, with the comparison measured against Bob Keiller for the entirety of 2013.
There was no increase in Bob Keillers CEO salary 100 from 2012 to 2013. b Given the wide variation in inflation rates across the various geographies in which the 0 Group operates, the comparator group used is all other UK based employees to ensure 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec a valid comparison is provided.
UK based employees constitute approximately 31% of 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 the overall workforce.
Benefits increase is based on a sample employee on a salary of 50,000 per annum with the full suite of employee benefits including private medical and dental insurance: and life and permanent health insurance.
CEO remuneration The total remuneration for the CEO over the same period as the TSR c Average bonus increase is based on average bonus paid as a percentage of performance graph detailed above is listed in the table below.
This table salary during 2012 for the noted comparator group against average bonus paid as a includes details of the annual bonus received in each year as a percentage percentage of salary during 2013. of the maximum opportunity that was available as well as the long-term incentives which vested in each year as a percentage of the maximum number of shares that could have been received: 2.9 Relative importance of spend on pay The table below is provided to assist shareholders in assessing the relative importance of the Groups spend on pay.
It contains details of the CEO remuneration remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group as well Long-term as the value of distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share Annual incentive buyback over the previous two years.
bonus vesting CEO single payout rates as Relative importance of spend on pay $m figure of total as a % of a % of remuneration maximum maximum Item 2012 2013 Difference % change Year CEO 000 opportunity opportunity 3,063.6 3,371.1 307.50 10% Remuneration paid to or Bob Keiller 1,624 60% 79% 2013 receivable by all employees of a 2012 Bob Keiller 199 75% 25% the Group b 2012 Allister G Langlands 2,276 76% 100% Distributions to shareholders 55.2 67.4 12.2 22% by way of dividend and share 2011 Allister G Langlands 3,338 87% 100% buyback 2010 Allister G Langlands 1,314 84% 23% 2009 Allister G Langlands 1,417 60% 0% Notes a Bob Keiller was appointed Group CEO at 1 November 2012.
His remuneration for 2012 reflects his remuneration from appointment as Group CEO only.
Long-term incentives vesting during the year were awarded during his time as Wood Group PSN CEO and vested based on performance targets linked to performance of that division.
b Allister Langlands was appointed Chairman on 1 November 2012.
His remuneration for 2012 relates to his time as Group CEO only.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements Financial statements 55 Group financial statements Company financial statements 56 Independent auditors report 106 Independent auditors report 59 Consolidated income statement 108 Company balance sheet 60 Consolidated statement of 109 Notes to the Company financial statements comprehensive income 116 Five-year summary 61 Consolidated balance sheet 118 Information for shareholders 62 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 63 Consolidated cash flow statement 64 Notes to the financial statements John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 OUR CORE VALUES DEFINE HOW WE WORK
