Governance Report Remuneration Report Remuneration principles The Groups success depends on the performance and ' LUHFWHG E VWUDWHJ commitment of its employees.
Kazakhmys approach toward executive performance, reward and benets supports and drives its strategy and business objectives and reinforces its Policy Report values in the context of appropriate risk management.
This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the The Committee seeks to ensure that the Companys remuneration remuneration policy for the Company and has been prepared in policies and practices: accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation of high The policy has been developed taking close account of the principles calibre executives with the appropriate skills to implement of the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to remuneration.
the Groups strategy and business objectives: The Committee also takes significant account of guidelines issued provide a strong and demonstrable link between incentives by the ABI, ISS and other shareholder bodies when setting the and the Groups strategy and business objectives: remuneration framework.
It also seeks to maintain an active and set a performance-biased framework for remuneration which productive dialogue with investors on developments in the is consistent with the Groups scale and unique circumstances, remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally and any and which enables executive Directors and certain senior changes to the Companys executive pay arrangements in particular.
managers to share in the long-term success of the Group, The Policy Report will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the without delivering excessive benets or encouraging Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2014 and, subject to the receiving short-term measures or excessive risk taking: and of majority shareholder support, the policy will operate formally are aligned to shareholder interests.
from the date of approval.
However, in practice, it is intended that the policy will be applicable to the whole of the 2014 financial year The strategy for executive Director remuneration is to provide and will remain applicable throughout the three-year policy period a balanced package with a high proportion of total remuneration commencing from the effective date.
being awarded through performance-related elements.
Remuneration Policy table Salary Benets Purpose To attract and maintain high calibre executives taking account of Provide market competitive benets to help recruit market levels at the date of appointment and on subsequent review and retain high calibre executives and link to strategy Reviewed annually, effective 1 January Provision of benets such as: Operation Any increases take account of: Private medical insurance Company and individual performance Car and driver Skill set and experience of the executive Relocation assistance External indicators such as ination and market conditions All employee share schemes Remuneration levels of Group employees, particularly in the UK Travel and related expenses Where no pension provision is provided an adjustment will be Additional benets such as pension and life made to salary assurance may be provided from time to time.
The Committee will consider whether the payment of any additional benets is appropriate and in line with market practice when determining whether and at what level they are paid No prescribed maximum annual increase Cost of benets is not pre-determined Maximum Salary reviews take account of Company and individual performance The Committee is guided by the general increase for the broader employee population, particularly in the UK, but on occasions may need to recognise, for example, development in role, change in responsibility, and or specic retention issues as well as the market context The Committee has the exibility to set the salary of a new hire at a discount to the market level initially, with a series of planned increases implemented over the following few years to bring the salary to the desired positioning, subject to individual performance 76 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report How the views of shareholders are taken into account Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Remuneration Committee actively seeks to engage with The Company does not formally consult with employees on executive shareholders and values highly the contribution their views can remuneration.
However, when setting the remuneration policy for make in the process of formulating remuneration policy decisions.
executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the overall The Committee actively considers feedback received from approach to reward for, and the pay and employment conditions of, shareholders prior to and following each annual general meeting.
other employees in the Group, particularly those in the UK.
It also actively monitors guidance and directional themes Management of risk in remuneration arrangements emerging from institutional shareholder bodies on the subject The Committee takes seriously the issue of balancing risk and of executive remuneration.
reward, an area that is a key focus for Kazakhmys investors, This feedback, plus any emerging relevant guidance, is considered stakeholders and regulators.
The Committee remains satisfied that as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
the remuneration policy is aligned with the long-term needs of the business and that incentive quantum, structure and objectives do In addition, when it is proposed that any material changes are to be not encourage short-term measures or excessive risk taking.
made to the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee chairman will inform institutional shareholders and shareholder Details of how the Committee has helped to ensure that risk bodies of these in advance, and will seek feedback which will be is appropriately mitigated during the year under review are considered closely by the Committee.
provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last Remuneration Policy table years remuneration report are provided in the Annual Report The table below summarises the key aspects of the Companys on Remuneration.
remuneration policy for executive Directors.
The table should be read in conjunction with the rest of the Policy Report.
Annual Bonus Plan Long Term Incentive Plan All Employee Share Plans Incentivise the delivery of annual objectives Incentivise long-term value creation and Encourages long-term shareholding in consistent with the Groups strategy, without alignment with longer-term returns to the Company encouraging short-term measures or excessive shareholders Provides all employees with the opportunity to risk-taking become owners in the Company on similar terms Not pensionable Normally granted annually, awards under the Opportunity to participate in UK and Long Term Incentive Plan are rights to receive International Sharesave and Share Incentive Plans Clawback facility to take account of material nil-cost shares, subject to continued on the same terms as other eligible employees and exceptional adverse circumstances which employment and relative TSR performance may arise after the payment of the bonus which significant tax benets in the UK subject to measured over a minimum three-year period makes the payment of that bonus unwarranted satisfying certain HMRC requirements.
The Shares arising from an LTIP award must be held Plans can only operate on an all employee Payments determined on the basis of for a period of five years from the date of grant equal terms basis.
The plan operates on a a mixture of: non-tax favoured basis outside the UK The Committee obtains independent external Operational performance as appropriate advice to assess whether the Company has met Financial performance the TSR performance condition at the end of There are no post grant performance targets Strategic developments the relevant period applicable to awards Payments scaled back in the absence of an The composition of the TSR comparator group improvement in the Groups safety performance is reviewed at least annually by the Committee Targets set by reference to the financial and operating plans Maximum bonus potential of 200% of Maximum of 250% of salary per annum The maximum participation level for UK-based salary currently applying only to the CEO, employees is as per HMRC limits see Annual Normal award policy currently set at 200% for the achievement of stretching Report on Remuneration for current of salary per annum performance objectives maximum limits Target bonus no higher than 100% of salary currently applying only to the CEO Bonus starts to earn at a threshold level where 0% of salary is payable and rises on a straight line basis www.
com 77 Governance Report Remuneration Report continued Bonus Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan exibility Further details of the annual bonus measures to be used for 2014 The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and LTIP are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee according to the rules of each respective plan and consistent with will assess performance against the 2014 measures utilising a scoring system of 0-4 where 0 represents 0% bonus and rising in equal normal market practice and the Listing Rules, including exibility increments so that a maximum bonus is payable for a score of 4. in a number of regards.
How the Committee will retain Details of the assessment for 2014 will be disclosed in next years exibility includes: Annual Report on Remuneration along with details of the payments When to make awards and payments.
However, details relating to strategy and restructuring will How to determine the size of an award, a payment, not be disclosed if it is felt that such disclosures remain commercially or when and how much of an award should vest.
Who receives an award or payment.
The targets for awards to be granted under the LTIP in 2014 How to deal with a change of control or restructuring will be consistent with the policy set out above and are set out of the Group.
in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Whether an executive Director or a senior manager is a good Shareholding guidelines bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and whether and what All executive Directors are expected to hold shares equivalent in proportion of awards vest at the time of leaving or at the value to a minimum of 200% of their base salary within a five-year original vesting date s. period from their date of appointment.
The relevant salary is the How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain salary at the date of appointment and the market value is circumstances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring measured at the current date.
Executive Directors are required to hold shares arising from What the weighting, measures and targets should be for the an LTIP award for a period of five years from the date of grant, annual bonus plan and LTIP from year to year.
with only those shares required to cover a tax liability on exercise The Committee also retains the ability within the policy to adjust of an LTIP award permitted to be sold.
targets and or set different measures, and to alter weightings for Differences in remuneration policy for executive Directors the annual bonus plan and to adjust targets for the LTIP, if events compared to other employees happen that cause it to determine that the conditions are unable The Committee considers the pay structures across the wider to full their original intended purpose.
Group workforce when setting the remuneration policy for The Committee will consult with shareholders in the event executive Directors and, in particular, basic pay increases in the last of material application of discretion.
few years have been limited to those which employees in the UK have received.
The key difference is that, overall, the remuneration All historic awards that were granted but remain outstanding policy for executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards detailed on page 86 of the Annual Report on Remuneration, variable pay than for other employees.
In particular, long-term remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
incentives are provided only to the most senior executives as they are reserved for those considered to have the greatest potential Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting to inuence overall levels of performance.
In determining the levels of executive reward, the Committee continues to place considerable emphasis on ensuring a strong and The remuneration for senior managers below Board level is demonstrable link between actual remuneration received, and the broadly consistent with that followed at executive Director level.
achievement of Kazakhmys strategic and business objectives.
The To encourage share ownership on the part of the most senior Committee sets stretching performance objectives for executive managers below Board level they are eligible to receive a maximum Directors and certain senior managers.
To achieve these objectives bonus potential of up to 150% of base salary with an on-target and deliver performance requires outstanding business management bonus potential of 75% of base salary, one-third of which is deferred and strategic execution.
and invested in the Companys shares.
Provided they remain in employment, the shares will be released after two years.
Senior The annual bonus plan performance targets are therefore based managers are also eligible to receive awards under the LTIP and on three measures with a clear alignment to the Groups KPIs and the performance conditions for LTIP awards are the same as strategic priorities.
As safety is a key priority of the Group, awards those which apply to executive Directors.
are also subject to a safety override ensuring that payouts will be scaled back in the absence of improvement in the Groups Reward scenarios safety performance.
The balance between xed and variable elements of remuneration The LTIP provides a focus on delivering superior returns to changes with performance.
The remuneration policy results in a shareholders by providing rewards for longer-term shareholder significant proportion of remuneration received by executive return outperformance as measured by the Companys total Directors being dependent on Company performance.
Based shareholder return against a comparator group of selected on expected values at target and the average of the different companies.
The Committee continues to believe that TSR remains remuneration elements for each executive Director, the intended an appropriate performance target as it endorses consistency in the mix between xed and variable for Oleg Novachuk and Eduard Ogay remuneration policy and provides a clear alignment of interests with is that around 55% to 60% of remuneration earned is .
In addition, TSR ensures a degree of risk management related.
At maximum, the weighting of performance-related as it, through share price, reects both underlying financial remuneration increases to around 75% to 80% of remuneration performance and the markets assessment of the quality and earned.
This mix is shown in the chart opposite.
This chart is sustainability of the Companys earnings.
indicative as no assumed share price movement has been included.
78 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report operation of the Company.
These payments would not exceed Maximum potential remuneration what is felt to be a fair estimate of remuneration lost when leaving 000 the former employer and would reect as far as possible the 5,000 nature and time horizons attaching to that remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions.
Shareholders will be 4,000 informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
3,000 In the case of an internal executive appointment, any variable pay 40% element awarded in respect of the prior role will be allowed to 2,000 23% pay out according to its existing terms, adjusted as relevant to 48% take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing 1,000 27% 38% 40% remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment will continue.
27% 28% 0 100% 39% 20% 100% 46% 24% The Committee has the exibility to set the salary of a new hire Below On-target Maximum Below On-target Maximum at a discount to the market level initially, with a series of planned target target Oleg Novachuk Eduard Ogay increases implemented over the following few years to bring the Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP salary to the desired positioning, subject to individual performance.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses The basis of calculation and key assumptions used to complete as appropriate.
In addition, the Committee may agree to provide the charts above is as follows: for tax equalisation for any new appointment.
Below target only xed pay is payable i. e. base salary and For the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive Director, benets.
Base salary levels on which other elements of the the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved remuneration package are calculated are based on those applying remuneration policy in force at that time.
for 2014 and benets are based on the estimated cash cost to the Company or the taxable value to the executive Director.
Service contracts On-target xed pay plus 50% of maximum annual bonus Service contracts normally continue until the executive Directors payout and a LTIP award with a face value of 200% of base salary agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
in line with the normal grant policy vests at 30% of maximum, The Companys policy is that executive Directors will be employed being the threshold level of vesting.
on a contract that can be terminated by the Company on giving no Maximum xed pay plus 100% of maximum annual bonus more than one years notice, with the executive Director required payout and a LTIP with a face value of 200% of base salary to give up to six months notice of termination.
The Committee will, vests at 100%.
consistent with best practice, and the interests of the Company and its shareholders, seek to minimise termination payments.
The chart below sets out the actual remuneration for 2013.
A Directors service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for 000 sums earned up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of 2,000 certain events, such as gross misconduct.
The circumstances of the termination taking into account the individuals performance are 1,600 taken into account by the Committee when determining amounts payable as a result of termination.
The Committees normal policy 1,200 on termination is to make phased compensatory payments and to 41% stop or reduce such payments to former executive Directors 800 30% where they receive remuneration from other employment during 400 the notice period where this is consistent with local employment legislation and market practice.
Any share-based entitlements 0 59% 70% granted under the Companys share plans will be determined on Actual Actual the basis of the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment is that Oleg Novachuk Eduard Ogay any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, under the rules of the LTIP, in certain prescribed Fixed pay Annual bonus circumstances, such as death, redundancy, disability, retirement, 1 No LTIP awards vested in 2013. or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee taking into account the individuals performance and the reasons Recruitment and appointment policy for their departure, good leaver status can be applied.
In these The remuneration package for a new executive Director will circumstances a participants awards vest on a time pro-rata basis be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria with remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
The the balance of the awards lapsing.
The Committee retains discretion Committee may offer, in addition, certain cash or share-based to decide not to pro-rate if it is inappropriate to do so in particular elements for the sole purposes of buying out existing awards.
If, however, the termination of employment is not such payments would be based solely on remuneration relinquished for one of the specified reasons, and the Committee does not when leaving the former employer and would be used for the exercise its discretion to allow an award to vest, a participants specic purpose of recruiting an executive Director key to the full awards lapse.
com 79 Governance Report Remuneration Report continued Non-executive Director fees Provision Summary terms Fees for the non-executive Directors are determined by the Board Up to 12 months Notice period as a whole, upon the recommendation of the executive Directors.
Payments will normally The policy on non-executive Directors fees is: Termination be paid monthly and be subject to mitigation payment where this is consistent with local employment To be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain Purpose legislation and market practice world class talent necessary to contribute to and link to a high performing Board strategy A pro-rata bonus may also become payable for Remuneration the period of active service along with, under entitlements Fees are determined by the Board, within the limits Operation the rules, vesting of outstanding share awards set out in the Companys Articles of Association, with in certain circumstances see above.
non-executive Directors abstaining from any discussion In all cases performance targets will apply or decision on their fees The Board takes account of recognised best practice The contract of Oleg Novachuk is terminable by either the standards for such positions when determining the Company or the executive on three months notice.
This was fee level and structure granted to him on 26 September 2005.
The Company reserves Fees are paid monthly in cash.
Non-executive Directors, the right on termination to make phased payments which are paid except Vladimir Kim, do not participate in any of the in monthly instalments and subject to mitigation through a legal Companys incentive arrangements or receive any obligation on the part of the outgoing executive Director to seek pension provision new employment.
The non-executive Directors receive a base fee, with As Eduard Ogays operational duties lie in Kazakhstan, he has a additional fees payable for chairmanship and membership of the Companys key committees and for performing the Kazakhstan-based contract of employment granted on 23 January Senior Independent Director role.
In addition to his base 2012 by Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, which entitles him to six fee, Vladimir Kim receives a salary of 780,000 per annum months notice of termination from that company or three months and is entitled to a discretionary annual cash bonus of up notice of termination from him.
He also has an appointment letter to 120% of salary as executive chairman of Kazakhmys with the Company dated 22 March 2012 in respect of his Corporation LLC.
The salary and maximum bonus appointment as an executive Director of the Company which is entitlement of Vladimir Kim are reviewed on an annual basis coterminous with his Kazakhstan contract, but also capable of The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with termination in its own right without compensation.
reference to the time commitment and responsibilities of the role and market levels in companies of comparable Chairman and other non-executive Directors size and complexity letters of appointment Limited benets relating to travel, accommodation and The Chairman and other non-executive Directors do not have meals for non-executive Directors and their spouses service contracts, but each has a letter of appointment with the may also be payable in certain circumstances Company.
Each letter of appointment provides for a one-month notice period other than for the Chairman, who has a three-month Fees per annum from 1 January 2014 are: Fee levels notice period.
Non-executive Directors are normally appointed for Non-executive Director base fee: 84,000 two consecutive three-year terms, with any third term of three Senior Independent Director: 12,000 years being subject to rigorous review and taking into account Chairs of the Audit and Group HSE the need progressively to refresh the Board.
Committees: 15,000 Chair of Projects Assurance Committee: 12,000 Chairmans fee Chair of the Remuneration Committee: 8,000 The fee for the Chairman is determined by the Committee, with Member of the Group HSE Committee: 9,000 the Chairman abstaining from any discussion or decision on his fee, Member of the Audit Committee: 7,500 and reects the commitment, demands and responsibility of the Member of the Projects Assurance Committee: 6,000 role.
The fee is paid monthly in cash inclusive of all committee roles Member of the Remuneration Committee: 4,000 and is not performance-related or pensionable.
Limited benets The above fee levels may be varied either up or down relating to travel, accommodation and meals for the Chairman during the three year period that the remuneration policy and his spouse may also be payable in certain circumstances.
operates to ensure they continue to appropriately recognise The Chairman receives a fee of 300,000 per annum, which the time commitment of the role, increases or decreases to fee levels for non-executive directors in general and fee he has proposed will be reduced to 275,000 per annum from levels in companies of a similar size and complexity 1 April 2014.
Whilst the fee will not be further varied in 2014 from this level, it may be variable during the remainder of the three-year The fees paid to the non-executive Directors for chairing and being members of committees and of the period that the remuneration policy operates to ensure it continues Senior Independent Directors were reviewed in 2013, to appropriately recognise the requirements of the role.
resulting in the total fees payable being reduced by around 4% per annum The Board has been taking measures to improve the market capitalisation of the Company.
Non-executive Director fees will be further reviewed during 2014 in relation to progress towards that objective 80 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report Policy on external appointments Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings The Committee believes that the Company can benefit from The Committee met four times in 2013, with each member executive Directors holding one approved non-executive attending as follows: directorship of another company, offering executive Directors the Attendance opportunity to broaden their experience and knowledge.
Company at full policy is to allow executive Directors to retain fees paid from any Committee meetings Members member since during 2013 such appointment.
No executive Director currently holds a Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 1 December 2005 4 4 non-executive directorship of another company.
1 Philip Aiken AM 1 November 2006 2 2 Simon Heale 1 January 2007 4 4 Annual Report on Remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Charles Watson 17 May 2013 3 3 Part 4 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Lynda Armstrong OBE 21 October 2013 1 1 Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and 1 Stood down from the Committee on 31 August 2013.
The Annual Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General After each meeting, the chairman of the Committee presented Meeting on 8 May 2014. a report on its activities to the full Board.
Role of the Remuneration Committee Committee activities The Committee is primarily responsible for determining and In line with its remit, the following were considered, amongst recommending to the Board the framework for executive other matters, by the Committee during the year: remuneration and for determining, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration of executive Directors and certain senior managers.
reviewed the current trends in remuneration practice and updated UK governance requirements, including assessing The Committees full terms of reference are available on the Kazakhmys compliance with regulations published by the Companys website.
The Committees principal responsibilities Department for Business, Innovation and Skills on narrative are summarised below: reporting and executive remuneration and institutional investors determining and agreeing with the Board the framework for current guidelines on executive compensation: executive remuneration that ensures executive Directors and engaged institutional shareholders and shareholder bodies certain senior managers are provided with appropriate incentives on the Companys remuneration policy: to encourage enhanced performance and are rewarded in a fair reviewed annual general meeting outcome and feedback and responsible manner for their individual contribution towards from institutional shareholders and shareholder bodies, giving the success of the Company: consideration to the implications for future remuneration policy: ensuring that the remuneration policy is appropriate and reviewed and agreed the exit terms of Matthew Hird upon his consistent with effective risk management: departure as Chief Financial Officer and determined the terms within the agreed framework, setting and determining the of employment and remuneration of Andrew Southam as the total individual remuneration arrangements for executive new Chief Financial Officer: Directors and certain senior managers, giving due regard to set, reviewed and agreed to approve individual remuneration individual and Company performance, and remuneration arrangements for executive Directors and certain trends across the Group: senior managers: approving the design of, and determining the targets for, performed an oversight role on the remuneration of certain any performance-related plans and the total annual payments senior managers immediately below Board level: made under such plans to executive Directors and certain reviewed and agreed to amend the performance elements senior managers: of the annual bonus plan for 2014: determining any share incentive plan performance targets: and assessed the level of achievement against objectives under determining the terms of employment and remuneration the annual bonus plan and LTIP: of each executive Director and certain senior managers, considered and approved plan design, performance measures including recruitment and termination arrangements.
and targets to be used under the LTIP: Composition of the Remuneration Committee approved shareholding guidelines for executive Directors: The members of the Committee during 2013 were Lord Renwick reviewed and amended the list of comparator companies Chairman, Philip Aiken who stood down as a Director on for the LTIP: 31 August 2013 and Simon Heale.
Charles Watson and Lynda reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Armstrong were appointed members of the Committee on Report: and 17 May 2013 and 21 October 2013, respectively.
The Chief Executive is normally invited to attend meetings to provide reviewed the Committees performance and its terms information and advice to the Committee to enable it to make of reference.
He is, however, specically excluded from any matter concerning his own remuneration.
Representatives of New Bridge Street, the Committees retained adviser, also attend meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary attends meetings as secretary to the Committee.
com 81 Governance Report Remuneration Report continued Priorities for 2014 Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2014 For the coming year it is anticipated that the Committee will Salary focus on the following areas: No increases were made to executive Directors base salaries in 2012 or 2013.
The Remuneration Committee has considered supporting the Groups strategy and business objectives: pay increases for the executive Directors and certain senior ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements: managers for 2014.
In determining these salaries, the Remuneration reviewing and assessing the ongoing appropriateness of current Committee took into consideration, particularly, the experience, executive remuneration plan design and targets: performance, and the internal and external relative positioning ongoing training of Committee members: and for total reward of the individuals, and also took into account the average budgeted increase in base salaries of the Groups workforce ensuring that remuneration arrangements continue to attract, in 2014 which are expected to be within local ination levels and motivate and retain executive Directors and senior managers, of the UK workforce of 1.85%.
As a result of these considerations and reward Company performance, with a focus on maintaining and the emphasis on salary restraint from shareholders, the the link between performance and reward, whilst maintaining Remuneration Committee in consultation with Oleg Novachuk a prudent approach to cost and the risk to the business.
Chief Executive determined that the base salaries of Management of risk in remuneration arrangements Oleg Novachuk, Eduard Ogay and certain senior managers In 2012, the Committee commissioned a detailed assessment of the would not be increased in 2014.
In addition, there would be risk environment surrounding the Companys current remuneration no increase in the salary paid to Vladimir Kim as executive arrangements for executive Directors and certain senior managers.
chairman of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC.
The assessment determined that whilst remuneration arrangements The base salaries for the executive Directors paid for 2012 were broadly compatible with Kazakhmys risk policies and systems, and 2013, and payable for 2014, are shown in the table below: a number of areas could be considered further, including keeping under review the performance condition of the LTIP and the need Executive Directors base salaries to introduce a deferral mechanism for the annual bonus plan in the 2012 % 2013 % 2014 % event of a further executive Director being appointed.
Overall, 000 increase 000 increase 000 increase the Committee remains satisfied that the remuneration policy is Oleg aligned with the long-term needs of the business and that incentive 1 Novachuk 856 1.7 856 Nil 856 Nil quantum, structure and objectives do not encourage short-term 1 Oleg Novachuk last received an increase in his base salary with effect from 1 July measures or excessive risk taking.
No increase was made in 2012 or 2013.
The Committee draws upon the relevant experience and knowledge of its members to ensure that it benets from the 2012 % 2013 % 2014 % $000 increase $000 increase $000 increase positions they hold at the Company.
These include the fact that 1 Eduard Ogay 968 Nil 968 Nil 968 Nil Simon Heale is Chairman and Charles Watson is chairman of the Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee and the 1 Eduard Ogays salary is set in dollars and paid in tenge.
In 2013, the basis of Projects Assurance Committee.
The Chief Executive also provides currency conversion was changed from a xed rate to a oating rate at market a link to the Executive Committee.
The leveraging of such levels.
Whilst his dollar denominated salary has remained unchanged at $968,000 per annum, the amount paid to him has increased by 17% to KZT148 million experience and knowledge enables the Committee to have an equivalent to 619,000. oversight of risk factors that may be relevant to remuneration arrangements and target setting specically.
Pension and benets External adviser The Company does not provide pension benets on behalf The Committee has authority to obtain the advice of external of any executive Directors.
The absence of any pension provision independent remuneration consultants.
It is solely responsible for is taken into account when setting base salaries and other elements their appointment, retention and termination and for approval of of remuneration.
the basis of their fees and other terms.
During 2013, the Committee Benets include health insurance and, where appropriate, car and received advice on executive compensation, performance-related driver, and relocation assistance, all in line with entitlements provided pay schemes and equity-based incentive schemes from New Bridge for executives in similar positions in comparable companies.
Street, a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited an Aon plc company.
New Bridge Street also provides advice to the Company on Annual bonus remuneration matters for senior employees including benchmarking The maximum annual bonus opportunity for 2014 will remain of remuneration and equity-based incentives and on remuneration unchanged from 2013 at 200% of salary for Oleg Novachuk and matters relating to non-executive Directors.
No other company 120% of salary for Eduard Ogay and Vladimir Kim.
The target bonus within Aon plc provides other services to the Company.
The terms will also remain at the same level as a percentage of salary at 100% of engagement between the Committee and New Bridge Street of salary for Oleg Novachuk and 60% of salary for Eduard Ogay and are available on request.
The total fees paid to New Bridge Street Vladimir Kim.
The Committee will continue to review the maximum in respect of its services during the year was 51,685.
New Bridge bonus amount to ensure it remains appropriate.
Street is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code Following a review of the performance conditions of the annual of Conduct.
The Committee regularly reviews the external advisor bonus plan in 2013, the Committee agreed to reduce the number relationship and is comfortable that New Bridge Streets advice remains objective and independent.
of performance elements from four to three to provide better 82 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report alignment with the Groups key business focus of restructuring the Long-term incentives core business and the delivery of the Groups major projects at LTIP award levels will remain unchanged for 2014.
It is the Bozshakol and Aktogay.
Committees intention to grant an award of performance shares with a face value of 200% of salary to Oleg Novachuk and For 2014, the annual bonus plan will comprise three Eduard Ogay during 2014.
The value of the award will be based discrete elements: on a five day average share price commencing immediately after operational performance: the announcement of the Groups preliminary results.
The Committee will continue to review the award level to ensure financial performance: and it remains appropriate.
strategic developments including development of the major growth projects and objectives relating to restructuring of the The awards will continue to be granted as nil-cost options.
core business, The number of shares that vest will continue to be dependent on Kazakhmys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance with the first two elements representing 25% each of the maximum compared to a comparator group of UK and international bonus potential and the strategic developments element mining companies.
If Kazakhmys TSR is ranked median or representing 50% of the maximum bonus potential.
above, an award will vest as follows: Awards will also be subject to a safety override, ensuring that they TSR ranking of Kazakhmys Vesting percentage will be scaled back to reect the Groups safety performance.
Upper quartile ranking 100% Specic targets will not be disclosed in advance as they would give Between median and upper Straight-line vesting between a clear indication of the Groups business objectives which are quartile ranking 30% and 100% based on commercially sensitive.
ranking plus interpolation between rankings The operational element will be determined on the basis of a Median ranking 30% rounded assessment of performance against budget for the Below median ranking 0% following metrics: ore output, own copper cathode equivalent production, net cash cost of copper and maintenance spend per tonne of own copper cathode equivalent production.
TSR Performance Vesting Schedule % of total The financial element will be determined on the basis of a rounded award vesting assessment of performance against budget for the following 100% metrics: Group EBITDA, EPS and Free Cash Flow.
75% The strategic development element will be determined on the basis of a rounded assessment of objectives mainly relating to the 50% execution of new projects, particularly those at Bozshakol and Aktogay, and the realignment of the business.
However, specic 25% metrics relating to the strategic developments element will not be 0% disclosed in advance as they are considered to be commercially 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% sensitive at this time.
Performance relative to comparator group percentile The Committee will assess performance against the 2014 elements utilising a scoring system of 0-4 where 0 represents 0% bonus and Prior to 2011, the TSR target was measured on a single base to end rising in equal increments so that a maximum bonus is payable for three-year performance period.
In 2011 the Committee made a a score of 4.
Details of the assessment for 2014 will be disclosed minor change to the operation of the TSR performance target, so as in next years Annual Report on Remuneration along with details to split the awards into two sub-awards each with three-year vesting of the payments resulting.
However, details relating to strategic periods.
This will not have any impact on the expected value of the developments, will not be disclosed until it is felt that such disclosures cease to be commercially sensitive.
awards, but will help to mitigate the impact that the cyclical nature of the copper industry has on Kazakhmys share price.
To take account of any serious problems that the Company may For awards to be granted in 2014 the performance period for the become aware of in the years after awards have been made, sub-awards will be: awards under the annual bonus plan will be subject to clawback.
Under this mechanism, the Committee has discretion in exceptional sub-award 1: 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016: and circumstances to determine that where there has been continuity sub-award 2: 1 June 2014 to 31 May 2017. of executive responsibility between initiation of a serious adverse event and its emergence as a problem, the serious adverse event As the performance period of the first sub-award commences prior should be taken into account in assessing annual bonuses in the year to the date of grant and that of the second sub-award commences the problem is identied, and, where appropriate, determining that after the date of grant, the performance period for the entire a deferred share award will not vest, will only partially vest, or will award will be 41 months.
be subject to a delayed vesting.
Such circumstances may include a material restatement of the Groups financial statements, the discovery of endemic problems in financial or operational reporting, or where, as a result of financial and operational losses, a material breach of regulatory guidelines has occurred or is likely to occur.
com 83 Governance Report Remuneration Report continued The averaging period for calculating TSR will be three months All employee share schemes leading up to the start and the end of the performance period of Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys UK each sub-award.
Under this phased approach Kazakhmys TSR for and International Sharesave and Share Incentive Plans on the same a period of six months at the start and the end of the performance terms as other eligible employees.
period of the entire award will have an impact on the performance Sharesave outturn.
This phased approach is designed to increase the number The maximum participation level in the UK and International of months the share price has an impact on the performance target Sharesave Plans is as per HMRC limits maximum monthly savings and to reduce the impact of the volatility of Kazakhmys share price towards share purchases is limited to 250 or local currency on the vesting of awards, whilst not materially changing the average equivalent per calendar month with participants granted linked vesting level over the medium term and hence not increasing the share options by reference to projected savings with a strike price expected value of awards.
up to a 20% discount to the prevailing share price at the time of The comparator group applicable for awards to be granted in 2014 grant.
On the maturity of the savings contracts, participants can will comprise: elect to i use the accumulated savings to exercise the option or ii request the return of their savings.
Anglo American plc Antofagasta plc Share Incentive Plan BHP Billiton plc Boliden AB The maximum participation level in the UK and International First Quantum Minerals Ltd Freeport-McMoran Share Incentive Plans is as per HMRC limits and provides for Copper & Gold Inc a combination of the following: Fresnillo plc Glencore Xstrata plc Hochschild Mining plc KGHM Polska Miedz S. A. free shares the Company can give each participant free shares worth up to 3,000 or local currency equivalent each: Lundin Mining Corporation Rio Tinto plc Southern Copper Corporation Teck Resources Ltd B partnership shares participants can use up to 1,500 or local Vedanta Resources plc currency equivalent per year out of pre-tax and pre-NICs pay to buy partnership shares: Other than the replacement of Inmet Mining Corporation which matching shares employers can give matching shares at a ratio delisted in April 2013 and Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation of up to two matching shares for each partnership share bought PLC which delisted in November 2013 by KGHM Polska Miedz by the employee: and S. A. and the replacement of Xstrata plc and Glencore International dividend shares participants can use up to 1,500 or local plc which merged in May 2013 with Glencore Xstrata plc, it is currency equivalent of dividends from plan shares each year intended that the comparator group for 2014 will be consistent to buy further shares in the company through the plan.
No executive Director currently participates in a Sharesave In the event of one or more constituents undergoing a take-over, or Share Incentive Plan.
merger, dissolution, variation in capital or any other event that will materially affect calculation of a ranking, the Committee shall Chairman and other non-executive Directors remuneration determine how this should be reected in the ranking calculation.
The fees paid to the non-executive Directors for chairing and being In the event of a change of control, awards will normally vest on members of committees and of the Senior Independent Director a pro-rata basis by reference to the length of time since the award were reviewed in August 2013 and decreased, with the changes was granted, and only if the performance conditions can effectively taking effect from 1 September 2013.
These changes resulted in be regarded as having been satisfied at that time, although the the total fees payable to non-executive Directors being reduced Committee may decide not to pro-rate an award if it is by around 4% per annum.
The Board has been taking measures to inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
improve the market capitalisation of the Company.
Non-executive Director fees will be further reviewed during 2014 in relation Executive share option plan to progress towards that objective.
The fee structure from The ESOP is an HMRC approved discretionary company share 1 January 2014 is shown on page 80. option plan that provides for the grant of market value options The Board appointed Simon Heale as non-executive Chairman up to a value of 30,000 to executive Directors and certain with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on selected UK-based senior executives.
Options will normally vest at 17 May 2013.
His fee at that time was set at 300,000 per annum, least three years from the date of grant, subject to the satisfaction which he has proposed to reduce to 275,000 per annum from of a performance condition and the participant being a Director 1 April 2014. or employee of Kazakhmys at that time.
In addition to his base fee, Vladimir Kim receives a salary of Options granted to executive Directors and senior management 780,000 per annum and is entitled to a discretionary annual under the ESOP will count towards the individual limits under the cash bonus of up to 120% of salary as executive chairman of LTIP and will normally be subject to the same performance Kazakhmys Corporation LLC.
condition and periods as awards granted under the LTIP.
No executive Director currently participates in the ESOP.
84 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report For the Chairman and each non-executive Director who served The Committee assessed each discrete element of the annual during 2013, the effective date of their letter of appointment is bonus plan separately as part of an overall balanced scorecard shown in the table below: of measures.
Within each element the Committee considered a number of sub-elements and formed a rounded assessment Name Letter of appointment of the performance of executive Directors at the end of the year.
1 Philip Aiken AM 1 November 2006 Awards were also subject to a safety override enabling them Lynda Armstrong OBE 21 October 2013 to be scaled back to reect the Groups safety performance.
Clinton Dines 1 October 2009 2 Simon Heale 27 February 2013 Performance assessment for 2013 3 Vladimir Kim 17 May 2013 Despite the challenging market conditions the executive Michael Lynch-Bell 27 February 2013 management team were able to deliver satisfactory operational Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 1 December 2005 performance, with output of all metals being in line with guidance Charles Watson 24 August 2011 given to the market at the beginning of 2013.
Although measures 4 Daulet Yergozhin 19 November 2008 were taken in the second half of the year to reduce costs, financial performance was impacted by lower commodity prices and cost 1 Stood down as a Director on 31 August 2013. pressures, with performance generally being below budget.
Total 2 Prior to his appointment as Deputy Chairman and Chairman designate, Simon shareholder return was disappointing, reecting in the most part the Heale had a letter of appointment dated 21 November 2006 in respect of his fall in the metal prices over the period and higher operating costs.
appointment as a non-executive Director on 1 January 2007, which terminated upon him becoming Chairman of the Company.
Strong progress was made in re-shaping the portfolio and disposals 3 Prior to his appointment as a non-executive Director, Vladimir Kim had a service were successfully made of MKM and the Groups stakes in Ekibastuz agreement dated 26 September 2005 in respect of his appointment as an GRES-1 and ENRC PLC.
The major project development at executive Director on 1 October 2005, which terminated upon him becoming a non-executive Director.
Bozshakol remains on track for first production in 2015.
However, 4 Stood down as a Director on 5 December 2013. an additional contractor has been appointed at Bozshakol, which has led to an increase in the overall budget cost of the project Directors remuneration for 2013 of around $350 million.
Executive Directors remuneration The overall level of performance achieved resulted in annual 3 Oleg Novachuk Eduard Ogay Vladimir Kim bonus awards of 44% of maximum potential.
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 However, the Committee considered that safety performance 2 Salary 856 856 619 532 404 1,062 over 2013 was not satisfactory and requires further improvement.
Benets 3 37 60 105 In light of this, the Committee scaled back resulting bonuses by Sub-total xed 20%.
As a result the overall annual bonus awards to the executive 2 remuneration 859 893 619 532 464 1,167 Directors and Vladimir Kim were 35% of maximum bonus potential Annual at 70%, 42% and 42% of salary for Oleg Novachuk, Eduard Ogay performance and Vladimir Kim, respectively.
The Committee is satisfied that this 1 bonus 599 685 244 255 170 509 level of bonus is appropriate given the performance achieved across this scorecard and the safety assessment.
Long Term Incentive Plan Sub-total variable remuneration 599 685 244 255 170 509 Performance assessment for 2013 Total 1,458 1,578 863 787 634 1,676 1 Bonus gures relate to bonus amounts paid in 2013 and 2014 in respect of the Operational prior year performance period.
2 Eduard Ogays salary is set in dollars and paid in tenge.
In 2013, the basis of currency conversion was changed from a xed rate to a oating rate at market levels.
Whilst his dollar denominated salary has remained unchanged at $968,000 Financial per annum, the amount paid to him has increased by 17% to KZT148 million equivalent to 619,000.
3 Stood down as Executive Chairman on 17 May 2013.
In addition to his remuneration as Executive Chairman, Vladimir Kim was paid a fee of 52,000 as a non-executive Director plus a salary of 486,500 and an annual bonus of Strategic 204,000 as executive chairman of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC.
Executive Directors annual bonus awards Shareholder performance period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 return For 2013, the annual bonus plan comprised four discrete elements, with each element representing an equal proportion of the maximum bonus potential: 02134 operational performance: financial performance: strategic developments including execution of new projects : and shareholder return.
com 85 Governance Report Remuneration Report continued Executive Directors Long Term Incentive Plan awards performance period 9 April 2010 to 8 April 2013 and 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013 Awards granted to selected senior managers, excluding executive Directors, under the LTIP on 9 April 2010 were subject to a relative TSR performance condition with TSR measured against a bespoke group of global mining companies over the three-year period from date of grant.
The following vesting schedule applied to the awards: TSR ranking of Kazakhmys Vesting percentage Upper quartile ranking 100% Between median and upper quartile ranking Straight-line vesting between 30% and 100% based on ranking plus interpolation between rankings Median ranking 30% Below median ranking 0% At the end of the performance period Kazakhmys was ranked 19 out of the 22 comparator companies.
This award thus lapsed in full having failed to meet the required threshold median ranking.
In 2011, the basis of measurement was changed so that awards granted in April 2011 were split into two sub-awards, the first with performance measured over the three-year period from 1 January 2011 and the second over the three-year period from 1 June 2011.
Therefore, half of the awards made in April 2011 were due to vest based on performance ending in 2013.
The same vesting schedule as set out above was applicable to these awards, with TSR measured relative to a bespoke group of global mining companies.
For the sub-award measured over the period 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013, Kazakhmys was ranked below median ranking.
This sub-award has thus lapsed in full having failed to reach the threshold median positioning.
The sub-award measured over the period 1 June 2011 to 31 May 2014 is also expected not to reach the threshold median positioning and is also expected to lapse in full.
LTIP awards granted in the year During 2013, awards were made to each of Oleg Novachuk and Eduard Ogay at 200% of salary.
The awards were made on 5 April 2013 on the following basis: Face value of % of face value Basis of award Share price at date Number of shares award which vests at Executive Director Type of Award granted of grant awarded 000 threshold Oleg Novachuk Nil-cost option 200% of salary 375p 455,998 1,710 30 Eduard Ogay Nil-cost option 200% of salary 375p 280,379 1,051 30 The awards were made subject to a TSR performance condition which requires the Company to deliver a median ranking 30% vests rising on a straight-line basis to an upper quartile TSR ranking 100% vests relative to a peer group of mining companies see page 84 for details of the peer group.
The awards were split into two sub-awards measured over two separate performance periods, i. e. 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015 and 1 June 2013 to 31 May 2016.
The averaging period for calculating TSR will be three months leading up to the start and the end of the performance period of each sub-award.
Executive Directors interests in the Long Term Incentive Plan Number of Number of shares shares under conditionally award as at awarded as at Market price at Awards made Awards vested Awards lapsed 31 December 1 1 Executive Director Date of award Date of vesting 1 January 2013 date of grant during the year during the year during the year 2013 2 Oleg Novachuk 6 April 2011 1 June 2014 117,006 1,468p 117,006 4 April 2012 1 June 2015 188,359 887p 188,359 5 April 2013 1 June 2016 375p 455,998 455,998 2 Eduard Ogay 6 April 2011 1 June 2014 73,623 1,468p 73,623 4 April 2012 1 June 2015 110,841 887p 110,841 5 April 2013 1 June 2016 375p 280,379 280,379 1 The table shows the maximum number of shares that could be released if awards were to vest in full.
Participants do not receive dividends on unvested shares.
2 Half of the award lapsed on 1 January 2014 on failing to achieve the required TSR target.
86 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report Performance graph which is distorted by movements in the number of employees and variations in wage practices in Kazakhstan.
For the benets and The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2013, of 100 bonus per employee, this is based on those employees eligible to invested in Kazakhmys PLC shares on 31 December 2008 compared participate in such schemes.
with an equivalent investment in the FTSE 350 Index and FTSE 350 Mining Sector Index.
These indices were chosen as they are Change in remuneration levels 2013 2012 % change broad-based indices and are widely recognised performance Chief Executive 000 comparisons for large UK mining companies.
Salary 856 856 Nil Benets 3 37 92 Total Shareholder Return 1 Bonus 685 715 4 Average per employee 800 2 Salary 90,054 77,764 16 Benets 1,372 813 69 600 1 Bonus 17,106 23,180 26 400 1 Bonus gures relate to bonus amounts paid in 2012 and 2013 in respect of the prior year performance period.
200 2 Increase reects the inclusion of the salary of Matthew Hird from May 2013 up to the date of his leaving the Company in September 2013.
0 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Relative importance of spend on pay FTSE 350 Index Kazakhmys PLC The table below shows the movement in the total cost of FTSE 350 Mining Sector Index remuneration in the Group, the total cost of remuneration for Source: Thomson Reuters Directors as well as dividend distributions to shareholders and capital expenditure.
Remuneration of highest paid executive Director 2013 2012 The table below shows the total remuneration gure for the highest Spend on pay million million % change paid executive Director i. e. the Executive Chairman for 2009 to Overall expenditure on Group 2012 and the Chief Executive for 2013 during each of those employees pay 481 449 7 financial years.
The total remuneration gure includes the annual Overall expenditure on pay for bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in executive Directors 3 4 25 those years.
The annual bonus and LTIP percentages show the Distribution by way of dividends 27 77 64 payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
Capital expenditure 802 774 4 1 1 1 1 2 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Capital expenditure is shown in the table above as Directors have Total remuneration 1,801 1,736 1,768 1,676 1,458 a choice of whether to distribute profits and cash ows by way of 000 dividend, or reinvest these in the asset base to maintain or improve Annual bonus % 71 58 50 40 35 the Groups operations.
LTIP vesting % Non-executive Directors fees 1 Relates to the remuneration of Vladimir Kim, Executive Chairman at that time.
Fees paid to non-executive Directors during the year ended 2 Relates to the remuneration of Oleg Novachuk, Chief Executive.
31 December 2013 are set out below: Total fees Total fees Remuneration of other senior managers 2013 2012 The base salaries for the year ended 31 December 2013 of those Non-executive Directors fees and expenses 000 000 1 senior managers immediately below the level of the Board were as Philip Aiken AM 79 126 2 shown in the table below: Lynda Armstrong OBE 19 3 Clinton Dines 132 127 Salary range Number of senior managers Simon Heale 242 108 600,000 699,000 1 4 Vladimir Kim 52 500,000 599,999 Michael Lynch-Bell 87 400,000 499,999 2 Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 95 96 1 Includes base salary of Andrew Southam, Chief Financial Officer.
Charles Watson 119 108 5 Daulet Yergozhin 78 84 Annual base Annual Total 1 Chief Financial Officers salary bonus 2013 Stood down as a Director on 31 August 2013. remuneration 000 000 000 2 Appointed a Director on 21 October 2013.
3 Andrew Southam 410 264 674 Includes 29,000 2012: 22,000 in ight and accommodation expenses for travel to the UK to attend Board and committee meetings.
1 Andrew Southam became Chief Financial Officer on 17 May 2013.
4 Stood down as Executive Chairman and became a non-executive Director on 17 May 2013.
In addition to his fee as a non-executive Director, Vladimir Kim was Percentage change in remuneration levels paid a salary of 486,500 and an annual bonus of 204,000 as executive chairman The table opposite shows the movement in the salary, benets and of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC.
Prior to his appointment as a non-executive Director and executive chairman of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, he was paid annual bonus for the Chief Executive between the current and 403,900 as Executive Chairman of the Company and received benets of previous financial year compared to that for the average UK 60,185 and a bonus of 170,000. employee.
The Committee has chosen this comparator as it feels 5 Stood down as a Director on 5 December 2013.
As a minister of the Government that it provides a more appropriate reection of the earnings of the of Kazakhstan, Daulet Yergozhin was not permitted to receive fees personally and average worker than the movement in the Groups total wage bill, his fees were paid to SABY charitable trust, a childrens charity based in Kazakhstan.
com 87 Governance Report Remuneration Report continued Directors interests in ordinary shares The beneficial interests of the Directors and their connected persons who held office at 31 December 2013 in the Companys ordinary shares as at that date and 1 January 2013 are shown in the table below: Ordinary shares Ordinary shares % of shareholding beneficially owned beneficially owned at Outstanding LTIP guideline as at 31 Directors interests in ordinary shares at 1 January 2013 31 December 2013 awards December 2013 Lynda Armstrong OBE 4,000 Clinton Dines 3,000 3,000 Simon Heale 5,000 28,000 Vladimir Kim 149,306,795 149,306,795 Michael Lynch-Bell 7,000 Oleg Novachuk 34,923,423 34,923,423 761,363 100 Eduard Ogay 3,834,427 3,834,427 464,843 100 Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 4,0004,000 Charles Watson 3,624 3,624 1 The ordinary shares beneficially owned by Oleg Novachuk and Eduard Ogay have been pledged to support loans.
The voting rights in respect of the pledged ordinary shares have been retained by them.
2 No changes in Directors interests occurred in the period 1 January 2014 to 26 February 2014.
3 The closing market price of the Companys shares at 31 December 2013 was 219p and the range for the year was 191p to 826p.
Dilution of share capital Shareholder engagement The Companys share-based incentive plans currently operate with During the year, the Remuneration Committee wrote to a number market purchase shares that are held in an Employee benefit Trust.
of institutional shareholders and shareholder bodies to seek their Therefore, there is no dilution of existing shareholders on the views on the remuneration policy to be submitted to shareholders vesting of awards.
In the event of the Company deciding to use on 8 May 2014 to provide them with an opportunity to see the shares held in treasury, such shares will count towards the limits policy at an early stage and provide feedback.
The dialogue was on the number of new shares which may be issued under the rules constructive and shareholders were broadly supportive of the of the relevant share-based incentive plan pursuant to institutional Committees approach on these matters.
When reviewing the remuneration framework of executive Directors and certain senior managers, the Committee takes Employee benefit Trust into account the views and guidance expressed by institutional The Kazakhmys Employee benefit Trust has been established to shareholders and shareholder bodies.
acquire ordinary shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to Audit requirements shares arising on the exercise of awards under the Groups The Groups auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has audited the information share-based incentive plans.
The trustees of the Kazakhmys contained in the tables headed Executive Directors base salaries, Employee benefit Trust have informed the Company that their Executive Directors remuneration, LTIP awards granted in the year, intention is to abstain from voting in respect of the Kazakhmys Executive Directors interest in the Long Term Incentive Plan, shares held in the trust.
Remuneration of other senior managers, Non-executive Directors As at 31 December 2013, 648,215 shares were held by the fees and expenses, and Directors interests in ordinary shares.
Employee benefit Trust to hedge outstanding awards of 2,689,676.
On behalf of the Board This means that the trust holds 24% of outstanding awards.
Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG Statement of shareholder voting Chairman, Remuneration Committee At the AGM on 17 May 2013, the advisory vote on the Directors 26 February 2014 Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders: Votes for 408,767,173 98.85% Votes against 4,768,287 1.15% Total votes cast 413,535,460 100% Votes withheld 1,056,283 88 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013
