Strategic Report Annual Statement on Remuneration In accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills, the Directors Remuneration Remuneration Report has been split into three sections: an Annual Statement by the chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Policy Report Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Policy Report set out on pages 76 to 81 sets out the forward-looking remuneration policy for the Company and will be put to shareholders for approval in a binding vote at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2014.
The formal effective date of the policy will be from the date of the approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2014.
The Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 81 to 88, which describes how the policy has been implemented in the year under review and how it will be implemented for the year ahead, will be subject to an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting.
The changes to the structure and layout of the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report are designed to improve transparency and to provide additional information on the alignment of strategy and executive Director remuneration.
It is hoped that these changes to the Committees disclosure practices will create Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG a fuller understanding of the Groups remuneration practices and Chairman, Remuneration Committee enhance its engagement with key stakeholders going forward.
Dear fellow shareholder, Objectives of the Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the The Committees objective is to attract and retain high calibre 2013 Directors Remuneration Report which sets out details executives who are focused to deliver the Groups strategic and of the remuneration policy for executive and non-executive business objectives, while relating reward to performance in the Directors, describes how the remuneration policy is implemented context of appropriate risk and safety management, and aligning and discloses the amounts paid relating to the year ended the interests of executive Directors and senior managers with 31 December 2013. those of shareholders to build a sustainable performance culture.
Executive Director remuneration structure Summary of remuneration structure Fixed Variable remuneration remuneration Total Base salary remuneration Short term Annual Annual bonus plan linked to Benets Group Performance Long term Five years Long term incentive plan linked to relative TSR performance against comparator group, combined with a five year retention period 26 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report For more information see pages 76 Remuneration Report The Group is focused on restructuring its operations, optimising To enhance the alignment of interest between executive its assets, delivering its growth projects and taking advantage Directors and shareholders, the Committee agreed that of natural resource opportunities principally in the Central executive Directors who participate in the Long Term Asian region.
The Committee believes that achievement against Incentive Plan should be required to hold awards these objectives will deliver strong long-term financial for a period of five years from the date of grant.
The performance and shareholder value on a sustainable basis.
TSR comparator group of the Long Term Incentive Plan Therefore, in determining the levels of executive reward, was also reviewed and amendments made to reect the the Committee continues to place emphasis on ensuring a delisting of two constituents and the merger of two others.
strong and demonstrable link between actual remuneration Further details are given on pages 78 and 84. received, and the achievement of Kazakhmys strategic and Shareholder engagement business objectives.
The Committee is committed to an open and transparent Remuneration structure dialogue with shareholders on the issue of executive In order to provide a straightforward and transparent remuneration.
During the year, I wrote to a number of remuneration structure, the remuneration of executive institutional shareholders and shareholder bodies to seek Directors is made up of base salary, plus some benets-in-kind, their views on the remuneration policy to be submitted to and, subject to stretching performance conditions, cash awarded shareholders on 8 May 2014 to provide them with an under an annual bonus plan and shares awarded under a opportunity to see the policy at an early stage and provide Long Term Incentive Plan.
The dialogue was constructive and institutional shareholders were broadly supportive of the Committees 2013 performance and reward approach on these matters.
The Committee considers these This has been a challenging year for Kazakhmys and the mining engagements vital to ensure its remuneration strategy sector as a whole.
Weak copper prices and rising costs have continues to be aligned with the long-term interests of made for tough trading conditions and impacted profitability and Kazakhmys shareholders.
Despite the challenging market conditions the As set out above, the Policy Report will be subject to a executive management team were able to deliver satisfactory binding vote and the Annual Report on Remuneration to an operational performance.
Although measures were taken in the advisory vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and second half of the year to reduce costs, financial performance I have no hesitation in recommending them to shareholders.
was below target, impacted by lower commodity prices and cost The members of the Committee will be happy to answer any pressures.
Share price performance was disappointing.
Whilst questions on remuneration matters at the Annual General Bozshakol remains on track for first production in 2015, an Meeting or are available at any other time to discuss feedback additional contractor has been appointed, which has led to an on the remuneration policy and its implementation.
increase in the overall budget cost for the project of around $350 million.
Safety performance was not satisfactory and, in light Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG of this, the Committee scaled back resulting bonuses.
The overall Chairman, Remuneration Committee level of performance achieved resulted in bonuses paying out at 35% of maximum bonus potential for the executive Directors.
It is expected that the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan awards, measuring performance from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013 and 1 June 2011 to 31 May 2014 combined 41 month performance period will lapse on 1 June 2014 on failing to achieve the required total shareholder return target.
During the year, the Committee has reviewed a number of aspects of executive Director remuneration structures to ensure they continue to be aligned with the Groups strategy, support the Groups business objectives and motivate beneciaries.
The two main focuses of the review were on the annual bonus plan and the Long Term Incentive Plan: To better align the annual bonus plan with the Groups key business focus of restructuring the core business and the delivery of the Groups major projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay, from 2014 the number of discrete elements was reduced from four to three: operational performance, financial performance and strategic developments, which will incorporate both project execution and restructuring.
The first two elements will represent 25% each of the maximum bonus potential and the strategic developments element 50% of the maximum bonus potential.
com 27 Bozshakol Site inspection of construction of the primary crusher.
Directors Report Operating Review 30 Financial Review 38 Principal Risks 48 Corporate Responsibility 53
