Governance Remuneration report Dear Fellow Shareholder, Annual statement It is my pleasure to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
This report explains the Groups remuneration policy and provides details of the remuneration paid to Executive and Non-executive Directors for services to the Company during the year.
Remuneration overview The remuneration policy at Keller has two key purposes: firstly, to provide a clear link between performance and reward and ensure that the Executive Directors interests are closely aligned with those of our shareholders.
Accordingly, when performance has been disappointing, remuneration has reduced sharply and, equally, it is appropriate for improved performance to be reflected in higher rewards.
Secondly, the remuneration policy should help us to attract, retain and motivate high-calibre executives to manage the business and deliver against our strategy.
During 2013, the Committee carried out a thorough review of our executive remuneration policy in anticipation of our current Performance Share Plan expiring this year.
Our review confirmed that the current remuneration arrangements fit with our policy, being broadly Ruth Cairnie competitive, rewarding measures that are well aligned to the business strategy and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee producing outcomes that have been a reasonable reflection of performance.
The Committee did, however, identify a number of improvements that could be made to strengthen cross-regional collaboration, better mitigate the impact of cyclicality on incentive outcomes, and to simplify our incentives.
We are therefore proposing some adjustments to the operation of our annual bonus plan and Performance Share Plan while maintaining the overall remuneration opportunity broadly in line with prior arrangements.
We have proactively engaged with our major shareholders on the proposed changes to the remuneration policy for 2014 onwards and I am pleased to report that there has been widespread support for our proposals.
Key changes to the operation of the annual bonus plan for 2014 onwards The introduction of discretion for the Committee to reduce bonuses down to zero, if appropriate in exceptional circumstances to take into account factors adversely impacting on the Companys reputation.
This discretion would be in addition to the current safety underpin whereby bonuses may be reduced by up to 10% if pre-defined lead safety targets are not delivered.
An increase in the weighting placed on Group performance for all divisional Managing Directors to strengthen cross-regional collaboration.
Key changes to the operation of the Keller Group Performance Share Plan 2014 For Awards to be made in 2014, it is proposed that the EPS performance range will be widened, with vesting at threshold reduced from 30% to 25% of maximum.
The wider range is intended to help mitigate the impact of year-on-year volatility and help ensure awards remain motivational throughout the performance period.
In light of Kellers return to the FTSE250 from the FTSE Small Cap, and to reflect better the Companys geographic footprint, we are proposing that the TSR comparator group be changed from the FTSE All-Share to the FTSE250 excluding investment trusts for 2014 Awards.
We are also proposing TSR be calibrated using outperformance of the index rather than a ranking, such that 25% of an Award will vest for performance in line with the Index, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting if Kellers TSR exceeds that of the FTSE250 by 10% p. a. or more.
In 2012, we introduced formal shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and clawback provisions to the annual bonus plan and the Performance Share Plan.
Further detail is provided later in the report.
40 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration for 2013 At the AGM in May 2014: Details of the remuneration decisions for 2013 are set out in the the Directors remuneration policy report will be put to a binding Directors annual remuneration report following.
The Committee is shareholder vote: confident that the remuneration outcomes fairly reflect the strong the Directors annual remuneration report will be put to an performance over the year.
In summary, for the year ended advisory vote: and 31 December 2013, profit before tax increased by 70% and the Keller Group Performance Share Plan 2014 will be proposed earnings per share by 59%.
Annual bonus payments for 2013 to shareholders for approval.
including any deferred amounts will be made as follows: Justin Atkinson 564,064: James Hind 417,361: Wolfgang Sondermann I will be available at the AGM to answer your questions.
Performance Share Awards granted in 2011 are measured using EPS and TSR targets: these targets were met in full and 100% of the Awards will vest in March 2014.
Remuneration for 2014 The Committee has set the Chief Executives base salary at Ruth Cairnie 468,000 with effect from 1 January 2014, an increase of 5%.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee In reaching its decision, the Committee considered the excellent 3 March 2014 performance delivered in 2013, which resulted in 82.7% growth in market-cap over the year, the increased scope and complexity of his role resulting from the three acquisitions made by the Company in 2013 and the fact that an average increase of some 2.1% over the last four years had resulted in a market positioning some 9% below median, evidenced by a benchmarking exercise undertaken during the year.
The base salaries of James Hind and Wolfgang Sondermann were also benchmarked during the year, and given that these were felt to be broadly competitive, their salaries were increased by 3% in line with general pay increases of between 3-5% across the Group.
There has been no change to the quantum for any other element of Executive Director remuneration for 2014.
Remuneration disclosure This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The report is in two sections: The Directors remuneration policy report pages 42 47.
This section contains details of the remuneration policy that we propose will apply from the Annual General Meeting AGM on 22 May 2014: and The Directors annual remuneration report.
This section sets out the details of how our remuneration policy was implemented for the year ended 31 December 2013 and how we intend for the policy to apply for the year ending 31 December 2014. before exceptional items.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 41 Governance Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Directors remuneration policy set broadly in line with the median for executives in roles of Kellers remuneration policy is to provide a clear link between comparable standing and that Executive Directors should be able performance and reward and ensure that the Executive Directors to achieve total remuneration at the market upper quartile level interests are closely aligned with those of our shareholders.
The when justified by exceptional performance.
Company is subject to long construction business cycles, and its profits tend to follow those cycles.
Accordingly, when performance There are five main elements of the remuneration package for has been disappointing, remuneration has reduced sharply for Executive Directors: base salary, performance-related annual example, Awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2009 bonus, performance share plan, pension arrangements and other and 2010 did not vest and, equally, it is appropriate for improved benefits.
The table below summarises these elements, how they link performance to be reflected in improved rewards.
The remuneration to strategy and discourage excessive risk-taking and their operation policy should also help us to attract, retain and motivate high-calibre and performance metrics.
The Group aims to balance the need to executives to manage the business and deliver against our strategy.
attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and other senior The Committee believes that the remuneration policy outlined executives of an appropriate calibre with the need to be cost below, which, if supported, will apply from the date of the AGM, effective, whilst at the same time rewarding exceptional is correctly positioned to meet these two objectives.
The Committee has designed a remuneration policy that balances those factors, taking account of prevailing best Executive Directors are assessed individually on their performance practice, investor expectations and the level of remuneration and against a mix of financial and personal strategic objectives so that pay awards made generally to employees of the Group.
their remuneration is directly related to their performance.
The Committee has adopted the principle that basic salary should be Policy table Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Sufficiently competitive to Reviewed annually, effective No maximum, but positioned None Fixed cash compensation, ensure adequate retention 1 January broadly at the median dependent upon Sufficient for incentives to be Periodically benchmarked Increases are not expected to experience and fully variable exceed average increases for responsibilities Pay and conditions throughout the the wider workforce, unless a Group taken into account when change in scope or complexity determining any increase of role applies Annual bonus Drives and rewards annual Performance measures and For maximum performance At least 70% based on Short-term cash incentive performance weightings are set at the start of 150% of salary financial performance up to 100% of salary the year to reflect business Part deferral, together with link For threshold performance Measures may include but are based on achievement of priorities to share price see Operation 0% of salary not limited to : annual financial and column focuses participants Targets are reviewed annually and personal strategic Bonus up to 100% of salary for Profit before tax PBT on medium-term performance relate to financial and non-financial objectives very strong performance and supports alignment with targets in line with the business plan Earnings per share EPS Medium-term incentive: shareholders Payouts between 0% and At the end of the year, the Average net debt target any bonus in excess of 100% of salary are determined The mix of financial and Remuneration Committee 100% of salary up to a broadly on a straight-line basis Personal strategic personal strategic objectives, determines the extent to which maximum of 150% of such that the payout for objectives together with Group targets have been achieved salary is deferred for three performance in line with performance, ensures an Targets will be adjusted to take years and payout linked to Any bonus above 100% of salary is budget target is likely to be appropriate broad focus on account of major acquisitions ongoing share price deferred satisfied in cash, adjusted in the range of 35%-55% of different elements of Company performance in line with share price movements maximum Payment potential for personal performance and dividends paid over the strategic objectives is capped Any bonus in excess of 100% three-year deferral period, at 50% of the potential payout of salary only payable for commencing on the last day of the if PBT or EPS targets are not genuinely exceptional year to which the bonus relates triggered performance Bonuses are subject to clawback in Bonuses may be reduced by situations of material misstatement, up to 10% if pre-defined lead error or gross misconduct safety targets are not delivered In addition, the Committee has discretion to reduce bonuses down to zero, if appropriate in exceptional circumstances to take into account factors adversely affecting the Companys reputation 42 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Performance Share Plan Retention through delivery of Award released after three years Normal award of 100% of Vesting of PSP awards is PSP potentially significant deferred base annual salary each year subject to continued Performance measured over three Variable long-term remuneration employment and performance financial years Up to 200% of salary where remuneration paid in against two equally-weighted A considerable part of potential the Committee determines that shares Any dividends paid may accrue measures, which are currently remuneration is linked to exceptional circumstances over the vesting period and would as follows: Focuses on long-term long-term Group performance exist e. g. on recruitment be paid only on those shares that financial performance as EPS growth measured on a Retention of vested shares vest 25% of an award vests for well as stock market point to point basis over the linked to shareholding threshold performance, rising out-performance, through three-year performance Awards are subject to clawback in guidelines enables meaningful on a straight-line basis to targets based on EPS period: situations of material misstatement, shareholdings to be built up, full vesting growth and relative total error or gross misconduct aligning interests of senior TSR relative to a relevant shareholder return TSR managers and shareholders peer group over the threeyear performance period The Committee will review the targets prior to each grant to ensure that they continue to be well aligned with the delivery of Company strategy Pension Provides for employee welfare Executives can elect to receive No formal maximum, but no None Salary supplement, defined and retirement needs either a DC contribution or a salary plans to exceed current benefit plan and defined supplement of equivalent cost to percentages of basic salary Defined benefit DB plan in contribution plan the Company the UK closed to future benefit accrual in 2006 Replaced with lower-risk defined contribution DC plans Other benefits Access to company car to Benefits currently include, but are It is not anticipated that the None Company car or car facilitate effective travel not limited to a car and payment of cost of benefits provided will allowance: private health its operating expenses, or car materially exceed the level in Insurance benefits to support care: life assurance: and allowance: private health care: life recent years the individual and their family long-term disability assurance: and long-term disability to minimise disruption to dayThe Committee retains the insurance insurance to-day business e. g. from discretion to approve a higher illness Benefits provided through cost in exceptional third-party providers circumstances e. g. relocation Annual Report & Accounts 2013 43 Governance Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy continued Notes to the policy table Non-executive Director remuneration Performance measure selection and approach to target setting All Non-executive Directors have specific terms of engagement, the The measures used under the annual bonus plan are selected dates of which are set out below.
All appointments are for an initial annually to reflect the Groups plans for the year and reflect both three-year period, and thereafter are subject to review by the financial and non-financial priorities.
The recent review of Nomination Committee, unless terminated by either party on three remuneration concluded that the measures and associated months notice.
There are no provisions for compensation payable weightings used for 2013 remain appropriate and will therefore be in the event of early termination.
Performance targets are set annually to be stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular Date of Unexpired term strategic priorities and economic environment in a given year.
engagement months as at Director letter 3 March 2014 The Committee believes that EPS and TSR continue to be L R Cairnie 8 April 2010 27 months appropriate measures of long-term performance for Keller.
EPS renewed on 30 May 2013 provides a link to long-term financial performance and is highly visible internally, while TSR provides strong alignment with R A Franklin 17 July 2007 16 months and 28 July 2009 as shareholder interests.
EPS targets will be reviewed and confirmed Chairman, renewed on prior to each grant, taking account of analyst estimates, historical 19 June 2012 performance and EPS performance ranges used at other FTSE250 C F Girling 11 February 2011 36 months companies.
The TSR target for full vesting has been determined on renewed on the basis of an historical analysis of the median to upper quartile 14 January 2014 spread and is in line with typical market practice for a company of P N Withers 17 December 2012 22 months Kellers size.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust this target for future awards should circumstances change.
If an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that an outstanding PSP Award or bonus would not achieve its original purpose without alteration, the Committee has discretion to amend the targets, provided the new conditions are materially no less challenging than when originally imposed.
Such discretion could be used to adjust appropriately for the impact of material acquisitions or disposals, or for exceptional and unforeseen events outside the control of the management team.
The application of any such discretion would have regard to the Committees practice of ensuring the stability of measures and targets throughout the business cycle.
Remuneration policy for other employees Whilst the main elements of remuneration referred to in the table above are broadly reflected in the remuneration of the Groups senior managers, regional differences in some elements reflect local custom and practice.
Participation in the Groups PSP is not offered outside of the senior management group and annual bonus plans have no deferred element, other than the US Retention Plan, which is offered to some 53 managers in North America.
Generally, remuneration packages are designed to be locally competitive and appropriate to the jurisdiction in which they apply.
Shareholding guidelines To reflect the importance the Committee places on aligning their interests with shareholders, Executive Directors are required to hold shares with a value equivalent to 100% of salary.
Executive Directors are required to retain 50% net of tax of shares acquired on vesting of share Awards until the required holding is attained.
Awards under previous remuneration policies Any awards or remuneration-related commitments made to Directors under previous remuneration policies will continue to be honoured.
