40 Directors remuneration report Statement from David Martin, Chairmanofthe Remuneration Committee Dear shareholder In respect of the annual bonus, the Remuneration Committee set As the new Chairman of Ladbrokes Remuneration Committee, stretching targets in relation to Group profit performance, which Iampleased to present the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report.
As a result, executive directors will not receive a bonus in respect of 2013.
We fully support the spirit of transparency in which the new disclosure regulations for UK-listed companies have been drafted.
The Performance Share Plan PSP is intended to reward strong shareholder value creation and earnings growth over a three-year Last year, prior to their introduction, we took the opportunity to cycle.
Given the Companys growth in share price and increased incorporate a substantial number of the proposed changes into our dividend yield since the beginning of 2011, the Total Shareholder 2012 report and hopefully you found the structure and content of Return TSR portion of the 2011 PSP award vested at 50% of that report helpful and concise.
You will notice in this years report maximum.
However, our Earnings Per Share EPS performance some further changes in order to align our disclosure with the wasnot sustained over the period and therefore none of the EPS requirements specified in the final legislation.
portion of the award will vest.
Therefore 25% of the overall award In line with the new regulations shareholders will be invited to willvest following the announcement of the Companys results.
approve both: Upon the appointment of Richard Glynn in 2010, shareholders approved the Ladbrokes Growth Plan LGP, a one-off share plan our remuneration policy with effect from the AGM on 7 May 2014 to incentivise the turnaround of thebusiness.
The first performance Policy Report which will be subject to a binding shareholder test under this plan occurred at the end of June 2013.
The executive vote:and directors and key senior executives earned 40.7% of the shares our annual report on remuneration detailing how our policy has under the plan as a result ofthe share price exceeding 220p for been implemented in the year ended 31 December 2013 and will aperiod of 30 consecutive dealing days in Q1 2013, two-thirds of be implemented in the year ending 31 December 2014, which will which remain subject to continued employment.
We recognise remain subject to an advisory vote.
thatour share price has decreased recently, and as our executive Summary of Ladbrokes remuneration principles directors have voluntarily not sold anyshares they have been The principles underlying the Ladbrokes remuneration policy exposed to the decrease in share price inthe same way as all continue unchanged.
Total remuneration packages should therefore: othershareholders.
be strongly aligned with shareholder value creation: 2014 proposals and future Remuneration Committee activities In 2014 we are making adjustments to the annual bonus plan, be aligned with and support the business strategy: whichare intended to focus colleagues across all parts of the enable the Company to attract, retain and motivate key individuals: business on the delivery of our strategic goals.
The proportion and ofbonus based on strategic and individual objectives is being increased from 30% to 40% but will remain subject to a group be positioned competitively against market practice, while paying profitunderpin.
The proportion of bonus payable at threshold no more than necessary.
performance level for 2014 has been reduced from 25% to 0%.
It is these principles that the Remuneration Committee has in mind We have decided to introduce malus provisions on our when determining remuneration arrangements for executive DeferredBonus Plan DBP and our PSP in line with best practice.
As a result, a significant portion of remuneration at This will allow us to reduce or cancel unvested awards in Ladbrokes is variable, rewarding management to deliver the Groups .
key strategic goals and generate long-term value for shareholders.
During the coming year, we intend to review the remuneration During 2013, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the remuneration framework to ensure that it remains fit for purpose for 2015 and arrangements in place for executives.
We will consult with major shareholders in respect of any Committeeconsiders that the existing remuneration framework material changes and welcome your views.
Where appropriate we remains appropriate.
will also seek a binding shareholder vote to approve the changes, 2013 performance inaccordance with the new regulations.
In 2013, our financial performance has been disappointing despite The Remuneration Committee values all feedback from shareholders, delivering key operational goals.
In particular, profit has suffered and hopes to receive your support at the forthcoming AGM.
due to a combination of the challenging trading environment and the short-term issues in delivering our long-term Digital strategy, particularly given the costs of integration, as we seek to build long-term value for shareholders.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 41 Policy Report The following sections set out our Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy.
This Policy will be put forward for shareholder approval atthe 2014 AGM in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
Subject to shareholder approval, the effective date of this Policy is the AGM on 7 May 2014.
For the avoidance of doubt, it is the Companys policy to honour in full any pre-existing obligations that have been entered into prior to the effective date of this Policy.
Therefore, the Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss ofoffice notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy, where the terms of that payment were agreed: i before the Policy came intoeffect, or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment areagreed at the time the award is granted.
Further details regarding the operation of the Policy can be found on pages 48-53 of this report.
Policy table Fixed remuneration Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Core element of The Remuneration Committee typically takes Whilst no maximum level of salary has been None, although overall Salary remuneration reflecting into consideration a number of factors when set by the Remuneration Committee, executive performance of the individual role setting salaries, including: director salary increases are determined in the individual is one of the and experience.
context of wider workforce increases and any key considerations in the individuals skills, experience increases to executive directors will normally setting salary levels.
Salary levels are set to and recent performance: be in line with these.
The Remuneration both support retention business performance: Committee considers any increases out of line and recruit people of the affordability: with this very carefully.
market practice for comparable roles Higher increases may be awarded in certain at companies of a similar size and circumstances, at the Remuneration Committees complexity: and discretion.
Forexample, this may include: pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Significant increase in the scope and or Salaries are typically reviewed annually, with responsibility of the individuals role: and any change normally being effective from Development of the individual within the role.
The Remuneration Committee may For example, where an executive director has determine salary increases at any point as it been appointed to the Board at a lower than considers appropriate.
typical salary, larger increases may be awarded to move them closer to market practice as their experience develops.
This allows Ladbrokes to bring the new incumbent to an appropriate salary over time with reference to performance in the first few years in the role.
Fixed element of Benefits to executive directors may include Whilst no maximum limit exists, benefits are None Benefits remuneration providing private healthcare for the executive director set by taking into account anumber of factors market competitive and his family, critical illness, disability and including market practice for comparable benefits.
life assurance, injury in service benefits, an roles within appropriate pay comparators.
allowance for tax advice and a cash allowance Benefits are provided to in lieu of a company car.
both support retention and recruit people of the The Remuneration Committee may necessary calibre.
reviewthebenefit allowance for existing ornewexecutive directors at any point.
The Remuneration Committee may also remove benefits that executive directors receive or introduce other benefits if it considers it is appropriate to do so.
Where executive directors are required to relocate or complete an international assignment, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional benefits, if considered appropriate, or vary benefits according to local practice.
Executive directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company on the same basis as other eligible colleagues.
Ladbrokes currently operates two all-employee share plans the Share Incentive Plan and the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
Fixed element of Executive directors can opt to join the In general, the levels of cash supplement and None Retirement remuneration to assist Companys defined contribution scheme or employer defined contribution provided are benefits with retirement or take a cash supplement.
intended to be broadly market typical for the planning.
The Remuneration Committee reserves The cash supplement and or employer the right to make adjustments to these levels Retirement benefits defined contribution level is kept under review in the event of market movements.
are provided to both by the Remuneration Committee.
support retention and Whilst there is no maximum pension level, The cash supplement is not included recruit people of the the current level is 22.5% of base salary.
in calculating bonus and long-term necessary calibre.
42 Directors remuneration report continued Variable remuneration Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Incentivise performance Awarded annually based on performance in Maximum awards Performance is measured against Annual on an annual basis the relevant financial year.
in shares or cash in acombination of financial measures currently bonus against key financial respect of any financial profit-based and strategic and or individual The Remuneration Committee reviews and metrics and demanding year as apercentage of objectives.
At least 60% of thebonuswill determines the performance measures and individual objectives.
base salary are 170% for bebased on financial measures andthe targets each year.
theChief Executive remainder on strategic and or individual Deferral element Bonus level is determined by the Remuneration and130% for other objectives.
No bonus will be awarded if a base into shares is intended Committee after the year end based on a executive directors.
level of profit is not achieved in the bonus year.
to enhance shareholder review of performance against targets.
alignment and Individual performance objectives for executive A portion of bonus, currently one-third, is reinforce retention.
directors are reviewed and approved by the compulsorily deferred into an award of shares Remuneration Committee at the start of the under the DBP.
Awards are normally financial year and clearly aligned to the structured in the form of conditional share strategic objectives of the Company.
awards but may be settled in cash or Between 0% and 100% of the maximum structured as nil-cost options.
This deferred awardapplies for achievement between bonus element is not subject to performance threshold and maximum performance.
conditions and will not normally vest for a period of at least three years.
Participants may receive the value in cash or shares of dividends paid on the shares that vest in respect of the period between the grant and satisfaction of a deferred bonus award.
Operated in accordance with the terms of theannual bonus plan and deferred bonus plan rules which includes the capacity for the Remuneration Committee to adjust or amend the terms of the awards.
Incentivise executive Awards are normally structured in the form of Awards of up to 250% Awards vest based on performance against Performance performance over the conditional share awards but may be settled ofbase salary can be acombination of performance measures.
in cash or structured as nil-cost options.
granted under the At least 50% of the award will be based on PSP planrules in respect Performance measures Vesting of these awards is dependent on financial measures currently EPS and a of any financial year.
linked to the long-term achievement of stretching performance further portion of nomore than 50% will strategy of the business, targets over at least three years.
The normal award levels bebased on TSR performance.
and the creation of for the existing executive Participants may receive the value in cash or Any balance would be linked to performance shareholder value over directors as a shares of dividends paid on the shares that against specific strategic objectives.
percentage of base vest in respect of the period between the grant For threshold levels of performance 25% of salary are 175% for the and satisfaction of a PSP award.
the award vests, increasing on a straight line Chief Executive and Operated in accordance with the terms basis to 100% of the award for maximum 150% for other executive ofthePSP rules which were approved performance.
directors, although the byshareholders on 18 May 2007 which In accordance with the rules of the PSP, the Committee may grant includes the capacity for the Remuneration performance condition may be replaced or awards above this, Committee to adjust or amend the terms varied if an event occurs or circumstances subject to the plan limit.
arise, e. g. a significant regulatory change, whichcauses the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, to determine that a substituted or amended performance condition would be appropriate taking into account the interests of the shareholders of the Company provided that the amended performance condition would continue to achieve its original purpose.
Notes to the policy table In the event of a change of control or winding up of the Company, Malus existing share awards under these plans will be treated as follows: The remuneration policy has been reviewed in 2013 and changed to Deferred bonus awards will vest in full on the date on which the include malusprovisions for awards granted under the DBP and change in control occurs.
PSP todeal with exceptional circumstances.
Malus provisions will applyfor awards granted from 2014 onwards, under which PSP awards will vest in line with the plan rules to the extent theCommittee may cancelor reduce vesting of unvested awards the Remuneration Committee determines that performance orimpose further conditions on those awards in the event of a conditions have been satisfied and on a time-apportioned material misstatement of the Groups financial results or gross basis, subject to Remuneration Committee discretion to misconduct on the part of the participant s. determineotherwise.
Corporate events affecting share plans Outstanding LGP awards will vest on or immediately prior The plans shall be operated in accordance with the relevant rules to the relevant event in line with the plan rules to the extent the as approved by shareholders and amended from time to time in Remuneration Committee determines is appropriate taking into accordance with those rules.
In particular, the plan rules provide for account the extent to which performance conditions are achieved adjustments in certain circumstances.
For example, awards may be and the time elapsed since grant, or on such basis as the adjusted in the event of any variation of share capital, demerger, Remuneration Committee considers appropriate.
special dividend, reorganisation or similar event.
Awards may vest on a voluntary winding up of the Company on the same basis.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 43 Performance measures annual bonus Maximum opportunity Executive directors were required to invest up to 150% of base salary in shares and can potentially The annual bonus performance measures are chosen to provide an appropriate balance between incentivising executive directors to receive up to a four times matching award in respect of that investment.
The matching award will normally only vest to the meet financial targets for the year and to deliver specific strategic, operational and individual goals.
This balance allows the extent this investment is retained.
In the case of the Chief Executive, he was required to invest in circa 1 million Ladbrokes Remuneration Committee to effectively reward performance against the key elements of our strategy.
shares and received a four times matching award.
The precise bonus targets are set by the Remuneration Committee Performance measures Awards are subject to share price each year to ensure that executive directors are appropriately performance conditions.
Any share price target must be attained focused on the key objectives for the next 12 months.
In doing so, throughout a period of 30 consecutive dealing days.
25% of the the Remuneration Committee intends to take into account a number award will vest if a share price of 2.00 is achieved.
100% of the of internal and external reference points, including the Companys award will vest if a share price of 2.97 is achieved.
Vesting will be business plan.
on a straight line basis between the minimum and maximum share price targets i. e. between 2.00 and 2.97.
Performance measures PSP The ultimate goal of our strategy is to provide long-term sustainable The Remuneration Committee has the authority to amend the returns to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee strives to targets if it is necessary to take account of exceptional factors achieve this by aligning the performance measures under the PSP including, for example, corporate events or exceptional market with the long-term strategy of the Company and considers that orindustry factors which would otherwise render the strong performance under these metrics should result in targetsinappropriate.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Company The Remuneration Committee considers that a combination of The remuneration policy for our executive directors is designed to be aligned with the remuneration philosophy and principles that financial strategic measures and a measure of value delivered to shareholders is most appropriate when measuring long-term underpin remuneration for the wider Group.
Although there are differences in pay between the executive Additional disclosure legacy arrangements LGP directors and the wider colleague population, all reward The LGP was approved by shareholders on 14 May 2010.
Full details arrangements are built around the common objectives and of the LGP are set out in the circular sent to shareholders seeking principles outlined below: approval for the LGP at the time of implementation.
As a legacy Performance alignment The Company aligns key Group arrangement, the LGP is not included within the Policy table above.
financial measures under the colleague bonus arrangements with However, we have chosen to voluntarily disclose summary details of those of the executive directors to ensure consistency across the the LGP here for ease of reference.
organisation and delivery of strategic goals.
This is then supported Purpose and link to strategy The LGP is a one-off long-term by relevant team and individual targets to focus colleagues on key incentive plan which was designed to incentivise over 140 key deliverables in their area of the business.
senior executives to support revitalisation of the business and Participation in performance-related share plans ensures key create significant, sustainable long-term shareholder value.
The colleagues are incentivised to drive shareholder value creation.
plan rewards value creation of between 400 million to 1.3 billion Key personnel have been invited to participate in the PSP for shareholders.
and or the LGP with the same performance metrics as the Operation One-off awards were made under this plan in 2010 to executive directors.
the CEO and in 2011 to other participants.
No further awards will Colleague share ownership Ladbrokes is committed to be made under the plan.
The performance period for all awards strengthening and widening colleague share ownership.
isfive years, which began in June 2010 and ends in June 2015.
Ittherefore operates two all-employee share incentive plans.
Aportion of the award was eligible for vesting at the end of year Allofthe Companys UK colleagues can participate in the three of the performance period June 2013.
A further portion Companys HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan SIP and may vest at the end of year four June 2014 if targets have been Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
The remainder of the award may vest at the end of year five June 2015, subject to the achievement of the performance targets.
Participants may receive the value of dividends paid on any vested shares.
44 Directors remuneration report continued Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Sole element of The Non-Executive Chairman receives an Whilst there is no maximum individual fee None.
Chairman remuneration, paid for all-inclusive fee for the role.
level, fees are set at a level which is and Nonfulfilling the relevant considered appropriate to attract and retain The remuneration of the Non-Executive Executive role.
the calibre of individual required by the Chairman is set by the Remuneration Company but the Company avoids paying Director Committee.
The Chairman receives a basic more than necessary for this purpose.
NED fees The Board may determine fee increases NEDs receive a basic annual fee in respect of at any point as it considers appropriate their Board duties.
Further fees are paid to in line with market movements and to NEDs in respect of chairmanship and take into account the time commitment membership of certain Board committees.
Fees are normally based on the level of fees Fees are paid for the following roles duties: paid to Chairmen and NEDs serving on boards Non-Executive Chairman: of similar companies, the time commitment required of the role and the duties involved Senior Independent Director: and take into consideration therequirement to Other NEDs: attract and retain thequality of individuals Supplementary fee for chair of the Audit or required by theCompany.
Remuneration Committee : Fees are normally reviewed at least once Supplementary fee for membership of the annually.
Audit and or Remuneration Committees.
The Board is responsible for determining fees Not paid to Chairman or Senior Independent for other NEDs although the NEDs are not Director involved in discussions about their own fees.
The Chairman and NEDs will not normally be There are currently no clawback provisions in eligible for annual bonus, share incentives and place to enable recovery ofsums paid.
Fees are normally paid in cash although the Reasonable expenses e. g. travel, Company retains the right to settle all part of accommodation and subsistence the fees as shares of equivalent value.
associatedwith Chairman and NEDs duties will be reimbursed, including any tax due on the benefits.
Recruitment policy The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate Principles and approach remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to meet the In determining remuneration arrangements for new appointments individual circumstances when an interim executive director is to the Board including internal promotions, the Remuneration required to fill a role on a short-term basis or if exceptional Committee applies the following principles: circumstances require that the Chairman or a non-executive director takes on an executive function on a short-term basis.
The Remuneration Committee is at all times conscious that any arrangements should be in the best interests of Ladbrokes and Buy-outs our shareholders, without paying more than is necessary: To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may make compensatory payments and or awards for any remuneration The Remuneration Committee takes into consideration all relevant arrangements subject to forfeiture on leaving a previous employer.
factors, including the calibre of the individual, the nature of the role, In doing so, the Remuneration Committee will take account of any local market practice, the individuals current remuneration terms attached to the forfeited arrangements.
Awards will take such package, Ladbrokes remuneration policy, internal relativities form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account all andexisting arrangements for other executive directors: relevant factors such as the nature of the award, any performance conditions attached to those awards, the likelihood of those conditions Salaries will reflect the skills and experience of the individual, and being met, and the proportion of vesting performance period.
The may be set at a level to allow future salary progression to reflect Committees intention is that the value awarded would be equivalent performance in the role.
The Committee also retains the right to to the value forfeited.
determine that in the first year of appointment any annual bonus award will be subject to such conditions as it may determine: Recruitment of the Chairman and non-executive directors In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive Typically, the remuneration package for a new appointment will director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with bebased on or be transitioned onto the same elements of the those detailed in the relevant table above.
remuneration package as the other executive directors, in line withthe policy table presented above.
Disclosure The remuneration structure of any new director will be disclosed It would be expected that the structure and quantum of the variable ina timely manner and, as far as possible, in the relevant RIS pay elements would reflect those set out in the policy table above.
notification at the time of appointment.
In the next remuneration However, at recruitment, the Committee would retain the discretion report, the Remuneration Committee will explain to shareholders to flex the balance between annual and long-term incentives and the rationale for the relevant arrangements.
the measures used to assess performance for these elements, with the intention that a significant portion would be delivered in shares.
At recruitment, variable pay could, in exceptional circumstances, bedelivered via alternative structures, again with the intention that asignificant portion would be share-based, but in all circumstances subject to the overriding cap of 420% of salary.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 45 Executive Director service contracts The key employment terms and other conditions of the current executive directors, as stipulated in their service contracts, are set out below: Provision Policy It is the Companys policy for service contracts to require six months notice by the executive and 12 months notice from the Company.
Notice period In a recruitment scenario, an executive director may initially be hired on a contract requiring the Company to provide 24 months notice which then reduces, pro rata over the course of the first year of the contract, to requiring 12 months notice from the Company.
Richard Glynns contract pre-dates this policy and provides that both parties give 12 months notice to terminate the contract.
It is the Companys policy for new service contracts that it may terminate employment by making a Payment In Lieu of Notice PILON equivalent Termination payment to the value of base salary and benefits including pension allowance in respect of the notice period.
This is the case with Ian Bulls contract.
In Ian Bulls contract, there are specific provisions requiring a reduction in any phased PILON payments in the event that he finds alternative employment during the 12 months notice period.
Richard Glynns contract dates from before this policy was put into place and does not contain a PILON clause.
If the Company terminates his employment, the termination payment would be computed on a damages basis reflecting Richard Glynns loss as a result of termination and hislegal obligation to mitigate loss.
As outlined above, Richard Glynn has a 12 month notice period and the Company would seek tokeep the cost of any departure to a minimum taking into account his contractual obligations and the circumstances of his departure.
Participation in all incentive plans, including the annual bonus and the PSP, is non-contractual.
Remuneration and benefits Outstanding awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
Policy on payment for loss of office Other payments which may be made as a result of loss of office The Remuneration Committee takes a number of factors include legal fees within an agreed maximum limit, outplacement intoaccount when determining leaving arrangements for counselling within an agreed maximum limit, payment for any anexecutive director.
outstanding accrued holiday and any other payments required bystatute.
The Remuneration Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations i being consistent with the Policy set out in this report, The Remuneration Committee strongly believes that there should or ii if they are inconsistent having been entered into on a date on be no reward for failure.
When exercising any discretion under the or before 27 June 2012 in accordance with relevant legislation.
plans referred to below, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of the individuals departure and his performance The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the in the role.
The following table summarises the leaver provisions of share plans under which executive directors may currently hold awards.
Treatment for any Plan Good leaver categories Treatment for a good leaver otherleaver Ill health and disability Where a participant has a minimum of nine months full service in the No bonus.
Annual relevant year a cash bonus will be paid.
This amount will normally be Death Bonus Plan subject to the achievement of the financial and individual objectives set Redundancy atthe beginning of the plan year.
Any payment will be following the end Other scenarios at the Remuneration Committees ofthe relevant financial year and will normally be pro-rated for time discretion servedduring the year, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
Any amounts which would have ordinarily been deferred into the deferred bonus plan may be paid in cash at the same time.
The Remuneration Committee, however, has the ability to exercise its discretion to pay a bonus as it considers appropriate.
Ill health and disability Awards will vest on cessation of employment.
Unvested awards lapse Deferred in full if cessation of Death Bonus Plan employment occurs prior Redundancy to the vesting date.
Other scenarios at the Remuneration Committees discretion Injury, ill-health or disability Awards will vest at the normal vesting date, unless the Remuneration Unvested awards lapse Performance Committee determines that awards should vest early.
in full if cessation of Death Share Plan employment occurs during In either case, awards will vest to the extent that performance conditions Redundancy the performance period.
have been satisfied and on a time apportioned basis, unless the Retirement by agreement with the employing Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
company Transfer of whole or part of the business by which the participant is employed outside the Group Any other scenario in which the Remuneration Committee determines good leaver treatment is justified other than summary dismissal Leaver treatment under these plans will be in accordance with HMRC rules All-employee share plans Injury, ill-health or disability Awards will vest, subject to the applicable performance conditions and the Unvested awards lapse Ladbrokes retention of the related investment shares, either on the normal vesting in full if cessation of Death Growth Plan date or earlier if the Remuneration Committee so determines.
The award employment occurs during Any other scenario in which the Remuneration not part of will be time pro-rated by reference to the performance period, unless the the performance period.
Committee determines good leaver treatment is Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
forwardjustified other than summary dismissal The exception to this is upon death, when awards shall vest immediately to looking the extent the Remuneration Committee determines is appropriate taking policy into account the period of time that has elapsed since grant and the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied.
46 Directors remuneration report continued Non-Executive Director letters of appointment The non-executive directors, including the Chairman of the Company, have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts with either the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below: Provision Policy After the initial term, non-executive directors are typically expected to serve a further three-year term.
Period Whilst appointed for a three-year term, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Chairman and all non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
The appointment of a Chairman or a non-executive director is terminable without notice by either the Company or the director.
Termination Non-executive directors and the Chairman are not entitled to any compensation upon leaving office.
Availability of documentation All executive directors service contracts and the letters of appointment for non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal hours of business, and at the place of the Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2014 from 10.45 am until the close of the meeting.
Illustration of our forward-looking remuneration policy In support of the remuneration philosophy, Ladbrokes remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short-term and long-term performance targets, aligned with the creation ofsustainable shareholder value.
In particular, there is an emphasis on long-term share-based incentives, i. e. the PSP.
The Remuneration Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be received under different performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate in the context of the performance delivered and the value added for shareholders.
The following charts provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for executive directors under three assumed performance scenarios.
In line with the regulations, the illustrations show the potential remuneration levels under Ladbrokes forward-looking remuneration policy.
As such, it excludes potential payouts under our legacy one-off Growth Plan which was approved by shareholders in2010.
These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
Chief Executive Richard Glynn Chief Financial Officer Ian Bull Multi-year performance Multi-year performance 000s 000s Annual performance Annual performance Fixed Fixed 3,000 3,000 2,736 2,500 2,500 2,000 2,000 1,624 1,500 1,500 1,000 988 1,000 735 654 504 500 500 Minimum Performance Maximum Minimum Performance Maximum performance in line with performance performance in line with performance expectations expectations Percentage of total remuneration Percentage of total remuneration Performance Performance in line with in line with Minimum expectations Maximum Minimum expectations Maximum Fixed pay base salary, pension and Fixed pay base salary, pension and otherbenefits 100% 74% 27% otherbenefits 100% 77% 31% Remuneration relating to annual Remuneration relating to annual performance annual bonus and performance annual bonus and deferredbonus 0% 0% 36% deferredbonus 0% 0% 32% Remuneration relating to multi-year Remuneration relating to multi-year performance PSP 0% 26% 37% performance PSP 0% 23% 37% Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 47 Assumed performance Assumptions used Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and retirement benefits cash allowance in lieu of pension All performance scenarios Base salary salary effective as at 1 March 2014 Benefits estimated to be received by each Executive Director in 2014 based on 2013 value Pensions estimated to be received by each Executive Director in 2014 No pay-out under the annual bonus Minimum performance No vesting under the PSP 0% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus cash and deferred elements Performance in line with 25% vesting under the PSP expectations see note 100% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus cash and deferred elements Maximum performance 100% vesting under the PSP see note PSP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth, dividend accrual or discount rate assumptions.
All-employee share plans have been excluded.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Committee has borne in mind individual The Remuneration Committee takes into consideration the pay and shareholder views and best practice guidelines during the year.
conditions of colleagues throughout the Group when determining Inparticular the executive directors have committed to holding any remuneration arrangements for executive directors.
Information shares under the PSP vesting in 2014, net of settlement of tax relating to wider workforce remuneration is provided in regular liabilities, for a minimum of six months after vesting has taken updates to the Remuneration Committee.
This takes the form of a place.
Furthermore we will be reviewing our PSP arrangements comparison of reward elements across all main workforce groups, during 2014 and the Remuneration Committee will consider the updates on total reward communications and details of business period over which shares must be held.
wide reviews such as annual bonus awards and salary increases.
In addition, Richard Glynn and Ian Bull voluntarily agreed not to In particular, the Remuneration Committee pays specific attention to exercise LGPshares following the first vesting date in August 2013 the general level of salary increases and bonus outcomes within the until after 1July2014.
The Remuneration Committee continues to be mindful of Whilst the Remuneration Committee does not directly consult with shareholder views whenevaluating and setting on-going our colleagues as part of the process of determining executive pay, remuneration strategy, and we commit to consulting with the Committee does receive feedback from colleague surveys and shareholders prior to any significant changes to our takes this into account when reviewing executive pay.
asignificant number of our colleagues are shareholders and so are Minor amendments to policy able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor changes to this Consideration of shareholder views Policy, which do not have a material advantage to directors, to aid The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback inits operation or implementation without seeking shareholder received in relation to an AGM at its next meeting following the AGM.
approval for a revised version of this policy.
As outlined on page 53 we received a 96.85% vote in favour ofthe 2012 Directors Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM.
This represents the end of the Policy Report Variable pay Fixed pay 48 Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Audited information The information presented from this section up until the relevant note on page 51 represents the audited section of this report.
Single total figure of remuneration The following table sets out the total remuneration for executive directors and non-executive directors for the year ended 31December 2013, with prior year figures also shown.
Cash allowance Salary and fees Benefits in lieu of pension Annual bonus Long-term incentives All figures shown in 000 a b c d e Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Executive Directors Richard Glynn 580 580 24 20 131 131 491 3,983 1,323 4,718 2,545 Ian Bull 397 380 14 15 89 86 254 1,606 2,106 735 f Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Peter Erskine 250 250 250 250 John Jarvis 57 50 57 50 Christopher Rodrigues 20 60 20 60 Sly Bailey 50 50 50 50 Darren Shapland 60 60 60 60 David Martin 9 9 John Kelly 60 60 60 60 Christine Hodgson 50 33 50 33 Richard Moross 50 40 50 40 Methodology a Salary and fees this represents the base salary or fees paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any executive directors services 2012: nil.
b Benefits this represents the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
Executive director benefits include private healthcare for the executive and his family, critical illness, disability and life assurance, injury in service benefits, allowance for tax advice and a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
c Cash allowance in lieu of pension executive directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions equivalent to 22.5% of salary.
d Annual bonus this reflects the nil bonus awarded in respect of the performance year and consequently there is no deferred bonus awarded for 2013. e Long-term incentives this figure represents the value of long-term incentive plans with a performance period ending in the relevant year.
For 2013, this represents the value of the 2011 awards under the Performance Share Plan performance period from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013 and also the value of the shares earned under the LGP at the first testing date covering performance in the period from 30 June 2010 to 29 June 2013.
PSP: The value for 2013 represents an estimate of the market value of the shares that will vest following the publication of the Companys results and is based on a threemonth average share price of 179.8p to31December 2013.
Further detail in relation to achievement of performance conditions is on page 49.
The 2012 values in this column relating to awards with the performance period from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2012 have been revised from last years report, based on the actual share price of 223.8p at the date of vesting on21 February 2013 and inclusive of the supplementary shares delivered in respect of dividend equivalents Richard Glynn: 71,578 shares.
LGP: The new reporting regulations require us to recognise amounts relating to long-term incentives at the point at which performance conditions have been met, even if amounts remain subject to further continued employment requirements.
The first performance test under the LGP occurred at the end of June 2013, andas a result 40.7% was earned by the executive directors.
One third of this amount became capable of release in August 2013.
This represents 1,213,000 and 452,000 for RichardGlynn and Ian Bull respectively, including associated dividend equivalents, valued using the share price of 210p on the vesting date of 6 August 2013.
Richard Glynn and Ian Bull both voluntarily agreed not to exercise their share rights until after 1 July 2014.
Therefore both executive directors have been exposed to the subsequent decrease in share price in the same way as other shareholders.
The value of the proportion of the award that is capable of release as at 12 February 2014 is Richard Glynn 880,000 and Ian Bull 328,000, including dividend equivalents.
Two thirds of the total earned amount is not yet capable of release, as it remains subject to a continued employment requirement.
This proportion will vest in two equal tranches in June 2014 and June 2015 if the individual remains in employment at that time.
The total shown in the table above also includes avalue relating to the proportion of the earned award which remains subject to this continued employment requirement.
Further details in respect of the achievement of performance conditions is provided on page 49. f The Chairman receives a fee of 250,000 per annum.
Other non-executive directors receive a basic fee of 43,000 per annum.
The senior independent director receives abasic fee of 60,000 per annum.
Additional fees are payable for the role of Chairman of the Audit or Remuneration Committee at a rate of 10,000 per annum and for membership of the Audit and or Remuneration Committee at a rate of 7,000 per annum.
David Martin was appointed as a non-executive director on 31 October 2013.
His fee is paid to Arriva plc by mutual agreement.
Christopher Rodrigues did not seek re-election at the 2013 AGM and therefore he stepped down from the Board as at 1 May 2013.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 49 Additional disclosures in respect of the single figure table The peer group for the 2011 award is set out below: Base salary 888 Holdings OPAP The table below shows base salaries which were effective Boyd Gaming Paddy Power during2013: Bwin PartyGaming Punch Taverns Enterprise Inns Rank Group Base salary Base salary Lottomatica Whitbread to 1 Mar 2013 from 1 Mar 2013 Mitchells and Butlers William Hill Richard Glynn 580,000 580,000 50% of the award three-year EPS growth Ian Bull 380,000 400,000 EPS growth per annum Percentage of the award vesting Salary information for 2014 is provided in the section entitlted Less than 6% 0% Implementation of remuneration policy in 2014, on page52.
6% 25% Cash allowance in lieu of pension 10% or more 100% The current executive directors have elected to receive a cash Straight line vesting operates between these points.
allowance of 22.5% of salary in lieu of pension.
Performance out-turn The table below shows cash allowances paid for 2013: The table below provides an overview of Ladbrokes performance 2013 against the 2011 PSP award targets and the level of vesting cash allowance achieved as a result.
Richard Glynn 130,500 Actual performance Vesting as % of element Ian Bull 89,250 Relative TSR 6 out of 13 companies 50% Annual bonus EPS growth -8.3% per annum 0% The table below sets out the annual bonus awards made to Total vesting 25% of maximum executive directors in respect of 2013: Overall, for PSP awards made in 2011, 25% of the award will vest 2013 As % of upon publication of the Companys 2013 results.
annual bonus 2013 salary Richard Glynn 0 0% Ladbrokes Growth Plan Ian Bull 0 0% The LGP value shown in the single figure table relates to the value of shares earned following the June 2013 testing event based on the 70% of the 2013 annual bonus was based on profit for the year performance over the period from 30 June 2010 to 29 June 2013. excluding profit from High Rollers.
30% of the 2013 annual bonus The performance conditions for this award are set out below: was based on individual objectives, which are primarily financial innature.
Furthermore, no portion of the award could vest without Share price maintained for a period of theachievement of a threshold level of profit over the bonus year.
30consecutive dealing days Percentage of the award vesting 200p 25% 2013 profit excluding High Rollers and exceptional items was Between 200p and 297p Pro rata 138.3 million.
As a result, the threshold level of profit for any 297p 100% element of bonus to be paid was not met andaccordingly no bonuses wereawarded in respect of the 2013financial year.
The Straight line vesting operates between these points.
specific profit targets are considered commercially sensitive so have notbeen disclosed.
Performance out-turn A share price of at least 220.7p was maintained for a period of Performance Share Plan 30consecutive dealing days during Q1 2013 and as a result 40.7% The PSP value shown in the single figure table relates to the 2011 of the maximum award was earned at the first testing event on award, which is due to vest based on the performance period 29June 2013.
Following the 2013 performance test, shares become capable of The performance conditions for this award are set out below: release in three equal tranches in August 2013, June 2014 and June 50% of the award three-year relative TSR performance against 2015.
The latter two tranches remain subject to continued apeer group of sectoral peer companies.
Richard Glynn and Ian Bull have voluntarily committed tohold those shares capable of release in 2013 until after 1 July 2014.
Three-year Ladbrokes TSR performance Percentage of the award vesting Dividend equivalents will continue to accrue on earned shares Below median 0% which have notbeen delivered to the participants.
Median 25% Upper quartile 100% Straight line vesting operates between these points.
50 Directors remuneration report continued Scheme interests awarded during the financial year The following table provides details of the awards made under Performance Share Plan awards thePSP on 26 February 2013.
Performance for these awards As outlined in the policy table, PSP awards are granted over Ladbrokes ismeasured over the three financial years from 1 January 2013 shares with the number of shares under award determined by to31December 2015.
They are subject to the same performance reference to a percentage of base salary.
Award levels in 2013 took conditions as for previous PSP awards.
into account individual performance prior to grant.
Face value Face value Threshold vesting Maximum vesting End of performance Type of award Number of shares % of salary % of face value % of face value period Richard 446,271 1,015,000 175% Glynn Performance shares 25% 100% 31 December 2015 Ian Bull 250,615 570,000 150% Face value has been calculated using the five day average share As disclosed in last years report, in relation to the Performance price prior to the date of grant of 227.44p.
Share Plan and Ladbrokes Growth Plan, the Remuneration Committee determined that Richard Ames should be treated as Share Incentive Plan awards agoodleaver.
Therefore his share awards would continue to Executive directors are eligible to participate in HMRC-approved subsist, and would vest to the extent that relevant performance all-employee share plans on the same basis as other eligible targets are met at the end of the relevant performance period.
During 2013, Richard Glynn and Ian Bull participated Thevested amount would be subject to time prorating to reflect inthe Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Under the plan during 2013, his period ofemployment during the performance period.
RichardGlynn purchased 453 shares and 226 bonus shares were awarded to himalong with 74 shares in respect of the dividends In 2013, Richard Ames received 315,445 shares in relation to paid by the Company on 9 May 2013 and 31 October 2013.
Ian Bull hispro-rated 2010 award under the PSP and 294,555 shares purchased 453 shares and 226 bonus shares were awarded to earnedunder the LGP, of which he received 110,876 shares himalong with22 shares in respect of the dividends paid by the on6August 2013.
Payments for loss of office Payments to past directors In 2013, there have been no payments to directors for loss of office.
As disclosed in the 2012 Directors remuneration report, Richard Statement of directors shareholding and share interests Ames resigned as a director of the Company on 1 August 2012 and Directors shareholdings and share ownership guidelines ceased employment in the Group on 30 November 2012.
The Companys shareholding guidelines require executive directors The key features of his treatment upon cessation of employment to build up over time a personal shareholding equivalent in value to were disclosed in last years report.
Some of these payments at least one years base salary.
Executives are encouraged to retain became payable in the 2013 financial year as follows: vested shares earned under the Companys incentive plans until the shareholding guidelines have been met.
Seven monthly instalments of 31,662 as the balance amount forthe compensation payment agreed in settlement of all Shares which the executive directors hold outright and or vested claimsfor loss of office.
This amount would have been mitigated shares under the Companys share plans count towards the had Richard Ames obtained alternative employment during requirement.
Unvested share awards only count towards the thisperiod.
requirement if vesting is not subject to any further performance conditions or other conditions such as continued employment.
As disclosed last year, under the annual bonus plan, a pro-rated portion of Richard Ames 2012 bonus was paid in March 2013 at On this basis, Richard Glynn and Ian Bull have met the Companys the same time as for all other continuing executives.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 51 Number of shares Interests in share incentive Interests in share incentive Unexercised interests in schemes, without schemes, subject to option schemes, without Shares owned outright at performance conditions at performance conditions at performance conditions at 1 2 3 4 Director 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 5 Richard Glynn 284,259 2,092,966 4,114,731 1,184,713 5 Ian Bull 351,288 728,673 2,020,511 6,856 Peter Erskine 118,095 John Jarvis 15,000 6 Christopher Rodrigues 22,646 Sly Bailey 10,000 Richard Moross 5,000 David Martin Darren Shapland 25,000 John Kelly 18,041 Christine Hodgson 15,000 1 Includes partnership shares and dividend shares under the SIP.
2 This relates to shares awarded under the DBP, the earned portion of the LGP and bonus shares awarded under the SIP.
3 This relates to outstanding shares awarded under the PSP and the portion of LGP awards which has not yet been earned.
4 This relates to unexercised nil-cost options under the 2010 Share Award Plan and options under the SAYE scheme.
5 The following changes to the executive directors share interests have occurred between 31 December 2013 and 24 February 2014: 92 shares were purchased by both Richard Glynn and Ian Bull under the Share Incentive Plan.
Under the terms of this Plan, one bonus share was also awarded for every two shares purchased 46 bonus shares.
6 Christopher Rodrigues stepped down from the Board on 1 May 2013 and his share interests are shown as at that date.
For the purposes of determining executive director shareholdings, the individuals salary at the year end and the three-month average share price to 31 December 2013 has been used.
This represents the end of the audited section of the report.
Historical TSR performance and CEO remuneration outcomes As the Company is a constituent of the FTSE250, the FTSE250 index provides an appropriate indication of market movements against which to benchmark the Companys performance.
The chart below summarises the Companys TSRperformance against the FTSE250 index over the five-year period to 31 December 2013.
The table below the chart summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus pay-outs and LTIP vesting levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity over the five-year period to 31 December 2013.
5-year TSR performance Ladbrokes 400 FTSE 250 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 Chief Executive Officer 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Christopher Bell 0.9m 0.7m CEO single figure of remuneration m Richard Glynn 1.0m 1.2m 2.5m 4.7m Annual bonus pay-out as a % of maximum opportunity 0% 76% 50% 50% 0% 2 Long-term incentive vesting out-turn includes PSP and LGP opportunity, shown as a % of maximum opportunity 0% 0% 0% 82% 38% 1 The above number for Christopher Bell in 2010 reflects his remuneration including in respect of his notice period and excludes any payments associated with his departure.
Richard Glynnwas appointed as CEO on 22 April 2010 and the above number reflects his remuneration from that time to the year end.
2 Increases in total compensation in 2012 and 2013 have been as a result of increased pay-outs under the Companys long-term incentive plans, e. g. PSP and LGP.
Richard Glynn has not received any changes to salary or cash allowance in lieu of pension since his appointment in April 2010.
52 Directors remuneration report continued Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer Implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 The table below illustrates the increase in salary, benefits including This section provides an overview of how the Committee is cash allowance in lieu of pension and annual bonus for the Chief proposing to implement the remuneration policy in 2014.
Executive Officer and that of a representative group of the Base salary Companys colleagues.
In determining salary increases for 2014, the Remuneration For these purposes, we have used all UK-based colleagues as Committee took into consideration business performance, thecomparative group, as this represents the most appropriate affordability and pay and conditions across the Group and comparator group for reward purposes for our UK-based determined that there will be no increase in 2014.
The table below shows base salaries for 2014: % change in benefits Base salary including cash from 1 Mar 2014 % change in allowance % change in base salary in lieu of pension annual bonus Richard Glynn 580,000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Ian Bull 400,000 Chief Executive Officer 0% 0% -100% All colleagues 2% 0% -100% Benefits Benefits are generally set at an appropriate market competitive Relative importance of the spend on pay level, taking into account a number of factors including market The chart below illustrates the current year and prior year overall practice for comparable roles within appropriate pay comparators.
expenditure on pay, dividends paid and operating profit.
There will be no changes to the benefits package received by The figures presented have been calculated on the following bases: executive directors in 2014.
Overall expenditure on pay represents total staff costs.
Cash allowance in lieu of pension Dividends dividends paid ordeclared to be paid in respect The current executive directors have elected to receive a cash ofthe year.
allowance of 22.5% of salary in lieu of pension, and there will benochange to cash allowance levels for 2014. m 2012 The table below shows cash allowances for 2014.
2013 300 1.2% 2014 276.3m cash allowance in lieu of pension 272.9m % of salary 250 Richard Glynn 130,500 22.5% Ian Bull 90,000 22.5% 200 150 100 1.0% 50 Overall expenditure on pay Dividends Total dividend per share FY2013: 8.9 pence 2012: 8.9 pence Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 53 Annual bonus Consideration by the Committee of matters relating to The maximum annual bonus opportunity for executive directors will  remain at 170% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and The Ladbrokes Board entrusts the Committee with the responsibility 130% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer in 2014. for the remuneration policy in respect of executive directors and senior executives and ensuring its on-going appropriateness The table below provides further information on the performance andrelevance.
In setting the remuneration for these groups, measures against which performance will be measured: theCommittee takes into account the pay and conditions of the wider workforce as a matter of course.
Relative weighting % of bonus opportunity Financial Group profit 60% The table below shows the Committee members during the year Individual mainly specific financial targets 40% and their attendance at Committee meetings: Profit is the key financial measure.
Profit attributed to High Rollers Entitled to attend Attended isexcluded from the profit performance calculations for annual John Jarvis 4 4 bonus purposes.
However, the impact of High Rollers may be Sly Bailey 4 4 included in the assessment of individual objectives for those directly Christine Hodgson 4 4 responsible for the relevant areas of the business.
The individual Richard Moross 4 4 objectives element of the bonus remains subject to a profit Peter Erskine 4 4 underpinin 2014.
Christopher Rodrigues 2 2 At this stage, the Committee considers that the exact annual bonus David Martin 1 1 targets remain commercially sensitive.
However, in next years annual report, we commit to providing shareholders with as much The Chief Executive Officer, the Group HR Director and the HR context as possible on performance against those targets and the Director Reward & Resourcing attend Committee meetings by resulting bonus out-turn rationale, within commercial constraints.
invitation, other than when their personal remuneration is being discussed.
The Deputy Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Performance Share Plan Committee.
The usual maximum PSP award will remain at 175% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary for the Chief Financial During the year, the Committee received independent advice on Officer in 2014.
The exact award levels have not yet been executive remuneration matters from Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP determined but will not exceed these levels.
The performance received 69,000 in fees for these services.
Deloitte LLP is a conditions and targets will remain unchanged.
member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to Non-executive director remuneration executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deloitte LLP also The table below shows the NED fee structure as at 1 January 2014. provide the Company with internalaudit and miscellaneous tax andconsulting services.
TheCommittee has appointed Deloitte LLP 2014 fees to the role of independent advisers to the Committee.
Chairman of the Board fee 250,000 Senior independent director 60,000 The Committee has reviewed the advice provided by Deloitte LLP during the year and is satisfied that it has been objective and Board member 43,000 independent.
Additional fee for Audit or Remuneration Committee Chairman 10,000 Shareholder voting Additional fee for membership of the Audit The table below outlines the result of the advisory vote on the 2012 and or Remuneration Committee 7,000 Directors Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM: Not payable to Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
Number of votes cast For Against Withheld 630,890,797 20,545,494 651,436,291 22,523,034 96.85% 3.15% The Committee is pleased to note over 96% votes in favour of the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report at the AGM held in 2013.
On behalf of the Board David Martin Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 February 2014 54 Financial statements In focus: Tennis Short but sweet Only eight of the Tennis betting trends vary previous 45 French French Open finals 8 Open finals have gone to five sets.
from surface to surface and The last final to go the with four major tournaments full distance came in 2004 when Gastn on three surfaces there are a Gaudio fought back from 2-0 down to beat Guillermo Coria 8-6 in number of factors that affect the final set.
Less French aces Clay is a significantly different surface to other courts on the tour as the ball comes onto the racket much slower, meaning the number of 50% 37 aces is reduced.
On average, the top players see a 50% reduction in aces on clay.
55 98% With just one defeat against his name and 59 wins, Nadal is the most successful player in the Open era at the French Open.
LAD9 0006 ARA2013 p054-055 v10b 140307. indd 55 07 03 2014 10:31 56 56 Consolidated financial statements contents 57 Consolidated income statement 79 18 Trade and other receivables 58 Consolidated statement 80 19 Cash and short-term deposits of comprehensive income 80 20 Trade and other payables 59 Consolidated balance sheet 80 21 Provisions 60 Consolidated statement 80 22 Interest bearing loans of changes in equity and borrowings 61 Consolidated statement 80 23 Financial risk management of cash flows objectives and policies 62 Notes to the consolidated 82 24 Financial instruments and financial statements fair value disclosures 62 1 Corporate information 85 25 Net debt 62 2 Basis of preparation 85 26 Share capital 62 3 Changes in accounting policies 86 27 Employee share 62 4 Summary of significant ownership plans accounting policies 86 28 Notes to the statement 68 5 Segment information of cash flows 69 6 Exceptional items 87 29 Retirement benefit schemes 70 7 Profit before tax and net 89 30 Share-based payments finance expense 91 31 Commitments and contingencies 70 8 Finance expense and income 92 32 Related party disclosures 71 9 Staff costs 93 33 Business combinations 72 10 Income tax expense 98 Statement of directors 73 11 Dividends responsibilities in relation to the consolidated financial statements 74 12 Earnings per share 99 Independent auditors report to 75 13 Goodwill and intangible assets the members of Ladbrokes plc 76 14 Impairment testing of on the consolidated financial statements goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets 77 15 Property, plant and equipment 78 16 Interest in joint venture 79 17 Interest in associates and other investments
