70 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Remuneration reflects value created Jim Sutcliffe Chairman, Remuneration Committee Dear fellow shareholder The past year has been one of immense challenge for the Company.
Following the strike and appalling violence late in the previous financial year the twin operational challenges were to manage the return to work peacefully and safely, and then to deliver the outcomes expected in the Lonmin Renewal Plan.
Although we were disappointed to have three fatalities, more was achieved than many imagined possible in many areas.
LTIFR improved again from our industry leading levels, we exceeded our sales guidance, produced more platinum than in any of the last 6 years, and ended the year with a healthy cash and stock position.
The share price, which has disappointed for so long, now stands 27% higher than the implied price at the time of the rights issue.
Maintaining both our hard legal and softer social licences to operate is of crucial importance.
Five major initiatives were announced at the 2013 AGM, which taken together would vastly improve the lives of our workers and their communities.
Progress has been made during the year, but tangible outcomes still need to be delivered.
Overall, the formula for the Balanced Scorecard agreed at the beginning of the year with management produced a result slightly ahead of target, and the Remuneration Committee the Committee decided not to apply any discretion to the formulaic outcome, feeling that this was a fair reflection.
We also felt that the efforts over the year by management merited good personal elements of the bonus plan.
Although it is a short period, we felt that Ben Magara has made an excellent start in his first three months, and we set his personal element, proportionately, at the same generous level as his team.
We recognised the role played by Simon Scott as Acting CEO by awarding him the full personal element available under the plan.
Our LTIP plans again failed to meet their performance hurdles, and awards made in 2010 lapsed for no value.
This is appropriate, given the share price movement over the three year period.
The Committee made no substantial changes to the Directors remuneration structure during the year.
The Blue Sky process explained last year was resurrected in June 2013, but the arrival of the new CEO and the need for his strategic review to be completed before finalising our pay policies means that we are not yet in a position to finalise our thinking.
We will follow through on this during the coming months and consult with shareholders on all material matters.
As required by law, at the 2014 AGM we are seeking shareholders approval of our Directors remuneration policy, as set out in the next section of this report, and also an extension of the life of the LTIP.
We have sought comments from shareholders in advance on a draft of the policy statement and made appropriate changes.
The substance of our policy is as laid out last year.
We expect to ask for shareholder approval of a new policy next year as indicated in the previous paragraph.
The LTIP is due to expire on 5 February 2014.
Given the delay necessary to incorporate Ben Magaras strategic thinking, we recommend that you agree a short extension to the current plan, which will allow the current policy to operate a little longer.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 The Committee also took decisions during the year in relation to Simon Scott which were reported in last years remuneration report and discussed with key institutional investors at the time of the last AGM.
There was some unhappiness amongst shareholders at the payment of a bonus and the granting of the Special Award to Simon Scott or, in some cases, to the form of the Special Award.
A number of meetings were held with shareholders, whose views were discussed extensively by the Committee and brought to the attention of the Board.
We subsequently converted the Special Award onto a share-settled basis in response to those concerns.
Simon played a key role in delivering the Recovery Plan and as a result the Company is in a better place, and far more valuable, than might have been the case.
The Committee also had to decide what to offer Ben Magara.
We took a decision to employ him on a salary of 450,000, being somewhat less than his predecessor had been earning and also reflecting the changes in the Companys relative and competitive position.
The rest of his package is in our standard form for Executive Directors.
As explained on page 78, we also compensated him for the loss of incentives from his previous role.
The Recruitment Award is no more valuable than the awards replaced, no vesting was accelerated and the arrangements are all in the form of Lonmin shares, which ensures his alignment with shareholders.
Your Committee works hard to ensure that remuneration reflects value created and preserved, primarily for shareholders but also for other stakeholders, recognising that the long-term success of the organisation is dependent on the role we play in our community and in South Africa as a whole.
Over the long run, we believe that a fair remuneration system will develop most loyalty to the Company.
Although we believe good progress was made in the past year, there remains an enormous amount to do, and we shareholders need that loyalty from our management.
We therefore see fairness as central to everything we do.
We have to make judgments in pursuit of these outcomes, using our discretion where appropriate, and we believe that the decisions we took in FY2013 reflect this approach.
We are happy to discuss any remuneration matters at any time and hope that we can enjoy your support on the remuneration-related votes at the 2014 AGM.
Yours faithfully Jim Sutcliffe Chairman, Remuneration Committee www.
