01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Other required disclosures continued Voting at the 2013 AGM At the AGM on 31 January 2013 two votes were considered in relation to Directors remuneration: the annual advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration Report under the legal regime that preceded the Regulations and a separate vote to approve a modification to the rules of the Balanced Scorecard Bonus Plan.
The voting outcomes were: Votes for and Votes against and Proportion of Shares on which Resolution percentage of votes cast percentage of votes cast share capital voting votes were withheld Remuneration Report 322,667,098 71.0% 131,987,137 29.0% 80.0% 17,728,932 BSC Bonus Plan 416,495,573 88.7% 52,953,167 11.3% 82.6% 2,935,383 The Committee engaged extensively with institutional shareholders and their representative bodies both before and after the AGM.
While a wide range of issues were discussed, there were essentially two concerns expressed: the payment of a bonus to Simon Scott in respect of FY2012 and the Special Award issued to him on 7 November 2012.
Only one institutional shareholder contacted objected to both items, and there were approximately equal numbers of investors who expressed concern on each item.
In relation to the Special Award, about half of the dissent was in relation to the award having been made, with the other investors objecting to the cash-settled nature of the award.
In response to the views expressed, the award was converted onto a share-settled basis on 5 March 2013.
No vote was taken in relation to the Directors remuneration policy at the 2013 AGM.
Directors remuneration in FY2014 Proposed implementation of remuneration policy The remuneration policy for Executive and Non-executive Directors set out in the policy report will take effect and become binding on the Company on 31 January 2014 and implemented on the basis set out in that report.
It is unchanged to any significant degree from that in force in recent financial years.
Some elements of pay for Executive Directors, forming a significant proportion of the total reward available, are subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
This applies to the following elements of remuneration: BSC Bonus and ASAP as explained in the policy report see page 75 and the section of this report titled short-term incentives settled in cash on page 92, we use a Balanced Scorecard approach to the design of our annual bonus arrangements.
At its November 2013 meeting the Committee considered the Balanced Scorecard for FY2014.
It was agreed that the measures, weightings and targets must reflect the Board-approved strategy for that year, in order to incentivise the inputs required to deliver that strategy and or the outcomes expected from it.
So this matter could be given proper consideration, the Committee agreed to hold an extra meeting early in 2014 to review final proposals.
The principles and process underpinning the design of the Balanced Scorecard are fully explained in the policy table on page 76.
As English law now makes any definitive statements in the policy report binding on companies for the duration of the policy, and does not permit any variation of these without shareholder approval, the Committee believes that shareholders interests would not be served by making any more specific statements in relation to the design of annual bonus plans.
In the opinion of the Directors, the targets set for the performance measures will be commercially sensitive or could, if disclosed, cause regulatory complications for the Company and as permitted by the Regulations are not being disclosed in advance.
In line with our customary practice, there will be full retrospective disclosure in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
LTIP full details of the performance measures, their weightings and the targets are given in the section of this report titled Performance conditions for long-term incentive awards on page 93. www.
com We believe that keeping people safe is a team effort and that good working relationships lead to good working practice.
Our top management team has been strengthened and we have the right people in place to take Lonmin forward.
Despite the constraints faced at the start of the financial year our ramp up was impressive and we exceeded our production expectations with costs well under control and with many areas of the business recording their best performance in years.
The community investment programme has been significantly revamped as part of the community value proposition initiative.
