DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN ANNUAL STATEMENT The performance measures for awards granted under the LTIP in 2013 14 will be a combination of Return on Capital, Free Cash Flow, and relative Total Shareholder Return.
The actual performance measures and targets for LTIP awards to be granted in 2013 14 are set out on page 49.
The maximum award under the new LTIP will be increased from 100% of salary to 125%.
The Remuneration Committee considers that a maximum award of 125% is appropriate given the level of stretch in the proposed targets, without encouraging excessive risk.
In conjunction with the increase in maximum potential, the Remuneration Committee proposes that the amount that will vest at threshold is reduced from 35% to 25% of the maximum award.
This means that, with a maximum opportunity of 125% of salary, the threshold amount Dear Shareholder earned would be 31.25% of salary compared to 35% under the existing LTIP.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration The Remuneration Committee is also conscious that, due to its Report for the period ended 5 October 2013, which sets out the age, the 2004 LTIP rules do not reflect best practice in terms of remuneration policy for the Directors of Marstons and the governance and administration of incentive awards.
The 2014 amounts earned in respect of the period ended 5 October 2013.
LTIP therefore includes updated provisions to reflect current The Government has introduced new regulations which impact on best practice, including clawback provisions and treatment the presentation and disclosure of Directors remuneration and of leavers.
A summary of the key terms of the proposed 2014 the lay-out of this report reflects those new regulations.
LTIP rules is set out in the notice of the AGM.
2012 13 key decisions and incentive pay-outs The Remuneration Committee is not proposing any changes in The Remuneration Committee remains committed to a responsible respect of the annual bonus for 2013 14 and other benefits, approach to executive pay, particularly given the continuing including pension provision, will be maintained at existing levels challenges of the economic environment.
As described in the other than an increase in total pension contribution and salary Strategic Report, Marstons earnings are broadly in line with last year supplement from 15% to 20% of salary for Andrew Andrea which and, as the underlying premise of a bonus scheme is to reward took effect from October 2012 following a review of market rates growth, no annual bonus was earned by the Executive Directors in and this rate will apply for Executive Directors appointments in respect of the period ended 5 October 2013.
growth over the three year performance period ending 5 October 2013 was less than RPI 3% and as a result the Long Term The Remuneration Committee believes these changes are in the Incentive Plan LTIP awards granted in July 2010 lapsed.
best interests of the Company.
We recognise the expectations of our shareholders on executive pay and our history should Base salary increases for Executive Directors were 3% which was demonstrate clearly that the Remuneration Committee in line with the range of salary increases across the Group.
approaches such issues with caution and sensitivity.
Proposed changes in Executive Director remuneration for 2013 14 The current LTIP was adopted by shareholders in 2004 and expires in 2014.
This has prompted the Remuneration Committee to review the efficacy of the incentive arrangements which form Lord Hodgson part of the Marstons executive remuneration policy.
This also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee provided an opportunity for the Remuneration Committee to ensure that future arrangements are fully aligned to the strategic direction of the Company, whilst delivering genuine recognition of Note performance.
The Remuneration Committee determined that the This Report has been prepared on behalf of the Board and has been approved by the Board.
The Report complies with the Large and Medium Sized Companies current LTIP performance measure EPS growth does not fully and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the 2012 reflect Marstons strategic objectives: delivery of sustainable UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the Financial Conduct Authority growth: increasing return on capital and reducing leverage.
Remuneration Committee concluded the LTIP performance To reflect the requirements of the revised remuneration reporting regulations this measures should be consistent with these objectives and at the Report is presented in two sections: same time provide longer term stretching performance targets The Directors Remuneration Policy sets out the forward-looking remuneration thus ultimately delivering enhanced shareholder value.
policy: The Annual Report on Remuneration provides details on the amounts earned in Therefore, after extensive consultation with, and good support respect of the period and how the policy will be operated for the period commencing 6 October 2013. from, our major shareholders, shareholder approval for a new LTIP is being sought at the AGM and the Remuneration The final additional information section at the end of this Report includes disclosures Committee intends to implement the following changes to the required by the UKLA Listing Rules 9.8.
For future periods these long term incentive arrangements for 2013 14: requirements will be removed but for the period ended 5 October 2013 Marstons is required to provide information under both the revised remuneration reporting regulations and the Listing Rules.
38 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
