Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This part of the report sets out the Companys Directors remuneration policy which will be subject to a binding vote at the 2014 AGM and take effect from 5 October 2014.
The policy is determined by the Companys Remuneration Committee the Committee.
Base Salary Purpose and link Core element of fixed remuneration, reflecting the size and scope of the role.
to strategy Purpose is to recruit and retain Directors of the calibre required for the business.
Operation Reviewed annually and usually fixed for 12 months commencing 1 October.
Whilst Executive Directors are contractually entitled to an annual review of their salary, there is no entitlement to an increase as a result of this review.
Salary levels are determined by the Committee taking into account a range of factors including: role, experience and performance: alignment with workforce: prevailing market conditions: and external benchmarks for similar roles at comparable companies.
Opportunity Salary increases are reviewed in the context of salary increases across the wider Group.
The Committee considers any increase which is out of line with these very carefully and such increases may be awarded where there is a reason to do so taking into account relevant factors.
These circumstances may include but are not limited to: increase in scope and responsibility: promotional increase to Executive Director: or a salary falling significantly below market positioning.
Performance Not applicable, although the individuals contribution and overall performance is one of the considerations in metrics determining the level of any salary increase.
Benefits Purpose and Ensures the overall package is competitive.
link to strategy Purpose is to recruit, and retain Directors of the calibre required for the business.
Participation in the Save as You Earn scheme SAYE creates staff alignment with the Group and promotes a sense of ownership.
Operation Executive Directors receive benefits in line with market practice which include a car allowance, private medical insurance and life assurance.
The SAYE is a HMRC approved monthly savings scheme facilitating the purchase of shares at a discount.
Other benefits may be provided based on the role and individual circumstances.
These may include, for example, relocation and travel allowances.
Opportunity Set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate against the market and provides a sufficient level of benefit based on individual circumstances.
SAYE contribution as permitted in accordance with the relevant tax legislation.
metrics Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual bonus and deferred bonus plan Purpose and link Rewards performance against annual targets which support the strategic direction of the Company.
to strategy Compulsory deferral into shares aligns Executive Directors with shareholder interests and provides a retention element.
Operation Targets are set annually and any pay-out is determined by the Committee after the period end, based on performance against those targets.
The Committee has discretion to vary the bonus pay-out should any formulaic output not reflect the Committees assessment of overall business performance.
Any bonus earned in excess of 40% of the maximum award is usually payable in shares in the Company which will be deferred for a period of three years.
Executive Directors can opt to defer a greater proportion if they wish.
Deferral of any bonus earned is subject to a fide minimis limit of 5,000.
A claw-back malus provision gives the Remuneration Committee the right to cancel unvested shares if an act or omission of the participant contributes to a material misstatement of the Groups financial statements or results in material loss or reputational damage for the Company.
As with all Company bonuses, they remain discretionary and can be adjusted or removed at the Companys discretion.
In the case of Executive Directors this discretion lies with the Remuneration Committee.
Opportunity Maximum bonus opportunity is 100% of base salary.
Performance Financial targets are set each year reflecting the business priorities that underpin Group strategy and align to metrics financial key performance indicators which may include Group profit and Return on Capital measures.
At least 50% of the award will be based on Group profit.
Payments range between 0% and 100% of base salary with 50% of the maximum entitlement for each measure payable for on-target performance.
For achievement of the maximum performance level the highest level of performance that results in any additional payment 100% of the maximum opportunity will vest.
There is usually straight-line vesting between the threshold and target performance levels and between target and maximum performance levels.
The Committee has the discretion to vary the vesting schedules by reducing the percentage that vests at each performance level but not by increasing the percentage that vests.
Long term incentive plan LTIP Purpose and link Incentivises Executive Directors to deliver against the Companys strategy over the longer term.
to strategy Long term performance targets and share-based remuneration support the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
Operation The Committee intends to make long term incentive awards under the new LTIP which will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2014 AGM.
Under the new LTIP, awards of conditional shares, restricted stock or nil cost options or similar cash equivalent can be made with vesting dependent on the achievement of performance conditions, normally over a three year performance period.
Awards may vest early on a change of control or other relevant event subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions and pro-rating for time, although the Remuneration Committee has discretion to increase the extent of vesting having due regard to performance over the period to vesting.
As described on page 45, LTIP awards may also vest early in good leaver circumstances.
Under the new LTIP the Remuneration Committee has the right to reduce any LTIP awards which have not yet vested i. e. a malus provision if an act or omission contributes to a material misstatement of the Groups financial statements or results in material loss or reputational damage for the Company.
The Committee may at its discretion structure awards as Approved Performance Share Plan APSP awards.
APSP awards enable the participant and company to benefit from HMRC approved option tax treatment in respect of part of the award, without increasing the pre-tax value delivered to participants.
APSP awards may be structured either as an approved option for the part of the award up to the HMRC limit currently 30,000 with an unapproved option for the balance and a linked award to fund the exercise price of the approved option, or as an approved option and a LTIP award, with the vesting of the LTIP award scaled back to take account of any gain made on exercise of the approved option.
40 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Long term incentive plan LTIP continued Opportunity The normal maximum award size will be 125% of base salary in respect of any financial year.
In exceptional circumstances the Remuneration Committee reserves the right to award up to 200% of base salary in respect of any financial year.
These limits do not include the value of shares subject to any approved option granted as part of an APSP award.
Performance The vesting of LTIP awards is subject to the satisfaction of performance targets set by the Remuneration metrics Committee.
The performance measures are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain relevant but will be based on financial measures and or share price growth related measures, including but not exclusively : free cash flow: return on capital employed: and relative total shareholder return.
The relevant metrics and the respective weightings may vary each year based upon Company strategic priorities.
For 2014, the performance measures and weightings will be: 40% free cash flow: 40% return on capital employed: and 20% relative total shareholder return.
For the achievement of threshold performance no more than 25% of each respective element of the award will vest.
For the achievement of maximum performance 100% of each respective element will vest.
There will be straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum performance.
The Committee will regularly review the performance conditions and targets to ensure they are aligned to Marstons strategy and remain challenging and reflective of commercial expectations.
Retirement benefits Purpose and link To recruit and retain Directors of the calibre required for the business.
to strategy Provides market competitive post-employment or cash equivalent benefits.
Operation Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension scheme or such other pension plan as may be deemed appropriate and, if a member before closure of the scheme, the defined benefit scheme.
The defined benefit scheme was closed to new entrants from 29 September 1997.
Executive Directors who are members of the closed scheme can continue to receive benefits in accordance with the terms of this scheme.
In appropriate circumstances, Executive Directors may take a salary supplement instead of contributions into a pension plan.
Opportunity Ralph Findlay, who was previously a member of the defined benefit scheme has opted to no longer accrue future benefits and instead receives 25% of base salary as a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
All the other Executive Directors including any new appointments may receive contributions of up to 20% of base salary under the defined contribution pension scheme, an equivalent cash allowance or a combination of the two up to 20% of base salary.
Active members of the defined benefit pension scheme continue to accrue benefits under this scheme.
metrics Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Non-executive Director fees Purpose and link Sole element of Non-executive Director remuneration set at a level that reflects market conditions and is sufficient to strategy to attract individuals with appropriate knowledge and experience.
Operation Fees are reviewed every two years and amended to reflect market positioning and any change in responsibilities.
The Committee recommends the remuneration of the Chairman to the Board.
Fees paid to Non-executive Directors are determined and approved by the Board as a whole.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in the annual bonus plan, any of the Groups share incentive plans nor do they receive any benefits or pension contributions.
Opportunity Fees are based on the level of fees paid to Non-executive Directors serving on Boards of similar-sized UK-listed companies and the time commitment and contribution expected for the role.
Non-executive Directors receive a basic fee and an additional fee for further duties for example chairmanship of a committee or senior independent director responsibilities.
metrics The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the Policy came into effect: or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes the term payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Remuneration Committees discretion includes discretion to determine, in accordance with the rules of the current LTIP, the extent to which awards under that plan may vest in the event of a change of control or in a good leaver circumstance.
The Committee may make minor changes to this Policy, which do not have a material advantage to Directors, to aid in its operation or implementation taking into account the interests of shareholders but without the need to seek shareholder approval.
42 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
