2 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Operating and Financial Review Principal operations Operating and Financial Review contents Our principal operations are the ownership and operation of Overview regulated gas infrastructure networks and the provision of gas 2 Principal operations metering services in Great Britain.
We also have an interest in 3 How the UK gas industry works liquefied natural gas LNG storage facilities in Great Britain.
3 Management structure 4 Review of the year Gas Transmission Operating environment Our Gas Transmission business comprises the following 4 Operating environment principal activities: 5 Regulatory environment UK regulation Gas Transmission owner Delivering operational performance We own the gas national transmission system in Great Britain, 7 Business drivers, risks and opportunities connecting to eight distribution networks and to third party 8 Vision, strategy and objectives independent systems for onward transportation of gas to end 9 Key performance indicators consumers.
10 Performance against objectives Gas system operator Financial information We operate the gas national transmission system.
Day-to-day 14 Financial performance operation includes balancing supply and demand.
20 Financial position and financial management 25 Accounting policies LNG storage We own and operate three LNG storage facilities in Great This Operating and Financial Review describes the main trends Britain.
and factors underlying the development, performance and Gas Distribution position of National Grid Gas plc during the year ended 31 We own and operate four of the eight regional gas distribution March 2011 as well as those likely to affect the Company in the networks in Great Britain.
Our networks comprise approximately future.
It has been prepared in line with the guidance provided 132,000 kilometres 82,000 miles of gas distribution pipeline in the Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial and we transport gas from the gas national transmission system Review issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board and the to around 10.8 million consumers on behalf of 26 active gas Practice Statement on Management Commentary issued by the shippers.
Gas consumption in our UK networks was 304 TWh in International Accounting Standards Board.
We manage the national gas emergency number 0800 111 999 for all the gas distribution networks and for other gas transporters in Great Britain.
This service, along with the enquiries line, appliance repair helpline and meter number enquiry service, handled 2,816,403 calls during 2010 11.
Gas metering Our gas metering business, which is undertaken through our subsidiary company National Grid Metering Limited, provides installation and maintenance services to gas suppliers in the regulated gas market in Great Britain.
Our metering business provides services for an asset base of about 16 million domestic, industrial and commercial meters.
Other activities Other activities include Xoserve which delivers transactional services on behalf of all the major gas network transportation companies in Great Britain, including ourselves.
We jointly own Xoserve with the other gas distribution network companies, but we hold the controlling interest.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 3 distribution networks do not buy or sell gas: the commodity is How the UK gas industry transported on behalf of shippers.
works Shippers pay us transportation charges for the use of our gas distribution networks.
These charges are ultimately passed on Within the UK gas industry there are four areas: production and to consumers.
importation carried out by other companies, transmission carried out by National Grid Gas plc, distribution carried out The transportation charges reflect the costs of building and by National Grid Gas plc and other companies and supply operating the networks, and also the costs of operating a 24 carried out by other companies.
Production and importation Supply Gas producers, liquefied natural gas LNG importers and Although consumers in the UK have a choice of gas supply interconnector operators bring gas onshore.
In the UK, there company, the gas is physically delivered to most consumers are seven gas reception terminals, three LNG importation premises through a pipe belonging to the local distribution terminals and three interconnectors, connecting Great Britain network.
Our distribution networks deliver gas to approximately with Ireland, Belgium and the Netherlands.
We do not participate in either the production of gas for the UK Although we do not sell gas, and are not involved in billing market, or its importation.
consumers, we consider the consumers connected to our distribution network to be our customers because our activities Gas producers and importers sell the gas to licensed shippers, directly affect them.
who then own the gas as it travels through the transmission and distribution networks.
We are not a gas shipper: we do not buy Consumers contract with gas supply companies for the supply or sell the gas we transport.
The supply companies in turn contract with gas shippers who purchase the gas and arrange for it to be transported.
Transmission Gas from importation terminals is injected into the national Suppliers also contract with metering companies, including transmission system NTS after the gas has been checked for National Grid Metering, which we own, for the provision of quality.
Gas previously extracted from the NTS and held in meters and metering services.
storage may be reintroduced into the system.
Of the average residential gas bill, transmission charges The NTS operates at pressures of up to 91 bar, transporting represent approximately 3% and distribution charges gas in high grade welded steel pipes of up to 1.2m diameter.
The majority of the bill is the cost of the gas itself.
We are the sole owner and operator of gas transmission infrastructure in Great Britain.
Management structure Shippers pay us for the use of the NTS via entry and exit Management structure capacity charges.
National Grid Gas is a subsidiary of National Grid plc National Entry capacity allows shippers to put gas into the NTS at Grid.
Entry capacity is sold in a variety of The performance of our principal businesses is reported by auctions, ranging from daily to quarterly.
segment, reflecting the management responsibilities and Exit capacity allows shippers to take gas off the NTS at NTS economic characteristics of each activity.
Throughout the year exit points into distribution networks and to other users who are ended 31 March 2011, the management structure of National supplied directly from the NTS.
Grid was via global lines of business.
The Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses of National Grid Gas form part For shippers who use the system, there is also a commodity of the global Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses of charge based on the actual flows of gas into the NTS.
Distribution The overall management and governance of National Grid Gas Gas exits the NTS at 53 offtake points where it is odourised.
is the responsibility of its Board of Directors.
The Board of Gas is transported in the distribution networks at various Directors has established a number of committees and subpressures ranging from 75 bar down to 21 mbar for final committees that assist it in its activities.
These include the delivery to end users.
Transmission Executive Committee and the Distribution Within the distribution networks, gas storage assets such as Executive Committee.
gas holders are used to help manage daily variation in demand.
The day-to-day management of our Gas Transmission business In the UK, there are 13 local distribution zones grouped into is carried out by the Transmission Executive Committee.
This eight regional distribution networks.
We own four of the eight committee is chaired by Nick Winser, who is a Director of distribution networks and three other companies own the other National Grid Gas, and who also sits on the Board and four.
As with the transmission system, the owners of the Executive Committee of National Grid and is the National Grid 4 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Executive Director responsible for the global Transmission Gas Distribution business.
In the UK, the first release of the new Gas Distribution front office system, a significant investment in the replacement of The day-to-day management of National Grid Gass Gas legacy IT applications, went live in October 2010 to over 1,000 Distribution business is carried out by the Distribution Executive employees.
The full rollout of the programme is due to be Committee.
This was chaired by Mark Fairbairn who was a completed by spring 2012.
Director of National Grid Gas, and also sat on the Board and Executive Committee of National Grid and was the National A new campaign to reduce the number of electric cable strikes Grid Executive Director responsible for the global Gas was introduced in the UK and has contributed to a 10% Distribution business.
In addition to its own governance processes, National Grid Gas Severe winter weather in the UK led to us failing several of our participates in the governance process of National Grid which is emergency standards of service.
We met all but one of our subject to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
New management structure from 4 April 2011 Ofgem imposed a fine of 8 million for inaccurate reporting of Four years ago National Grid introduced the common operating gas mains replacement data during 2005 06 to 2007 08. model, consisting of global lines of business, in order to A biomethane injection plant has been constructed to connect promote common standards and ways of working.
Following a Adnams Bio Energy Ltd, the first production facility built for strategic review this year, and in response to feedback received injecting biomethane into the UK gas network.
from customers, regulators and other stakeholders, National Grid announced on 31 January 2011 substantial changes to the In our UK networks, actual gas consumption was 304 TWh in 2010 11 compared with 299 TWh in 2009 10. way in which it is organised.
With effect from 4 April 2011, National Grid has moved to a management structure more Metering closely aligned with local responsibilities.
Our application to appeal against the 15 million fine imposed Certain functions will continue to have global responsibilities: last year on our metering business for a breach of the these include finance, human resources, information systems Competition Act was unsuccessful.
There will also be regional functions, including regulation, safety and construction.
There Operating environment will be two UK businesses, UK Gas Distribution and UK In common with all UK companies, we operate in a complex Transmission.
Our Gas Transmission business forms part of the environment with a number of external factors affecting our UK Transmission business of National Grid and our Gas operations.
Distribution business forms part of the UK Gas Distribution business of National Grid.
UK and European energy policy In the UK, there is now a strong political focus on delivering a In the new management structure, Nick Winser has been low carbon economy.
The Climate Change Act requires the UK appointed to the role of Executive Director UK.
Mark Fairbairn to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 80% from the 1990 levels has stepped down from his directorships.
Dramatic changes in the way we More information on the management structure of National Grid produce and use our energy will be required.
We must become can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts less dependent on fossil fuels and use our energy more 2010 11 and on National Grids website at efficiently.
Our forecasts for gas supply continue to be built on www.
UK continental shelf decline and higher levels of importation.
The changing sources of supply necessitate greater gas transmission network flexibility.
Review of the year Gas Transmission Economic environment In October 2010, we finished commissioning the Wormington to Since the financial crisis in 2008 09, there has been a significant recovery.
The UK, Europe and the US have emerged Sapperton gas pipeline.
This pipeline, of approximately 44 km 27 miles, is required to provide additional exit capacity in the from recession and stock markets have risen during 2010 11. southwest of England to meet increases in distribution network In the UK, inflation has returned after a period of deflation, the and forecast power station demand.
retail price index having risen by 5.3% during 2010 11.
Our UK regulated revenues are linked to inflation see page 5 for an On 13 December 2010, the Secretary of State gave consent for a pressure reduction installation at Tirley in Gloucestershire.
explanation of the UK regulatory regime, so higher inflation Construction started on this installation in March 2011. leads to higher revenue.
We also have a significant quantity of Accordingly, we envisage that the full contracted capacity of index-linked debt, so our financing costs increase as inflation 950 GWh in the Milford Haven gas pipeline will be available for rises, providing an economic offset.
However, revenues and financing costs are both based on lagged measures of inflation, winter 2012 13.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 5 and the time lags are not the same, so the economic offset is The Gas Act 1986, as amended the Act, provides the not perfect.
fundamental legal framework for gas companies.
The Act establishes the licences for gas transmission and distribution.
Corporate responsibility Our reputation depends on our stakeholders being able to trust Regulatory licences us and be confident in us.
We can only retain our right to We hold two gas transporter licences: one for our gas operate by working to the highest standards, by trusting our transmission business, including LNG storage, and one for our employees to do the right thing and by running our Company gas distribution business, including our metering business.
Our licences established under the Act require each of these National Grids Framework for Responsible Business, revised business activities to develop, maintain and operate an and relaunched in June 2010, provides a clear line of sight from economic and efficient network and to facilitate competition in our vision to how we manage our business and our day-to-day the supply of gas in Great Britain.
The Act also provide the dealings with our stakeholders.
National Grids company wide licensed businesses statutory powers such as the right to bury policies and position statements, available on its website, our pipes under public highways and the ability to purchase underpin the Framework.
land compulsorily in order to facilitate the conduct of our businesses.
More information on the corporate responsibility of National Grid can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and To ensure that our licensed businesses are operating efficiently, Accounts 2010 11 and on National Grids website at and that consumers are protected, we operate under six price www.
controls in the UK, comprising: two for our gas transmission operations, one covering our role as transmission owner TO Business conduct and the other for our roles as system operator SO : and one for This year, National Grid amended and reissued Doing the each of our four regional gas distribution networks.
In addition Right Thing Our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct.
to the six price controls, our LNG storage business has a price Doing the Right Thing provides a common set of practical control covering some aspects of its operations.
There is also a guidelines to help ensure our behaviours are lawful, comply tariff cap price control applied to certain elements of domestic with our policies and licences, and follow the values set out in metering and daily meter reading activities undertaken by our the Framework and National Grids core values.
face to face training of new starters and are making available online training for employees annually to ensure they Price control mechanism understand the Standards.
Because price control mechanisms restrict revenues, not profits, they encourage efficiencies within our regulated We have taken steps to prepare for the implementation of the business.
Savings that are made can be retained for the Bribery Act 2010 which came into force in the UK in July 2011. remainder of the price control period, but the higher level of This has included undertaking a risk assessment, review of efficiency that led to these savings is then used to inform a new Company policies including Doing the Right Thing mentioned baseline level for the next price control period.
above and an extensive training and awareness programme that will include eLearning for all employees.
Price control regulation is designed to ensure that, as a monopoly, we charge reasonable prices, and to provide us with More information on the business conduct of National Grid can a future level of revenue sufficient to enable us to meet our be found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts statutory duties and licence obligations.
It also provides 2010 11 and on National Grids website at financial incentives to manage and operate our networks in an www.
economic, efficient and coordinated manner in accordance with our legal and licence obligations, offer good quality of service to Regulatory environment UK network users and invest in our networks in a timely and efficient manner to help ensure long-term security of supply is regulation maintained.
Regulatory framework During each price control review period, the amount of money In the UK, energy networks are regulated by the Office of Gas that can be earned by our regulated business is restricted by and Electricity Markets Ofgem.
Ofgem operates under the what is referred to as an RPI-X price control, which is normally direction of governance of the Gas and Electricity Markets reviewed every five years by Ofgem.
The RPI-X allowance is Authority GEMA and has established price control based upon Ofgems estimates of efficient operating mechanisms that restrict the amount of revenue that can be expenditure opex, capital expenditure capex and asset earned by regulated businesses.
replacement, together with an allowance for depreciation and Ofgems main priority is to protect the interests of consumers.
It an allowed rate of return on capital invested in our businesses.
does this by regulating monopoly activities such as the These are used, together with the regulatory asset base value companies that run the gas networks and by promoting RAV to calculate the allowed revenue.
The RAV, which competitive gas markets.
represents the value ascribed by Ofgem to the capital employed 6 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 in our regulated businesses, is adjusted to reflect asset energy industry: and enable efficient network companies to additions, removals, depreciation and the rate of inflation.
The RPI-X price control takes the retail price index as its To allow the lessons of the review to be accommodated in full, benchmark and subtracts X, an efficiency factor, from it.
For Ofgem extended the current transmission price control from its example, at a time when annual inflation was 3%, a value for X scheduled end in March 2012 by one year to March 2013. of 2% would allow our regulatory businesses to raise prices by Following the RPI-X@20 review, Ofgem has identified a no more than 1%.
Price controls also include incentive modified price control approach, designated as RIIO, to deliver mechanisms to encourage us to improve our performance in and meet the changing future needs of the energy market.
The RIIO model The price control provides our regulated business with a level of Ofgems revised RIIO regulatory framework will be implemented revenue that is sufficient to finance the business if they are in the next round of gas distribution and gas transmission price efficiently run.
The revenue allowance is based on an estimate controls, which will start in April 2013. of the costs an efficient company would face in running its regulated businesses and includes operating expenditure, RIIO refers to the formula: capital expenditure, financing costs including both debt and Revenue Incentives Innovation Outputs equity, and taxation.
To attract the efficient investment needed for the industry, Current price controls Ofgems RIIO model is intended to incentivise network The key elements of the current price controls for gas companies to deliver the outputs demanded by consumers and transmission are that we are allowed to earn a 4.4% post-tax network users in an efficient and innovative way.
real return on our RAV, equivalent to a 5.05% vanilla return, The key features of the RIIO model are: with a 0.9 billion baseline five year capex allowance and a 0.3 billion five year controllable opex allowance.
a longer price control, lasting eight years, to provide In addition, we are subject to a number of incentives that can stronger incentives for networks to manage costs: adjust our transmission network revenue, covering areas such encouraging network companies to work more closely with stakeholders to identify what they want from energy as the cost of investment for additional capacity to facilitate new network companies.
This should help networks to identify, connections to the system.
and so better meet, the developing needs of the energy The key elements of the current price controls for gas market: distribution are that we are allowed to earn a 4.3% post-tax real rewarding network companies with higher returns where rate of return on our RAV, equivalent to a 4.94% vanilla return, they meet the needs of the network users and consumers with a 2.5 billion baseline five year capex allowance and a in innovative and efficient ways.
However, network 1.6 billion five year controllable opex allowance.
companies that perform poorly can expect to receive lower Our gas transmission RAV currently stands at 4,889 million, returns: our actual vanilla return is 7.2% and return on equity is 15.8%.
encouraging network companies to become actively involved in delivering a sustainable energy sector: Our gas distribution RAV currently stands at 7,520 million, our supporting the development and delivery of a network actual vanilla return is 5.54% and return on equity is 12.1%.
service that provides long-term value for money to existing Ofgems review of price controls: RPI-X@20 and future consumers: and Since privatisation, the RPI-X mechanism has provided the providing clarity to future investors to ensure that network industry with strong incentives to be more efficient.
The level of companies can raise the finance needed in a timely opex costs has decreased over the years, transforming manner and at a reasonable cost to consumers.
However, over the Impact on National Grid Gas past few years new challenges, such as Great Britains The RIIO model will not only reward us for increased efficiency, transition to lower carbon emissions and the requirement to but also encourage us to engage more openly and effectively renew ageing networks, have caused Ofgem to review the with our stakeholders.
This will allow us to develop more robust continuing appropriateness of the RPI-X approach.
commercial relationships with current and future network users In March 2008, Ofgem announced the RPI-X@20 review, which to help us fulfil our vital role in the delivery of a sustainable was a two year project to review the workings of the current future energy sector.
It will also help us to respond and adapt approach to regulating Great Britains energy networks and our delivery plans to provide long-term value for money to develop future policy recommendations.
Ofgems RPI-X@20 review aims were to: drive improvements in Output measures in future price controls will give stakeholders a quality of service and efficiency: ensure that the regulatory clear understanding of what we will deliver in return for the framework is flexible to adapt to structural changes in the revenue that we receive from our customers.
The proposed output categories are: customer satisfaction: reliability and National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 7 availability: safe network services: connection terms: Principal risks and opportunities environmental impact: and social obligations.
These outputs will There are a number of risks that might cause us to fail to cover both primary and secondary deliverables.
We will be contribute to National Grids vision or to deliver growth in its required to demonstrate in price controls that the primary shareholder value.
We can mitigate many of these risks by outputs are material, controllable, measurable, comparable and acting appropriately in response to the factors driving our legally compliant.
The secondary deliverables will be evidenced business.
The principal risks are described here.
through our business plans to demonstrate the costs required to Regulatory settlements and long-term contracts deliver the primary outputs.
Four years into the eight year price Our ability to obtain appropriate recovery of costs and rates of control, there will be an interim review of the outputs that we return on investment is of vital importance to the sustainability were required to deliver, to ensure that they remain relevant.
We have an opportunity to help shape the As the energy landscape evolves, Ofgems RIIO model should future of the regulatory environment.
If we fail to take these encourage us in our gas distribution and gas transmission roles opportunities, we risk failing to achieve satisfactory returns.
to play a full part in the delivery of a sustainable energy sector Financial performance and to deliver network services offering long-term value for Financial performance and operating cash flows are the basis money to existing and future consumers.
for funding our future capital investment programmes, for servicing our borrowings and paying dividends.
Failure to Business drivers, principal achieve satisfactory performance could affect our ability to risks and opportunities deliver the returns we and our stakeholders expect.
Talent and skills Business drivers Harnessing and developing the skills and talent of our existing There are many factors that influence the success of our employees, and recruiting, retaining and developing the best business and the financial returns we obtain.
We consider the new talent, will enable us to improve our capabilities.
Failure to factors described here to be our principal business drivers.
engage and develop our existing employees or to attract and Price controls retain talented employees could hamper our ability to deliver in The prices we charge for use of our gas transmission and the future.
distribution networks are determined in accordance with Investment in our networks regulator approved price controls.
These arrangements include Our future organic growth is dependent on the delivery of our incentives and or penalty arrangements.
The terms of these capital investment plans.
In order to deliver sustainable growth arrangements has a significant impact on our revenues.
with superior financial performance we will need to finance our People investment plans.
Instability in the financial markets, loss of The skills and talents of our employees, along with succession confidence by investors, or inadequate returns on our planning and the development of future leaders, are critical to investment may restrict our ability to raise finance.
We believe that business success will be delivered through the performance of all current and future employees, Safety, reliability and customer service The returns we generate are dependent on operating safely and and enhanced by having a workforce that is diverse in its reliably, and providing a quality service to customers.
If we fail cultural, religious and community influences.
to meet our regulatory targets or the high standards we set Capital investment ourselves, we risk loss of reputation as well as financial Capital investment is a significant driver for organic growth.
In penalties imposed by regulators.
our regulated gas networks, the prices we charge include an allowed return for capital investment determined in accordance Efficiency with our price controls.
Simplifying and standardising our systems and processes will drive efficiency and reduce costs.
Transforming our operating Safety, reliability and efficiency model should enable us to deliver increased value to our Our ability to operate safely and reliably is of paramount shareholders.
If we do not achieve the expected benefits in importance to us, our employees, our contractors, our efficiency, then shareholder value will not grow as we hope or customers, our regulators and the communities we serve.
Operating efficiently allows us to minimise prices to our customers and improve our own financial performance.
Sustainability and climate change Safeguarding our global environment for future generations is Relationships and responsibility dependent on integrating sustainability and climate change Our reputation is vitally important to us.
We only earn the trust considerations into our business decisions and influencing and confidence of our stakeholders by conducting business in a legislators, regulators, employees, customers and suppliers to responsible manner.
Our reputation depends on our behaviours address climate issues and become more environmentally being lawful and ethical, on complying with our policies and responsible.
licences, and on living up to our core values.
8 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged Vision, strategy and workforce Developing our talent, leadership skills and capabilities objectives Positively shaping the energy and climate change agenda As a subsidiary company of National Grid, National Grid Gas with our external stakeholders participates in the National Grid vision and strategy, as These are the objectives against which our performance has described below: been measured this year.
A detailed discussion of our performance against each of the objectives can be found on Vision pages 10 to 14.
The vision is the long term aspiration for National Grid what we want to be in the future.
The vision statement has remained Line of sight unchanged since it was first published in 2007: In a number of places in this report, we refer to the principle of line of sight.
What we mean by this principle is that the We, at National Grid, will be the foremost international individual objectives of every employee should be set by electricity and gas company, delivering unparalleled safety, reference to the Company objectives, strategy and vision, reliability and efficiency, vital to the well-being of our ensuring that every individual is encouraged and incentivised to customers and communities.
contribute to the same collective goals.
Consequently, the We are committed to being an innovative leader in energy actions required to deliver the strategy are allocated and management and to safeguarding our global environment aligned with employee responsibilities.
Performance for growth Strategy Our performance, talent and reward management process for Our strategy is a medium term step in the journey to achieve managers is known as performance for growth P4G.
Formal the vision what we will be doing over the next few years.
It is annual P4G performance appraisals are carried out for every also the over arching principle that provides commercial context manager against their individual objectives and against the to each of the objectives and actions.
The appraisal assesses both what the individual has achieved during the year and how those Our strategy is designed to ensure that the objectives remain outcomes have been achieved.
Our staff performance and aligned with the factors that drive our business.
For the last reward framework for non-managerial grades, delivering three years, our strategy has been expressed in these terms: performance, applies the same principles in aligning individual We will build on our core regulated business base and objectives with those of the Company.
financial discipline to deliver sustainable growth and superior financial performance.
Strategy for 2011 12 National Grid has updated its line of sight framework and this We will operate and grow our business to deliver consistently refreshed framework reflects the new organisational superior financial returns by: arrangement, namely moving from a line of business structure Delivering excellent levels of safety, reliability, security, to a regional structure, as explained on page 4.
In addition, we customer service and environmental performance have increased the level of transparency of our strategic Using consistent and cost effective ways of working, actions.
This change will improve the connection between putting into practice shared processes and systems individual actions and the achievements the organisation needs Driving an inclusive, high performance culture by engaging to make in the year.
National Grids 2011 12 strategic actions and developing our employees which are relevant to us are: Helping to shape UK energy policies through working with Improve our customer experience and advance our external stakeholders and customers performance by at least 1 quartile.
Objectives Deliver key employee and performance programmes that underpin 2011 12 objectives.
To guide leaders, managers and individuals in our businesses Deliver cost reductions by further leveraging support and help deliver the strategy, we set out seven Company activity efficiencies, improve the buying experience and objectives: increase transparency of procurement savings.
Driving improvements in our safety, customer and Deliver common key processes and execute on best operational performance practice initiatives.
Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory and long-term Work with Ofgem and other stakeholders to implement a contracts with good returns successful rollover for TPCR4 and submit final proposals for Modernising and extending our transmission and RIIO-GD1 and RIIO-T1 plans to start in April 2013. distribution networks Ensure successful delivery of the core investment Becoming more efficient through transforming our programme.
operating model and increasingly aligning our processes Deliver the Gas Distribution transformation programme.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 9 Key performance indicators KPIs Our performance and the progress we have made against our Although all these measures are important, some are strategic aims and against the objectives we have set considered to be of more significance than others, and these ourselves are described below and on the following pages.
more significant measures are designated as KPIs.
Our financial and non-financial KPIs are highlighted here.
KPIs are We measure the achievement of our objectives both through used as our primary measures of whether we are achieving the use of qualitative assessments and through the monitoring our principal strategic aims of sustainable growth and superior of quantitative indicators.
To provide a full and rounded view financial performance.
We also use KPIs to measure our of our business, we use non-financial as well as financial performance against our objectives: the relationships between measures.
the objectives and the KPIs are shown below.
Financial KPI Objective Financial KPI Definition and performance Target Delivering strong Operational return Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution operational Achieve or exceed regulatory allowed sustainable return against the target set by our regulator for the 5 return over 5 year price control period regulatory year price control period see page 15 of: contracts with Gas Transmission Gas Distribution Gas Transmission 5.05% good returns 2010 11: 7.2% 2010 11: 5.54% Gas Distribution 4.94% 2009 10: 7.6% 2009 10: 6.3% Non-financial KPIs Objective Non-financial KPIs Definition and performance Target Modernising and Network reliability Reliability of gas network as a percentage against the extending our target set by our regulator see page 12 transmission and Gas Transmission Gas Distribution Gas Transmission 100% distribution 2010 11: 100% 2010 11: 99.999% Gas Distribution 99.999% networks 2009 10: 100% 2009 10: 99.999% Driving Customer satisfaction Our position in customer satisfaction surveys see To improve improvements in page 11 safety, customer Gas Distribution th and operational 2010 11: 4 quartile ranking th performance 2009 10: 4 quartile ranking Employee lost time Number of employee lost time injuries per 100,00 Zero injury frequency rate hours worked on a 12 month basis see page 10 2010 11: 0.16 2009 10: 0.09 Building Employee Employee engagement index calculated using Year-on-year increase transparency, trust engagement index responses to National Grids annual employee survey and an inclusive see page 13 and engaged Transmission Gas Distribution workforce business: business: 2010 11: not measured 2010 11: not measured 2009 10: 77% 2009 10: 68% Positively shaping Greenhouse gas Percentage reduction in greenhouse gas emissions Year-on-year reduction the energy and emissions against our 1990 baseline see page 14 climate change Year-on-year % change agenda 2010 11: 3% increase 2009 10: 17% reduction 10 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 measures and will report any changes in the 2011 12 Annual Performance against Report and Accounts.
objectives Driving improvements in safety, customer and We use a number of detailed performance measures in operational performance addition to the key performance indicators shown on the Safety previous page, reflecting the scale and complexity of our Safety is critical both to business performance and to helping operations.
We use qualitative assessments to judge progress to define the culture of the Company for our employees.
We against our objectives in areas where numerical measures are recognise that our operations potentially give rise to risk and less relevant.
that some of our assets could have catastrophic consequences to surrounding communities if not properly Alignment of performance measures and controlled.
We believe we can eliminate or minimise those strategy risks to achieve zero injuries or harm and to safeguard Our strategy is stated on page 8.
Our performance in members of the public.
We further believe that everyone in implementing the key elements of the strategy is measured in the Company, collectively and individually, has a part to play the following ways.
We will build on our core regulated business base...
Process safety We invest in our existing business in order to improve Process safety has been in the headlines in recent years as a efficiency and reliability.
result of incidents affecting other companies, such as the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico, the Our KPI in this area is network reliability, as shown on the Buncefield explosion in the UK and the San Bruno pipeline previous page, and other performance measures include explosion in California.
While we have not had any significant capital investment see page 12. incidents, operating major hazard sites and pipelines means... and financial discipline... managing process safety risks is always at the front of our We seek to control operating costs and to invest capital only thoughts in the way we run our business.
As well as ensuring where we expect to be able to obtain an acceptable return.
we have effective management systems in place, we look to We are committed to maintaining a single A range credit incidents at other companies to learn any lessons.
National Grid has continued to report process safety KPIs up Our KPI in this area is operational return as shown on the to Executive level throughout the year and we have focused previous page.
on the effectiveness of the action plans to address any issues.
This has been reinforced by getting our leadership team out... to deliver sustainable growth... into the field to discuss process safety.
We see this as a There are a number of factors that determine the extent to critical element to demonstrating both leadership commitment which growth is sustainable.
We believe that operational and that we listen to the views of our employees.
excellence will help us to build and maintain good relationships with our customers and regulators.
Managing In 2010 11, National Grid continued to converge its approach the skills and talents of our employees helps us to recruit, to process safety management across the Group with the retain and develop the best possible talent, creating a diverse development of a Group level major accident hazard and motivated workforce and positioning ourselves to take framework.
We have an effective safety management system advantage of present and future opportunities.
in place which is the product of UK legislation and specific asset management policies.
While this has delivered Our KPIs in this area, as shown on the previous page, are compliance, the implementation of a Group framework will customer satisfaction, employee lost time injury frequency ensure greater consistency and support the drive for continual rate, employee engagement and greenhouse gas emissions.
With elements covering risk assessment, Other performance measures include measures of gender control standards and overarching management and ethnic mix.
requirements, implementation throughout 2011 12 will require... and superior financial performance us to demonstrate that we have adequate controls in place.
We aim to deliver superior returns to National Grid.
This will be supported by a cross group peer review process to provide assurance and facilitate the sharing of good Our performance measures include adjusted operating profit practice.
for the year see pages 15 to 20 and operating cash flows see page19.
A full disclosure of our financial performance Occupational safety can be found on pages 14 to 20.
We report our employee lost time injury frequency rate, expressed as lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked, as Future changes to performance measures a key measure that can be compared with other companies.
Following the adoption of new company objectives noted on This takes into account the number of employees and the page 8, we will be reviewing our KPIs and other performance National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 11 hours worked.
As well as reporting our lost time injury business sense as good customer service means fewer frequency rate, we also report the number of lost time injuries.
During 2010 11 the number of lost time injuries was 19 Gas Distribution compared with 11 in 2009 10.
2010 11 saw a regrettable Over the summer of 2010, work was completed on a new five increase in our lost time injury frequency rate to 0.16 year Gas Distribution customer strategy.
While building on a compared with 0.09 in 2009 10.
Definitions for lost time injury number of existing initiatives to improve customer and lost time injury frequency rate are included in the glossary performance, we expect to benefit from continuous on page 106. improvement to our current working practices and processes, and the implementation of our new customer and user friendly At the same time, we have seen a significant improvement in systems see Gas Distribution front office on page 12. the lost time injury performance of our contract partners workforce.
In 2010 11, there were 9 contractor lost time We recognise that system and process change alone is not injuries compared to 16 in 2009 10 and a target of zero.
enough to get us to our targets: we require more to deliver the standards of customer service to which we aspire.
In 2011 12, The principal causes of lost time injuries were road traffic we aim to change the look and feel of the interaction collisions, musculoskeletal injuries and slips, trips and falls.
customers experience with us through the internet and printed This year has seen a range of programmes implemented to media, including reviewing other companies methods to improve performance in these areas.
We will be able to use better However, lost time injury frequency rate only shows part of management information to identify areas for closer focus for the picture and we measure a range of other performance continuous improvement.
We will develop and implement a indicators internally to ensure we control our safety risks.
This stakeholder communication plan and implement training to year has seen particular emphasis on high potential incidents.
support delivery of customer service.
We will also improve our These are typically the near misses that do not result in harm, complaints handling processes to ensure we meet the Ofgem but have the potential for serious injuries.
Examples include: incentive and drive down complaints by understanding root dropped loads, vehicles overturning and damaging causes and learning from them.
Distinguishing these incidents in terms of It is important to develop meaningful performance potential severity has allowed us to use novel ways to measurement tools, including performance targets for communicate learning to its workforce, such as publishing a employees and contract partners to incentivise excellent red top style newspaper featuring the stories of people performance.
It also provides the focus on developing campaigns to improve performance before people Early indications are that our new strategy is driving get hurt.
All our networks are moving forward and we are scoring at or above our expectations for customer Public safety satisfaction.
The safety of the public in the communities we serve is of prime importance to us.
In 2010 11, 16 members of the public Gas Transmission were injured as a result of our operations compared with 30 Gas Transmission is facing a period of unprecedented change during 2009 10 and a target of zero.
In 2009 10, a single within the energy sector.
We will need to be a flexible incident, involving a gas explosion in a property in organisation that is in tune with the market environment and Shrewsbury, caused 12 of these injuries.
Otherwise, the with our customers.
principal cause of injury was slips, trips and falls around our Our growing list of customers includes gas storage and our streetworks and road traffic collisions with our vehicles.
more conventional gas customer connections.
These new Enforcement action entrants will need our help in understanding our business and During 2010 11, we received two Improvement Notices in the its complexity.
We should not forget that we have a significant UK from the Health and Safety Executive HSE.
The first was existing customer group who rightly expect us to deliver great in relation to the maintenance of a short section of buried customer service too.
As customers ourselves, this is steel pipe running from an LPG vessel at one of our training something we can and do expect.
The notice was complied with and the pipe was Using information we have gathered from our customers and subsequently found to be plastic.
The second notice was in our employees, we are on our way to making the cultural shift relation to our approach to collecting data on the condition of in the way we behave and the way in which we do things.
We service pipes in blocks of flats.
We have agreed a programme are reviewing our internal interactions to assess their impact of work with the HSE to be completed by the end of on our service provision, we are looking to ensure our website September 2011. is a valued information resource, we will communicate the Customer service service level our customers can expect and are supporting Excellent customer service is not only consistent with our our employees in developing their customer service skills.
values and simply the right thing to do, it makes good 12 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 We will continue to listen and respond to our customers and 2009 10: 465 million and 193 million other capital act upon their feedback.
It is important to us that our investment 2009 10: 205 million.
Expenditure on software customers recognise us as a company that is good to do applications included within the above amounts was 75 business with and one that listens.
The increase in software expenditure is primarily driven by the Gas Distribution front Reliability office system see below.
Gas Transmission We continue to maintain a world class standard of gas Replacement expenditure increased by 11 million compared transmission network reliability in the UK, with reliability with 2009 10.
Performance under the mains and services scores of 100%.
replacement incentive scheme has been adversely affected by the severe winter weather and we therefore expect to Gas Distribution make a loss on this incentive in 2010 11.
Despite the severe winter, we again achieved a high network reliability level of 99.999%, reflecting the low volume of In collaboration with our gas alliance and coalition partners, customer interruptions during the year.
We met our regulatory we have replaced 1,791 kilometres of metallic gas main this standards of service with the exception of one dealing with a year and more than 15,000 kilometres since 2002 03.
The category of connection quotations and several dealing with vast majority of this relates to the long-term gas main gas escapes.
The coldest weather in December in over a replacement programme agreed with the Health and Safety century significantly increased emergency workload and Executive.
As a result we fell short in six The reduction in other capital expenditure in 2010 11 of our eight standards of service for gas escapes, where we compared with 2009 10 primarily reflects the completion of a are required to attend 97% of the escapes between one and major new pipeline in west London in 2009 10. two hours of the report.
Gas Metering Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory and Capital expenditure invested in new and replacement meters long-term contracts with good returns in 2010 11 amounted to 54 million compared with 65 million in 2009 10.
Regulation For a full description of regulation including the key elements Becoming more efficient by transforming our of current price control and developments in the year see operating model and increasingly aligning our pages 5 to 7. processes Modernising and extending our networks Gas Distribution front office GDFO The principal measure we use to monitor organic investment GDFO is a significant investment for National Grid in the is capital expenditure, including investment in property, plant replacement of our legacy IT applications for asset and work and equipment, and software.
management systems and is planned to be deployed in three We ensure, before any investment is undertaken, that we are stages.
The core of the new system is SAP with three further clear how and when it will be remunerated and we only look to satellite applications providing the specialist software we need invest capital where we expect to be able to earn an to optimise our asset management capabilities and ensure acceptable return consistently with our licence and statutory our field staff are able to respond to customers quickly and obligations.
Combined with procurement efficiencies this effectively.
disciplined approach to capital investment has restricted the The first release of the new front office system went live in level of increase in capital expenditure to 46 million October 2010 to over 1,000 employees who operate the compared with last year.
We were also able to implement an Total capital expenditure during 2010 11 was 1,018 million early release to emergency response teams in the West and compared with 972 million in 2009 10.
More detail on capital East Midlands areas ahead of the winter.
As with all major IT expenditure by business is provided below.
projects, there were teething problems to resolve in the first few weeks after going live and we were able to gain valuable Gas Transmission experience through the winter of how the new system works.
Capital investment in 2010 11 was 289 million, compared with 232 million in 2009 10.
This mainly related to load The next two stages of GDFO implementation will take place related infrastructure on the gas transmission system.
In the spring summer, we will complete the full investment included 9 million with respect to intangible rollout to the remaining 1,000 emergency response staff, add assets, principally software applications 2009 10: 13 additional data capture functionality to the maintenance million.
teams application and introduce a new customer system into our call centres.
The customer system will benefit from the Gas Distribution integrated design.
It will provide much greater information on Capital investment of 669 million in 2010 11 2009 10: 670 job progress and any previous work at the customers million consisted of 476 million replacement expenditure premises, and enable rapid communication of issues to and National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 13 from the field in response to customers needs.
The final Building trust, transparency and an inclusive stage, following later in 2011 12, will be for our repair teams and engaged workforce and to get all remaining new construction and mains Employees replacement work flowing through the new system.
Communication is a key theme GDFO is not just a large IT replacement project.
It forms the both at a corporate and business level.
Multiple foundation of a wider transformation that is under way in Gas communication channels are used, including the use of Distribution.
The emphasis in our new operating model is to intranets, which we continue to develop to ensure the timely focus on improvements to all our processes.
This focus will passing of information to employees.
deliver big benefits for our customers and will enhance the Employee engagement continues to be a key focus.
2010 saw efficiency and effectiveness of our operations.
Coupled with an unprecedented employee survey response rate of 97% the enhanced functionality from the investment in IT, we will across National Grid.
This response rate generated an be able to streamline our organisation and take advantage of extremely large amount of data and feedback to review.
As always, we have worked to engage teams throughout the Information services IS transformation business in creating action plans to address survey feedback.
The IS transformation programme establishes a global IS We also regularly seek feedback about the survey process, function for National Grid delivering services and new and teams have consistently expressed a desire to have more solutions to all parts of National Grid.
time to ensure their actions translate into meaningful results.
The transformation programme is underpinned by establishing Therefore, National Grid decided to postpone the 2011 survey a number of contracts for services that National Grid can to enable us to work more deeply on action planning and leverage from the broader IT marketplace where such other key engagement activities.
commodities eg email and virtualisation services can deliver We are working to ensure we create visible links between excellence with economy of scale pricing.
Some of the key performance and engagement, as we feel the two are contracts have been put in place this year with the remainder interconnected and vital to our success.
Throughout 2011, we planned for next year.
Sourcing decisions are taken with full will be working on reinforcing the link between performance consultation with the appropriate bodies and sympathetic and engagement, and supporting our survey champions as consideration of the impact on employees.
we prepare to launch the 2012 employee survey.
An essential component of the transformation programme is Inclusion and diversity to ensure that the structure of the IS department and its Measures such as the percentages of female and ethnic commercial arrangements are consistent with the overall minority employees continue to be reviewed regularly at National Grid strategy and specific line of business objectives, Executive Committee level.
At 31 March 2011, 24.5% of including National Grid Gas.
The IS strategy and associated National Grid Gass employees were female and 7.1% were architecture plans are well developed to deliver efficiencies in from ethnic minority groups, compared to 22.6% and 6.7% the existing IT services through consolidation and respectively at 31 March 2010. rationalisation but also to invest in the new capabilities necessary to meet the challenges ahead.
We aim to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, career development, promotion, training and reward for all The IS leadership team is well established and the overall employees, including those with disabilities.
Where existing organisational structure is evolving as the commercial employees become disabled, our policy is to provide contracts are put in place.
Key functions that are critical to IS continuing employment and training wherever practical.
delivery are being developed to ensure we have the right internal capabilities in areas such as business relationships, Following the decision not to undertake a full employee security, architecture and strategy.
survey in 2011, we are using an external partner to conduct a number of focus groups with a cross section of employees.
The next stages for the transformation are the completion of These focus groups, in conjunction with interviews with senior the contract placements, the transitioning activities necessary management, will provide us with valuable insight into how to establish the new arrangements and ensuring the delivery inclusion and diversity are perceived within the Company.
Our employee resource groups, which cover areas including Business process outsourcing gender, ethnicity, disability, faith, sexual orientation and new The outsourcing to an external service provider in India, of employees, continue to deliver results in three areas: some of National Grids UK shared services activities which providing professional development opportunities for we utilise, was undertaken during the year.
This should members through workshops and programmes: supporting deliver both financial and process benefits over the next five the Companys community relations activities through years.
fundraising, volunteering, and providing support to organisations: and working to increase broader understanding 14 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 of inclusion through workshops, presentations and other price of 52 per tonne into our investment appraisals in order educational events.
to challenge our designs and better understand where our opportunities for decarbonisation exist.
As a regulated utility, Developing talent, leadership skills and we recognise that we will not always be funded to invest on capabilities this basis under existing price control agreements and, in Talent development continues to be a critical lever for such circumstances, the information that we gather will be used to inform future discussions.
During the past year, we completed the development of our leadership transitions It is equally important we understand the impact of past global strategy.
In 2008, developing future leaders was created for emissions on future climate change.
We have been working senior leaders: in 2009, foundations of leadership was created with the UK Met Office to understand how these changes for front line or first time leaders and in 2010, we launched might affect our UK infrastructure and future energy demand.
two programmes targeted at middle level leaders focused on their leadership style and business acumen.
Financial performance To support the development needs of the broader Measurement of financial performance management population, a comprehensive portfolio of We report our financial results and position in accordance with classroom based and eLearning solutions was introduced International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
covering the areas of communication, performance management, business acumen and general management.
Use of adjusted profit measures More will be added as further business needs are identified.
In considering the financial performance of our business and segments, we analyse each of our primary financial measures The UK apprenticeship training programmes enjoy Ofsted of operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year into outstanding ratings on all criteria and were awarded the East two components.
Midlands National Training Award for our advanced apprenticeship model.
The first of these components is referred to as an adjusted profit measure, also known as a business performance To accommodate year on year growth in technical training measure.
This is the principal measure used by management needs in the UK, significant investments have been made in to assess the performance of the underlying business.
expanding the Eakring and Nottinghamshire learning centres.
Adjusted results exclude exceptional items and Positively shaping the energy and climate remeasurements.
These items are reported collectively as the change agenda with external stakeholders second component of the financial measures.
We aim to take the lead on the energy and climate change The items comprising the second component are excluded issues facing society.
We will not simply react to the initiatives from the adjusted profit measures used by management to of other relevant bodies.
Instead, we will be proactive in monitor financial performance as they are considered to leading the agenda to make sure we help to safeguard the distort the comparability of our reported financial performance environment.
Climate change Accounting policy Q on page 39 explains in detail the items We have continued with our climate change strategy and which are excluded from our adjusted profit measures.
energy efficiency programmes, focusing on initiatives that are cost effective and regulated.
We remain committed to Adjusted profit measures have limitations in their usefulness National Grids 45% by 2020 and 80% by 2050 greenhouse compared with the comparable total profit measures as they gas emissions reduction targets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
exclude important elements of our financial performance.
However, we believe that by presenting our financial During 2010 11, we worked to deliver our targets under year performance in two components it is easier to read and one of National Grids first five year plan for greenhouse gas interpret financial performance between periods, as adjusted reduction.
The plan established a trajectory to 2015 as the profit measures are made more comparable by removing the half way point to our 2020 target.
Performance against the distorting effect of the excluded items, and those items are plan is linked to the executive compensation scheme.
A more more clearly understood if separately identified and analysed.
detailed breakdown of emissions and performance against the The presentation of these two components of financial plan can be found on National Grids website.
performance is additional to, and not a substitute for, the Our total scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2010 11 were 2.6 comparable total profit measures presented.
million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent compared with 2.5 Management uses adjusted profit measures as the basis for million tonnes in 2009 10. monitoring financial performance and in communicating We believe that a strong carbon price signal in the economy is financial performance to investors in external presentations essential to driving the right behaviours and to the delivery of and announcements of financial results.
Internal financial a low carbon society.
During 2010 11, we introduced a carbon reports, budgets and forecasts are primarily prepared on the National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 15 basis of adjusted profit measures, although planned shareholders of the Company, were 694 million 2009 10: exceptional items, such as significant restructurings, and 600 million.
stranded cost recoveries are also reflected in budgets and The increase in profit and adjusted profit, and earnings and forecasts.
Management compensates for the limitations adjusted earnings, were a consequence of the changes in inherent in the use of adjusted profit measures through the operating profit, net finance costs, exceptional finance costs separate monitoring and disclosure of the excluded items as a and remeasurements, and taxation described in the following component of our overall financial performance.
Continuing and discontinued operations Reconciliation of adjusted earnings to earnings The financial results of our business and segments and of our Years ended 31 March other activities as described on pages 14 to 20 are 2011 2010 presented within continuing operations.
There were no m m discontinued operations in 2010 11 or in 2009 10.
Adjusted earnings 616 721 74 Exceptional items 143 Timing Remeasurements 5 23 Our profit for the year can be impacted by timing differences, 695 including the recovery of revenues compared with regulatory Earnings 601 allowed revenues.
These timing differences are, by their nature, unpredictable, but our current expectation is that they Revenue by operating segment Years ended 31 March will not recur in 2011 12.
The closing balance of under- 2011 2010 recovery at 31 March 2011 was 51 million, compared with Continuing operations m m 50 million at 31 March 2010.
All other things being equal, Gas Transmission 889 934 that balance should be returned to customers in 2011 12, 1,522 Gas Distribution 1,516 which would lead to a variance of 50 million when comparing Gas Metering 311 329 2011 12 operating profit with 2010 11.
Other activities 38 45 Key performance indicators KPIs Total segmental revenues 2,760 2,824 Operational return Less: sales between operating segments 67 77 We measure our performance in generating value from the Revenue 2,693 2,747 investments we make by dividing the annual return of our Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses by their Operating profit by segment regulatory asset bases.
Annual return consists of adjusted Years ended 31 March earnings, amended for a number of items including regulatory 2011 2010 timing differences and depreciation, net financing costs and a Continuing operations m m pension deficit adjustment.
The regulatory asset base 412 Gas Transmission 350 consists of invested capital, which is the opening RAV inflated Gas Distribution 654 667 to mid-year using RPI inflation.
This is equivalent to the vanilla Gas Metering 136 106 return set out in our price controls.
Other activities 13 13 For Gas Transmission, our operational return for 2010 11 was Total operating profit 1,189 1,110 7.2% compared with 7.6% in 2009 10 and a regulatory allowed return vanilla return of 5.05%.
Adjusted operating profit by segment For Gas Distribution, our operational return for 2010 11 was Years ended 31 March 5.54% compared with 6.3% in 2009 10 and a regulatory 2011 2010 allowed return vanilla return of 4.94%.
Continuing operations m m Gas Transmission 420 450 Company profit for the year Gas Distribution 711 711 Adjusted profit and adjusted earnings Gas Metering 136 148 Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations was Other activities 13 12 616 million in 2010 11 2009 10: 721 million.
Adjusted Adjusted operating profit 1,254 1,297 earnings, being adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders of the Company, were 615 million 2009 10: 720 million.
Profit and earnings Profit for the year from continuing operations was 695 million in 2010 11 2009 10: 601 million.
Earnings, being profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to equity 16 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to adjusted Exceptional charges of 187 million in 2009 10 consisted of profit and adjusted earnings restructuring charges of 72 million, environmental charges of Years ended 31 March 14 million, pension deficit charges of 58 million and other 2011 2010 charges of 43 million.
m m There were exceptional charges of 31 million during 2010 11 Adjusted operating profit 1,254 1,297 relating to the early redemption of debt following the rights Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and 370 254 issue by National Grid in June 2010 2009 10: nil.
remeasurements Adjusted profit before taxation 884 1,043 Financial remeasurements relate to net gains on derivative Taxation excluding taxation on exceptional items and financial instruments of 7 million 2009 10: 33 million remeasurements 268 322 gains.
Adjusted profit 616 721 Taxation Attributable to non-controlling interests 1 1 The net tax charge of 100 million in 2010 11 comprised a Adjusted earnings 615 720 268 million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 168 million credit on exceptional items and remeasurements.
This Reconciliation of operating profit to profit and earnings compares with a net charge of 288 million in 2009 10, Years ended 31 March comprising a 322 million charge on adjusted profit before tax 2011 2010 m m and a 34 million credit on exceptional items and remeasurements.
Operating profit 1,189 1,110 Net finance costs 394 221 The effective tax rate before and after exceptional items and Total profit before taxation 795 889 remeasurements was 30% and 13% respectively 2009 10: Taxation 100 288 31% and 32%, compared with a standard UK corporation tax Profit 695601 rate of 28% in both years.
Attributable to non-controlling interests 1 1 DN business profit for the year Earnings 694600 Adjusted profit Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations was Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total 410 million in 2010 11 2009 10: 477 million.
operating profit Years ended 31 March Profit 2011 2010 Profit for the year from continuing operations was 465 million Continuing operations m m in 2010 11 2009 10: 424 million.
Adjusted operating profit 1,254 1,297 The increase in profit and decrease in adjusted profit were a Exceptional items 65 187 consequence of the changes in operating profit, net finance Total operating profit 1,189 1,110 costs, exceptional finance costs and remeasurements, and taxation described in the following sections.
Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to total profit before taxation Reconciliation of adjusted profit to profit Years ended 31 March Years ended 31 March 2011 2010 2011 2010 Continuing operations m m m m Adjusted profit before taxation 884 1,043 Adjusted profit 410 477 Exceptional items 96 187 Exceptional items 50 68 Remeasurements 733 Remeasurements 515 Total profit before taxation 795 889 Profit 465424 Net finance costs Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and remeasurements were 370 million in 2010 11 compared with 254 million in 2009 10.
The increase is due to higher accretions on index-linked debt following the return of UK inflation.
Exceptional items and remeasurements Exceptional charges of 65 million in 2010 11 consisted of restructuring costs of 57 million and other charges of 8 million.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 17 Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to adjusted There was an exceptional charge of 20 million during profit 2010 11 relating to the early redemption of debt following the Years ended 31 March rights issue by National Grid in June 2010 2009 10: nil.
2011 2010 Financial remeasurements relate to net gains on derivative m m financial instruments of 5 million 2009 10: 21 million Adjusted operating profit 839 852 gains.
Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and remeasurements 246 166 Taxation Adjusted profit before taxation 593 686 The net tax charge of 56 million in 2010 11 comprised a Taxation excluding taxation on exceptional items and 183 million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 127 remeasurements 183 209 million credit on exceptional items and remeasurements.
This Adjusted profit 410 477 compares with a net charge of 196 million in 2009 10, comprising a 209 million charge on adjusted profit before tax Reconciliation of operating profit to profit and a 13 million credit on exceptional items and Years ended 31 March remeasurements.
2011 2010 m m The effective tax rate before and after exceptional items and Operating profit 782 765 remeasurements was 31% and 11% respectively 2009 10: Net finance costs 261 145 31% and 32%, compared with a standard UK corporation tax rate of 28% in both years.
Total profit before taxation 521 620 Taxation 56 196 Analysis of operating profit and adjusted Profit 465424 operating profit Company: 2010 11 compared with 2009 10 Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total Changes in revenue and other operating income, operating operating profit costs and operating profit for 2010 11 compared with 2009 10 Years ended 31 March 2011 2010 are analysed by operating segment as follows: Continuing operations m m Revenue Adjusted operating profit 839 852 and other operating Operating Operating Exceptional items 57 87 income costs profit Total operating profit 782 765 Continuing operations m m m 2009 10 results 2,761 1,651 1,110 Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to total Add back 2009 10 exceptional items - 187 187 profit before taxation 2009 10 adjusted results 2,761 1,464 1,297 Years ended 31 March Gas Transmission 36 6 30 2011 2010 Gas Distribution 7 7 - Continuing operations m m Gas Metering 18 6 12 Adjusted profit before taxation 593 686 Other activities 7 6 1 Exceptional items 77 87 Sales between businesses 10 10 - Remeasurements 521 2010 11 adjusted results 2,717 1,463 1,254 Total profit before taxation 521 620 2010 11 exceptional items - 65 65 2010 11 results 2,717 1,528 1,189 Net finance costs Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and The principal movements by operating segment are shown on remeasurements were 246 million in 2010 11 compared with the next two pages.
Exceptional items and remeasurements Exceptional charges of 57 million in 2010 11 consisted of restructuring costs of 49 million and other charges of 8 million.
Exceptional charges of 87 million in 2009 10 consisted of restructuring charges of 26 million, environmental charges of 14 million, pension deficit charges of 4 million and other charges of 43 million.
18 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 DN business: 2010 11 compared with 2009 10 Gas Transmission Changes in revenue and other operating income, operating The results for the Gas Transmission segment for the years costs and operating profit for 2010 11 compared with 2009 10 ended 31 March 2011 and 2010 were as follows: are analysed by regulatory business as follows: Years ended 31 March Revenue 2011 2010 and other m m operating Operating Operating income costs profit Revenue and other operating income 912 948 Continuing operations m m m Operating costs excluding exceptional items 492 498 2009 10 results 1,818 1,053 765 Adjusted operating profit 420 450 Add back 2009 10 exceptional items - 87 87 Exceptional items 8 100 2009 10 adjusted results 1,818 966 852 Operating profit 412 350 North West DN 7 13 6 East of England DN 5 2 7 2010 11 compared with 2009 10: West Midlands DN 1 4 3 North London DN 3 7 4 Adjusted Metering 18 5 13 operating profit Meter reading - - - m fide minimis activities - - - 2009 10 adjusted operating profit 450 Other activities 4 2 2 Allowed revenues 1 3 2010 11 adjusted results 1,806 967 839 Timing of recoveries 2 13 2010 11 exceptional items - 57 57 LNG storage 3 8 2010 11 results 1,806 1,024 782 Depreciation and amortisation 4 4 Other 2 The principal causes of the changes in adjusted operating 2010 11 adjusted operating profit 420 profit for 2010 11 compared with 2009 10 were: Adjusted 1 - Reduction in allowed revenues collectable under our price operating controls.
profit 2 - Repayment of allowed revenues over-recovered in the m previous year.
2009 10 adjusted operating profit 852 3 - Decrease in profitability because of lower shipper auction Timing of recovery of DN revenues 1 27 revenues.
A new price control is effective from 1 April DN margins 2 17 2011.
Metering revenues 3 18 4 - Increase reflects the charges arising from our ongoing Depreciation and amortisation 4 20 capital investment programme.
Other revenues and costs 15 2010 11 adjusted operating profit 839 Gas Distribution The results for the Gas Distribution segment for the years 1 - Some costs incurred in one period are only recovered ended 31 March 2011 and 2010 were as follows: through revenue generated in a subsequent period.
This Years ended 31 March gives rise to variations in profit from year to year.
2011 2010 2 - DN price control revenue was flat due to impact of Continuing operations m m negative RPI, offset by small positive allowed real Revenue and other operating income 1,523 1,516 increase in revenues.
Reduction in margin largely due to Operating costs excluding exceptional items 812 805 loss on non-formula work offset by shrinkage margin and Adjusted operating profit 711 711 incentive income.
Exceptional items 57 44 3 - Lower metering revenues due to reduced meter rental Total operating profit 654 667 charges and a decline in regulated meter population 4 - Reflects increased investment see page 12, including the Gas Distribution Front Office see page 12 and completion of the Harefield to Southall pipeline in 2009 10.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 19 2010 11 compared with 2009 10: This included cash outflows relating to exceptional items of 72 million and 123 million respectively.
Adjusted The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation operating profit was 1,588 million in 2010 11, compared with 1,563 million Continuing operations m in 2009 10.
This included a net corporate tax payment in 2009 10 adjusted operating profit 711 2010 11 of 118 million compared with 309 million in Timing of recoveries 1 27 2009 10.
Margin 2 10 Cash flows from investing activities Operating costs 3 9 Cash outflows from investing activities were 919 million in Depreciation and amortisation 4 17 2010 11 compared with 266 million in 2009 10.
Cash Other 9 outflows to purchase property, plant and equipment and 2010 11 adjusted operating profit 711 intangible fixed assets, net of disposal proceeds, were 1,005 million in 2010 11 compared with 952 million in 2009 10.
1 - Some costs incurred in one period are only recovered Interest received was 2 million in 2010 11 compared with 3 through revenue generated in a subsequent period.
Net cash inflows from the disposal of gives rise to variations in profit from year to year.
financial investments were 84 million in 2010 11 compared 2 - Price control revenue flat due to impact of negative RPI, with 683 million in 2009 10. offset by small positive allowed real increase in revenues.
Cash flows from financing activities Reduction in margin largely due to loss on non-formula The net cash outflow from financing activities was 606 work offset by shrinkage margin and incentive income.
million in 2010 11 compared with a cash outflow of 1,301 3 - Higher pension costs and the impact of severe weather, million in 2009 10.
This reflected net inflows from loans of 58 partly offset by efficiency savings and lower insurance million 2009 10: 725 million outflow and net payments to premiums.
providers of finance, in the form of interest and dividends, of 4 - Reflects increased investment see page 12, including 664 million 2009 10: 576 million.
the Gas Distribution Front Office see page 12 and completion of the Harefield to Southall pipeline in 2009 10.
Net interest cash outflows decreased from 273 million in 2009 10 to 262 million in 2010 11.
Gas Metering Dividends paid to shareholders increased to 400 million in The results for the Gas Metering segment for the years ended 2010 11 compared with 300 million in 2009 10.
31 March 2011 and 2010 were as follows: DN business cash flows Years ended 31 March Cash flows from operating activities 2011 2010 Cash generated from continuing operations was 1,139 m m million in 2010 11 compared with 1,287 million in 2009 10.
Revenue 311329 This included cash outflows relating to exceptional items of Operating costs excluding exceptional items 175 181 65 million and 57 million respectively.
Adjusted operating profit 136 148 Exceptional items - 42 The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation Total operating profit 136 106 was 1,064 million in 2010 11, compared with 1,051 million in 2009 10.
This included a net corporate tax payment in 2010 11 of 75 million compared with 236 million in 2009 10.
2010 11 compared with 2009 10: Adjusted Cash flows from investing activities operating Cash outflows from investing activities were 685 million in profit 2010 11 compared with 322 million in 2009 10.
Cash Continuing operations m outflows to purchase property, plant and equipment and 2009 10 adjusted operating profit 148 intangible fixed assets, net of disposal proceeds, were 740 Revenues 1 17 million in 2010 11 compared with 753 million in 2009 10.
Other 5 Interest received was 1 million in 2010 11 compared with 2 2010 11adjusted operating profit 136 million in 2009 10.
Net cash inflows from the disposal of financial investments were 54 million in 2010 11 compared 1 - Lower revenues due to reduced meter rental charges and with 429 million in 2009 10. a decline in regulated meter population.
Cash flows from financing activities Company cash flows The net cash outflow from financing activities was 338 Cash flows from operating activities million in 2010 11 compared with a cash outflow of 733 Cash generated from continuing operations was 1,706 million in 2009 10.
This reflected net inflows from loans of 95 million in 2010 11 compared with 1,872 million in 2009 10. million 2009 10: 354 million outflow and net payments to 20 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 providers of finance, in the form of interest and dividends, of DN business balance sheet 433 million 2009 10: 379 million.
The DN business balance sheet at 31 March 2011 can be summarised as follows: Net interest cash outflows decreased from 178 million in Net 2009 10 to 168 million in 2010 11.
Assets Liabilities assets Dividends paid to shareholders increased to 265 million in m mm Property, plant and equipment 2010 11 compared with 201 million in 2009 10. and non-current intangible assets 7,507 - 7,507 Current assets and liabilities 145 505 360 Financial position and Other non-current assets and liabilities 4,023 1,032 2,991 financial management Deferred tax - 1,384 1,384 Total before net debt 11,675 2,921 8,754 Going concern Net debt 596 5,078 4,482 Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that the Total as at 31 March 2011 12,271 7,999 4,272 Company and its subsidiaries have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future and that it is Total as at 31 March 2010 11,915 7,950 3,965 therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in The 307 million increase in net assets from 3,965 million at preparing the consolidated and individual financial statements 31 March 2010 to 4,272 million at 31 March 2011 resulted of the Company.
More details of our liquidity position are from the profit for the year of 465 million and other items provided under the heading Liquidity and treasury totalling 107 million, offset by dividends paid of 265 million.
management below and in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
Company net debt Net debt increased by 211 million from 6,859 million at 31 Financial position March 2010 to 7,070 million at 31 March 2011.
Cash flows Company balance sheet from operations net of tax of 1,588 million were offset by Our balance sheet at 31 March 2011 can be summarised as capital expenditure, net of disposals, of 1,005 million, follows: dividends paid of 400 million and net interest paid of 262 million, together with fair value and other movements of 132 Net Assets Liabilities assets million.
m mm At 31 March 2011, net debt comprised borrowings of 7,902 Property, plant and equipment million including bank overdrafts of 34 million, less derivative and non-current intangible assets 11,474 - 11,474 financial instruments with a net carrying value of 507 million, Current assets and liabilities 271 849 578 cash and cash equivalents of 83 million, and financial Other non-current assets and liabilities 5,611 1,222 4,389 investments of 242 million 31 March 2010: borrowings of Deferred tax - 1,873 1,873 7,672 million including bank overdrafts of 15 million less Total before net debt 17,356 3,944 13,412 derivative financial instruments with a net carrying value of Net debt 940 8,010 7,070 486 million, cash and cash equivalents of 1 million, and Total as at 31 March 2011 18,296 11,954 6,342 financial investments of 326 million.
Total as at 31 March 2010 17,845 11,814 6,031 DN business net debt The 311 million increase in net assets from 6,031 million at Net debt increased by 122 million from 4,360 million at 31 31 March 2010 to 6,342 million at 31 March 2011 resulted March 2010 to 4,482 million at 31 March 2011.
Cash flows from the profit for the year of 695 million and other items from operations net of tax of 1,064 million were offset by totalling 16 million, offset by dividends paid of 400 million.
capital expenditure, net of disposals, of 740 million, dividends paid of 265 million and net interest paid of 167 million, together with fair value and other movements of 14 million.
At 31 March 2011, net debt comprised borrowings of 5,009 million including bank overdrafts of 22 million, less derivative financial instruments with a net carrying value of 321 million, cash and cash equivalents of 53 million, and financial investments of 153 million 31 March 2010: borrowings of 4,878 million including bank overdrafts of 10 million less derivative financial instruments with a net carrying value of 311 million and financial investments of 207 million.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 21 Capital structure operations are subject to multi-year price control agreements We monitor the regulatory asset value RAV gearing of the with our regulator, Ofgem.
Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses.
This is Both short and long-term cash flow forecasts are produced calculated as net debt expressed as a percentage of RAV, regularly to assist the treasury function in identifying shortand indicates the level of debt employed to fund the regulated term liquidity and long-term funding requirements, and we businesses.
It is compared with the level of RAV gearing seek to enhance our cash flow forecasting processes on an indicated by Ofgem as being appropriate for these ongoing basis.
Cash flow forecasts, supplemented by a businesses, at around 60%.
financial headroom analysis, are monitored regularly to To calculate RAV gearing for the regulated Gas Transmission assess funding adequacy for at least a 12 month period.
and Gas Distribution businesses we exclude an element of As part of our regulatory arrangements, our operations are debt that is associated with the Gas Metering business.
RAV subject to a number of restrictions on the way we can operate.
gearing as at 31 March 2011 was 54% compared to 57% as These include regulatory ring-fences that requires us to at 31 March 2010. maintain adequate financial resources and restricts our ability Liquidity and treasury management to undertake transactions with other National Grid subsidiary Treasury policy companies including paying dividends, lending cash or levying Funding and treasury risk management for National Grid Gas charges.
is carried out by the treasury function of National Grid under Funding and liquidity management policies and guidelines approved by the Finance Committees We maintain medium-term note and commercial paper of the Boards of National Grid and National Grid Gas.
The programmes to facilitate long and short-term debt issuance Finance Committees have authority delegated from the into capital and money markets.
relevant Boards and are responsible for regular review and monitoring of treasury activity and for the approval of specific At 31 March 2011, we had a $2.5 billion US commercial paper transactions, the authority for which may be further delegated.
programme unutilised, a $1.25 billion Euro commercial paper programme unutilised and a 10.0 billion Euro The primary objective of the treasury function is to manage medium-term note programme 5.2 billion issued.
the funding and liquidity requirements of National Grid.
A secondary objective is to manage the associated financial In addition we have both committed and uncommitted bank risks, in the form of interest rate risk and foreign exchange borrowing facilities that are available for general corporate risk, to within acceptable boundaries.
Further details of the purposes to support our liquidity requirements.
At 31 March management of funding and liquidity and the main risks 2011, the Company had 425 million of long-term committed facilities undrawn, expiring in April 2014. arising from our financing activities are set out below, as are the policies for managing these risks, including the use of To facilitate debt issuance into the capital and money financial derivatives, which are agreed and reviewed by the markets, we maintain credit ratings.
Details of our long-term Boards and the Finance Committees.
senior unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings are provided below within credit ratings.
The treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Debt and treasury positions are managed in a non-speculative We invest surplus funds on the money markets, usually in the manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or form of short-term fixed deposits and placements with money products are matched to an underlying current or anticipated market funds that are invested in highly liquid instruments of business requirement.
Investment of surplus funds is subject to our counterparty risk management policy, and we continue to Commodity derivatives entered into in respect of gas commodities are used in support of the businesss operational believe that our cash management and counterparty risk requirements and their use is explained on page 23. management policies provide appropriate liquidity and credit risk management.
Details relating to cash, short-term Current condition of the financial markets investments and other financial assets at 31 March 2011 are The financial markets have essentially returned to normal for shown in notes 14 and 15 to the consolidated financial National Grid following the turmoil in the capital markets in statements.
Following National Grids rights issue, which completed in June 2010, our funding requirements were We believe that maturing amounts in respect of our modest.
Nevertheless, we issued approximately 350 million contractual obligations can be met from existing cash and investments, operating cash flows and other financings that of new long-term debt and also repurchased 368 million.
We remain confident of our ability to access the public debt we reasonably expect to be able to secure in the future, markets in the future.
together with the use of committed facilities if required.
Cash flow and cash flow forecasting In line with our normal treasury practice we expect to continue to access the markets in order to manage actively our debt Cash flows from operations are largely stable annually and over a period of years.
Our gas transmission and distribution portfolio, optimise our finance costs and manage our refinancing risk.
22 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Credit ratings Within the constraints of our interest rate risk management It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around the policy, and as approved by the Finance Committee, we Company that it uses reasonable endeavours to maintain an actively manage our interest rate exposure and therefore the investment grade credit rating.
As of 31 March 2011, the longinterest rate profile will change over time.
term senior unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings In 2011 12, we expect our financing costs to continue to respectively provided by Moodys Investor Services, Standard benefit from low short-term interest rates, some of which have & Poors and Fitch were as follows all with outlooks of already been locked in using short-term interest rate stable : derivatives.
Moodys Investor Services A3 P2 More information on the interest rate profile of our debt is Standard & Poors AA2 included in note 28 a to the consolidated financial Fitch A F2 statements.
Foreign exchange risk management Use of derivative financial instruments We have a policy of managing our foreign exchange As part of our business operations, including our treasury transaction risk by hedging contractually committed foreign activities, we are exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in exchange transactions over a prescribed minimum size.
This interest rates and exchange rates.
We use financial covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions occurring in instruments, including financial derivatives, to manage the next six months and a minimum of 50% of transactions exposures of this type.
Our policy is not to use financial occurring six to twelve months in the future.
Cover generally derivatives for trading purposes.
More details on derivative takes the form of forward sale or purchase of foreign financial instruments are provided in note 12 to the currencies and must always relate to forecast underlying consolidated financial statements.
Refinancing risk management The result of this hedging activity is that our cash flow has Refinancing risk is controlled mainly by limiting the amount of limited exposure to foreign currencies.
debt maturities arising on borrowings in any financial year.
Our capital expenditure programme over the next few years Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the will result in material foreign currency exposures as we contractual maturities of our borrowings over the next five purchase raw materials and components from overseas years, with total contracted borrowings maturing over 41 suppliers.
The treasury function will seek to manage these years.
We expect to be able to refinance this debt through the exposures through a range of hedging strategies and capital and money markets as we have done during the year instruments.
In addition, we are exposed to currency exposures on Interest rate risk management borrowings in currencies other than sterling, principally the Our interest rate exposure arising from borrowings and euro.
This currency exposure is managed through the use of deposits is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate debt cross-currency swaps, so that post derivatives the currency and derivative financial instruments, including interest rate profile is almost entirely sterling.
swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
The interest rate risk management policy is to seek to minimise total More details can be found in note 28 a to the consolidated financing costs being interest costs and changes in the financial statements.
market value of debt subject to constraints so that, even with Counterparty risk management an extreme movement in interest rates, neither the interest Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds, cost nor the total financing cost is expected to exceed preset from the use of derivative instruments, and from commercial limits with a high degree of certainty.
contracts entered into by the businesses, including commodity Some of our bonds in issue are inflation-linked, that is their contracts.
The National Grid Finance Committee has agreed a cost is linked to changes in the UK Retail Prices Index RPI.
policy for managing such risk on a portfolio basis across We believe that these bonds provide an appropriate hedge for National Grid.
This policy sets limits as to the exposure that revenues and our regulatory asset values that are also RPI National Grid can have with any one counterparty, based on linked under our price control formulas.
that counterpartys credit rating from independent credit rating agencies.
National Grids exposure to individual The performance of the treasury function in interest rate risk counterparties is monitored daily and counterparty limits are management is measured by comparing the actual total regularly updated for changes in credit ratings.
The treasury financing costs of the National Grid debt with those of a function is responsible for managing the policy.
Where passively managed benchmark portfolio with set ratios of fixed contracts carrying credit risk are entered into outside the rate to floating-rate debt, to identify the impact of actively treasury function, part of the relevant counterparty limit can be managing National Grids interest rate risk.
This is monitored allocated to the business area involved.
This ensures that regularly by the Finance Committee of National Grid.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 23 National Grids overall exposure is managed within the Commitments and contingencies appropriate limit.
Commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March 2011 and 2010 are summarised in the table below: Where multiple transactions are entered into with a single counterparty, a netting arrangement is usually put in place to 2011 2010 reduce our exposure to credit risk of that counterparty.
When m m transacting interest rate and exchange rate derivatives, we Future capital expenditure contracted but not use market standard documentation, which provides for provided for 428 533 netting in respect of all transactions governed by a specific Total operating lease commitments 70 77 ISDA agreement with a counterparty.
Other commitments and contingencies 19 26 Further information on the management of counterparty risk is Information regarding obligations under pension and other provided in note 28 c to the consolidated financial post-retirement benefits is given below under the heading statements.
Valuation and sensitivity analysis We propose to meet all of our commitments from existing We calculate the fair value of debt and financial derivatives by cash and investments, operating cash flows, existing credit discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at facilities, future facilities and other financing that we the balance sheet date, including the credit spread for debt, reasonably expect to be able to secure in the future.
and in the case of financial derivatives taking into account the Details of material litigation as at 31 March 2011 credit quality of both parties.
The market yield curve for each We were not party to litigation that we considered to be currency is obtained from external sources for interest and material as at 31 March 2011.
Save as set out below, there foreign exchange rates.
In the case of instruments that have been no governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings include options, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes in the last 12 months which may have or have had significant model is used to calculate fair value.
effects on the Companys financial position or profitability.
For debt and derivative instruments held, we utilise a Metering competition investigation sensitivity analysis technique to evaluate the effect that As previously reported, on 25 February 2008 the Gas and changes in relevant rates or prices would have on the market Electricity Markets Authority GEMA announced it had value of such instruments.
decided we had breached Chapter II of the Competition Act As described in note 28 e to the consolidated financial 1998 and Article 82 now Article 102 of the Treaty of the statements, movements in financial indices would have the Functioning of the European Union and fined us 41.6 million.
following estimated impact on the financial statements as a Following appeals, the Competition Appeal Tribunal reduced consequence of changes in the value of financial instruments.
the fine to 30 million and the Court of Appeal further reduced the fine to 15 million.
On 22 March 2010, we applied to the Years ended 31 March 2011 2010 Supreme Court for leave to appeal the Court of Appeals Other Other .
On 28 July 2010, the Supreme Court denied our Income hensive Income hensive application and this ends the legal process.
The 15 million statement income statement income m m m m fine was paid to GEMA on 1 April 2010.
UK Retail Prices Index 0.50% 12 - 10 - Gas distribution mains replacement investigation UK interest rates 0.50% 713 516 As previously reported, in October 2008 we informed Ofgem that mains replacement activity carried out by the Gas Commodity contracts Distribution business may have been inaccurately reported.
Gas purchased for our own use relates to the operation of our Ofgem has now concluded its investigation and, following the gas transmission and gas distribution networks.
Contracts are reaching of a settlement between Ofgem and the Company, accounted for as ordinary purchase contracts.
on 6 January 2011 Ofgem announced its intention to impose In our gas transmission operations, we are obliged to offer for a penalty of 8 million and to find the Company in breach of sale through a series of auctions, both shortand long-term, a certain obligations in respect of the reporting of mains predetermined quantity of entry capacity for every day in the replacement data.
Ofgem also stated that the penalty would year at pre-defined locations.
Where, on the day, the gas have been higher had it not been for the cooperation and transmission systems capability is constrained, such that gas corrective action by the Company.
On 10 March 2011, is prevented from entering the system for which entry capacity following the end of the period in which representations could rights have been sold, then UK gas transmission is required to be made in respect of the proposed decision, Ofgem wrote to buy back those entry capacity rights sold in excess of system us to confirm its decision.
On 13 May 2011, we received the capability.
Forward and option contracts may be used to Final Penalty Notice the penalty has now been paid.
reduce the risk and exposure to on the day entry capacity prices.
24 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Related party transactions We provide services to and receive services from related parties, principally fellow subsidiary companies of National Grid.
In the year ended 31 March 2011, National Grid Gas charged 29 million and received charges of 58 million from related parties other than Directors and key managers, compared with 21 million and 139 million respectively in 2009 10.
Further information relating to related party transactions is contained within note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Details of key management compensation and amounts paid to Directors are included within notes 3 c and 3 d to the consolidated financial statements respectively.
Retirement arrangements The substantial majority of our employees are members of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme, which is operated by Lattice Group plc, an intermediate holding company of National Grid Gas.
We do not provide any other postretirement benefits.
The scheme has both a defined benefit section, which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution section, which is offered to all new employees.
In September 2010 the UK government changed the basis for statutory pension increases from the retail price index RPI to the consumer price index CPI.
The scheme rules of our pension scheme specifically reference RPI.
As a consequence, the impact of the Governments move to CPI was predominantly limited to our guaranteed minimum pensions and the financial consequence was an approximate 50 million reduction in plan liabilities.
As there is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to National Grid Gas, we account for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme and do not recognise any share of the assets and liabilities of the scheme.
Actuarial position A triennial valuation is carried out for the independent trustees of the scheme by professionally qualified actuaries, using the projected unit method.
The purpose of the valuation is to design a funding plan to ensure that present and future contributions should be sufficient to meet future liabilities.
The 2010 valuation is nearing completion and we have reached an agreement in principle with the Trustees and are in the later stages of finalising documentation.
The last completed full actuarial valuation of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was as at 31 March 2007.
This concluded that the pre-tax funding deficit was 442 million in the defined benefit section on the basis of the funding assumptions.
Employer cash contributions for the ongoing cost of this plan are currently being made at a rate of 29.4% of pensionable payroll.
The next valuation of the scheme is due as at 31 March 2013.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 25 transportation services supplied during this period would have Accounting policies an impact on the reported results.
Estimates of unbilled revenues amounted to 165 million at Basis of accounting 31 March 2011 compared with 184 million at 31 March 2010.
The consolidated financial statements present the results of National Grid Gas for the years ended 31 March 2011 and Estimated economic lives of property, plant and 2010 and financial position as at 31 March 2011 and 2010. equipment They have been prepared using the accounting policies The reported amounts for depreciation of property, plant and shown, in accordance with International Financial Reporting equipment and amortisation of non-current intangible assets Standards IFRS.
can be materially affected by the judgments exercised in determining their estimated economic lives.
In complying with IFRS, we are also complying with the version of IFRS that has been endorsed by the European Hedge accounting Union for use by listed companies.
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge certain economic exposures arising from movements in exchange Choices permitted under IFRS and interest rates or other factors that could affect either the IFRS provide certain options available within accounting value of the Companys assets or liabilities or affect future standards.
Material choices we have made, and continue to cash flows.
make include the following: Movements in the fair values of derivative financial Presentation formats instruments may be accounted for using hedge accounting We use the nature of expense method for our income where the relevant eligibility, documentation and effectiveness statement and total our balance sheet to net assets and total testing requirements are met.
If a hedge does not meet the equity.
strict criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is ineffectiveness or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements In the income statement, we present subtotals of total will be recorded in the income statement immediately instead operating profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing of being recognised in the statement of comprehensive operations, together with additional subtotals excluding income or by being offset by adjustments to the carrying value exceptional items and remeasurements.
and remeasurements are presented on the face of the income statement.
Exceptional items and remeasurements Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income Financial instruments and expenditure that, in the judgement of management, We normally opt to apply hedge accounting in most should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are circumstances where this is permitted.
material, either by their nature or their size, to an Critical accounting policies understanding of the companys financial performance and The application of accounting principles requires us to make distort the comparability of financial performance between estimates, judgments and assumptions that may affect the periods.
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses Items of income or expense that are considered by and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the management for designation as exceptional items include accounts.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or using historical experience, consultation with experts and impairments of non-current assets, material changes in other methods that we consider reasonable in the particular environmental provisions, gains or losses on disposals of circumstances to ensure compliance with IFRS.
Actual results businesses or investments and debt redemption costs.
may differ significantly from our estimates, the effect of which will be recognised in the period in which the facts that give Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the rise to the revision become known.
income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
These fair values increase or Certain accounting policies, described below, have been decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices identified as critical accounting policies, as these policies and prices over which the Company has no control.
involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The discussion of critical accounting policies Tax estimates below should be read in conjunction with the description of The tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax our accounting policies set out in our consolidated financial rates in effect.
The determination of appropriate provisions for statements.
taxation requires us to take into account anticipated decisions of tax authorities and estimate its ability to utilise tax benefits Revenue through future earnings and tax planning.
Revenue includes an assessment of gas transportation services supplied to customers between the date of the last invoice and the year end.
Changes to the estimate of the gas 26 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Carrying value of assets and potential for impairments recorded net assets and profit for the year by approximately The carrying value of assets recorded in the consolidated 12 million net of tax.
balance sheet could be materially reduced if an impairment Asset useful lives were to be assessed as being required.
Impairment reviews An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year are carried out when a change in circumstance is identified on average would reduce our annual depreciation charge on that indicates an asset might be impaired.
An impairment property, plant and equipment by 11 million pre-tax and our review involves calculating either or both of the fair value or annual amortisation charge on intangible assets by 3 million the value-in-use of an asset or group of assets and comparing pre-tax.
with the carrying value in the balance sheet.
Hedge accounting These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the If using our derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting price that could be obtained for, or the future cash flows that had not been achieved during the year ended 31 March 2011 will be generated by, an asset or group of assets, together then the profit for the year would have been 38 million higher with an appropriate discount rate to apply to those cash flows.
than that reported net of tax, and net assets would have been Assets and liabilities carried at fair value 29 million higher.
Certain financial investments and derivative financial Assets carried at fair value instruments are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value rather than historical cost.
would result in an increase or decrease in the carrying value The fair value of financial investments is based on market of derivative financial instruments of 51 million.
prices, as are those of derivative financial instruments where Provisions market prices exist.
Other derivative financial instruments are A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows estimated valued using financial models, which include judgements on, in respect of provisions for liabilities would result in an in particular, future movements in exchange and interest increase or decrease in our provisions of approximately 20 rates.
Provisions Accounting developments Provisions are made for liabilities, the timing and amount of Accounting standards, amendments to standards and which is uncertain.
These include provisions for the cost of interpretations adopted in 2010 11 environmental restoration and remediation, restructuring and In preparing our consolidated financial statements we have employer and public liability claims.
complied with International Financial Reporting Standards, Calculations of these provisions are based on estimated cash International Accounting Standards and interpretations flows relating to these costs, discounted at an appropriate rate applicable for 2010 11.
The standards, amendments to where the impact of discounting is material.
The amounts and standards and interpretations adopted during 2010 11 are timing of cash flows relating to environmental liabilities are discussed in the financial statements on page 41.
None of based on management estimates supported by the use of these resulted in a material change to our consolidated external consultants.
results, assets or liabilities in 2010 11 or in those of previous periods.
Pension obligations Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for as if the Accounting standards, amendments to standards and National Grid UK Pension Scheme were a defined interpretations not yet adopted contribution scheme as there is neither a contractual New accounting standards, amendments to standards and arrangement, nor a stated policy under which the Company is interpretations which have been issued but not yet adopted by charged for the costs of providing pensions.
National Grid are discussed in the financial statements on page 41.
A change in these arrangements may lead to the Company recognising the cost of providing pensions on a different basis, together with a proportion of the actuarial gains and losses and of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme.
Sensitivities In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions could have on our results and financial position, the following sensitivities are presented: Revenue accruals A 10% change in our estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March 2011 would result in an increase or decrease in our
