2 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Operating and Financial Review Principal operations Operating and Financial Review contents Our principal operations are the ownership and operation of Overview regulated gas infrastructure networks and the provision of gas 2 Principal operations metering services in Great Britain.
We also have an interest in 3 How the UK gas industry works liquefied natural gas LNG storage facilities in Great Britain.
3 Management structure 4 Review of the year Gas Transmission Operating environment Our Gas Transmission business comprises the following 4 Operating environment principal activities: 5 Regulatory environment UK regulation Gas Transmission owner Delivering operational performance We own the gas national transmission system in Great Britain, 7 Business drivers, risks and opportunities connecting to eight distribution networks and to third party 8 Vision, strategy and objectives independent systems for onward transportation of gas to end 9 Key performance indicators consumers.
10 Performance against objectives Gas system operator Financial information We operate the gas national transmission system.
Day-to-day 14 Financial performance operation includes balancing supply and demand.
20 Financial position and financial management 24 Accounting policies LNG storage We own and operate three LNG storage facilities in Great This Operating and Financial Review describes the main trends Britain.
and factors underlying the development, performance and Gas Distribution position of National Grid Gas plc during the year ended 31 We own and operate four of the eight regional gas distribution March 2011 as well as those likely to affect the Company in the networks in Great Britain.
Our networks comprise approximately future.
It has been prepared in line with the guidance provided 132,000 kilometres 82,000 miles of gas distribution pipeline in the Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial and we transport gas from the gas national transmission system Review issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board and the to around 10.8 million consumers on behalf of 26 active gas Practice Statement on Management Commentary issued by the shippers.
Gas consumption in our UK networks was 304 TWh in International Accounting Standards Board.
We manage the national gas emergency number 0800 111 999 for all the gas distribution networks and for other gas transporters in Great Britain.
This service, along with the enquiries line, appliance repair helpline and meter number enquiry service, handled 2,816,403 calls during 2010 11.
Gas metering Our gas metering business, which is undertaken through our subsidiary company National Grid Metering Limited, provides installation and maintenance services to gas suppliers in the regulated gas market in Great Britain.
Our metering business provides services for an asset base of about 16 million domestic, industrial and commercial meters.
Other activities Other activities include Xoserve which delivers transactional services on behalf of all the major gas network transportation companies in Great Britain, including ourselves.
We jointly own Xoserve with the other gas distribution network companies, but we hold the controlling interest.
