National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 1 Operating and Financial Review Principal operations Operating and Financial Review contents Our principal operations are the ownership and operation of Overview regulated gas infrastructure networks and the provision of gas 1 Principal operations metering services in Great Britain.
We also have an interest in 2 How the UK gas industry works liquefied natural gas LNG storage facilities in Great Britain.
2 Management structure 3 Review of the year Gas Transmission Operating environment Our Gas Transmission business comprises the following 3 Operating environment principal activities: 4 Regulatory environment UK regulation Gas Transmission owner Delivering operational performance We own the gas national transmission system in Great Britain, 6 Business drivers, risks and opportunities connecting to eight distribution networks and to third party 7 Vision, strategy and objectives independent systems for onward transportation of gas to end 8 Key performance indicators consumers.
9 Performance against objectives Gas system operator Financial information We operate the gas national transmission system.
Day-to-day 13 Financial performance operation includes balancing supply and demand.
17 Financial position and financial management 21 Accounting policies LNG storage We own and operate three LNG storage facilities in Great This Operating and Financial Review describes the main trends Britain.
and factors underlying the development, performance and Gas Distribution position of National Grid Gas plc during the year ended 31 We own and operate four of the eight regional gas distribution March 2011 as well as those likely to affect the Company in the networks in Great Britain.
Our networks comprise approximately future.
It has been prepared in line with the guidance provided 132,000 kilometres 82,000 miles of gas distribution pipeline in the Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial and we transport gas from the gas national transmission system Review issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board and the to around 10.8 million consumers on behalf of 26 active gas Practice Statement on Management Commentary issued by the shippers.
Gas consumption in our UK networks was 304 TWh in International Accounting Standards Board.
We manage the national gas emergency number 0800 111 999 for all the gas distribution networks and for other gas transporters in Great Britain.
This service, along with the enquiries line, appliance repair helpline and meter number enquiry service, handled 2,816,403 calls during 2010 11.
Gas metering Our gas metering business, which is undertaken through our subsidiary company National Grid Metering Limited, provides installation and maintenance services to gas suppliers in the regulated gas market in Great Britain.
Our metering business provides services for an asset base of about 16 million domestic, industrial and commercial meters.
Other activities Other activities include Xoserve which delivers transactional services on behalf of all the major gas network transportation companies in Great Britain, including ourselves.
We jointly own Xoserve with the other gas distribution network companies, but we hold the controlling interest.
2 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 distribution networks do not buy or sell gas: the commodity is How the UK gas industry transported on behalf of shippers.
works Shippers pay us transportation charges for the use of our gas distribution networks.
These charges are ultimately passed on Within the UK gas industry there are four areas: production and to consumers.
importation carried out by other companies, transmission carried out by National Grid Gas plc, distribution carried out The transportation charges reflect the costs of building and by National Grid Gas plc and other companies and supply operating the networks, and also the costs of operating a 24 carried out by other companies.
Production and importation Supply Gas producers, liquefied natural gas LNG importers and Although consumers in the UK have a choice of gas supply interconnector operators bring gas onshore.
In the UK, there company, the gas is physically delivered to most consumers are seven gas reception terminals, three LNG importation premises through a pipe belonging to the local distribution terminals and three interconnectors, connecting Great Britain network.
Our distribution networks deliver gas to approximately with Ireland, Belgium and the Netherlands.
We do not participate in either the production of gas for the UK Although we do not sell gas, and are not involved in billing market, or its importation.
consumers, we consider the consumers connected to our distribution network to be our customers because our activities Gas producers and importers sell the gas to licensed shippers, directly affect them.
who then own the gas as it travels through the transmission and distribution networks.
We are not a gas shipper: we do not buy Consumers contract with gas supply companies for the supply or sell the gas we transport.
The supply companies in turn contract with gas shippers who purchase the gas and arrange for it to be transported.
Transmission Gas from importation terminals is injected into the national Suppliers also contract with metering companies, including transmission system NTS after the gas has been checked for National Grid Metering, which we own, for the provision of quality.
Gas previously extracted from the NTS and held in meters and metering services.
storage may be reintroduced into the system.
Of the average residential gas bill, transmission charges The NTS operates at pressures of up to 91 bar, transporting represent approximately 3% and distribution charges gas in high grade welded steel pipes of up to 1.2m diameter.
The majority of the bill is the cost of the gas itself.
We are the sole owner and operator of gas transmission infrastructure in Great Britain.
Management structure Shippers pay us for the use of the NTS via entry and exit Management structure capacity charges.
National Grid Gas is a subsidiary of National Grid plc National Entry capacity allows shippers to put gas into the NTS at Grid.
Entry capacity is sold in a variety of The performance of our principal businesses is reported by auctions, ranging from daily to quarterly.
segment, reflecting the management responsibilities and Exit capacity allows shippers to take gas off the NTS at NTS economic characteristics of each activity.
Throughout the year exit points into distribution networks and to other users who are ended 31 March 2011, the management structure of National supplied directly from the NTS.
Grid was via global lines of business.
The Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses of National Grid Gas form part For shippers who use the system, there is also a commodity of the global Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses of charge based on the actual flows of gas into the NTS.
Distribution The overall management and governance of National Grid Gas Gas exits the NTS at 53 offtake points where it is odourised.
is the responsibility of its Board of Directors.
The Board of Gas is transported in the distribution networks at various Directors has established a number of committees and subpressures ranging from 75 bar down to 21 mbar for final committees that assist it in its activities.
These include the delivery to end users.
Transmission Executive Committee and the Distribution Within the distribution networks, gas storage assets such as Executive Committee.
gas holders are used to help manage daily variation in demand.
The day-to-day management of our Gas Transmission business In the UK, there are 13 local distribution zones grouped into is carried out by the Transmission Executive Committee.
This eight regional distribution networks.
We own four of the eight committee is chaired by Nick Winser, who is a Director of distribution networks and three other companies own the other National Grid Gas, and who also sits on the Board and four.
As with the transmission system, the owners of the Executive Committee of National Grid and is the National Grid National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 3 Executive Director responsible for the global Transmission Gas Distribution business.
In the UK, the first release of the new Gas Distribution front office system, a significant investment in the replacement of The day-to-day management of National Grid Gass Gas legacy IT applications, went live in October 2010 to over 1,000 Distribution business is carried out by the Distribution Executive employees.
The full rollout of the programme is due to be Committee.
This was chaired by Mark Fairbairn who was a completed by spring 2012.
Director of National Grid Gas, and also sat on the Board and Executive Committee of National Grid and was the National A new campaign to reduce the number of electric cable strikes Grid Executive Director responsible for the global Gas was introduced in the UK and has contributed to a 10% Distribution business.
In addition to its own governance processes, National Grid Gas Severe winter weather in the UK led to us failing several of our participates in the governance process of National Grid which is emergency standards of service.
We met all but one of our subject to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
New management structure from 4 April 2011 Ofgem imposed a fine of 8 million for inaccurate reporting of Four years ago National Grid introduced the common operating gas mains replacement data during 2005 06 to 2007 08. model, consisting of global lines of business, in order to A biomethane injection plant has been constructed to connect promote common standards and ways of working.
Following a Adnams Bio Energy Ltd, the first production facility built for strategic review this year, and in response to feedback received injecting biomethane into the UK gas network.
from customers, regulators and other stakeholders, National Grid announced on 31 January 2011 substantial changes to the In our UK networks, actual gas consumption was 304 TWh in 2010 11 compared with 299 TWh in 2009 10. way in which it is organised.
With effect from 4 April 2011, National Grid has moved to a management structure more Metering closely aligned with local responsibilities.
Our application to appeal against the 15 million fine imposed Certain functions will continue to have global responsibilities: last year on our metering business for a breach of the these include finance, human resources, information systems Competition Act was unsuccessful.
There will also be regional functions, including regulation, safety and construction.
There Operating environment will be two UK businesses, UK Gas Distribution and UK In common with all UK companies, we operate in a complex Transmission.
Our Gas Transmission business forms part of the environment with a number of external factors affecting our UK Transmission business of National Grid and our Gas operations.
Distribution business forms part of the UK Gas Distribution business of National Grid.
UK and European energy policy In the UK, there is now a strong political focus on delivering a In the new management structure, Nick Winser has been low carbon economy.
The Climate Change Act requires the UK appointed to the role of Executive Director UK.
Mark Fairbairn to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 80% from the 1990 levels has stepped down from his directorships.
Dramatic changes in the way we More information on the management structure of National Grid produce and use our energy will be required.
We must become can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts less dependent on fossil fuels and use our energy more 2010 11 and on National Grids website at efficiently.
Our forecasts for gas supply continue to be built on www.
UK continental shelf decline and higher levels of importation.
The changing sources of supply necessitate greater gas transmission network flexibility.
Review of the year Gas Transmission Economic environment In October 2010, we finished commissioning the Wormington to Since the financial crisis in 2008 09, there has been a significant recovery.
The UK, Europe and the US have emerged Sapperton gas pipeline.
This pipeline, of approximately 44 km 27 miles, is required to provide additional exit capacity in the from recession and stock markets have risen during 2010 11. southwest of England to meet increases in distribution network In the UK, inflation has returned after a period of deflation, the and forecast power station demand.
retail price index having risen by 5.3% during 2010 11.
Our UK regulated revenues are linked to inflation see page 4 for an On 13 December 2010, the Secretary of State gave consent for a pressure reduction installation at Tirley in Gloucestershire.
explanation of the UK regulatory regime, so higher inflation Construction started on this installation in March 2011. leads to higher revenue.
We also have a significant quantity of Accordingly, we envisage that the full contracted capacity of index-linked debt, so our financing costs increase as inflation 950 GWh in the Milford Haven gas pipeline will be available for rises, providing an economic offset.
However, revenues and financing costs are both based on lagged measures of inflation, winter 2012 13.
4 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 and the time lags are not the same, so the economic offset is The Gas Act 1986, as amended the Act, provides the not perfect.
fundamental legal framework for gas companies.
The Act establishes the licences for gas transmission and distribution.
Corporate responsibility Our reputation depends on our stakeholders being able to trust Regulatory licences us and be confident in us.
We can only retain our right to We hold two gas transporter licences: one for our gas operate by working to the highest standards, by trusting our transmission business, including LNG storage, and one for our employees to do the right thing and by running our Company gas distribution business, including our metering business.
Our licences established under the Act require each of these National Grids Framework for Responsible Business, revised business activities to develop, maintain and operate an and relaunched in June 2010, provides a clear line of sight from economic and efficient network and to facilitate competition in our vision to how we manage our business and our day-to-day the supply of gas in Great Britain.
The Act also provide the dealings with our stakeholders.
National Grids company wide licensed businesses statutory powers such as the right to bury policies and position statements, available on its website, our pipes under public highways and the ability to purchase underpin the Framework.
land compulsorily in order to facilitate the conduct of our businesses.
More information on the corporate responsibility of National Grid can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and To ensure that our licensed businesses are operating efficiently, Accounts 2010 11 and on National Grids website at and that consumers are protected, we operate under six price www.
controls in the UK, comprising: two for our gas transmission operations, one covering our role as transmission owner TO Business conduct and the other for our roles as system operator SO : and one for This year, National Grid amended and reissued Doing the each of our four regional gas distribution networks.
In addition Right Thing Our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct.
to the six price controls, our LNG storage business has a price Doing the Right Thing provides a common set of practical control covering some aspects of its operations.
There is also a guidelines to help ensure our behaviours are lawful, comply tariff cap price control applied to certain elements of domestic with our policies and licences, and follow the values set out in metering and daily meter reading activities undertaken by our the Framework and National Grids core values.
face to face training of new starters and are making available online training for employees annually to ensure they Price control mechanism understand the Standards.
Because price control mechanisms restrict revenues, not profits, they encourage efficiencies within our regulated We have taken steps to prepare for the implementation of the business.
Savings that are made can be retained for the Bribery Act 2010 which comes into force in the UK in July 2011. remainder of the price control period, but the higher level of This has included undertaking a risk assessment, review of efficiency that led to these savings is then used to inform a new Company policies including Doing the Right Thing mentioned baseline level for the next price control period.
above and an extensive training and awareness programme that will include eLearning for all employees.
Price control regulation is designed to ensure that, as a monopoly, we charge reasonable prices, and to provide us with More information on the business conduct of National Grid can a future level of revenue sufficient to enable us to meet our be found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts statutory duties and licence obligations.
It also provides 2010 11 and on National Grids website at financial incentives to manage and operate our networks in an www.
economic, efficient and coordinated manner in accordance with our legal and licence obligations, offer good quality of service to Regulatory environment UK network users and invest in our networks in a timely and efficient manner to help ensure long-term security of supply is regulation maintained.
Regulatory framework During each price control review period, the amount of money In the UK, energy networks are regulated by the Office of Gas that can be earned by our regulated business is restricted by and Electricity Markets Ofgem.
Ofgem operates under the what is referred to as an RPI-X price control, which is normally direction of governance of the Gas and Electricity Markets reviewed every five years by Ofgem.
The RPI-X allowance is Authority GEMA and has established price control based upon Ofgems estimates of efficient operating mechanisms that restrict the amount of revenue that can be expenditure opex, capital expenditure capex and asset earned by regulated businesses.
replacement, together with an allowance for depreciation and Ofgems main priority is to protect the interests of consumers.
It an allowed rate of return on capital invested in our businesses.
does this by regulating monopoly activities such as the These are used, together with the regulatory asset base value companies that run the gas networks and by promoting RAV to calculate the allowed revenue.
The RAV, which competitive gas markets.
represents the value ascribed by Ofgem to the capital employed National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 5 in our regulated businesses, is adjusted to reflect asset energy industry: and enable efficient network companies to additions, removals, depreciation and the rate of inflation.
The RPI-X price control takes the retail price index as its To allow the lessons of the review to be accommodated in full, benchmark and subtracts X, an efficiency factor, from it.
For Ofgem extended the current transmission price control from its example, at a time when annual inflation was 3%, a value for X scheduled end in March 2012 by one year to March 2013. of 2% would allow our regulatory businesses to raise prices by Following the RPI-X@20 review, Ofgem has identified a no more than 1%.
Price controls also include incentive modified price control approach, designated as RIIO, to deliver mechanisms to encourage us to improve our performance in and meet the changing future needs of the energy market.
The RIIO model The price control provides our regulated business with a level of Ofgems revised RIIO regulatory framework will be implemented revenue that is sufficient to finance the business if they are in the next round of gas distribution and gas transmission price efficiently run.
The revenue allowance is based on an estimate controls, which will start in April 2013. of the costs an efficient company would face in running its regulated businesses and includes operating expenditure, RIIO refers to the formula: capital expenditure, financing costs including both debt and Revenue Incentives Innovation Outputs equity, and taxation.
To attract the efficient investment needed for the industry, Current price controls Ofgems RIIO model is intended to incentivise network The key elements of the current price controls for gas companies to deliver the outputs demanded by consumers and transmission are that we are allowed to earn a 4.4% post-tax network users in an efficient and innovative way.
real return on our RAV, equivalent to a 5.05% vanilla return, The key features of the RIIO model are: with a 0.9 billion baseline five year capex allowance and a 0.3 billion five year controllable opex allowance.
a longer price control, lasting eight years, to provide In addition, we are subject to a number of incentives that can stronger incentives for networks to manage costs: adjust our transmission network revenue, covering areas such encouraging network companies to work more closely with stakeholders to identify what they want from energy as the cost of investment for additional capacity to facilitate new network companies.
This should help networks to identify, connections to the system.
and so better meet, the developing needs of the energy The key elements of the current price controls for gas market: distribution are that we are allowed to earn a 4.3% post-tax real rewarding network companies with higher returns where rate of return on our RAV, equivalent to a 4.94% vanilla return, they meet the needs of the network users and consumers with a 2.5 billion baseline five year capex allowance and a in innovative and efficient ways.
However, network 1.6 billion five year controllable opex allowance.
companies that perform poorly can expect to receive lower Our gas transmission RAV currently stands at 4,889 million, returns: our actual vanilla return is 7.2% and return on equity is 15.8%.
encouraging network companies to become actively involved in delivering a sustainable energy sector: Our gas distribution RAV currently stands at 7,520 million, our supporting the development and delivery of a network actual vanilla return is 5.54% and return on equity is 12.1%.
service that provides long-term value for money to existing Ofgems review of price controls: RPI-X@20 and future consumers: and Since privatisation, the RPI-X mechanism has provided the providing clarity to future investors to ensure that network industry with strong incentives to be more efficient.
The level of companies can raise the finance needed in a timely opex costs has decreased over the years, transforming manner and at a reasonable cost to consumers.
However, over the Impact on National Grid Gas past few years new challenges, such as Great Britains The RIIO model will not only reward us for increased efficiency, transition to lower carbon emissions and the requirement to but also encourage us to engage more openly and effectively renew ageing networks, have caused Ofgem to review the with our stakeholders.
This will allow us to develop more robust continuing appropriateness of the RPI-X approach.
commercial relationships with current and future network users In March 2008, Ofgem announced the RPI-X@20 review, which to help us fulfil our vital role in the delivery of a sustainable was a two year project to review the workings of the current future energy sector.
It will also help us to respond and adapt approach to regulating Great Britains energy networks and our delivery plans to provide long-term value for money to develop future policy recommendations.
Ofgems RPI-X@20 review aims were to: drive improvements in Output measures in future price controls will give stakeholders a quality of service and efficiency: ensure that the regulatory clear understanding of what we will deliver in return for the framework is flexible to adapt to structural changes in the revenue that we receive from our customers.
The proposed output categories are: customer satisfaction: reliability and 6 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 availability: safe network services: connection terms: Principal risks and opportunities environmental impact: and social obligations.
These outputs will There are a number of risks that might cause us to fail to cover both primary and secondary deliverables.
We will be contribute to National Grids vision or to deliver growth in its required to demonstrate in price controls that the primary shareholder value.
We can mitigate many of these risks by outputs are material, controllable, measurable, comparable and acting appropriately in response to the factors driving our legally compliant.
The secondary deliverables will be evidenced business.
The principal risks are described here.
through our business plans to demonstrate the costs required to Regulatory settlements and long-term contracts deliver the primary outputs.
Four years into the eight year price Our ability to obtain appropriate recovery of costs and rates of control, there will be an interim review of the outputs that we return on investment is of vital importance to the sustainability were required to deliver, to ensure that they remain relevant.
We have an opportunity to help shape the As the energy landscape evolves, Ofgems RIIO model should future of the regulatory environment.
If we fail to take these encourage us in our gas distribution and gas transmission roles opportunities, we risk failing to achieve satisfactory returns.
to play a full part in the delivery of a sustainable energy sector Financial performance and to deliver network services offering long-term value for Financial performance and operating cash flows are the basis money to existing and future consumers.
for funding our future capital investment programmes, for servicing our borrowings and paying dividends.
Failure to Business drivers, principal achieve satisfactory performance could affect our ability to risks and opportunities deliver the returns we and our stakeholders expect.
Talent and skills Business drivers Harnessing and developing the skills and talent of our existing There are many factors that influence the success of our employees, and recruiting, retaining and developing the best business and the financial returns we obtain.
We consider the new talent, will enable us to improve our capabilities.
Failure to factors described here to be our principal business drivers.
engage and develop our existing employees or to attract and Price controls retain talented employees could hamper our ability to deliver in The prices we charge for use of our gas transmission and the future.
distribution networks are determined in accordance with Investment in our networks regulator approved price controls.
These arrangements include Our future organic growth is dependent on the delivery of our incentives and or penalty arrangements.
The terms of these capital investment plans.
In order to deliver sustainable growth arrangements has a significant impact on our revenues.
with superior financial performance we will need to finance our People investment plans.
Instability in the financial markets, loss of The skills and talents of our employees, along with succession confidence by investors, or inadequate returns on our planning and the development of future leaders, are critical to investment may restrict our ability to raise finance.
We believe that business success will be delivered through the performance of all current and future employees, Safety, reliability and customer service The returns we generate are dependent on operating safely and and enhanced by having a workforce that is diverse in its reliably, and providing a quality service to customers.
If we fail cultural, religious and community influences.
to meet our regulatory targets or the high standards we set Capital investment ourselves, we risk loss of reputation as well as financial Capital investment is a significant driver for organic growth.
In penalties imposed by regulators.
our regulated gas networks, the prices we charge include an allowed return for capital investment determined in accordance Efficiency with our price controls.
Simplifying and standardising our systems and processes will drive efficiency and reduce costs.
Transforming our operating Safety, reliability and efficiency model should enable us to deliver increased value to our Our ability to operate safely and reliably is of paramount shareholders.
If we do not achieve the expected benefits in importance to us, our employees, our contractors, our efficiency, then shareholder value will not grow as we hope or customers, our regulators and the communities we serve.
Operating efficiently allows us to minimise prices to our customers and improve our own financial performance.
Sustainability and climate change Safeguarding our global environment for future generations is Relationships and responsibility dependent on integrating sustainability and climate change Our reputation is vitally important to us.
We only earn the trust considerations into our business decisions and influencing and confidence of our stakeholders by conducting business in a legislators, regulators, employees, customers and suppliers to responsible manner.
Our reputation depends on our behaviours address climate issues and become more environmentally being lawful and ethical, on complying with our policies and responsible.
licences, and on living up to our core values.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 7 Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged Vision, strategy and workforce Developing our talent, leadership skills and capabilities objectives Positively shaping the energy and climate change agenda As a subsidiary company of National Grid, National Grid Gas with our external stakeholders participates in the National Grid vision and strategy, as These are the objectives against which our performance has described below: been measured this year.
A detailed discussion of our performance against each of the objectives can be found on Vision pages 9 to 13.
The vision is the long term aspiration for National Grid what we want to be in the future.
The vision statement has remained Line of sight unchanged since it was first published in 2007: In a number of places in this report, we refer to the principle of line of sight.
What we mean by this principle is that the We, at National Grid, will be the foremost international individual objectives of every employee should be set by electricity and gas company, delivering unparalleled safety, reference to the Company objectives, strategy and vision, reliability and efficiency, vital to the well-being of our ensuring that every individual is encouraged and incentivised to customers and communities.
contribute to the same collective goals.
Consequently, the We are committed to being an innovative leader in energy actions required to deliver the strategy are allocated and management and to safeguarding our global environment aligned with employee responsibilities.
Performance for growth Strategy Our performance, talent and reward management process for Our strategy is a medium term step in the journey to achieve managers is known as performance for growth P4G.
Formal the vision what we will be doing over the next few years.
It is annual P4G performance appraisals are carried out for every also the over arching principle that provides commercial context manager against their individual objectives and against the to each of the objectives and actions.
The appraisal assesses both what the individual has achieved during the year and how those Our strategy is designed to ensure that the objectives remain outcomes have been achieved.
Our staff performance and aligned with the factors that drive our business.
For the last reward framework for non-managerial grades, delivering three years, our strategy has been expressed in these terms: performance, applies the same principles in aligning individual We will build on our core regulated business base and objectives with those of the Company.
financial discipline to deliver sustainable growth and superior financial performance.
Strategy for 2011 12 National Grid has updated its line of sight framework and this We will operate and grow our business to deliver consistently refreshed framework reflects the new organisational superior financial returns by: arrangement, namely moving from a line of business structure Delivering excellent levels of safety, reliability, security, to a regional structure, as explained on page 3.
In addition, we customer service and environmental performance have increased the level of transparency of our strategic Using consistent and cost effective ways of working, actions.
This change will improve the connection between putting into practice shared processes and systems individual actions and the achievements the organisation needs Driving an inclusive, high performance culture by engaging to make in the year.
National Grids 2011 12 strategic actions and developing our employees which are relevant to us are: Helping to shape UK energy policies through working with Improve our customer experience and advance our external stakeholders and customers performance by at least 1 quartile.
Deliver key employee and performance programmes that Objectives underpin 2011 12 objectives.
To guide leaders, managers and individuals in our businesses Deliver cost reductions by further leveraging support and help deliver the strategy, we set out seven Company activity efficiencies, improve the buying experience and objectives: increase transparency of procurement savings.
Driving improvements in our safety, customer and Deliver common key processes and execute on best operational performance practice initiatives.
Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory and long-term Work with Ofgem and other stakeholders to implement a contracts with good returns successful rollover for TPCR4 and submit final proposals for Modernising and extending our transmission and RIIO-GD1 and RIIO-T1 plans to start in April 2013. distribution networks Ensure successful delivery of the core investment Becoming more efficient through transforming our programme.
operating model and increasingly aligning our processes Deliver the Gas Distribution transformation programme.
8 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Key performance indicators KPIs Our performance and the progress we have made against our Although all these measures are important, some are strategic aims and against the objectives we have set considered to be of more significance than others, and these ourselves are described below and on the following pages.
more significant measures are designated as KPIs.
Our financial and non-financial KPIs are highlighted here.
KPIs are We measure the achievement of our objectives both through used as our primary measures of whether we are achieving the use of qualitative assessments and through the monitoring our principal strategic aims of sustainable growth and superior of quantitative indicators.
To provide a full and rounded view financial performance.
We also use KPIs to measure our of our business, we use non-financial as well as financial performance against our objectives: the relationships between measures.
the objectives and the KPIs are shown below.
Financial KPI Objective Financial KPI Definition and performance Target Delivering strong Operational return Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution operational Achieve or exceed regulatory allowed sustainable return against the target set by our regulator for the 5 return over 5 year price control period regulatory year price control period see page 14 of: contracts with Gas Transmission Gas Distribution Gas Transmission 5.05% good returns 2010 11: 7.2% 2010 11: 5.54% Gas Distribution 4.94% 2009 10: 7.6% 2009 10: 6.3% Non-financial KPIs Objective Non-financial KPIs Definition and performance Target Modernising and Network reliability Reliability of gas network as a percentage against the extending our target set by our regulator see pages 10 and 11 transmission and Gas Transmission Gas Distribution Gas Transmission 100% distribution 2010 11: 100% 2010 11: 99.999% Gas Distribution 99.999% networks 2009 10: 100% 2009 10: 99.999% Driving Customer satisfaction Our position in customer satisfaction surveys see To improve improvements in page 10 safety, customer Gas Distribution th and operational 2010 11: 4 quartile ranking th performance 2009 10: 4 quartile ranking Employee lost time Number of employee lost time injuries per 100,00 Zero injury frequency rate hours worked on a 12 month basis see pages 9 and 10 2010 11: 0.16 2009 10: 0.09 Building Employee Employee engagement index calculated using Year-on-year increase transparency, trust engagement index responses to National Grids annual employee survey and an inclusive see page 12 and engaged Transmission Gas Distribution workforce business: business: 2010 11: not measured 2010 11: not measured 2009 10: 77% 2009 10: 68% Positively shaping Greenhouse gas Percentage reduction in greenhouse gas emissions Year-on-year reduction the energy and emissions against our 1990 baseline see page 13 climate change Year-on-year % agenda 2010 11: 3% increase 2009 10: 17% reduction National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 9 Driving improvements in safety, customer and Performance against operational performance objectives Safety Safety is critical both to business performance and to helping to We use a number of detailed performance measures in addition define the culture of the Company for our employees.
We to the key performance indicators shown on the previous page, recognise that our operations potentially give rise to risk and reflecting the scale and complexity of our operations.
We use that some of our assets could have catastrophic consequences qualitative assessments to judge progress against our to surrounding communities if not properly controlled.
We objectives in areas where numerical measures are less believe we can eliminate or minimise those risks to achieve relevant.
zero injuries or harm and to safeguard members of the public.
Alignment of performance measures and strategy We further believe that everyone in the Company, collectively Our strategy is stated on page 7.
Our performance in and individually, has a part to play in achieving this.
implementing the key elements of the strategy is measured in Process safety the following ways.
Process safety has been in the headlines in recent years as a We will build on our core regulated business base... result of incidents affecting other companies, such as the We invest in our existing business in order to improve efficiency Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico, the and reliability.
Buncefield explosion in the UK and the San Bruno pipeline explosion in California.
While we have not had any significant Our KPI in this area is network reliability, as shown on the incidents, operating major hazard sites and pipelines means previous page, and other performance measures include capital managing process safety risks is always at the front of our investment see page 11. thoughts in the way we run our business.
As well as ensuring... and financial discipline... we have effective management systems in place, we look to We seek to control operating costs and to invest capital only incidents at other companies to learn any lessons.
where we expect to be able to obtain an acceptable return.
We National Grid has continued to report process safety KPIs up to are committed to maintaining a single A range credit rating.
Executive level throughout the year and we have focused on Our KPI in this area is operational return as shown on the the effectiveness of the action plans to address any issues.
has been reinforced by getting our leadership team out into the field to discuss process safety.
We see this as a critical element... to deliver sustainable growth... to demonstrating both leadership commitment and that we There are a number of factors that determine the extent to listen to the views of our employees.
We believe that operational excellence will help us to build and maintain good relationships In 2010 11, National Grid continued to converge its approach to with our customers and regulators.
Managing the skills and process safety management across the Group with the talents of our employees helps us to recruit, retain and develop development of a Group level major accident hazard the best possible talent, creating a diverse and motivated framework.
We have an effective safety management system in workforce and positioning ourselves to take advantage of place which is the product of UK legislation and specific asset present and future opportunities.
While this has delivered compliance, the implementation of a Group framework will ensure greater Our KPIs in this area, as shown on the previous page, are consistency and support the drive for continual improvement.
customer satisfaction, employee lost time injury frequency rate, With elements covering risk assessment, control standards and employee engagement and greenhouse gas emissions.
Other overarching management requirements, implementation performance measures include measures of gender and ethnic throughout 2011 12 will require us to demonstrate that we have mix.
This will be supported by a cross... and superior financial performance group peer review process to provide assurance and facilitate We aim to deliver superior returns to National Grid.
the sharing of good practice.
Our performance measures include adjusted operating profit for Occupational safety the year see pages 14 to 16 and operating cash flows see We report our employee lost time injury frequency rate, page 17.
A full disclosure of our financial performance can be expressed as lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked, as a found on pages 13 to 17. key measure that can be compared with other companies.
This takes into account the number of employees and the hours Future changes to performance measures worked.
As well as reporting our lost time injury frequency rate, Following the adoption of new company objectives noted on we also report the number of lost time injuries.
page 7, we will be reviewing our KPIs and other performance During 2010 11 the number of lost time injuries was 19 measures and will report any changes in the 2011 12 Annual compared with 11 in 2009 10.
2010 11 saw a regrettable Report and Accounts.
increase in our lost time injury frequency rate to 0.16 compared 10 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 with 0.09 in 2009 10.
Definitions for lost time injury and lost time implementation of our new customer and user friendly systems injury frequency rate are included in the glossary on page 79. see Gas Distribution front office on page 11.
At the same time, we have seen a significant improvement in We recognise that system and process change alone is not the lost time injury performance of our contract partners enough to get us to our targets: we require more to deliver the workforce.
In 2010 11, there were 9 contractor lost time injuries standards of customer service to which we aspire.
we aim to change the look and feel of the interaction customers experience with us through the internet and printed media, The principal causes of lost time injuries were road traffic including reviewing other companies methods to determine collisions, musculoskeletal injuries and slips, trips and falls.
We will be able to use better management year has seen a range of programmes implemented to improve information to identify areas for closer focus for continuous performance in these areas.
We will develop and implement a stakeholder However, lost time injury frequency rate only shows part of the communication plan and implement training to support delivery picture and we measure a range of other performance of customer service.
We will also improve our complaints indicators internally to ensure we control our safety risks.
This handling processes to ensure we meet the Ofgem incentive and year has seen particular emphasis on high potential incidents.
drive down complaints by understanding root causes and These are typically the near misses that do not result in harm, learning from them.
but have the potential for serious injuries.
Examples include: It is important to develop meaningful performance dropped loads, vehicles overturning and damaging measurement tools, including performance targets for underground cables.
Distinguishing these incidents in terms of employees and contract partners to incentivise excellent potential severity has allowed us to use novel ways to performance.
communicate learning to its workforce, such as publishing a red top style newspaper featuring the stories of people Early indications are that our new strategy is driving involved in the incidents.
It also provides the focus on improvements.
All our networks are moving forward and we are developing campaigns to improve performance before people scoring at or above our expectations for customer satisfaction.
Gas Transmission Public safety Gas Transmission is facing a period of unprecedented change The safety of the public in the communities we serve is of prime within the energy sector.
We will need to be a flexible importance to us.
In 2010 11, 16 members of the public were organisation that is in tune with the market environment and injured as a result of our operations compared with 30 during with our customers.
In 2009 10, a single incident, Our growing list of customers includes gas storage and our involving a gas explosion in a property in Shrewsbury, caused more conventional gas customer connections.
These new 12 of these injuries.
Otherwise, the principal cause of injury was entrants will need our help in understanding our business and slips, trips and falls around our streetworks and road traffic its complexity.
We should not forget that we have a significant collisions with our vehicles.
existing customer group who rightly expect us to deliver great Enforcement action customer service too.
As customers ourselves, this is During 2010 11, we received two Improvement Notices in the something we can and do expect.
UK from the Health and Safety Executive HSE.
The first was Using information we have gathered from our customers and in relation to the maintenance of a short section of buried steel our employees, we are on our way to making the cultural shift in pipe running from an LPG vessel at one of our training centres.
the way we behave and the way in which we do things.
We are The notice was complied with and the pipe was subsequently reviewing our internal interactions to assess their impact on our found to be plastic.
The second notice was in relation to our service provision, we are looking to ensure our website is a approach to collecting data on the condition of service pipes in valued information resource, we will communicate the service blocks of flats.
We have agreed a programme of work with the level our customers can expect and are supporting our HSE to be completed by the end of September 2011. employees in developing their customer service skills.
Customer service We will continue to listen and respond to our customers and act Excellent customer service is not only consistent with our upon their feedback.
It is important to us that our customers values and simply the right thing to do, it makes good business recognise us as a company that is good to do business with sense as good customer service means fewer complaints and and one that listens.
Reliability Gas Distribution Gas Transmission Over the summer of 2010, work was completed on a new five We continue to maintain a world class standard of gas year Gas Distribution customer strategy.
While building on a transmission network reliability in the UK, with reliability scores number of existing initiatives to improve customer performance, of 100%.
we expect to benefit from continuous improvement to our current working practices and processes, and the National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 11 Gas Distribution In collaboration with our gas alliance and coalition partners, we Despite the severe winter, we again achieved a high network have replaced 1,791 kilometres of metallic gas main this year reliability level of 99.999%, reflecting the low volume of and more than 15,000 kilometres since 2002 03.
The vast customer interruptions during the year.
We met our regulatory majority of this relates to the long-term gas main replacement standards of service with the exception of one dealing with a programme agreed with the Health and Safety Executive.
category of connection quotations and several dealing with gas The reduction in other capital expenditure in 2010 11 compared escapes.
The coldest weather in December in over a century with 2009 10 primarily reflects the completion of a major new significantly increased emergency workload and hindered our pipeline in west London in 2009 10. engineers travel.
As a result we fell short in six of our eight standards of service for gas escapes, where we are required to Gas Metering Capital expenditure invested in new and replacement meters in attend 97% of the escapes between one and two hours of the report.
2010 11 amounted to 54 million compared with 65 million in 2009 10.
Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory and Becoming more efficient by transforming our long-term contracts with good returns operating model and increasingly aligning our Regulation For a full description of regulation including the key elements of processes current price control and developments in the year see pages 4 Gas Distribution front office GDFO to 6.
GDFO is a significant investment for National Grid in the replacement of our legacy IT applications for asset and work Modernising and extending our networks management systems and is planned to be deployed in three The principal measure we use to monitor organic investment is stages.
The core of the new system is SAP with three further capital expenditure, including investment in property, plant and satellite applications providing the specialist software we need equipment, and software.
to optimise our asset management capabilities and ensure our We ensure, before any investment is undertaken, that we are field staff are able to respond to customers quickly and clear how and when it will be remunerated and we only look to effectively.
invest capital where we expect to be able to earn an acceptable The first release of the new front office system went live in return consistently with our licence and statutory obligations.
October 2010 to over 1,000 employees who operate the Combined with procurement efficiencies this disciplined maintenance process.
We were also able to implement an early approach to capital investment has restricted the level of release to emergency response teams in the West and East increase in capital expenditure to 46 million compared with last Midlands areas ahead of the winter.
projects, there were teething problems to resolve in the first few Total capital expenditure during 2010 11 was 1,018 million weeks after going live and we were able to gain valuable compared with 972 million in 2009 10.
More detail on capital experience through the winter of how the new system works.
expenditure by business is provided below.
The next two stages of GDFO implementation will take place in Gas Transmission 2011 12.
In the spring summer, we will complete the full rollout Capital investment in 2010 11 was 289 million, compared with to the remaining 1,000 emergency response staff, add 232 million in 2009 10.
This mainly related to load related additional data capture functionality to the maintenance teams infrastructure on the gas transmission system.
Capital application and introduce a new customer system into our call investment included 9 million with respect to intangible assets, centres.
The customer system will benefit from the integrated principally software applications 2009 10: 13 million.
It will provide much greater information on job progress and any previous work at the customers premises, and enable Gas Distribution rapid communication of issues to and from the field in response Capital investment of 669 million in 2010 11 2009 10: 670 to customers needs.
The final stage, following later in 2011 12, million consisted of 476 million replacement expenditure will be for our repair teams and to get all remaining new 2009 10: 465 million and 193 million other capital construction and mains replacement work flowing through the investment 2009 10: 205 million.
Expenditure on software new system.
applications included within the above amounts was 75 million 2009 10: 54 million.
The increase in software expenditure is GDFO is not just a large IT replacement project.
It forms the primarily driven by the Gas Distribution front office system see foundation of a wider transformation that is under way in Gas below.
The emphasis in our new operating model is to focus on improvements to all our processes.
This focus will Replacement expenditure increased by 11 million compared deliver big benefits for our customers and will enhance the with 2009 10.
Performance under the mains and services efficiency and effectiveness of our operations.
Coupled with the replacement incentive scheme has been adversely affected by enhanced functionality from the investment in IT, we will be able the severe winter weather and we therefore expect to make a loss on this incentive in 2010 11.
12 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 to streamline our organisation and take advantage of our scale As always, we have worked to engage teams throughout the of operation.
business in creating action plans to address survey feedback.
We also regularly seek feedback about the survey process, and Information services IS transformation teams have consistently expressed a desire to have more time The IS transformation programme establishes a global IS to ensure their actions translate into meaningful results.
function for National Grid delivering services and new solutions Therefore, National Grid decided to postpone the 2011 survey to all parts of National Grid.
to enable us to work more deeply on action planning and other The transformation programme is underpinned by establishing key engagement activities.
a number of contracts for services that National Grid can We are working to ensure we create visible links between leverage from the broader IT marketplace where such performance and engagement, as we feel the two are commodities eg email and virtualisation services can deliver interconnected and vital to our success.
Throughout 2011, we excellence with economy of scale pricing.
Some of the key will be working on reinforcing the link between performance and contracts have been put in place this year with the remainder engagement, and supporting our survey champions as we planned for next year.
Sourcing decisions are taken with full prepare to launch the 2012 employee survey.
consultation with the appropriate bodies and sympathetic consideration of the impact on employees.
Inclusion and diversity Measures such as the percentages of female and ethnic An essential component of the transformation programme is to minority employees continue to be reviewed regularly at ensure that the structure of the IS department and its Executive Committee level.
At 31 March 2011, 24.5% of commercial arrangements are consistent with the overall National Grid Gass employees were female and 7.1% were National Grid strategy and specific line of business objectives, from ethnic minority groups, compared to 22.6% and 6.7% including National Grid Gas.
The IS strategy and associated respectively at 31 March 2010. architecture plans are well developed to deliver efficiencies in the existing IT services through consolidation and We aim to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, career rationalisation but also to invest in the new capabilities development, promotion, training and reward for all employees, necessary to meet the challenges ahead.
Where existing employees become disabled, our policy is to provide continuing The IS leadership team is well established and the overall employment and training wherever practical.
organisational structure is evolving as the commercial contracts are put in place.
Key functions that are critical to IS delivery are Following the decision not to undertake a full employee survey being developed to ensure we have the right internal in 2011, we are using an external partner to conduct a number capabilities in areas such as business relationships, security, of focus groups with a cross section of employees.
These focus architecture and strategy.
groups, in conjunction with interviews with senior management, will provide us with valuable insight into how inclusion and The next stages for the transformation are the completion of the diversity are perceived within the Company.
contract placements, the transitioning activities necessary to establish the new arrangements and ensuring the delivery of Our employee resource groups, which cover areas including the benefits.
gender, ethnicity, disability, faith, sexual orientation and new employees, continue to deliver results in three areas: providing Business process outsourcing professional development opportunities for members through The outsourcing to an external service provider in India, of workshops and programmes: supporting the Companys some of National Grids UK shared services activities which we community relations activities through fundraising, volunteering, utilise, was undertaken during the year.
This should deliver both and providing support to organisations: and working to increase financial and process benefits over the next five years.
broader understanding of inclusion through workshops, presentations and other educational events.
Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged workforce Developing talent, leadership skills and Employees capabilities We employ over 5,900 people.
Communication is a key theme Talent development continues to be a critical lever for both at a corporate and business level.
Multiple communication successful business performance.
During the past year, we channels are used, including the use of intranets, which we completed the development of our leadership transitions continue to develop to ensure the timely passing of information strategy.
In 2008, developing future leaders was created for to employees.
senior leaders: in 2009, foundations of leadership was created Employee engagement continues to be a key focus.
2010 saw for front line or first time leaders and in 2010, we launched two an unprecedented employee survey response rate of 97% programmes targeted at middle level leaders focused on their across National Grid.
This response rate generated an leadership style and business acumen.
extremely large amount of data and feedback to review.
To support the development needs of the broader management population, a comprehensive portfolio of classroom based and National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 13 eLearning solutions was introduced covering the areas of Financial performance communication, performance management, business acumen and general management.
More will be added as further Measurement of financial performance business needs are identified.
We report our financial results and position in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The UK apprenticeship training programmes enjoy Ofsted outstanding ratings on all criteria and were awarded the East Use of adjusted profit measures Midlands National Training Award for our advanced In considering the financial performance of our business and apprenticeship model.
segments, we analyse each of our primary financial measures of operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year into To accommodate year on year growth in technical training two components.
needs in the UK, significant investments have been made in expanding the Eakring and Nottinghamshire learning centres.
The first of these components is referred to as an adjusted profit measure, also known as a business performance Positively shaping the energy and climate measure.
This is the principal measure used by management to change agenda with external stakeholders assess the performance of the underlying business.
We aim to take the lead on the energy and climate change Adjusted results exclude exceptional items and issues facing society.
We will not simply react to the initiatives remeasurements.
These items are reported collectively as the of other relevant bodies.
Instead, we will be proactive in leading second component of the financial measures.
the agenda to make sure we help to safeguard the environment.
The items comprising the second component are excluded from the adjusted profit measures used by management to monitor Climate change financial performance as they are considered to distort the We have continued with our climate change strategy and comparability of our reported financial performance from year to energy efficiency programmes, focusing on initiatives that are year.
We remain committed to National Grids 45% by 2020 and 80% by 2050 greenhouse gas Accounting policy Q on page 31 explains in detail the items emissions reduction targets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
which are excluded from our adjusted profit measures.
During 2010 11, we worked to deliver our targets under year Adjusted profit measures have limitations in their usefulness one of National Grids first five year plan for greenhouse gas compared with the comparable total profit measures as they reduction.
The plan established a trajectory to 2015 as the halfexclude important elements of our financial performance.
Performance against the plan is However, we believe that by presenting our financial linked to the executive compensation scheme.
A more detailed performance in two components it is easier to read and interpret breakdown of emissions and performance against the plan can financial performance between periods, as adjusted profit be found on National Grids website.
measures are made more comparable by removing the distorting effect of the excluded items, and those items are Our total scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2010 11 were 2.6 million more clearly understood if separately identified and analysed.
tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent compared with 2.5 million The presentation of these two components of financial tonnes in 2009 10. performance is additional to, and not a substitute for, the We believe that a strong carbon price signal in the economy is comparable total profit measures presented.
essential to driving the right behaviours and to the delivery of a Management uses adjusted profit measures as the basis for low carbon society.
During 2010 11, we introduced a carbon monitoring financial performance and in communicating price of 52 per tonne into our investment appraisals in order to financial performance to investors in external presentations and challenge our designs and better understand where our announcements of financial results.
Internal financial reports, opportunities for decarbonisation exist.
As a regulated utility, we budgets and forecasts are primarily prepared on the basis of recognise that we will not always be funded to invest on this adjusted profit measures, although planned exceptional items, basis under existing price control agreements and, in such such as significant restructurings, and stranded cost recoveries circumstances, the information that we gather will be used to are also reflected in budgets and forecasts.
compensates for the limitations inherent in the use of adjusted It is equally important we understand the impact of past global profit measures through the separate monitoring and disclosure emissions on future climate change.
We have been working of the excluded items as a component of our overall financial with the UK Met Office to understand how these changes might performance.
affect our UK infrastructure and future energy demand.
Continuing and discontinued operations The financial results of our business and segments and of our other activities as described on pages 13 to 17 are presented within continuing operations.
There were no discontinued operations in 2010 11 or in 2009 10.
14 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Timing Reconciliation of adjusted earnings to earnings Years ended 31 March Our profit for the year can be impacted by timing differences, 2011 2010 including the recovery of revenues compared with regulatory m m allowed revenues.
These timing differences are, by their nature, Adjusted earnings 616 721 unpredictable, but our current expectation is that they will not Exceptional items 74 143 recur in 2011 12.
The closing balance of under-recovery at 31 Remeasurements 523 March 2011 was 51 million, compared with 50 million at 31 Earnings 695601 March 2010.
All other things being equal, that balance should be returned to customers in 2011 12, which would lead to a variance of 50 million when comparing 2011 12 operating Revenue by operating segment Years ended 31 March profit with 2010 11.
2011 2010 Key performance indicators KPIs Continuing operations m m Operational return Gas Transmission 889 934 We measure our performance in generating value from the Gas Distribution 1,522 1,516 investments we make by dividing the annual return of our Gas Gas Metering 311 329 Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses by their Other activities 38 45 regulatory asset bases.
Annual return consists of adjusted Total segmental revenues 2,760 2,824 earnings, amended for a number of items including regulatory Less: sales between operating segments 67 77 timing differences and depreciation, net financing costs and a Revenue 2,6932,747 pension deficit adjustment.
The regulatory asset base consists of invested capital, which is the opening RAV inflated to midOperating profit by segment year using RPI inflation.
This is equivalent to the vanilla return Years ended 31 March set out in our price controls.
2011 2010 Continuing operations m m For Gas Transmission, our operational return for 2010 11 was Gas Transmission 412 350 7.2% compared with 7.6% in 2009 10 and a regulatory allowed return vanilla return of 5.05%.
Gas Distribution 654 667 Gas Metering 136 106 For Gas Distribution, our operational return for 2010 11 was Other activities 13 13 5.54% compared with 6.3% in 2009 10 and a regulatory allowed Total operating profit 1,189 1,110 return vanilla return of 4.94%.
Profit for the year Adjusted operating profit by segment Adjusted profit and adjusted earnings Years ended 31 March Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations was 2011 2010 616 million in 2010 11 2009 10: 721 million.
Adjusted Continuing operations m m earnings, being adjusted profit for the year from continuing Gas Transmission 420 450 operations attributable to equity shareholders of the Company, Gas Distribution 711 711 were 615 million 2009 10: 720 million.
Gas Metering 136 148 Other activities 13 12 Profit and earnings Adjusted operating profit 1,254 1,297 Profit for the year from continuing operations was 695 million in 2010 11 2009 10: 601 million.
Earnings, being profit for the Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to adjusted year from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders of the Company, were 694 million 2009 10: profit and adjusted earnings Years ended 31 March 600 million.
2011 2010 The increase in profit and adjusted profit, and earnings and m m adjusted earnings, were a consequence of the changes in Adjusted operating profit 1,254 1,297 operating profit, net finance costs, exceptional finance costs Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and 370 254 and remeasurements, and taxation described in the following remeasurements sections.
Adjusted profit before taxation 884 1,043 Taxation excluding taxation on exceptional items and remeasurements 268 322 Adjusted profit 616 721 Attributable to non-controlling interests 1 1 Adjusted earnings 615 720 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 15 credit on exceptional items and remeasurements.
This Reconciliation of operating profit to profit and earnings compares with a net charge of 288 million in 2009 10, Years ended 31 March comprising a 322 million charge on adjusted profit before tax 2011 2010 and a 34 million credit on exceptional items and m m remeasurements.
Operating profit 1,189 1,110 The effective tax rate before and after exceptional items and Net finance costs 394 221 remeasurements was 30% and 13% respectively 2009 10: Total profit before taxation 795 889 31% and 32%, compared with a standard UK corporation tax Taxation 100 288 rate of 28% in both years.
Profit 695 601 Attributable to non-controlling interests 1 1 Analysis of operating profit and adjusted Earnings 694 600 operating profit 2010 11 compared with 2009 10 Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total Changes in revenue and other operating income, operating operating profit costs and operating profit for 2010 11 compared with 2009 10 Years ended 31 March are analysed by operating segment as follows: 2011 2010 Continuing operations m m Revenue and other Adjusted operating profit 1,254 1,297 operating Operating Operating income costs profit Exceptional items 65 187 Continuing operations m m m Total operating profit 1,189 1,110 2009 10 results 2,761 1,651 1,110 Add back 2009 10 exceptional items - 187 187 Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to total 2009 10 adjusted results 2,761 1,464 1,297 profit before taxation Gas Transmission 36 6 30 Years ended 31 March 2011 2010 Gas Distribution 7 7 - Continuing operations m m Gas Metering 18 6 12 Adjusted profit before taxation 884 1,043 Other activities 7 6 1 Exceptional items 96 187 Sales between businesses 10 10 - Remeasurements 733 2010 11 adjusted results 2,717 1,463 1,254 Total profit before taxation 795 889 2010 11 exceptional items - 65 65 2010 11 results 2,717 1,528 1,189 Net finance costs Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and The principal movements by operating segment are shown on remeasurements were 370 million in 2010 11 compared with the next page.
The increase is due to higher accretions on index-linked debt following the return of UK inflation.
Exceptional items and remeasurements Exceptional charges of 65 million in 2010 11 consisted of restructuring costs of 57 million and other charges of 8 million.
Exceptional charges of 187 million in 2009 10 consisted of restructuring charges of 72 million, environmental charges of 14 million, pension deficit charges of 58 million and other charges of 43 million.
There were exceptional charges of 31 million during 2010 11 relating to the early redemption of debt following the rights issue by National Grid in June 2010 2009 10: nil.
Financial remeasurements relate to net gains on derivative financial instruments of 7 million 2009 10: 33 million gains.
Taxation The net tax charge of 100 million in 2010 11 comprised a 268 million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 168 million 16 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 2010 11 compared with 2009 10: Gas Transmission The results for the Gas Transmission segment for the years Adjusted ended 31 March 2011 and 2010 were as follows: operating profit Years ended 31 March Continuing operations m 2011 2010 2009 10 adjusted operating profit 711 m m Timing of recoveries 1 27 Revenue and other operating income 912 948 Margin 2 10 Operating costs excluding exceptional items 492 498 Operating costs 3 9 Adjusted operating profit 420 450 Depreciation and amortisation 4 17 Exceptional items 8 100 Other 9 Operating profit 412 350 2010 11 adjusted operating profit 711 2010 11 compared with 2009 10: 1 - Some costs incurred in one period are only recovered through revenue generated in a subsequent period.
This Adjusted operating gives rise to variations in profit from year to year.
profit 2 - Price control revenue flat due to impact of negative RPI, m offset by small positive allowed real increase in revenues.
2009 10 adjusted operating profit 450 Reduction in margin largely due to loss on non-formula work Allowed revenues 1 3 offset by shrinkage margin and incentive income.
Timing of recoveries 2 13 3 - Higher pension costs and the impact of severe weather, LNG storage 3 8 partly offset by efficiency savings and lower insurance Depreciation and amortisation 4 4 premiums.
Other 2 4 - Reflects increased investment see page 11, including the 2010 11 adjusted operating profit 420 Gas Distribution Front Office see page 11 and completion of the Harefield to Southall pipeline in 2009 10.
1 - Reduction in allowed revenues collectable under our price controls.
Gas Metering 2 - Repayment of allowed revenues over-recovered in the The results for the Gas Metering segment for the years ended previous year.
31 March 2011 and 2010 were as follows: 3 - Decrease in profitability because of lower shipper auction Years ended 31 March revenues.
A new price control is effective from 1 April 2011.
2011 2010 4 - Increase reflects the charges arising from our ongoing m m capital investment programme.
Revenue 311329 Operating costs excluding exceptional items 175 181 Gas Distribution Adjusted operating profit 136 148 The results for the Gas Distribution segment for the years Exceptional items - 42 ended 31 March 2011 and 2010 were as follows: Total operating profit 136 106 Years ended 31 March 2011 2010 2010 11 compared with 2009 10: Continuing operations m m Revenue and other operating income 1,523 1,516 Adjusted Operating costs excluding exceptional items 812 805 operating profit Adjusted operating profit 711 711 Continuing operations m Exceptional items 57 44 2009 10 adjusted operating profit 148 Total operating profit 654 667 Revenues 1 17 Other 5 2010 11adjusted operating profit 136 1 - Lower revenues due to reduced meter rental charges and a decline in regulated meter population.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 17 Cash flows Financial position Cash flows from operating activities Balance sheet Cash generated from continuing operations was 1,706 million Our balance sheet at 31 March 2011 can be summarised as in 2010 11 compared with 1,872 million in 2009 10.
This follows: included cash outflows relating to exceptional items of 72 Net million and 123 million respectively.
Assets Liabilities assets m mm The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation was Property, plant and equipment 1,588 million in 2010 11, compared with 1,563 million in and non-current intangible assets 11,474 - 11,474 2009 10.
This included a net corporate tax payment in 2010 11 Current assets and liabilities 271 849 578 of 118 million compared with 309 million in 2009 10.
Other non-current assets and liabilities 5,611 1,222 4,389 Cash flows from investing activities Deferred tax - 1,873 1,873 Cash outflows from investing activities were 919 million in Total before net debt 17,356 3,944 13,412 2010 11 compared with 266 million in 2009 10.
Cash outflows Net debt 940 8,010 7,070 to purchase property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed Total as at 31 March 2011 18,296 11,954 6,342 assets, net of disposal proceeds, were 1,005 million in Total as at 31 March 2010 17,845 11,814 6,031 2010 11 compared with 952 million in 2009 10.
Interest received was 2 million in 2010 11 compared with 3 million in The 311 million increase in net assets from 6,031 million at 2009 10.
Net cash inflows from the disposal of financial 31 March 2010 to 6,342 million at 31 March 2011 resulted investments were 84 million in 2010 11 compared with 683 from the profit for the year of 695 million and other items million in 2009 10. totalling 16 million, offset by dividends paid of 400 million.
Cash flows from financing activities Net debt The net cash outflow from financing activities was 606 million Net debt increased by 211 million from 6,859 million at 31 in 2010 11 compared with a cash outflow of 1,301 million in March 2010 to 7,070 million at 31 March 2011.
This reflected net inflows from loans of 58 million from operations net of tax of 1,588 million were offset by 2009 10: 725 million outflow and net payments to providers capital expenditure, net of disposals, of 1,005 million, of finance, in the form of interest and dividends, of 664 million dividends paid of 400 million and net interest paid of 262 2009 10: 576 million.
million, together with fair value and other movements of 132 million.
Net interest cash outflows decreased from 273 million in 2009 10 to 262 million in 2010 11.
At 31 March 2011, net debt comprised borrowings of 7,902 million including bank overdrafts of 34 million, less derivative Dividends paid to shareholders increased to 400 million in financial instruments with a net carrying value of 507 million, 2010 11 compared with 300 million in 2009 10. cash and cash equivalents of 83 million, and financial investments of 242 million 31 March 2010: borrowings of Financial position and 7,672 million including bank overdrafts of 15 million less financial management derivative financial instruments with a net carrying value of 486 million, cash and cash equivalents of 1 million, and Going concern financial investments of 326 million.
Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that the Capital structure Company and its subsidiaries have adequate resources to We monitor the regulatory asset value RAV gearing of the Gas continue in business for the foreseeable future and that it is Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses.
This is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in calculated as net debt expressed as a percentage of RAV, and preparing the consolidated and individual financial statements indicates the level of debt employed to fund the regulated of the Company.
More details of our liquidity position are businesses.
It is compared with the level of RAV gearing provided under the heading Liquidity and treasury management indicated by Ofgem as being appropriate for these businesses, below and in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
To calculate RAV gearing for the regulated Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses we exclude an element of debt that is associated with the Gas Metering business.
RAV gearing as at 31 March 2011 was 54% compared to 57% as at 31 March 2010.
18 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Liquidity and treasury management companies including paying dividends, lending cash or levying Treasury policy charges.
Funding and treasury risk management for National Grid Gas is Funding and liquidity management carried out by the treasury function of National Grid under We maintain medium-term note and commercial paper policies and guidelines approved by the Finance Committees of programmes to facilitate long and short-term debt issuance into the Boards of National Grid and National Grid Gas.
The capital and money markets.
Finance Committees have authority delegated from the relevant Boards and are responsible for regular review and monitoring of At 31 March 2011, we had a $2.5 billion US commercial paper treasury activity and for the approval of specific transactions, programme unutilised, a $1.25 billion Euro commercial paper the authority for which may be further delegated.
programme unutilised and a 10.0 billion Euro medium-term note programme 5.2 billion issued.
The primary objective of the treasury function is to manage the funding and liquidity requirements of National Grid.
A secondary In addition we have both committed and uncommitted bank objective is to manage the associated financial risks, in the form borrowing facilities that are available for general corporate of interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, to within purposes to support our liquidity requirements.
Further details of the management of 2011, the Company had 425 million of long-term committed facilities undrawn, expiring in April 2014. funding and liquidity and the main risks arising from our financing activities are set out below, as are the policies for To facilitate debt issuance into the capital and money markets, managing these risks, including the use of financial derivatives, we maintain credit ratings.
Details of our long-term senior which are agreed and reviewed by the Boards and the Finance unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings are provided Committees.
The treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Debt We invest surplus funds on the money markets, usually in the and treasury positions are managed in a non-speculative form of short-term fixed deposits and placements with money manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or market funds that are invested in highly liquid instruments of products are matched to an underlying current or anticipated high credit quality.
Investment of surplus funds is subject to our business requirement.
counterparty risk management policy, and we continue to Commodity derivatives entered into in respect of gas believe that our cash management and counterparty risk commodities are used in support of the businesss operational management policies provide appropriate liquidity and credit requirements and their use is explained on page 20. risk management.
Details relating to cash, short-term investments and other financial assets at 31 March 2011 are Current condition of the financial markets shown in notes 15 and 16 to the consolidated financial The financial markets have essentially returned to normal for statements.
National Grid following the turmoil in the capital markets in 2008 and 2009.
Following National Grids rights issue, which We believe that maturing amounts in respect of our contractual completed in June 2010, our funding requirements were obligations can be met from existing cash and investments, operating cash flows and other financings that we reasonably modest.
Nevertheless, we issued approximately 350 million of new long-term debt and also repurchased 368 million.
We expect to be able to secure in the future, together with the use remain confident of our ability to access the public debt markets of committed facilities if required.
In line with our normal treasury practice we expect to continue Cash flow and cash flow forecasting to access the markets in order to manage actively our debt portfolio, optimise our finance costs and manage our Cash flows from operations are largely stable annually and over a period of years.
Our gas transmission and distribution refinancing risk.
operations are subject to multi-year price control agreements Credit ratings with our regulator, Ofgem.
It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around the Company that it uses reasonable endeavours to maintain an Both short and long-term cash flow forecasts are produced regularly to assist the treasury function in identifying short-term investment grade credit rating.
As of 31 March 2011, the longliquidity and long-term funding requirements, and we seek to term senior unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings enhance our cash flow forecasting processes on an ongoing respectively provided by Moodys Investor Services, Standard & basis.
Cash flow forecasts, supplemented by a financial Poors and Fitch were as follows all with outlooks of stable : headroom analysis, are monitored regularly to assess funding Moodys Investor Services A3 P2 adequacy for at least a 12 month period.
Standard & Poors AA2 As part of our regulatory arrangements, our operations are Fitch A F2 subject to a number of restrictions on the way we can operate.
Use of derivative financial instruments These include regulatory ring-fences that requires us to As part of our business operations, including our treasury maintain adequate financial resources and restricts our ability to activities, we are exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in undertake transactions with other National Grid subsidiary National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 19 interest rates and exchange rates.
We use financial twelve months in the future.
Cover generally takes the form of instruments, including financial derivatives, to manage forward sale or purchase of foreign currencies and must always exposures of this type.
Our policy is not to use financial relate to forecast underlying operational cash flows.
More details on derivative The result of this hedging activity is that our cash flow has financial instruments are provided in note 12 to the consolidated limited exposure to foreign currencies.
Our capital expenditure programme over the next few years will Refinancing risk management result in material foreign currency exposures as we purchase Refinancing risk is controlled mainly by limiting the amount of raw materials and components from overseas suppliers.
The debt maturities arising on borrowings in any financial year.
treasury function will seek to manage these exposures through Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the a range of hedging strategies and instruments.
contractual maturities of our borrowings over the next five In addition, we are exposed to currency exposures on years, with total contracted borrowings maturing over 41 years.
borrowings in currencies other than sterling, principally the We expect to be able to refinance this debt through the capital euro.
This currency exposure is managed through the use of and money markets as we have done during the year to 31 cross-currency swaps, so that post derivatives the currency March 2011. profile is almost entirely sterling.
Interest rate risk management More details can be found in note 28 a to the consolidated Our interest rate exposure arising from borrowings and deposits financial statements.
is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate debt and derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, Counterparty risk management Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
The interest rate risk management policy is to seek to minimise total financing costs from the use of derivative instruments, and from commercial being interest costs and changes in the market value of debt contracts entered into by the businesses, including commodity subject to constraints so that, even with an extreme movement contracts.
The National Grid Finance Committee has agreed a in interest rates, neither the interest cost nor the total financing policy for managing such risk on a portfolio basis across National Grid.
This policy sets limits as to the exposure that cost is expected to exceed preset limits with a high degree of certainty.
National Grid can have with any one counterparty, based on that counterpartys credit rating from independent credit rating Some of our bonds in issue are inflation-linked, that is their cost agencies.
National Grids exposure to individual counterparties is linked to changes in the UK Retail Prices Index RPI.
We is monitored daily and counterparty limits are regularly updated believe that these bonds provide an appropriate hedge for for changes in credit ratings.
The treasury function is revenues and our regulatory asset values that are also RPI responsible for managing the policy.
Where contracts carrying linked under our price control formulas.
credit risk are entered into outside the treasury function, part of The performance of the treasury function in interest rate risk the relevant counterparty limit can be allocated to the business management is measured by comparing the actual total area involved.
This ensures that National Grids overall financing costs of the National Grid debt with those of a exposure is managed within the appropriate limit.
passively managed benchmark portfolio with set ratios of fixed Where multiple transactions are entered into with a single rate to floating-rate debt, to identify the impact of actively counterparty, a netting arrangement is usually put in place to managing National Grids interest rate risk.
This is monitored reduce our exposure to credit risk of that counterparty.
When regularly by the Finance Committee of National Grid.
transacting interest rate and exchange rate derivatives, we use Within the constraints of our interest rate risk management market standard documentation, which provides for netting in policy, and as approved by the Finance Committee, we actively respect of all transactions governed by a specific ISDA manage our interest rate exposure and therefore the interest agreement with a counterparty.
rate profile will change over time.
Further information on the management of counterparty risk is In 2011 12, we expect our financing costs to continue to benefit provided in note 28 c to the consolidated financial statements.
from low short-term interest rates, some of which have already Valuation and sensitivity analysis been locked in using short-term interest rate derivatives.
We calculate the fair value of debt and financial derivatives by More information on the interest rate profile of our debt is discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at the included in note 28 a to the consolidated financial statements.
balance sheet date, including the credit spread for debt, and in the case of financial derivatives taking into account the credit Foreign exchange risk management quality of both parties.
The market yield curve for each currency We have a policy of managing our foreign exchange transaction is obtained from external sources for interest and foreign risk by hedging contractually committed foreign exchange exchange rates.
In the case of instruments that include options, transactions over a prescribed minimum size.
This covers a the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is used to minimum of 75% of such transactions occurring in the next six calculate fair value.
months and a minimum of 50% of transactions occurring six to 20 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 For debt and derivative instruments held, we utilise a sensitivity Metering competition investigation analysis technique to evaluate the effect that changes in As previously reported, on 25 February 2008 the Gas and relevant rates or prices would have on the market value of such Electricity Markets Authority GEMA announced it had decided instruments.
we had breached Chapter II of the Competition Act 1998 and Article 82 now Article 102 of the Treaty of the Functioning of As described in note 28 e to the consolidated financial the European Union and fined us 41.6 million.
Following statements, movements in financial indices would have the appeals, the Competition Appeal Tribunal reduced the fine to following estimated impact on the financial statements as a 30 million and the Court of Appeal further reduced the fine to consequence of changes in the value of financial instruments.
On 22 March 2010, we applied to the Supreme Years ended 31 March 2011 2010 Court for leave to appeal the Court of Appeals judgement.
On Other Other comprecompre- 28 July 2010, the Supreme Court denied our application and Income hensive Income hensive this ends the legal process.
The 15 million fine was paid to statement income statement income m m m m GEMA on 1 April 2010.
UK Retail Prices Index 0.50% 12 - 10 - Gas distribution mains replacement investigation UK interest rates 0.50% 7 13 516 As previously reported, in October 2008 we informed Ofgem that mains replacement activity carried out by the Gas Commodity contracts Distribution business may have been inaccurately reported.
Gas purchased for our own use relates to the operation of our Ofgem has now concluded its investigation and, following the gas transmission and gas distribution networks.
Contracts are reaching of a settlement between Ofgem and the Company, on accounted for as ordinary purchase contracts.
6 January 2011 Ofgem announced its intention to impose a penalty of 8 million and to find the Company in breach of In our gas transmission operations, we are obliged to offer for certain obligations in respect of the reporting of mains sale through a series of auctions, both shortand long-term, a replacement data.
Ofgem also stated that the penalty would predetermined quantity of entry capacity for every day in the have been higher had it not been for the cooperation and year at pre-defined locations.
Where, on the day, the gas corrective action by the Company.
On 10 March 2011, following transmission systems capability is constrained, such that gas is the end of the period in which representations could be made in prevented from entering the system for which entry capacity respect of the proposed decision, Ofgem wrote to us to confirm rights have been sold, then UK gas transmission is required to its decision.
On 13 May 2011, we received the Final Penalty buy back those entry capacity rights sold in excess of system Notice the penalty has now been paid.
Forward and option contracts may be used to reduce the risk and exposure to on the day entry capacity prices.
Related party transactions We provide services to and receive services from related Commitments and contingencies parties, principally fellow subsidiary companies of National Grid.
Commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March 2011 In the year ended 31 March 2011, National Grid Gas charged and 2010 are summarised in the table below: 20 million and received charges of 76 million from related 2011 2010 parties other than Directors and key managers, compared with m m 21 million and 139 million respectively in 2009 10.
Future capital expenditure contracted but not Further information relating to related party transactions is provided for 428 533 contained within note 25 to the consolidated financial Total operating lease commitments 70 77 statements.
Details of key management compensation and Other commitments and contingencies 19 26 amounts paid to Directors are included within notes 3 c and Information regarding obligations under pension and other post- 3 d to the consolidated financial statements respectively.
retirement benefits is given below under the heading Retirement arrangements.
Retirement arrangements We propose to meet all of our commitments from existing cash The substantial majority of our employees are members of the and investments, operating cash flows, existing credit facilities, National Grid UK Pension Scheme, which is operated by Lattice future facilities and other financing that we reasonably expect to Group plc, an intermediate holding company of National Grid be able to secure in the future.
We do not provide any other post-retirement benefits.
The scheme has both a defined benefit section, which is closed to Details of material litigation as at 31 March 2011 new entrants, and a defined contribution section, which is We were not party to litigation that we considered to be material offered to all new employees.
Save as set out below, there have been no governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings in the last 12 In September 2010 the UK government changed the basis for months which may have or have had significant effects on the statutory pension increases from the retail price index RPI to Companys financial position or profitability.
the consumer price index CPI.
The scheme rules of our pension scheme specifically reference RPI.
As a consequence, National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 21 the impact of the Governments move to CPI was predominantly Financial instruments limited to our guaranteed minimum pensions and the financial We normally opt to apply hedge accounting in most consequence was an approximate 50 million reduction in plan circumstances where this is permitted.
Critical accounting policies As there is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for The application of accounting principles requires us to make charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to National estimates, judgments and assumptions that may affect the Grid Gas, we account for the scheme as if it were a defined reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses contribution scheme and do not recognise any share of the and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the assets and liabilities of the scheme.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates using historical experience, consultation with experts and other Actuarial position methods that we consider reasonable in the particular A triennial valuation is carried out for the independent trustees circumstances to ensure compliance with IFRS.
Actual results of the scheme by professionally qualified actuaries, using the may differ significantly from our estimates, the effect of which projected unit method.
The purpose of the valuation is to design will be recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise a funding plan to ensure that present and future contributions to the revision become known.
should be sufficient to meet future liabilities.
Certain accounting policies, described below, have been The 2010 valuation is nearing completion and we have reached identified as critical accounting policies, as these policies an agreement in principle with the Trustees and are in the later involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or stages of finalising documentation.
The discussion of critical accounting policies The last completed full actuarial valuation of the National Grid below should be read in conjunction with the description of our UK Pension Scheme was as at 31 March 2007.
This concluded accounting policies set out in our consolidated financial that the pre-tax funding deficit was 442 million in the defined statements.
benefit section on the basis of the funding assumptions.
Revenue Employer cash contributions for the ongoing cost of this plan Revenue includes an assessment of gas transportation services are currently being made at a rate of 29.4% of pensionable supplied to customers between the date of the last invoice and payroll.
Changes to the estimate of the gas transportation The next valuation of the scheme is due as at 31 March 2013. services supplied during this period would have an impact on the reported results.
Accounting policies Estimates of unbilled revenues amounted to 165 million at 31 Basis of accounting March 2011 compared with 184 million at 31 March 2010.
The consolidated financial statements present the results of Estimated economic lives of property, plant and equipment National Grid Gas for the years ended 31 March 2011 and 2010 The reported amounts for depreciation of property, plant and and financial position as at 31 March 2011 and 2010.
They equipment and amortisation of non-current intangible assets have been prepared using the accounting policies shown, in can be materially affected by the judgments exercised in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards determining their estimated economic lives.
Hedge accounting In complying with IFRS, we are also complying with the version Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge certain of IFRS that has been endorsed by the European Union for use economic exposures arising from movements in exchange and by listed companies.
interest rates or other factors that could affect either the value of the Companys assets or liabilities or affect future cash flows.
Choices permitted under IFRS IFRS provide certain options available within accounting Movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments standards.
Material choices we have made, and continue to may be accounted for using hedge accounting where the make include the following: relevant eligibility, documentation and effectiveness testing requirements are met.
If a hedge does not meet the strict Presentation formats criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is ineffectiveness We use the nature of expense method for our income statement or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements will be recorded and total our balance sheet to net assets and total equity.
in the income statement immediately instead of being In the income statement, we present subtotals of total operating recognised in the statement of comprehensive income or by profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, being offset by adjustments to the carrying value of debt.
together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items Exceptional items and remeasurements and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income are presented on the face of the income statement.
and expenditure that, in the judgement of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, 22 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of the Pension obligations companys financial performance and distort the comparability Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for as if the of financial performance between periods.
National Grid UK Pension Scheme were a defined contribution scheme as there is neither a contractual arrangement, nor a Items of income or expense that are considered by stated policy under which the Company is charged for the costs management for designation as exceptional items include such of providing pensions.
items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, material changes in environmental A change in these arrangements may lead to the Company provisions, gains or losses on disposals of businesses or recognising the cost of providing pensions on a different basis, investments and debt redemption costs.
together with a proportion of the actuarial gains and losses and of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of Sensitivities derivative financial instruments.
These fair values increase or In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices and could have on our results and financial position, the following prices over which the Company has no control.
sensitivities are presented: Tax estimates Revenue accruals The tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax rates A 10% change in our estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March in effect.
The determination of appropriate provisions for 2011 would result in an increase or decrease in our recorded taxation requires us to take into account anticipated decisions net assets and profit for the year by approximately 12 million of tax authorities and estimate its ability to utilise tax benefits net of tax.
through future earnings and tax planning.
Asset useful lives Carrying value of assets and potential for impairments An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year The carrying value of assets recorded in the consolidated on average would reduce our annual depreciation charge on balance sheet could be materially reduced if an impairment property, plant and equipment by 11 million pre-tax and our were to be assessed as being required.
Impairment reviews are annual amortisation charge on intangible assets by 3 million carried out when a change in circumstance is identified that pre-tax.
indicates an asset might be impaired.
An impairment review Hedge accounting involves calculating either or both of the fair value or the valueIf using our derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting in-use of an asset or group of assets and comparing with the had not been achieved during the year ended 31 March 2011 carrying value in the balance sheet.
then the profit for the year would have been 38 million higher These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the than that reported net of tax, and net assets would have been price that could be obtained for, or the future cash flows that will 29 million higher.
be generated by, an asset or group of assets, together with an Assets carried at fair value appropriate discount rate to apply to those cash flows.
A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value Assets and liabilities carried at fair value would result in an increase or decrease in the carrying value of Certain financial investments and derivative financial derivative financial instruments of 51 million.
instruments are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value Provisions rather than historical cost.
A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows estimated The fair value of financial investments is based on market in respect of provisions for liabilities would result in an increase prices, as are those of derivative financial instruments where or decrease in our provisions of approximately 20 million.
Other derivative financial instruments are valued using financial models, which include judgements on, in Accounting developments particular, future movements in exchange and interest rates.
Accounting standards, amendments to standards and interpretations adopted in 2010 11 Provisions In preparing our consolidated financial statements we have Provisions are made for liabilities, the timing and amount of complied with International Financial Reporting Standards, which is uncertain.
These include provisions for the cost of International Accounting Standards and interpretations environmental restoration and remediation, restructuring and applicable for 2010 11.
The standards, amendments to employer and public liability claims.
standards and interpretations adopted during 2010 11 are Calculations of these provisions are based on estimated cash discussed in the financial statements on page 33.
None of flows relating to these costs, discounted at an appropriate rate these resulted in a material change to our consolidated results, where the impact of discounting is material.
The amounts and assets or liabilities in 2010 11 or in those of previous periods.
timing of cash flows relating to environmental liabilities are based on management estimates supported by the use of external consultants.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 23 Accounting standards, amendments to standards and interpretations not yet adopted New accounting standards, amendments to standards and interpretations which have been issued but not yet adopted by National Grid are discussed in the financial statements on page 33.
