Financial Review Alex Short, Finance Director 1 0.4% Turnover increase 15.7m Free cash ow 16.6m Net debt Profit before tax for the year ended 29 January 2011 is Our financial metrics remain very reported at 30.4m, an increase on the prior year of 24.5%, however this was after charging exceptional items of 1.2m.
During the year fuelled by Normalised profit before tax pre exceptional items increased continued sales growth from our to 31.6m, an increase of 13.3% on the prior year.
core brands across new and existing EBITDA pre exceptional items increased by 7.3% to 40.4m, being a slightly reduced EBITDA margin of 18.2%, distribution channels, we have held previously 18.7%.
margins, delivered strong cash In the financial period A. G. BARR continued to outperform flows and continued to invest behind the U. K. soft drinks market.
Full year sales of 222.4m were achieved, an increase of 10.4% 21.0m on the prior year.
our brands, infrastructure and organisational capability.
Our balance Throughout the year, our primary focus was on delivering the sales fundamentals of distribution, availability and visibility.
sheet strength has improved and Our core brand portfolio performed well, growing volume and value share, particularly within England and Wales.
net debt is reducing ahead of plan.
Within the context of a very buoyant U. K. soft drinks market which saw volume increase by 3% and value by 7% Source: Nielsen 29 01 11 our overall market share of carbonates, excluding mixers, increased by 7% and in England and Wales market share increased by twenty percentage points.
This was achieved whilst also delivering growth in the average price per litre paid by consumers Source: Nielsen Scantrack Data.
18 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our growth continued to be balanced across both the The second key activity of the year related to the successful carbonates and still drinks and water stills segments.
management of the operational change associated with the closure of the Mansfield site and the enabling capital The carbonates market performed robustly within an economic investment programme at Cumbernauld.
This programme environment where consumers sought established brands, of activity has been well managed with the closure of the quality and value for money.
Overall the carbonates market Mansfield operation now anticipated to be complete by the end delivered value growth of 10% with sports and energy drinks of the first quarter of 2011.
The Mansfield site has been sold delivering growth in excess of 20%.
A. G. BARR carbonates with final completion of the contract expected in June 2011. delivered growth of 10.7% ahead of the flavoured carbonates category which was closer to 8%.
In absolute terms the Margins increase equated to 16.6m.
A substantial element of this The current economic environment can at best be described was delivered through distribution increases across our as volatile.
In addition to the underlying low growth environment core brands of IRN-BRU, Barr flavoured carbonates and and the increasing personal taxation burden, weak sterling, increasingly Rubicon carbonates.
increasing global demand and Middle East tensions are combining together leading to real inflationary pressure.
Our stills segment delivered a year on year increase of 9.4% In our business this manifests itself in both increasing cost in a market which experienced growth of 4%.
This equated of raw materials and reduced consumer confidence.
to an increase in sales of 4.3m, which was mostly fuelled by distribution gains from the Rubicon brand.
Stills continue In conjunction with the delivery of double digit sales growth, to account for over a fifth of our total portfolio in line with the we have made strenuous efforts to protect operating margins prior year.
through successful delivery of modest price increases, operational and financial hedging activity, tight cost control All subcategories within the product portfolio delivered year and capital investment programmes focused at delivering on year growth in sales revenue.
Water revenues grew by 5% improved efficiencies.
Together with product mix, slightly with continued focus on cost control and improvements to more focused towards carbonates, this has resulted in an sales mix again leading to increased margin from this category.
improvement in our gross margin pre exceptional items from 51.3% to 51.6%.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 Financial Review continued A. G. BARRs operating margins were resilient in the period.
A combination of operational gearing due to strong volume performance and continued strong cost control underpinned margins.
During the year we have continued to see the benefits of The interest cost included the full year effect of interest charges operational restructuring programmes and improvements amounting to 1.4m offset to a small extent by 0.1m of interest within our manufacturing and distribution activities.
The latest income on cash balances.
Finance income of 0.2m is reported investments at our Cumbernauld facility have delivered tangible through the interest line, being the expected return on scheme manufacturing line speed improvements, reduced material assets relative to the interest costs associated with the defined requirements through light weighting of PET, improved energy benefit pension scheme deficit.
efficiency and on full completion of the Mansfield closure, will have led to reduced headcount requirements.
Whilst In order to manage the Groups exposure to interest rate we had expected these would deliver margin enhancement movements, the Group entered into a three year interest opportunities through the course of 2011 12, in reality within rate swap during 2008.
In accordance with IAS39 we have the current economic environment, these have and will continued to hedge account for this transaction with any continue to help us offset some of the inflationary pressures resulting volatility in interest movements being reflected through resulting from raw material pricing.
the balance sheet rather than through the income statement.
During the year the mark to market fair value of the cash flow The integration of the Rubicon business which was completed hedge reserve improved from a liability of 1.0m to 0.4m.
during the prior year has given us a solid national platform on The interest rate hedge will unwind in July 2011 at which time which to build.
The Group has continued to invest further in our interest costs are expected to revert to prevailing rates.
sales execution, brand building activities and has developed our organisational capabilities across central functions without The Group continues to operate two banking facilities with materially impacting operating margins.
These include a revolving credit facility which expires in July 2011 and a five year acquisition facility, which expires Operating profit of 32.7m before exceptional items was in July 2013.
We have successfully concluded refinancing reported during the year representing an increase of 9.9% negotiations and will replace the expiring 2011 facility with on the prior year.
Operating margins reduced slightly from a new three year working capital facility with coverage 14.8% to 14.7% however this followed a prior year performance through to 2014. where margins had increased 120 basis points, from 13.6% to 14.8% and reflects our continued investment programme.
Taxation The tax charge of 7.9m represents an effective tax rate Interest of 25.8%.
The effective tax rate as reported in the accounts A net interest cost of 1.1m was reported in the financial for the previous year was 26.6%.
The reduction results from period, 0.8m lower than the prior year.
This is best the tax relief on the maturity of an SAYE scheme in the year represented by the table below: along with the impact of the change in the deferred tax rate from 28% to 27% at the year end.
000s 000s Earnings per Share EPS Basic EPS for the period was 58.8p, up 25.6% on the same Finance income 77 period last year.
Underlying EPS at 61.2p represents an Finance costs 1,423 increase of 14.9% on the prior year.
Interest related to Group borrowings 1,346 Dividends Pensions interest due on defined The board is recommending a final dividend of 18.66p per benefits obligation 4,202 share to give a total dividend for the year ending 29 January Expected return on scheme assets 4,446 244 2011 of 25.41p.
This represents an increase of 10% compared to the prior year.
Total finance cost 1,102 20 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CAGR 12.0% CAGR 11.6% 35 250 30 200 25 150 20 15 100 10 50 5 0 0 Year Ending Year Ending Balance Sheet Review 2010 11 was a year of significant operational change.
The Groups balance sheet has strengthened during the period The most significant project expenditure related to the with net assets increasing from 100.5m to 116.7m.
This has PET bottling capacity increases at Cumbernauld to facilitate mostly been driven by an increase in current assets, notably the closure of Mansfield.
Combined bottle blowing and filling inventory and trade receivables and a reduction in non-current speeds for small PET bottles have increased from 27,000 liabilities being a reduction in retirement benefit obligations and bottles per hour to 48,000.
Large bottle 2 Litre PET filling reduced borrowings.
speeds have increased from 14,000 bottles per hour to 21,000.
These increased running speeds have necessitated The Group has banking facilities with RBS totalling 70.0m, the upgrade of conveyor and palletising systems.
The average of which 40.0m is a five year term loan maturing July 2013, crew size for each of the four production lines at Cumbernauld with the balance funded by a three year revolving credit facility is now four people.
During the financial year, a further 8.0m of debt was repaid in line with the five year Other smaller projects have included the final payments facility agreement, with a further 10m due to be repaid in for the replacement tunnel pasteuriser for the canning line the financial year ending January 2012. at Cumbernauld, a smaller flash pasteuriser to facilitate an increase in fruit carbonate products, process room Leverage and interest cover are comfortably within the improvements at Tredegar and replacement warehouse required covenant levels.
Within logistics, investment has included the purchase of commercial vehicles for both the Scottish Return on capital employed for the period increased to 21.4% and English direct sales operations whilst on the information previously 19.2%, reflecting the increase in normalised profit technology front investment has included the completion of 13.3% relative to a fairly flat asset base.
of the upgrade to our ERP platform which has included the installation of a trade management module to manage trade Non-Current Assets promotional expenditure.
In line with both the requirements of IAS36 and our accounting policies, the Group undertook an impairment In the forthcoming year we anticipate capital expenditure to review of all tangible and intangible assets during the year.
Included within this estimate is As a consequence of this review the Group has impaired the 2.9m for a proposed wind turbine project.
These estimates carrying value of the Taut, Vitsmart and Findlays intangible exclude the sale of the Mansfield site anticipated to conclude assets.
This has reduced the carrying value of intangible in June 2011, the sale of residual Mansfield plant and the assets by 1.1m.
The residual value of intangible assets of potential sale of the Atherton site which is the subject of 74.9m relates to the carrying value of the Strathmore and ongoing discussions.
Rubicon brands, goodwill and customer lists.
Current Assets and Liabilities Property, plant and equipment increased by 2.7m in the Current assets increased in the period from 59.5m to year to 58.6m.
66.6m reflecting an increase in both inventories and trade receivables offset by lower cash balances.
In the period Capital expenditure during the period amounted to 9.8m inventories increased by just under 30% being an increase net 9.6m : this is significantly higher than the previous year of 4.8m on the prior year.
Trade receivables increased by net 5.3m but slightly lower than previous guidance.
15.2%, an increase of 4.6m, whilst cash balances reduced by 2.5m.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 profit Before Tax m Jan 06 17.9 Jan 07 19.1 Jan 08 21.3 Jan 09 23.4 Jan 10 27.9 Jan 11 31.6 Turnover m Jan 06 129 Jan 07 142 Jan 08 148 Jan 09 170 Jan 10 202 Jan 11 222 Financial Review continued In the period, raw material stocks increased by 49.4% 2.3m Current Liabilities reflecting both a significant increase in the cost of mango Current liabilities have increased by 3.9m, to 49.7m.
pulp but also the decision to buy forward pulp to benefit Trade and other payables rose by 7.7m, again reflecting from lower cost of goods.
This pulp is stored locally at the the timing of the year end but also an increase in the average Tredegar production site.
Whilst elements of the finished goods payment period of 4 days.
The increase in Trade payables increase related to increased levels of trading, the increase has been partially offset by a 3m reduction in borrowings also reflected the requirement to build PET stocks prior to the as the repayments relating to the acquisition facility technically closure of Mansfield ahead of final production commissioning fall outside of the 2012 year end.
The redundancy provision at Cumbernauld and a requirement to build Strathmore relating to the closure of the Mansfield site has reduced inventory to facilitate a two week production line overhaul.
from 2.0m to 0.8m mainly relating to employees who Our inventory holding period has increased to an average are expected to leave the site in the first quarter.
of 71 days and the target is to bring this back in line with the prior year on completion of the current operational changes.
Cash Flow and Net Debt Our financial position remains strong as we continue to see Trade and other receivables increased by 4.6m as a result the benefits of improved turnover translating into improved of higher levels of trading and the timing of the year end.
operating profits and strong cash flows.
In the year, average debtor days increased from 49 to 52 days.
With the last trading day being Friday 28 January the three day Free cash flow generated in the period was 15.7m previously increase reflected the fact that a number of receipts did not 17.9m reflecting 4.3m of additional capital expenditure become due until after the closure of the year end.
Debtor which mostly related to the closure of our Mansfield site management has continued to be a key focus area during and the development of our facility at Cumbernauld.
the year with the team adopting the use of the Experian 360 software tool to manage credit exposure more proactively.
As at 29 January 2011 the Groups closing net debt position I am pleased to report that we have continued to experience was 16.6m, being the closing cash position of 8.4m, net low levels of bad debt through the credit control teams of the borrowings of 25.0m.
This represents a net debt: continued vigilance.
EBITDA ratio of just over 0.4 times, with interest cover in excess of 25 times.
This is a 24.9% reduction on the prior We continue to hold the Atherton site as an asset classified as year net debt position of 22.1m.
Management are confident based on discussions with interested parties that they will be able to dispose of the Free cash flow and net debt ended the year slightly better site within the next 12 month period.
than our half year expectation following delayed supplier payments relating to final production line commissioning and a delay to the proposed Wind Turbine project.
During the year the Group continued to make additional contributions to the defined benefit pension scheme of 3.1m, dividends totalling 9.0m were distributed, 8.0m of bank borrowings were repaid and the Company funded the purchase of 2.1m net of shares on behalf of various employee benefit trusts to satisfy the ongoing requirements of new and maturing share schemes.
22 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Historic share price for the last six years 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Financial Year Exceptional Items Pensions A total of 1.2m of exceptional charges has been incurred During the year, the Company continued to operate two during the year.
These relate to the impairment of three pension plans, being the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2005 Defined intangible brand assets, dual running cost following the Contribution Pension Scheme, and the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 closure of our Mansfield distribution operation offset by Pension and Life Assurance Scheme.
The latter is a defined an exceptional pension curtailment credit.
benefit scheme based on final salary which also includes a defined contribution section for pension provision to new Following the announcement to close our Mansfield site executive entrants.
The assets of both schemes are held early in 2011 we progressed with outsourcing a proportion separately from those of the Company and are invested in of our primary logistics functions in June of 2010.
The main section of the defined benefit completed the integration of the Rubicon business with the scheme was closed to new entrants on 5 April 2002 and cessation of in-house storage and distribution operations at the executive section closed on 14 August 2003. the Mansfield site and the exit from existing Rubicon third party logistics operations.
This change was implemented in parallel The area of pensions has once again seen tremendous with the project to increase capacity at the Cumbernauld site, volatility during the year.
Under IAS19, our previously creating sufficient operating capacity to absorb all current PET reported deficit of 5.9m has now become a surplus packaged products from the Mansfield factory and allow for of 2.1m.
This follows 4.2m of employee and Company projected future growth.
contributions and significant return on assets which at 5% delivered 4.9m more than previously expected.
As anticipated at the time we have incurred 0.5m of dual Reductions to ongoing liabilities relating to assumed running costs in the financial year 2010 11.
These costs have retirement dates for deferred members and the valuation to some extent been offset by a 0.3m pension curtailment of deferred pensions in line with CPI have in the main credit following the departure of 61 employees from the been offset by changing mortality assumptions.
In addition the overall redundancy provision has been reduced by 0.1m reflecting individuals who have left In line with IAS19 and IFRIC14 the pension surplus has ahead of taking redundancy.
been recognised as an asset.
Finally in light of the current economic environment and The next formal actuarial valuation will be undertaken as the current focus on our core brands the Group undertook at April 2011.
Until the result of this exercise is complete an impairment review of intangible assets during the year.
the pension trustees and the Company have agreed to As a consequence of this review the Group has impaired maintain deficit contributions at their current level.
the carrying value of the Taut, Vitsmart and Findlays intangible assets.
This review included an assessment of the performance Share Price and Market Capitalisation of each brand relative to their category, future growth potential At 29 January 2011 the closing share price for and future investment required to build these brands in line with A. G. BARR p. l. c. was 11.60.
The Group is a member the Groups objectives.
Intangible assets to the value of 1.1m of the FTSE250, with a market capitalisation of 451.5m have therefore been impaired during the year.
This represents an increase of 46% on the position as at 30 January 2010.
Alex Short Finance Director A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23 Share price p
