Financial Review R ecord profit of US$433 million up 259% on 2010 D ividend doubled and increased for sixth consecutive year Gold sales break the US$1 billion mark C ash increased by 33% to US$488 million after US$448 million investment in capital projects Total revenue of US$1 127.1 million increased by 133% on the previous year on the back of a 74% rise in gold sales to 718 762 ounces and a 33% increase in the average CASH FLOW PER SHARE gold price received to US$1 574 oz.
Profit for the year was US$433.4 million, an US$ share 7 increase of 259% on the previous year.
Higher revenues across the operations were partially offset by higher mining costs at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex due to increased open pit mining costs resulting from 6 deepening pits and the Yalea pit pushback, revised underground mining rates and general cost increases, especially in diesel, as well as a higher euro dollar exchange rate.
Total costs increased, reflecting the full year of operations at Tongon, which started production at the end of the prior year, and the start of mining at Gounkoto.
5 Costs at all operations were also impacted by the increased royalties payable resulting from the higher average gold price received.
Basic earnings per share of US$4.13 increased by 262% over the previous year.
4 Notwithstanding the increase in total costs, cash operating costs per ounce for the group were US$641 oz, in line with the prior year, on the back of the significant increase in ounces sold, reflecting the contribution from the Tongon mine and slightly higher throughput at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex.
3 Cash operating costs per ounce increased by 13% at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex, due to the higher costs mentioned earlier.
The average grade of the ore processed remained in line with the prior year, reflecting lower grades at Loulo but offset by higher 2 grades from Gounkoto.
At Morila, the stockpile treatment operation has continued successfully, and the small increase in costs per ounce largely reflects the diesel price rise and the euro dollar exchange rate movement.
1 Expenditure on exploration and corporate costs decreased by US$3.3 million to US$43.9 million.
Drilling programmes continued on the companys exploration 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 CREATING VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS 16 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 OIL PRICE AND US$ EXCHANGE RATE targets, but a larger proportion of the exploration work was these operations and increased during the year.
The increase is undertaken on feasibility stage projects including those at Kibali, also due to the creation of ore stockpiles at Gounkoto, partially Massawa, Loulo and Gounkoto, and as such were capitalised offset by a reduction of ore stockpiles at Morila during the year.
Since the company was listed in 1997, it has The increase in current trade and other receivables of discovered over 25 million reserve ounces which, when divided by the exploration and corporate costs over this period, equates to US$33.3 million is mainly due to an increase in sales and the less than US$16 per ounce of gold.
gold debtor balances at both Tongon and Loulo as a result of the timing of gold shipments at year end as well as an increase in the recoverable VAT balances at Loulo and Morila.
The increase is also Loulos tax holiday ended in November 2010 and the 2011 results due to amounts taken by the State of Mali with regard to disputed include a charge of US$51.7 million for tax payable compared to tax claims related to Loulo and Morila.
As at year end, the group US$24.5 million the previous year.
Tongon will benefit from its had received claims for various taxes from the State of Mali totalling exoneration from corporate tax for five years until the end of 2015, US$64.3 million, in respect of the Loulo and Morila mines.
Having while Gounkoto is expected to benefit from a minimum two year taken professional advice, the group considers the claims to be tax holiday starting from first production in June 2011. wholly without merit or foundation and is strongly defending its position, including following the appropriate legal process for such The companys cash position is very healthy with US$487.6 million disputes within Mali.
Both companies have legally binding mining of cash 2010: US$366.4 million and borrowings of just conventions which guarantee fiscal stability, govern the taxes US$2.6 million 2010: US$3.0 million, notwithstanding the applicable to the companies and allow for international arbitration substantial investments made in growth projects during the in the event that a dispute cannot be resolved in the country.
This included capitalised expenditure of US$164.1 million Management continues to engage with the Malian authorities at at Loulo, principally on the Yalea and Gara underground mine the highest level to resolve this issue and believes this is achievable developments as well as the processing plant and power plant given the groups experience in dealing with the State on similar upgrades, US$99.9 million at Tongon, completing the construction issues.
of the mine, US$89.8 million on the Gounkoto mine infrastructure, and US$77.5 million at Kibali, primarily on the village relocation programme as well as the completion of the preconstruction infrastructure and optimised development plan.
In total, property, plant and equipment increased by US$459.3 million, excluding depreciation, year on year.
The decrease in long term ore stockpiles US$9.1 million over the year is due to the decrease in stockpiles at Morila following its successful conversion from open pit mining to stockpile processing and all stockpiles are now considered to be current.
The US$23.4 million increase in inventories and current ore stockpiles is a result of the increase in supplies and insurance spares at both Gounkoto and Tongon, as production started at Financial Review continued Looking forward to 2012, total cash costs per ounce for the group IN 2012 THE GROUP WILL CONTINUE TO MAKE SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS IN ITS FUTURE GROWTH are forecast to decrease to less than US$650 oz, assuming current oil price, euro dollar exchange rates and other input costs which have a significant impact on operating costs.
The group Despite a record US$448.5 million investment in capital during will continue to make significant investments in its future growth the year, the cash balance showed a healthy increase of and capital expenditure for 2012 is estimated at US$660 million, US$121.2 million reflecting the contribution of the new Tongon and the focus being on the development of the Kibali mine, the Yalea Gounkoto operations as well as the increase in the average gold and Gara underground mine developments, and the completion price received.
The decrease in the available-for-sale financial of the Gounkoto mine infrastructure.
As always, the company will assets of US$8.4 million reflects the decrease in the share continue to spend on its exploration portfolio in search of the next price of investments held.
The increase in deferred taxation of development project.
Based on current forecasts, the group has US$5.1 million relates mainly to temporary differences in respect sufficient cash resources to fund all its existing capital projects and of Loulo and Tongon due to increased capital development during ongoing exploration programmes.
the year at these operations.
The increase in the rehabilitation In view of the significant profit increase, strong cash flows from provisions of US$10.2 million is largely attributable to increases in operations and the companys robust financial position, the the provision for the Tongon mine up US$4.4 million, as well as board has proposed a 100% increase in the annual dividend to the Gounkoto mine up US$4.3 million.
40 US cents per share US$36.7 million, representing the sixth year in a row that the dividend has been increased.
Trade and other payables increased by US$63.6 million reflecting the impact of additional contractors and accruals, primarily at Loulo and Gounkoto, following the start of production at Gounkoto and the Gara underground mine.
The increase in tax payable of US$10.9 million reflects the higher tax charges following the increase in profitability of the Mali operations, noting that Loulo came out of its five year corporate tax holiday in November 2010, while Gounkoto is expected to have a tax holiday, as described earlier.
The results have been prepared on the basis that the Gounkoto mine is eligible for a corporate tax holiday, and as such no corporate tax charges have been assumed in respect of Gounkoto during the year.
This is based on the negotiations which have been concluded with the State of Mali and a convention in this regard has been approved by the Council of Ministers and is expected to be signed in March 2012.
If the corporate tax holiday were delayed, or if Gounkoto were not eligible for a corporate tax holiday, this would have a material impact on the corporate tax calculated for the 2011 year and consequently the earnings for the year.
Graham Shuttleworth Financial director and chief financial officer 18 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
