Operating and Financial Review OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Performance Overview Innovation is core to the SDL business and four significant new products were released in 2011: 2011 was a year of significant strategic SDL Tridion 2011, the new version of our Web and operational progress for SDL.
Record Content Management technology, with new mobile, targeting and personalisation capabilities.
SDL Tridion revenue and operating profits were achieved 2011 is rated as a leader by Forrester and in Gartners together with a strong performance in Magic Quadrant: SDL Trados Studio 2011, a new version of our leading cash generation.
After making a small but desktop translation product with new collaboration strategic acquisition of Calamares during and efficiency features: SDL Live Content 2011, a step-change enabling the year now SDL Media Manager the product which automates the production of smart company finished the year having made an interactive product and technical documentation: offer for Alterian.
The Alterian transaction SDL Easy Translator, which enables text to be translated instantly from any document and real-time completed on 27 January 2012 and adds chat across social networking sites in 60 languages.
two new businesses to the portfolio, SDL Geographically, North America was the strongest Campaign Manager and Analytics and growth region in 2011.
The demand environment was SDL Social Intelligence.
All businesses more mixed in Europe given some individual country uncertainties in the region, but we continued to deliver had positive revenue growth in 2011 with positive growth: making positive progress in some areas the Content Management business the like the Nordics against a planned investment strategy.
Growth in Asia was impacted by natural disasters in Japan star performer in growth terms delivering and Thailand but the business invoked contingency constant currency revenue growth of 19%.
plans to ensure continued operation and made excellent progress in adding new customers in the region in 2011: further diversifying the customer base and making some important foundation sales in our technology businesses.
Emerging consumer markets such as Asia and South America remain very significant growth opportunities for SDL and we have continued to build up our infrastructure to address these markets.
These factors saw revenue growth of 13%, driven by underlying organic growth at constant currency of 12%, 2% growth from acquisitions, and a 1% decrease due to currency effects.
Strong underlying organic growth across the Technology businesses, combined with a full year of the 2010 Language Weaver and Xopus acquisitions, has increased total Technology revenue from 39% of sales in 2010 to 41% of sales in 2011.
Growth in Technology has been supported by SDLs strong investment commitment, focusing on strategic market innovations and product vision via a targeted research and development programme.
Market opportunity in the Technology businesses remains 50 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Headline revenue growth of 13% was primarily driven very significant, and we expect it to be further enhanced by underlying organic growth at constant currency of by the complementary nature of the Alterian acquisition.
12%, with the remainder driven by acquisition effects of We are committed to maintaining appropriate levels of 2% from a full year of the 2010 Language Weaver and investment to fully exploit these opportunities in future, Xopus acquisitions, and -1% due to currency translation.
whilst continuing to deliver profitable growth.
Performance in Content Management was particularly strong, with constant currency revenue growth of Overall group operating margin before amortisation was 19%, driven by demand for Tridion 2011 and continued broadly stable at 17.3% 2010: 17.4%.
Excluding Language penetration of structured content products into the Weaver, which has attracted strategic investment in 2011, burgeoning technical documentation marketplace.
Increased cross selling activity has also underpinned growth.
Cashflow from operations was 32.6 million 2010: 27.1 million.
Average DSO was maintained against an Given new business wins, the customer intensity profile increased debtors balance which minimised working continued to improve in 2011.
The 20 largest customers capital outflow and contributed towards improved cash contributed 29% of revenue in 2011 2010: 34% with generation during the year.
Profit to cash conversion was no single customer contributing more than 5% of group very strong.
At the end of 2011, we had 70.4 million revenues.
Key account management remains a priority of cash on the balance sheet which, combined with 20 investment area as we continue to scale our capability to million of undrawn revolving credit facilities, provided a 3 robust base for the completion of the Alterian acquisition match the global growth needs of our largest customers.
We believe that SDL is uniquely positioned with a compelling product and solution set that enables global Revenue businesses to engage with their customers, increase their brand equity, accelerate new product innovation into Revenue growth was well balanced across the portfolio global markets and drive their global revenues.
More with double-digit headline revenue growth across each customers than ever before are embracing the Global operating segment, a creditable performance in a mixed Information Management vision, demonstrated by rising global economy with regional and segment demand cross leveraged sales of multiple SDL products and variation.
The diverse mix of regions, industry verticals and solutions.
customers served continues to provide protection against any one specific demand impacting factor.
Group revenues In 2011, we continued to expand our presence by vertical by reporting segment are shown below and a geographic sector.
In 2011, there were eight sectors that contributed split by destination shown on the charts on page 52. more than 10.0 million revenues 2010: 7 including Information Technology, Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals, Communications and Financial Services.
Analysis of Revenue by Segment The geographical split of revenue by destination is shown on the charts on page 52.
Demand was strongest in North America which saw an increase from 46% of sales in 2010 to 47% in 2011.
The rest of the world saw a decline 23% from 12% of sales in 2010 to 10% of sales in 2011 given 2010: 22% the transitory demand effects in Asia from the Japanese tsunami.
59% 2010: 61% 18% We continue to invest in expanding our global 2010: 17% infrastructure with an emphasis on emerging consumer markets in Asia and South America, the resilient US market, and the Nordics where economies are stronger and recovery more pronounced.
Language Technologies Content Management Technologies Language Services 51 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operating and Financial Review 10.0% 9.6% 7.7% 33.8% 2011 38.9% 8.4% 11.8% 9.3% 33.6% 2010 36.9% Geographic Split of Sales by Destination Performance by Segment For management purposes the Group is organised into Rest of world business units based on their products and services and Canada 10.0% 9.6% has three reportable operating segments.
7.7% USA Content Management Technologies Europe Total segment revenue grew by 17%, comprising -2% 33.8% 2011 foreign exchange, a negligible effect from acquisitions and UK 19% underlying organic growth at constant currency.
38.9% Structured Content Management has capitalised on its 2010 momentum and has achieved excellent growth in 2011.
In Asia, we completed some important deals in a relatively immature market for structured content products.
We are well positioned to take advantage of any growth in this market.
SDL LiveContent 2011 was released 8.4% 11.8% during the year, which is a step-change enabling product which automates the production of smart interactive 9.3% product documentation.
We believe that SDL offers the most complete end-to-end solution for creating and 33.6% 2010 managing user documentation, vital to the end-to-end user experience.
36.9% SDL Web Content Management has also continued to perform well, particularly in North America, further building position and accelerating demand in a number of vertical sectors including financial services.
The new Tridion 2011 product, launched in January 2011, included a fully integrated personalisation and targeting capability Rest of world from our acquisition of Fredhopper.
Tridion 2011 is rated Canada by both Forrester and Gartner as a leader and has gained significant additional traction in the market, building USA on the established reputation of Tridion.
The Web Europe Content Management offering was further enhanced by a small strategic acquisition Calamares now SDL UK Media Manager which offers a cloud-based enterprise solution for video and other rich media assets.
This new capability, now branded SDL Media Manager, is fully integrated with Tridion 2011 and supports a broad range of media, systems and devices including web, mobile, internet protocol television IPTV and various social media platforms.
52 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE New deals in 2011 included Compassion International, Gross Margin GameStop, MCB Group, Sharp, Eva Air, Abu Dhabi Airport Company, Brother, Life Technologies Corporation, OSIsoft, The Groups gross margin improved to 58% in 2011, an TIBCO Software Inc. and Mattel.
Language Technologies The increase reflects the growing proportion of Total segment revenue grew by 18%, comprising Technology sales, which has increased from 39% in 2010 -1% foreign exchange, 11% from acquisitions and 8% to 41% in 2011.
The Technology businesses have higher underlying growth at constant currency.
gross margins compared to Language Services.
This continues the trend seen in recent years, during which the Demand in the desktop business grew most strongly, business mix has evolved more towards Technology.
benefiting in the second half from the release of the SDL Trados Studio 2011 product.
With innovative new Language Services gross margin was unchanged in efficiency and collaboration features, even higher levels of 2011 compared to 2010 as the business continued to translation productivity can be realised by our freelance effectively manage its global sourcing and network relative and enterprise user base.
We continue to invest in building to demand increase.
The business deploys significant our Asia presence, where some important foundation sales in-house translation resource and operates a dynamic have been achieved and the pipeline for 2012 is strong.
resourcing model to continually optimise the balance Language Weaver is now integrated into the business unit between internal and external resource through natural 3 and has achieved strong sales growth over the equivalent demand cycles, supporting gross margin.
period last year, with significant expansion of enterprise SaaS revenue.
Administration Expenses New clients in 2011 included AGIP, Alfa Laval AB, Nordea In 2011, administration costs excluding amortisation were Bank Denmark, Tencent Inc, RICOH Company Ltd and 94.2 million 2010: 80.7 million.
The increase of 13.9 Panasonic Business Services Co. Ltd. million includes 6.6m of incremental costs from a full year of overheads for Language Weaver and Xopus, which Language Services were both acquired in the middle of 2010.
2011 was another year of strong revenue growth and good margin performance for this segment.
Headline The underlying cost has increased by 9%, which compares revenue growth of 9% was achieved, comprising -1% to organic revenue growth of 12% during the year.
Cost foreign exchange and 10% underlying growth a constant increases during the period relate to expansion initiatives currency.
including key account and regional sales management, growth in Asia, expanding sales and marketing for North America was a very strong growth market.
We Content Management Technologies and continued also continued to invest in growing our Asia businesses, investment in machine translation technologies.
Additional which suffered transitory demand effects following natural investment is concentrated on growth phase businesses disasters in the region but continued to effectively build and geographies.
Significant new client wins during the year included Marks & Spencer, Hotel.
fide AG, Semcon, Springer Healthcare Ltd, Kosan Crisplant.
The business remains highly profitable and cash generative.
53 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operating and Financial Review Included in administration expenditure is research and OPERATING MARGINS before amortisation of intangible assets development expenditure of 14.8 million, an increase of 8% from 2010 expenditure of 13.6 million.
Four 11 17.3% significant new product launches were made during the year, including two in Content Management Technologies 10 17.4% SDL Tridion 2011 and SDL Live Content 2011, and two 09 17.4% in Language Technologies SDL Trados 2011 and SDL Easy Translator.
These are important innovations for 08 16.1% SDL which we believe deliver further added value to our customer base.
07 14.5% Development costs have been reviewed, and the Board remains of the opinion that capitalisation criteria under DEVELOPMENT IN FULLY International Accounting Standard IAS 38 are not met, and consequently no development costs are capitalised ADJUSTED EPS YEAR ON YEAR on the balance sheet.
The Board will continue to evaluate 11 38.23p development costs against the requirements of IAS38 and the evolving nature of the business.
Headcount increases were 08 24.99p aligned with expansion initiatives outlined above.
Employee related costs are the most significant element 07 17.74p in the total cost composition of the group and account for 71% of group overheads 2010: 70%.
The next most significant elements are the cost of facilities and IT infrastructure.
Intangible assets representing intellectual property rights ascribed to certain of the Groups software and customer relationships arising from acquisitions are amortised between 5 and 15 years and the carrying value is formally reviewed on an annual basis to assess whether there are indicators of impairment.
The intangible amortisation charge in 2011 was 5.9 million 2010: 6.6 million.
The reduction is caused by the majority of the Trados intangible asset becoming fully amortised in 2010.
Given the high degree of integration of acquisitions, intangibles and goodwill were allocated to four Cash Generating Units CGUs, namely Language Services, Language Technologies, Web Content Management and Structured Content Management.
The 2011 impairment review did not result in impairment of any of the CGUs.
The full detail of the impairment review is explained in note 12 to the accounts.
54 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Earnings Per Share when adjusted for amortisation Net Operating Margin of intangibles increased by 10% to 38.22 pence.
The deferred tax benefit associated with the amortisation of the The net operating margin expressed as profit before tax intangible fixed assets of 1.6 million 2010: 1.7 million and amortisation of intangibles divided by revenue is an has been adjusted in this calculation of EPS.
Basic Earnings important measure of expenditure efficiency relative to Per Share was 32.72 pence 2010: 28.39 pence.
Strategic investments have resulted in a broadly stable net operating margin at 17.3% 2010: 17.4%.
The development in fully adjusted EPS year on year is Excluding Language Weaver, one of the groups signalled shown in the chart on the left facing page.
strategic investments, group net operating margin was 18.9% 2010: 18.0%.
Profit before tax as a percentage of Financing Costs revenue was 14.7% 2010: 14.2%.
Interest costs in 2011 amounted to 0.2m 2010: 0.1m.
Profit before tax and amortisation of intangibles PBTA This was attributable to the full year interest cost of the is a primary measure used externally by the investment finance lease arrangements acquired with Language community.
Growth in the business has driven a significant Weaver halfway through 2010.
The Group had no external increase, with 2011 PBTA of 39.7 million comparing to borrowing throughout 2011.
Infrastructure and Acquisition Integration The chart on the left facing page shows net operating 3 margin development year on year.
Our global infrastructure combined with effective internal operating systems allows us to service our clients around Earnings Per Share the globe.
When opening a new network office or making a new acquisition achieving commonality of processes, Earnings per share EPS is a primary performance measure systems and operating procedures is of paramount in SDL as the board views there is strong correlation importance.
between EPS growth and long term improvement in Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The Calamares acquisition this year has been fully integrated in accordance with established practice.
EPS is a key measure in the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP scheme approved on 20 April 2011.
EPS growth of at least inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index plus 3% is required for full vesting to occur.
In addition, a TSR performance of at least double the benchmark FTSE 250 index, excluding investment companies, is required for LTIPs to fully vest.
The use of a combination of EPS and TSR ensures the alignment of investor returns to senior management reward, a fundamental principle for an effective remuneration system.
55 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operating and Financial Review The Groups capital structure is as follows: 2010 2011 000 000 Net cash note 20 70,408 46,628 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 217,832 195,512 Capital employed 148,884 147,424 Cash Flow content following the acquisitions of Language Weaver and Xopus in 2010.
Machine translation is gaining The cash flows from operating activities were 32.6 million traction particularly as a Software as a Service model.
This increase of 20% represents Language Weaver continues to be dilutive in 2011 as we strong performance in an economic environment where made planned investments to further scale in line with strong free cash generation is an important operational our strategy.
The business continued to make strategic priority.
The Group continues to demonstrate sound acquisitions that provide leading edge technology to our intrinsic cash generation and a high profit to cash flow clients.
The acquisition of SDL Media Manager formerly conversion ratio.
Calamares, during the year, adds a cloud-based platform that allows enterprises to centrally compose, enrich, Borrowing Facilities publish and distribute video and other rich-media assets.
The acquisition of Alterian plc which completed in January The committed facilities reduced to 15 million in the 2012 brings to the SDL offering a leader in marketing year in line with the original facility agreement.
In analytics, social media monitoring and campaign order to maintain financial flexibility the Board entered management.
The Board believes that the product into negotiations to extend the existing facility back to enhancements offered through the strategic acquisitions 20 million until February 2014.
These negotiations continues to improve the excellent platform of end-to-end were completed during the year at the same terms content management solutions for our clients.
The Board and conditions as the original facility, which the Board is committed to fully invest in the Alterian business as we considered to be effectively priced.
The maintenance believe the growth opportunity for marketing analytics of this facility gives more flexibility to selectively pursue and social media is very compelling.
As such the Alterian potential acquisitions and strategic growth initiatives.
The business is anticipated to be dilutive to the SDL margin in Board continues to be averse to operating with high levels 2012 post restructuring costs.
of financial leverage, which it considers to be a prudent Derivatives and other Financial Instruments stance given the global economic conditions, and has used the facility to partly fund the acquisition of Alterian plc.
The Group has cash and short-term deposits of varying The Board believes that the strong cash generative nature durations to fund its working capital needs and other of the underlying business will allow repayment of the financial assets and liabilities such as trade debtors and facility prior to the end of the facility agreement, thereby trade creditors arising directly from its operations.
The reducing financial leverage of the Group in line with the Groups policy continued to be that no active trading Boards prudent stance on operating leverage.
in financial instruments will be undertaken within the Impact of Acquisitions operating units and all decisions on use of financial instruments will be taken at Group level under the The Board continued to invest in machine translation direction of the Chief Financial Officer.
and expansion of the authoring community in structured 56 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE facilities that the Group holds with RBS link interest rate to Pricing under the current 20 million borrowing facility the LIBOR or equivalent rate.
The group is not required is based on a 0.85% to 1.40% margin on London or to maintain any interest rate hedge against this facility equivalent Interbank Market rates according to the and therefore does not do so.
Debt market conditions and advance date.
Which rate applies between the 0.85% competitive market offerings are continually tracked and - 1.4% margin is dependent on the net borrowings to monitored.
EBITDA ratio of the Group on the date of the advance.
This remains an intrinsically attractive facility.
The Group maintains cash deposits denominated in key operating currencies, including GBP Pound, US Dollar, Under the credit facility agreement, SDL is subject to Euros and Yen, to ensure financial flexibility to finance certain financial covenants which are required to be working capital requirements, fund growth initiatives, continually monitored.
These covenants relate to EBITA: projects and strategic development opportunities.
Borrowing Costs: Net Cash Flow: Debt Service Liability These deposits are affected by movements in interest and Gross Debt: EBITDA.
The Group is also required to rates and the Group seeks to match cash surpluses to maintain a percentage of its cash within a charging group actual operational requirements where possible via a of relevant Group subsidiaries.
Since entering into the comprehensive process to effectively manage funding facility agreement and during 2011 SDL has complied with all of these covenants.
The Group continues to value security of deposits over absolute commercial return, avoiding institutional and territorial risk and placing emphasis on The main risks arising from the Groups financial 3 instruments are counterparty risk, interest rate risk, secure relationship banks.
The group has placed its cash liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
The Board reviews mainly in secure deposits of varying durations all less and agrees policies for managing each of these risks as than one year all of which are accessible on demand.
part of its risk register review.
The broad policies and The Group continues to avoid excessive cash retention in strategies on these risks are summarised below.
subsidiaries and cash balances in subsidiaries have been maintained as low as operationally practicable.
The Group Counterparty Risk continues to selectively use dual currency deposits as a mechanism to arbitrage up applied interest rates whilst The Group holds cash deposits in multiple currencies, taking no deposit security risk.
This has partially mitigated principally GB Pound, US Dollar and Euro in a range of the significant decline in deposit rates on invested cash financial institutions.
The main counterparty risk from a available in the global financial markets.
bank deposit perspective is with RBS and its affiliates.
The Group maintains an active dialogue at a senior level with Liquidity Risk RBS about the organisations strategic development since the changes in shareholder structure, through formal Free cash flow continues to be a priority for the Board in meetings which review every aspect of the business order to maintain a high level of stability and opportunity relationship.
These discussions have been satisfactory in for strategic investments.
In order to achieve high free 2011.
The Group has continued to monitor interest rate cash flow the Board focuses on management of working conditions in each territory in which it operates to seek to capital including maintenance of strong credit control on maximise return on invested cash whilst taking minimal receivables, active tracking of work in progress, operational risk on deposit security, which has been the primary driver expenditure and capital investment controls.
The Group of cash investment decisions, and will remain so as long as uses an average metric on DSO to generate consistent the global economy exhibits signs of any fragility.
improvement in receivables management over time.
Interest Rate Risk The ratio of capital expenditure to revenue was 1.7% of revenues in 2011 1.3% of revenues in 2010.
The Group had no interest rate risk on borrowings as it has had no external facility borrowings outstanding The significant capital expenditures were payments in at any point during 2011.
The draw-down against the accordance with the Microsoft enterprise agreement committed facilities in 2012 to fund the Alterian acquisition entered into in 2009, investments in IT hardware, new will expose the Group to interest rate risk.
The committed offices and routine replacements of computers as 57 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operating and Financial Review confidence returned to make higher capital investment as a work program.
It also ensures the risk management given strong revenue growth.
There is a full year of process is a dynamic one that can quickly adapt to market capital expenditures for the acquired business of or competitive developments and rapidly embrace the Language Weaver, which used to operate under finance impact of any acquisitions.
The Group rolled out a new leases.
Progress in managing credit control exposures Code of Conduct during 2011 providing a top down continued to be maintained and average DSO in 2011 was behavioural framework for all employees.
Any acquisition maintained at 51.5 days, consistent with the 51.5 days in proposals include comprehensive integration planning 2010.
The average metric drives strong commercial process and contingency planning.
The implication of a much to track working capital development every single month more significant shift towards technology revenues 41% which is a critical part of continuous improvement.
of revenues in 2011 means that roadmap planning, pipeline development and targeting are given significant Foreign Currency Risk focus as is risk management around product release.
The Board fully recognises that no risk management process The business is exposed to foreign currency movements can eliminate risk but by a comprehensive approach, with significant invoicing done in both the US Dollar that is effectively linked operationally, the Board believes and Euro.
This gives rise to short-term debtors and cash that it has an effective framework for risk management balances in US Dollar and Euros with movements in that can seek to minimise and mitigate the effect of risk exchange rates impacting the balance sheet.
The sensitivity crystallisation should it occur.
The risk management of the business to movements in key foreign currency rates process is given more focus in the compliance review on is disclosed in note 23 to the accounts.
The key sensitivity page 60. remains to the US Dollar where the Group has the most significant mismatch between revenues and costs.
Research and Development Risk Percentages of Euro derived revenues to Euro derived costs are much more matched.
Where possible the Group The Board operate a policy of selective investment in the attempts to match cost commitments to revenues in Euro operating overheads of the Group exercising differential and US Dollar zone economies but this is an ineffective management to direct investment towards growth hedge.
Yen derived revenues have remained relatively opportunities.
Research and Development expenditure is stable given the impact of the tsunami but are expected to considered to be critical to maintaining and enhancing the become more significant going forward.
calibre of our end-to-end product offering.
As described in note 2 to the accounts, our policy is only to capitalise Following a review of hedging strategy in 2009, the Board development expenditure when all the criteria required has not hedged its currency exposures.
The RBS facility under International Financial Reporting Standards are contains no requirement to hedge.
During the year there has been no capitalisation of development expenditures primarily due to the late The Board is comfortable with its decision not to hedge achievement of technical and commercial feasibility in the and whilst it continues to reserve its position on this development cycle.
The development expenditures occur matter, this is unlikely to change in the short term.
It against a range of products, with some development consistently monitors balance sheet exposure and global occurring over a relatively short time cycle and some economic data for discontinuities in exchange rates.
There were 37 product releases in 2011, with the key product launches described in the Operational Risk Executive Chairmans statement.
The Chief Technology Officer actively monitors the development roadmaps of The Group maintains a comprehensive risk management all products, together with necessary product integrations process.
This process includes the maintenance of a risk and development progress is reported to the Board.
The register which is reviewed and signed off by both the Board is comfortable that the development expenditures Board and the Audit Committee.
The risk register assesses are properly accounted for, spread across a range of probability of risk occurrence, the potential financial robustly monitored products and that this represents impact of a risk should it crystallise and the potential sound investment.
reputational impact of the risk.
This process results in a risk management plan that is clearly targeted and prioritised 58 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Taxation SDL is a global business and as such the principal determinant of the tax rate is primarily dependent on the territorial mix of where operating profits are earned.
A detailed analysis of the taxation charge is included in note 6 to the accounts.
The headline effective tax charge for the year as a percentage of profit before tax is 23.8% 2010: 23.5%.
In accordance with the provisions of IAS 38 the Group has recognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of the non tax deductible amortisation of intangible assets acquired through recent acquisitions.
This deferred tax position has been adjusted for the Media Manager acquisition made in 2011.
The movement of these liabilities in the period has been reflected in the Income Statement and the effect is to provide a tax benefit in the Income Statement associated 3 with the amortisation of those intangible assets.
Due to the adoption of IFRS and the requirements of IAS 12 in conjunction with IFRS 2, the schedule 23 tax credits available for share options exercised, and deferred taxation on unexpired options, has primarily been recorded in equity rather than the Income Statement.
The impact of this treatment in the current year is to decrease the headline effective tax rate by 0.9% 2010: Increase of 3.1%.
Going Concern In line with UK Corporate Governance Code requirements the Directors have made enquiries concerning the potential of the business to continue as a going concern.
Enquiries included a review of performance in 2011, 2012 annual plans, a review of working capital including the liquidity position and a review of current indebtedness levels.
This review of working capital includes the acquired business of Alterian, and the intended investment plans for this business.
The Directors confirm that they perceive strong underlying cash generation and therefore they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Given this expectation they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
For and on behalf of the Board Matthew Knight Chief Financial Officer 59 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
