8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:11 Page 12 12 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review The following review should be read in conjunction with the consolidated Substantially all of the Companys revenues, expenditures and net financial statements and related Notes on pages 82 to 124 of this assets are attributable to the R&D, manufacture, sale and distribution Annual Report.
of pharmaceutical products within three reportable segments: SP, HGT and RM.
The Company also earns royalties where Shire has Overview out-licensed products to third parties which are recorded as revenues.
Shires strategic goal is to be the worlds leading specialty Revenues are derived primarily from two sourcessales of the biopharmaceutical company that focuses on meeting the needs Companys own products and royalties: of the specialist physician.
Shire focuses its business on ADHD, GI diseases, HGT and RM, as well as opportunities in other therapeutic93% 2010: 90% of total revenues are derived from product sales, areas to the extent they arise through acquisitions.
Shires in-licensing of which 66% 2010: 71% are within SP, 31% 2010: 29% are within and acquisition efforts are focused on products in specialist markets HGT and 3% 2010: nil are within RM: and with strong intellectual property protection or other forms of market 6% of total revenues are derived from royalties 2010: 9%.
Shire believes that a carefully selected and balanced portfolio of products with strategically aligned and relatively small-scale sales forces will deliver strong results.
Currently marketed products The table below lists the Companys material marketed products at December 31, 2011 indicating the owner licensor, disease area and the key territories in which Shire markets the product.
SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS Product Disease area Owner licensor Key territories Treatments for ADHD 1 VYVANSE VENVANSE lisdexamfetamine dimesylate ADHD Shire US, Canada and Brazil ADDERALL XR mixed salts of a single entity amphetamine ADHD Shire US and Canada INTUNIV extended release guanfacine ADHD Shire US 2 EQUASYM methylphenidate hydrochloride modified release XL ADHD Shire Europe and Latin America Treatments for GI diseases 3 LIALDA mesalamine MEZAVANT mesalazine Ulcerative colitis Giuliani SpA US and Europe PENTASA mesalamine Ulcerative colitis Shire US RESOLOR prucalopride Chronic constipation Shire Europe in women Treatments for diseases in other therapeutic areas 2,4 FOSRENOL lanthanum carbonate Hyperphosphatemia in Shire US, Europe and Japan end-stage renal disease 2 XAGRID anagrelide hydrochloride Elevated platelet counts Shire Europe in at risk essential thrombocythemia patients 1 The product is marketed as VENVANSE in Brazil.
2 Marketed by distributors in certain markets.
3 Marketed in US as LIALDA and in Europe as MEZAVANT XL or MEZAVANT.
4 Marketed in Japan under license from Shire by Bayer Yakuhin Limited Bayer.
Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:11 Page 13 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 13 HUMAN GENETIC THERAPIES Product Disease area Owner licensor Key territories REPLAGAL agalsidase alfa Fabry disease Shire Europe, Latin America 1 and Asia Pacific ELAPRASE idursulfase Hunter syndrome Shire US, Europe, Latin America 2  and Asia Pacific Type II, MPS II VPRIV velaglucerase alfa Gaucher disease, type 1 Shire US, Europe and Latin America FIRAZYR icatibant HAE Shire US, Europe and Latin America 1 Marketed in Japan under license by Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd. DSP.
2 Marketed in Asia Pacific by Genzyme under license from Shire.
REGENERATIVE MEDICINE Product Disease area Owner licensor Key territories DERMAGRAFT Human Fibroblast-Derived Dermal Substitute DFU Shire US Royalties received from other products The terms of the Companys license agreement with GSK include royalty rates in the mid-teens on sales of products in territories with ANTI VIRAL PRODUCTS patent coverage and single-digit royalties in territories without patent coverage.
GSK is required to pay royalties through the term of the last The Company receives royalties on anti viral products based on to expire patent in each territory.
In territories where no patent exists, certain of the Companys patents licensed to GSK.
These anti viral GSK is required to pay royalties for ten years from the first commercial products are for Human Immunodeficiency Virus HIV and Hepatitis B sale.
Royalty terms expire in most territories outside of the US virus.
The table below lists these products, indicating the principal during 2012.
In the US, royalty terms expire between 2014 and 2018. indications, the company responsible for marketing the product and After expiration the Company will cease to receive royalties from the relevant territory.
In 2009, GSK established a partnership with GSK on sales of products in the affected territories.
Pfizer called ViiV Healthcare ViiV that brought together the HIV portfolios of GSK and Pfizer.
ViiV markets the HIV products licensed The Company may terminate the agreement in the event GSK fails to to GSK by the Company.
pay royalties for two successive quarters.
Either party may terminate the agreement for material breach or insolvency.
Product Principal indications Relevant territory marketed by 1 3TC EPIVIR lamivudine HIV Canada Shire and ViiV : RoW ViiV COMBIVIR lamivudine and zidovudine HIV Canada Shire and ViiV: RoW ViiV TRIZIVIR lamivudine, zidovudine and abacavir HIV Canada Shire and ViiV: RoW ViiV EPZICOM KIVEXA lamivudine and abacavir HIV Canada Shire and ViiV: RoW ViiV 2 ZEFFIX EPIVIR-HBV HEPTOVIR lamivudine Hepatitis B infection Canada Shire and GSK: RoW GSK 1 In 1996 Shire formed a commercialization partnership with GSK to market 3TC and ZEFFIX in Canada.
In 2009 GSK assigned its interest in the partnership to ViiV.
2 This is not a comprehensive list of trademarks for this product.
The product is also marketed under other trademarks in some markets.
ADHD OTHER ROYALTIES ADDERALL XR The Company has licensed the rights to other products to third parties Shire receives royalties from Impaxs sales of authorized generic and receives royalties on third party sales.
Hyperphosphatemia FOSRENOL The Company licensed the rights to FOSRENOL in Japan to Bayer in December 2003.
Bayer launched FOSRENOL in Japan in March 2009.
Shire receives royalties from Bayers sales of FOSRENOL in Japan.
The Company may also receive milestone payments from Bayer based on the achievement of certain sales thresholds.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:11 Page 14 14 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review Manufacturing and distribution The distribution and warehousing of HGT products for the US market Active pharmaceutical ingredient API sourcing is contracted out to specialist third party contractors.
The Company sources API from third party suppliers for its SP products and its HGT product FIRAZYR.
Shire has manufacturing The Company ships DERMAGRAFT from its La Jolla, California facility capability for agalsidase alfa, idursulfase and velaglucerase alfa using third party carriers that are experienced in cold-chain logistics as at its protein manufacturing plant in Cambridge, Massachusetts, well as from a third party carrier and distributors site located in Louisville, US for its HGT products, REPLAGAL, ELAPRASE and VPRIV Kentucky, from which the Company ships the majority of DERMAGRAFT and manufacturing capability for its RM product DERMAGRAFT intended for customers located in the Eastern part of the US.
at its manufacturing facility in La Jolla, California, US.
Outside of the US, physical distribution of SP and HGT products is The Company currently has dual sources of API for VYVANSE, either contracted out to third parties where the Company has local ADDERALL XR, LIALDA and PENTASA and is developing a second operations or facilitated via distribution agreements where the source for INTUNIV.
The Company manages the risks associated Company does not have local operations.
with reliance on single sources of API by carrying additional inventories or developing second sources of supply.
Material customers The Companys three largest trade customers are Cardinal Health, Inc.
In order to support the rapid growth of VPRIV and REPLAGAL, as well McKesson Corp, and AmerisourceBergen which are based in the US.
as to support clinical development, additional manufacturing capacity In 2011, these wholesale customers accounted for approximately 23%, has been added in Lexington, Massachusetts, US.
The facility has 19% and 7% of product sales, respectively.
been approved for the purification of REPLAGAL API, and in November 2011 the Company submitted regulatory filings with both the Intellectual property EMA and the FDA for the production of VPRIV API at the new facility.
An important part of the Companys business strategy is to protect its On February 21, 2012 the EMAs Committee for Medicinal Products products and technologies through the use of patents and trademarks, for Human Use approved the production of VPRIV in this facility.
The Company also relies on trade secrets, unpatented know-how, technological innovations and contractual DERMAGRAFT is grown from a cryopreserved master cell bank arrangements with third parties to maintain and enhance its that was procured from a single neonatal foreskin sourced in 1990. competitive position where it is unable to obtain patent protection The cell line has been qualified by the FDA and the Company performs or where marketed products are not covered by specific patents.
extensive testing to help ensure the safety of the fibroblast cells in The Companys commercial success will depend, in part, upon its the master cell bank.
ability to obtain and enforce strong patents, to maintain trade secret protection, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others Finished product manufacturing and to comply with the terms of licenses granted to it.
The Companys The Company sources all of its SP products from third party contract policy is to seek patent protection for proprietary technology whenever manufacturers.
HGT finished products are manufactured by contract possible in the US, Canada, major European countries and Japan.
manufacturers specializing in aseptic fill-finish operations.
Where practicable, the Company seeks patent protection in other countries on a selective basis.
In all cases the Company endeavors The Company currently has dual sources for ELAPRASE, REPLAGAL to either obtain patent protection itself or support patent applications and VYVANSE and is developing a second source for the finished by its licensors.
The markets for some of the potential products for product manufacturing of LIALDA.
The Company sources finished rare genetic diseases caused by protein deficiencies are small, and, product for ADDERALL XR, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, PENTASA, where possible, the Company has sought orphan drug designation RESOLOR and VPRIV from a single contract manufacturer for each for products directed to these markets.
The Company manages the risks associated with reliance on single sources of production by carrying additional inventories.
In the regular course of business, the Companys patents may be challenged by third parties.
The Company is a party to litigation The Company currently utilizes numerous third party suppliers or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights.
for the raw materials used in the manufacturing of DERMAGRAFT.
Details of ongoing litigation are provided in Note 20 Commitments The Company currently obtains certain serum reagents, the mesh and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements.
framework and the manifold used in the manufacture of DERMAGRAFT from single suppliers.
The Company manages the risks associated The degree of patent protection afforded to pharmaceutical inventions with reliance on single sources by carrying additional inventories and, around the world is uncertain.
If patents are granted to other parties where appropriate, entering into contractual supply agreements with that contain claims having a scope that is interpreted by the relevant a bulk order provision in the case of early termination by the supplier.
authorities to cover any of the Companys products or technologies, there can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to obtain During 2009, following a comprehensive evaluation of its operations licenses to such patents or make other arrangements at reasonable and strategic focus, Shire decided to phase out operations at its SP cost, if at all.
manufacturing facility at Owings Mills, Maryland.
This phase out was successfully completed during 2011.
The existence, scope and duration of patent protection varies among the Companys products and among the different countries where Distribution the Companys products may be sold.
They may also change over the The Companys US distribution center for SP products, which includes course of time as patents are granted or expire, or become extended, a large vault to house US Drug Enforcement Administration DEA modified or revoked.
The following non-exhaustive list sets forth details regulated Schedule II products, is located in Kentucky.
From there, of granted US and EP patents pertaining to the Companys material the Company primarily distributes its products through the three major products and certain products from which the Company receives a wholesalers who have hub or distribution centers that stock Schedule II royalty, which are owned by, or licensed to, the Company and that are drugs in the US, providing access to nearly all pharmacies in the US.
Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:11 Page 15 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 15 important to an understanding of the Companys business taken as The Company is also aware of several clinical development programs a whole.
The listed EP patents do not necessarily have a corresponding underway by other pharmaceutical companies.
Eli Lilly and Company national patent registered in each EU member state and the rights Limited, Targacept, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. NextWave granted pursuant to an EP patent are enforceable only in the EU member Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Purdue, Alcobra in collaboration with Teva, state where the EP patent has been registered as a national patent.
Theravance, Euthymics, Neuroderm, Durect Pharma and Supernus The expiration dates set forth below do not necessarily reflect changes are seeking to develop additional treatment options for ADHD.
to the patent term afforded by Patent Term Extensions in the US, nor supplementary protection certificates SPCs which are available in GI many EU member states.
The Company also holds patents in other jurisdictions, such as Canada and Japan and has patent applications Ulcerative colitis UC market pending in such jurisdictions, as well as in the US and the EU.
UC is a type of inflammatory bowel disease.
The first line treatments for patients with mild to moderate UC are formulations containing Competition mesalamine also known as 5-ASA.
Shire defines the 5-ASA Shire believes that competition in its markets is based on, among competitive set as the non-sulfasalazine, oral mesalamine and other things, product safety, efficacy, convenience of dosing, reliability, mesalamine pro-drug products.
Companies with more resources and larger R&D expenditures than Shire have a greater ability to fund the research and The US oral 5-ASA market is led by Warner Chilcotts ASACOL.
clinical trials necessary for regulatory applications, and consequently In December 2011, ASACOL had a 37.4% share of the oral 5-ASA may have a better chance of obtaining approval of drugs that would market, declining from 42.2% in December 2010. then compete with Shires products.
Other products now in use or being developed by others may be more effective or have fewer sideIn December 2011, Shires share of the US UC market was 35.8% effects than the Companys current or future products.
The market compared to 34.5% in December 2010. share data provided below is sourced from IMS Health.
The EU oral 5-ASA market was somewhat more fragmented all data ADHD market in this paragraph is stated as at November 2011.
Ferrings PENTASA Competition in the US ADHD market has increased with the launch and Warner Chilcotts ASACOL were the major competitors across of competing products in recent years, including the launch of an the EU.
PENTASA marketed in the EU by Ferring captured 29.6% authorized generic version of CONCERTA and RITALIN LA in 2011, versus ASACOLs 19.0% share of the EU G5 oral 5-ASA market UK, and the launch of authorized generic ADDERALL XR by Teva and Germany, Spain, Italy, and France.
Warner Chilcotts ASACOL led Impax in 2009.
In late 2010, KAPVAY twice daily, clonidine extended the UK market with a 45.8% share, followed by Ferrings PENTASA, release was approved by the FDA for the treatment of ADHD and which had a 27.1% share.
The German market was led by Dr. Falks was launched in the US by Shionogi & Co. Ltd in 2011.
Shires share SALOFALK, with 53.2% market share, followed by Ferrings PENTASA of the US ADHD market in December 2011 was 27.9% compared with 18% share.
Ferrings PENTASA and CLAVERSAL were the to 24.5% in December 2010.
Overall the US ADHD market grew leaders in the oral 5-ASA market in Spain with 35.2% and 29.3% by 10.4% in the year to December 31, 2011 compared to 12.4% shares respectively.
In 2010, Ferring launched a new competitor, in the same period in 2010.
PENTASA 1g tablet, in the EU and it has been launched in multiple countries in 2010 and 2011.
Shires key ADHD market is the US, with the Company having three products for the treatment of ADHD VYVANSE, ADDERALL XR and Mesalamine and balsalazide mesalamine pro-drug products are INTUNIV.
Shire also has ADHD products in Canada, Brazil, Mexico, generally protected by formulation patents only.
In December 2007, South Korea and selected EU markets and further geographic the FDA denied Salixs Citizen Petition for COLAZAL and Salix expansion plans are underway, including a collaboration with Shionogi subsequently announced the launch of an authorized generic version and Co. Ltd. to develop and sell ADHD products in Japan.
Three other generic versions of COLAZAL were then introduced.
Generic versions of COLAZAL had a 7.5% Key branded competitors in the US are stimulants CONCERTA and share of the US oral 5-ASA market in December 2011.
FOCALIN XR, and non-stimulants STRATTERA and KAPVAY.
Generic immediate release stimulants which constitute 28.6% of the ADHD In May 2011, Cosmo Ferring submitted an MAA in the EU for the market IMS NPA, December 2011 are also formidable in the US oral corticosteroid, budesonide MMX, for the induction of remission ADHD market, growing 2.4% in the year from December 31, 2010 in mild to moderate UC.
In December 2011, Cosmo Santarus to December 31, 2011. submitted an NDA in the US for budesonide MMX for the same indication.
If approved, this will be a new competitor in 2012 or 2013.
Key competitors in the European ADHD market are CONCERTA Janssen-Cilag, RITALIN LA Novartis, MEDIKINET Medice and Janssen MSDs biologic, REMICADE, is approved for treatment and distributors and STRATTERA Eli Lilly, depending upon the country.
maintenance of moderate to severe UC in the US, Canada and the EU.
Abbott submitted a supplemental NDA sNDA in the US in late 2010 The Canadian market continues to show strong growth, driven and the EMA in early 2011 for an indication in moderate to severe UC particularly by the adult market.
CONCERTA is the number one for HUMIRA.
selling brand in volume and share, although for the moving annual total MAT ending November 2011, generic methylphenidate The Company is aware of other 5-ASA and non-ASA biologic volume and share grew by 15% and 2% respectively.
Both the Brazilian treatments in development for UC by Tillotts, Salix, Janssen, Cosmo, and Mexican markets are growing strongly and in Brazil, which is Pfizer, and Millenium.
predominantly an IR market, there is increasing penetration of the extended release brands.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:11 Page 16 16 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review Chronic constipation market REGENERATIVE MEDICINE In Europe, over-the-counter and prescription laxatives are the current The medical device and biotechnology industries are characterized first line therapy for chronic constipation.
The highest value laxative by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong by revenue is MOVICOL, a polyethylene glycol PEG 3350, sold by emphasis on proprietary products.
Competition in the regenerative Norgine.
In Europe, RESOLOR is indicated for symptomatic treatment medicine industry is particularly intense, due largely to the fact that of chronic constipation in women in whom laxatives fail to provide regenerative medicine products currently compete with both traditional adequate relief and currently there are no other products available and advanced products, as well as bio-engineered products.
in the EU with the same indication.
DERMAGRAFT competes with other products based on efficacy, price, reimbursement, ease of use and healthcare provider education.
Almirall submitted an MAA in the EU in September 2011 for a guanylate cyclase type-C agonist, linaclotide under license from Ironwood, for DERMAGRAFT competes in the US against other living cell products, the treatment of irritable bowel symptoms with constipation IBS-C, such as Organogenesiss APLIGRAF and also against manufacturers which if approved would be a new competitor in the EU in 2012 or of traditional wound care products, including Healthpoints REGRANEX, 2013.
Ironwood submitted an NDA in October 2011 for linaclotide Healthpoints OASIS Matrix products, and Soluble Systems in the US for the treatment of IBS-C and chronic constipation.
In addition, DERMAGRAFT competes against advanced If approved, we expect Ironwood and Forest who are co developing mechanical technologies, such as negative pressure wound therapy.
and co-promoting linaclotide in the US to launch linaclotide in 2012 Negative pressure wound therapy uses a vacuum to remove excess or 2013 in the US.
fluid and cellular waste that create inflammation and hinder ulcer healing.
Current competitors include KCIs V. A. C. therapy and Smith In August 2011, Sucampo submitted an MAA in the UK for the chloride & Nephews RENASYS.
channel activator, lubiprostone, for chronic idiopathic constipation which, if approved, would be a new competitor in the UK in 2012.
HIV market The HIV competitive landscape is becoming more crowded and The Company is aware of other therapies for the treatment of chronic complicated as treatment trends evolve.
The Companys constipation IBS-C being developed by Synergy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 3TC lamivudine EPIVIR products all licensed to GSK are part of the ARYx Therapeutics, Theravance, Inc. Sucampo Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Nucleoside Nucleotide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors NRTI and Albireo.
TRIZIVIR, COMBIVIR and EPZICOM KIVEXA are part of the combined NRTI market.
TRUVADA tenofovir emtricitabine, sold by Markets for the treatment of rare genetic diseases Gilead, is the market leader in combination NRTI.
In addition to the Competitors for LSDs include Actelion Ltd. Protalix BioTherapeutics two NRTI HIV markets in which lamivudine is sold, there is competition Inc. Protalix, and Genzyme.
For example, REPLAGAL competes from NRTIs, PIs and entry inhibitors.
with Genzymes FABRAZYME, and VPRIV competes with Genzymes CEREZYME, Actelions ZAVESCA and will compete with the Protalix TRUVADA and ATRIPLA efavirenz emtricitabine tenofovir, cross-class compound taliglucerase alfa worldwide rights outside of Israel licensed fixed dose combination also sold by Gilead, both represent the most to Pfizer if approved.
Shire is aware of two companies Korea Green direct competition to lamivudine.
Cross Corporation and JCR Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd that are developing ERTs for the treatment of Hunter syndrome.
JCR and Several generic drug companies have filed abbreviated new drug Isu-Abxis also have early stage biosimilar programs for Gaucher applications ANDAs, seeking approval for EPIVIR, COMBIVIR, and Fabry disease, and Harvest Moon and Dong A Pharmaceuticals and EPZICOM in the US and several tentative approvals of generic have early stage biosimilar programs for Gaucher disease.
lamivudine have been issued by the FDA.
In December 2011, the FDA approved generic versions of EPIVIR that are manufactured FIRAZYR competes in Europe with CSL Behrings BERINERT P, by Aurobindo and Apotex.
a human plasma-derived C1-esterase inhibitor C1-INH product, and with Pharming Group N. V. s RUCONEST a recombinant version Business strategy overview of C1-INH, which has been launched in certain European countries The market in which the Company conducts its business is highly by Swedish Orphan Biovitrum.
FIRAZYR also competes in Europe with competitive and highly regulated.
ViroPharmas Cinryze, another human plasma-derived C1-esterase inhibitor C1-INH product, which was approved in 2011 for both acute There is increasing legislation both in the US and the rest of the treatment and prevention of acute HAE attacks.
FIRAZYR competes world which is placing downward pressure on the net pricing of in the US with BERINERT and with Dyax Corporations KALBITOR, pharmaceutical products and medical devices.
For example the a plasma kallikrein inhibitor.
ViroPharmas CINRYZE, is approved in the US government passed healthcare reform legislation in 2010 which US only for prophylaxis of HAE attacks.
included an increase in Medicaid rebate rates and extended Medicaid rebates to those products provided through Medicaid managed care For more information on orphan drug designation, see Government organizations.
The legislation also imposed annual fees to be paid by regulation below.
both pharmaceutical manufacturers from 2011 and medical device companies from 2013.
The impact of these recent changes to US healthcare legislation, and other healthcare reforms in the rest of the world, has not to date had a material impact on the Companys results of operations.
Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:11 Page 17 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 17 The healthcare industry is also experiencing: R&D Over the last five years Shire has focused its R&D efforts on products pressure from governments and healthcare providers to keep in its core therapeutic areas and concentrated its resources on prices low while increasing access to drugs: obtaining regulatory approval for later stage pipeline products within increasing challenges from third party payors for products to these core therapeutic areas.
In addition to continued efforts in its have demonstrable clinical benefit, with pricing and reimbursement late stage pipeline for the ADHD, GI, HGT and RM therapeutic areas, approval becoming increasingly linked to a products clinical Shire has also progressed work on an earlier stage pipeline.
effectiveness and impact on overall costs of patient care: Evidence of the successful progression of the late stage pipeline can increased R&D costs, because development programs are be seen in the granting of approval and associated launches of the typically larger and take longer to get approval from regulators: Companys products over the last seven years.
Since January 2005, challenges to existing patents from generic manufacturers: several products have received regulatory approval including: in the US, ELAPRASE in 2006, LIALDA and VYVANSE in 2007, INTUNIV governments and healthcare systems favoring earlier entry in 2009, VPRIV in 2010, and FIRAZYR in 2011: in the EU, FOSRENOL of low cost generic drugs: and in 2005, ELAPRASE and MEZAVANT in 2007, and VPRIV in 2010: higher marketing costs, due to increased competition for in Canada, VYVANSE in 2010. market share.
Shires strategy is focused on the development of product candidates Shires strategy to become the worlds leading specialty that have a lower risk profile.
As Shire further expanded its earlier biopharmaceutical company has been developed to address these phase pipeline, R&D costs in 2011 included expenditure on several industry-wide competitive pressures.
This strategy has resulted in preclinical to Phase 3 studies for products in development as well a series of initiatives in the following areas: as Phase 3 b and Phase 4 studies to support recently launched products in the SP and HGT businesses, together with the development Markets of new projects in both the SP, HGT and RM businesses.
Historically, Shires portfolio of approved products has been heavily weighted towards the North American market.
The acquisition Patents and market exclusivity in 2005 of Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. TKT and the consequent The loss or expiration of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity establishment of our HGT business, together with the acquisitions of with respect to any of the Companys major products could have Jerini in 2008 which brought the HAE product FIRAZYR, EQUASYM a material adverse effect on the Companys revenues, financial in 2009 which facilitated Shires immediate access to the European condition and results of operations, as generic manufacturers ADHD market and Movetis in 2010 which brought EU rights to may enter the market.
Generic manufacturers often do not need RESOLOR and further developed our GI pipeline, provided Shire with to complete extensive clinical studies when they seek registration platforms to increase its presence in Europe and the RoW, thereby of a copy product and accordingly, they are generally able to sell working towards diversifying the risk associated with reliance on one the Companys drugs at a much lower price.
As expected, in 2009 Teva and Impax commenced commercial In 2011 the SP and HGT businesses derived 15% and 80%, shipments of their authorized generic versions of ADDERALL XR, respectively, of their product sales from outside of the US.
Currently which led to lower sales of branded ADDERALL XR compared all RM product sales are generated in the US.
Shires long-term mission to the period prior to the authorized generic launch.
The FDA has is to increase the value of product sales from i outside of the US not yet reached a decision on the Citizen Petition for ADDERALL XR and ii outside of US, UK, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and Canada.
which was filed in October 2005.
An FDA decision which does Shire has made significant progress towards geographic diversification not require generic follow-on products to complete successful with additional development and commercialization activities in 2011. bio-equivalence or additional clinical testing could lead to increased In addition, Shire has ongoing commercialization and late stage generic competition for ADDERALL XR in addition to the authorized development activities which are expected to further supplement the generic versions which already exist.
In 2011 authorized generic and diversification of revenues in the future, including the following: generic versions of the Companys CARBATROL and REMINYL products, respectively were launched, which led to lower sales of these continued launch of VYVANSE in Brazil marketed as VENVANSE branded products compared to the period before loss of exclusivity.
and the potential approval and launch of VYVANSE in Mexico: filing in 2011 of an MAA for VYVANSE to be marketed as Shire is engaged in various legal proceedings with generic VENVANSE in certain countries in the EU to support registration manufacturers with respect to its VYVANSE, INTUNIV, FOSRENOL, for treatment of ADHD in children: LIALDA and ADDERALL XR patents.
For more detail of current patent litigation, see Note 20 Commitments and contingencies INTUNIV Phase 3 clinical program to support submission to the consolidated financial statements.
of an MAA in the EU: continued roll-out of VPRIV in certain EU and Latin American countries: continued roll-out of FIRAZYR in certain European and Latin American countries: the LIALDA MEZAVANT diverticulitis Phase 3 program: and continued roll-out of RESOLOR in the EU and the Rest of the World RoW.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 18 18 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review Products under development The Company focuses its development resources on projects within its core therapeutic areas of ADHD, GI, HGT and RM, as well as early development projects in additional therapeutic areas.
Total R&D expenditures of $770.7 million, $661.5 million and $639.9 million were incurred in the years to December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively.
The table below lists the Companys products in clinical development as of December 31, 2011 by disease areas indicating the most advanced development status reached in key markets and the Companys territorial rights in respect of each product candidate.
SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS Development status Product Disease area at December 31, 2011 The Companys territorial rights Treatments for ADHD INTUNIV extended release guanfacine ADHD Registration in Canada Global entered Phase 3 in Q1 2003 VYVANSE VENVANSE lisdexamfetamine dimesylate ADHD Registration in EU Global entered Phase 3 in Q4 2008 INTUNIV ADHD Phase 3 in EU Global entered Phase 3 in Q2 2010 Guanfacine Carrier Wave ADHD and other Phase 1 Global CNS disorders Treatments for GI diseases LIALDA mesalamine MEZAVANT mesalazine Diverticulitis Phase 3 globally Global excluding Italy 1 entered Phase 3 and Latin America in Q4 2007 RESOLOR prucalopride Chronic constipation Phase 3 in EU Europe Males entered Phase 3 in Q4 2010 5 RESOLOR prucalopride Chronic constipation Phase 3-ready in US US SPD-557 M0003 Refractory gastroesophageal Phase 2 EU and North America reflux disease rGERD Treatments for diseases in other therapeutic areas XAGRID Essential thrombocythaemia Phase 3 in Japan Global entered Phase 3 in Q4 2010 VYVANSE lisdexamfetamine dimesylate Adjunctive therapy Phase 3 Global in Major Depressive entered Phase 3 Disorder MDD in Q4 2011 VYVANSE lisdexamfetamine dimesylate Excessive Daytime Phase 2 Global Sleepiness EDS VYVANSE lisdexamfetamine dimesylate Negative Symptoms Phase 2 Global of Schizophrenia NSS VYVANSE lisdexamfetamine dimesylate Other non ADHD Phase 2 Global indications in adults SPD-535 Arteriovenous grafts Phase 1 Global in hemodialysis patients Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 19 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 19 HUMAN GENETIC THERAPIES Development status Product Disease area at December 31, 2011 The Companys territorial rights Treatment for Fabry REPLAGAL agalsidase alfa Fabry disease Registration in the US Global additional study initiated to support US dossier 4 Q1 2010 Treatment for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy DMD HGT-4510 DMD Phase 2a currently Global Excluding 2 on clinical hold North America Enzyme Replacement Therapies ERT 3 HGT-2310 Hunter syndrome with Phase 1 2 Global central nervous system CNS symptoms, idursulfase-IT HGT-1410 Sanfilippo Syndrome Phase 1 2 Global  IIIA HGT-1110 Metachromatic Preclinical Global Leukodystrophy MLD HGT-3010 Sanfilippo Syndrome Preclinical Global  IIIB REGENERATIVE MEDICINE Development status Product Disease area at December 31, 2011 The Groups territorial rights Treatment for Diabetic Foot Ulcers DFU DERMAGRAFT DFU Registration in Canada Global dossier submitted for approval in Q1 2011 Treatment for Venous Leg Ulcers VLU DERMAGRAFT VLU Phase 3 Global entered Phase 3 in Q2 2009 1 Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd has rights to develop and sell LIALDA in Japan under license with Shire.
2 As a result of a license and collaboration agreement with Acceleron Pharma Inc. Acceleron.
3 Genzyme has rights to manage marketing and distribution in Japan and certain other Asia Pacific countries under a license with Shire.
4 REPLAGAL entered Phase 3 in Q4 1998 for registration outside the US.
5 US rights were acquired from J&J in January 2012.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 20 20 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS TREATMENTS FOR DISEASES IN OTHER THERAPEUTIC AREAS TREATMENTS FOR ADHD XAGRID for the treatment of essential thrombocythaemia in Japan A Phase 3 clinical program has been initiated to assess the safety INTUNIV for ADHD in Canada and efficacy of XAGRID in adult essential thrombocythaemia patients In October 2011 Shire submitted a New Drug Submission NDS treated with cytoreductive therapy who have become intolerant to their seeking the approval in Canada for INTUNIV for the treatment of current therapy or whose platelet counts have not been reduced to an ADHD in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17.
Health Canada accepted the NDS for screening.
Lisdexamfetamine dimesylate LDX, currently marketed VYVANSE VENVANSE for ADHD in the EU as VYVANSE in the US for the treatment of ADHD for the In December 2011 Shire submitted an MAA seeking approval treatment of inadequate response in MDD for VYVANSE to be marketed as VENVANSE for the treatment A Phase 3 clinical program to assess the efficacy and safety of LDX of ADHD in children aged 6 to 17.
In January 2012 the EMA as adjunctive therapy in patients with MDD was initiated in the fourth accepted this MAA for review.
quarter of 2011 and is ongoing.
INTUNIV for ADHD in the EU LDX currently marketed as VYVANSE in the US for the INTUNIV for the treatment of ADHD in children aged 6 to 17 in the treatment of ADHD for the treatment of EDS EU is in Phase 3 development.
Based on discussions with regulatory agencies regarding potential development pathways for LDX as a possible EDS treatment option, Guanfacine Carrier Wave for the treatment of various Phase 3 studies could begin in 2012.
CNS disorders A lead candidate has been selected for development and a Phase 1 LDX currently marketed as VYVANSE in the US for the program has been initiated to determine safety and tolerability of this treatment of ADHD for the treatment of NSS compound.
The ongoing Phase 1 program will be supportive of Based on discussions with regulatory agencies regarding potential potentially three different CNS-related indications: ADHD, hyperactivity development pathways for LDX as a possible NSS treatment option, in Autism Spectrum Disorder and Pediatric Anxiety.
Phase 3 studies could begin in 2012.
TREATMENTS FOR GI DISEASES LDX currently marketed as VYVANSE in the US for the treatment of ADHD for the treatment of other non ADHD LIALDA MEZAVANT for the treatment of diverticulitis indications in adults Phase 3 worldwide clinical trials investigating the use of Shire is conducting a Phase 2 pilot clinical trial to assess the efficacy LIALDA MEZAVANT to prevent recurrent attacks of diverticulitis and safety of LDX for the treatment of Binge Eating Disorder.
were initiated in 2007 and are ongoing.
SPD-535 for the treatment of improvement in potency RESOLOR for the treatment of chronic constipation in males of arteriovenous access in hemodialysis patients A Phase 3 European clinical trial to further assess the efficacy SPD-535 is in development as a novel molecule with platelet lowering of RESOLOR for the treatment of chronic constipation in males ability and without phosphodiesterase type III inhibition apparent at was initiated in 2010 and is ongoing.
Data from Phase 1 clinical trials demonstrated positive proof of principle.
Work is ongoing on additional Phase 1 RESOLOR for the treatment of chronic constipation in the US studies to support progression to a Phase 2 proof of concept program On January 10, 2012, Shire announced that it acquired the rights that will target prevention of thrombotic complications associated with to develop and market RESOLOR in the US in an agreement arteriovenous access in hemodialysis patients.
with Janssen Pharmaceutica N. V. This product is Phase 3-ready and definitive plans will be implemented following discussions PROJECTS IN PRECLINICAL DEVELOPMENT with regulatory authorities.
A number of additional projects are underway in various stages SPD-557 for the treatment of refractory GERD of preclinical development for the SP area, including programs using SPD-557 M0003 is a selective 5-HT4 receptor agonist.
An exploratory Carrier Wave technology.
More data on these programs is expected Phase 2 program to investigate the effect of the product on reflux throughout 2012. episodes in patients currently treated with proton pump inhibitors was initiated in the fourth quarter 2010 and is ongoing.
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS DISCONTINUED IN 2011 The Company has discontinued the following SP development projects during the year ended December 31, 2011: FOSRENOL for the treatment of pre-dialysis chronic kidney disease: JUVISTA for the improvement of scar appearance: SPD-556 for the treatment of ascites: Carrier Wave molecules for the treatment of pain: RESOLOR for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation.
Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 21 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 21 HUMAN GENETIC THERAPIES REGENERATIVE MEDICINE TREATMENTS FOR FABRY DISEASE TREATMENTS FOR DFU REPLAGALfor the treatment of Fabry disease in the US DERMAGRAFTfor the treatment of DFU On October 24, 2011 Shire initiated a rolling Biologics License On March 21, 2011, prior to acquisition by the Company, ABH filed Application BLA for REPLAGAL in the US, designated Fast Track a Class IV Medical Device Application to Health Canada to seek by the FDA.
The Company submitted the final BLA sections in approval for DERMAGRAFT for the treatment of DFU.
In 2010 Shire withdrew an earlier BLA in order to gather additional clinical data for REPLAGAL.
These data, including TREATMENTS FOR VLU data from Shires ongoing US treatment Protocol, have now been evaluated and included in the new filing.
The BLA has been accepted DERMAGRAFTfor the treatment of VLU for Priority Review and assigned an action date of May 17, 2012.
On August 24, 2011 Shire announced its preliminary analysis of the top-line results from ABHs Phase 3 pivotal trial of DERMAGRAFT TREATMENT FOR DMD in subjects with VLU.
The international pivotal trial was designed as a prospective, multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical study HGT-4510 for DMD to assess the products safety and efficacy in the promotion of HGT-4510 also referred to as ACE-031 was added to the Shire healing VLU.
The preliminary analysis of the data was that the trial HGT portfolio in 2010 through an exclusive license in markets outside did not meet the primary endpoint mutually agreed with the FDA and of North America for the ActRIIB class of molecules being developed EMA and a subsequent detailed analysis of the data set is ongoing.
The lead ActRIIB drug candidate, HGT-4510 is in development for the treatment of patients with DMD.
The Phase 2a Business development trial is on hold.
Additional preclinical toxicology work will be conducted Shire seeks to focus its business development activity on the in 2012.
This product has been granted orphan designation in the acquisition and in-licensing of products and projects which have the US and the EU.
benefit of long-term patent protection and or data exclusivity, other forms of market exclusivity and or barriers to entry.
ERT Through the acquisition of ABH in 2011 Shire obtained DERMAGRAFT, HGT-2310 for the treatment of Hunter syndrome with CNS which is currently marketed in the US for the treatment of DFU.
symptoms, idursulfase-IT intrathecal delivery Through the acquisition of Movetis in 2010, Shire obtained the recently HGT-2310 is in development as an ERT delivered intrathecally for launched RESOLOR, a promising GI pipeline and world-class R&D Hunter syndrome patients with CNS symptoms.
In addition, in early 2012 Shire acquired the rights to market a Phase 1 2 clinical trial in the first quarter of 2010.
In 2010 Shire also acquired an exclusive license This product has been granted orphan designation in the US.
in markets outside of North America for the ActRIIB class of molecules being developed by Acceleron.
The collaboration with Acceleron will HGT-1410 for Sanfilippo A Syndrome  IIIA initially focus on further developing HGT-4510 also called ACE-031 HGT-1410 is in development as an ERT delivered intrathecally for for the treatment of patients with DMD.
the treatment of Sanfilippo A Syndrome  IIIA, an LSD.
The product has been granted orphan drug designation in In 2009, Shire acquired the worldwide rights excluding the US, the US and in the EU.
The Company initiated a Phase 1 2 clinical trial Canada and Barbados to EQUASYM and EQUASYM XL from UCB in August 2010.
and entered into a research collaboration with Santaris Pharma A S Santaris for the development of its Locked Nucleic Acid LNA EARLY RESEARCH PRODUCTS drug platform technology.
HGT-3010 for Sanfilippo B Syndrome  IIIB Organization and structure HGT-3010 is in preclinical development as an ERT delivered In the third quarter of 2011, following the acquisition of ABH, intrathecally for the treatment of Sanfilippo B Syndrome an organizational realignment was carried out.
reorganization the Company now has three business units and three reporting segments: SP, HGT and RM which currently HGT-1110for the treatment of MLD comprises only the ABH business.
HGT-1110 is in preclinical development as an ERT delivered intrathecally for the treatment of Metachromatic Leukodystrophy.
This product has During 2010, to support the Companys mission to increase the been granted orphan drug designation in the US and the EU.
proportion of product sales generated outside of the US, Shire established an international commercial hub in Switzerland.
A number of additional early stage research projects are also underway for the HGT business area.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 22 22 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review 2011 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW Our strategy principles Our purpose and mission are supported by a set of underlying strategy Our purpose principles: We enable people with life-altering conditions to lead better lives.
specialist focus: symptomatic diseases: unmet needs: niche markets: Our mission statement By 2015, Shire aspires to be the most valuable specialtyfocus on our best opportunities and be prepared to exit biopharmaceutical company in the world.
underperforming or low priority assets and businesses: strong bias towards out-sourcing non-differentiating capabilities: and To achieve these results Shire aims to: strong bias towards projects and technologies that are lower-risk deliver leading financial performance within our peer group: and allow for a quick development decision point.
attain the number 1 or number 2 position in each of our chosen therapeutic areas, as measured by global market share: KPIs Shire measures its performance against its mission statement and continued long-term revenue and profit growth trajectory: strategy using a Corporate Scorecard.
The objectives and KPIs in the focus on markets with high unmet needs, and demonstrate Corporate Scorecard are reviewed and approved by the Companys clinical and economic value to all stakeholders.
Remuneration Committee which also assesses how the Group has performed against those KPIs.
The 2011 Corporate Scorecard included the following financial and non financial KPIs: Financial KPIs 2 Achieve revenue growth from net product sales Achieve sales growth from ex-US markets Revenue growth from net product sales $BN Sales from outside the US % 2011 $3.9 2011 35% 2010 $3.1 2010 35% 2009 $2.7 2009 30% 2 Net product sales from geographic markets outside of the US.
Revenues from net product sales in 2011 were up 26% to $3.9 billion driven by strong growth across the portfolio, including VYVANSE Product sales from ex-US markets were up $276 million, or 25%, up 27% to $805 million, ADDERALL XR up 48% to $533 million, in 2011.
Product sales from ex-US markets as a proportion of REPLAGAL up 35% to $475 million, ELAPRASE up 15% to the Groups total product sales in 2011 remained constant at 35%.
$465 million, LIALDA MEZAVANT up 27% to $372 million, INTUNIV up 34% to $223 million, and VPRIV up 79% to $256 million.
Product sales in 2011 also included $105 million of DERMAGRAFT sales made subsequent to the acquisition of ABH.
1 3 Achieve EBITDA growth Achieve ROIC growth EBITDA $M Year-on-year ROIC growth basis points 2011 $1,478 2011 v 2010 210 2010 $1,165 2010 v 2009 190 2009 $982 240 2009 v 2008 1 EBITDA being Non GAAP earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 3 ROIC Non GAAP Return on Invested Capital see page 125 for a denition.
amortization is a Non GAAP measure.
These Non GAAP measures are reconciled to their US GAAP equivalents on pages 126 to 128.
Non GAAP ROIC grew by 210 basis points in 2011 over 2010 primarily due to higher product sales up 26% and continued Non GAAP EBITDA increased by 27% to $1,478 million in 2011 operating leverage leading to an increase in margins, together as higher revenues up 23% to $4,263 million grew at a faster rate with improvements in net asset efficiency.
than R&D and selling, general and administrative SG&A expenditure, which allowed the Group to absorb the effects of increased investment in our targeted R&D programs and increases in SG&A activities to support our product launches and continued growth.
Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 23 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 23 Non financial KPIs Results of operations for the years to December 31, 2011 and 2010 Non financial KPIs for 2011 included: Financial highlights for the year to December 31, 2011 are as follows: Product sales in 2011 were up 26% to $3,950 million Achieve diversity of experiences and capabilities that reflect 1 2010: $3,128 million.
On a constant exchange rate CER the expanding geographic diversity of Shires business basis, which is a Non GAAP measure, product sales were up 24%.
Shire aims to ensure that its talent base has the experience and capabilities to support its growing business, including a reflection Product sales growth was generated from across the portfolio, of geographic diversity.
particularly VYVANSE up 27% to $805 million, ADDERALL XR up 48% to $533 million, REPLAGAL up 35% to $475 million, Shire has identified a group of global leadership capabilities against ELAPRASE up 15% to $465 million, LIALDA MEZAVANT up 27% which potential company leaders will be assessed.
Shire aims to have to $372 million and VPRIV up 79% to $256 million.
Product sales possible successors in place for all of its leaders, and to ensure that in 2011 also benefited from $105 million of DERMAGRAFT sales those individuals have formal development plans to round out their made subsequent to the acquisition of ABH.
This includes developing geographic diversity Total revenues in 2011 exceeded $4 billion for the first time, through international assignments and on-the-job development.
Diversity increasing by 23% Non GAAP CER: up 21% to $4,263 million metric reports are generated and reviewed by the organization regularly.
The strong product sales growth more than Succession plans for the Executive Leadership Team are also regularly offset decreased royalties and other revenues, down 9% due to reviewed by the Board, and this process is replicated by Executive lower 3TC and ZEFFIX royalties.
management throughout the organization at all management levels.
Operating income was up 40% to $1,109 million 2010: $794 million, Continue to foster a culture of compliance as total revenues grew at a faster rate than R&D and SG&A Shire aims to ensure that maintaining high ethical standards and expenditure.
Operating income in 2010 included impairment charges compliance are central to everything we do.
Shires compliance function recorded on the divestment of DAYTRANA and an up front payment conducts regular training for employees, distributors, agents and other of $45 million to Acceleron.
partners doing business with Shire.
In 2011 the compliance program Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share were up 43% to 150.9 included extensive training on Shires anti-bribery policies as well 2010: 105.3 due to higher operating income and a lower effective as policies and procedures concerning interactions with physicians.
Create an environment in which employees are highly engaged 1 The Companys management analyzes product sales and revenue growth and committed to achieving Shires goals for certain products sold in markets outside of the US on a constant exchange Shire believes that high levels of employee engagement are key rate CER basis, so that product sales and revenue growth can be considered excluding movements in foreign exchange rates.
Product sales and revenue to driving achievement of the companys goals.
growth on a CER basis is a Non GAAP financial measure Non GAAP CER, computed by comparing 2011 product sales and revenues restated using 2010 Over the past few years Shire has conducted a regular employee average foreign exchange rates to 2010 actual product sales and revenues.
This engagement survey which this year demonstrated impressive gains Non GAAP financial measure is used by Shires management, and is considered on employee engagement.
The outputs are used to identify ways to to provide useful information to investors about the Companys results of improve employee engagement throughout the company.
Survey results operations, because it facilitates an evaluation of the Companys year-on-year performance on a comparable basis.
Average exchange rates for the year to showed that Shires workforce is highly supportive of our culture and December 31, 2011 were $1.60:1.00 and $1.39:1.00 2010: $1.55:1.00 and mission to enable people with life-altering conditions to lead better lives.
Demonstrate value to all of Shires customer segments Shire seeks to demonstrate that its products provide value to all of its stakeholders, including patients, physicians and payors.
Shire recognizes that for its products to be successful they need to demonstrate clinical and economic value to all stakeholders.
Measures of success in 2011 against these markers included: Increases in market share in its ADHD, GI, HGT and RM therapeutic areas.
Completion of patient, physician and payor surveys for certain products that will help us continue to meet stakeholder needs.
Demonstration of clinical value through the approval of: FIRAZYR for self-administration in the EU and US INTUNIV in the US as adjunctive therapy to stimulants for the treatment of ADHD for children and adolescents LIALDA in the US and Canada for maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis.
Development of dossiers for certain products that demonstrate economic value to support their pricing and reimbursement.
Exit market share represents the average US market share in the month ended December 31, 2011.
2 IMS NPA Data not available.
3 Not sold in the US in the year to December 31, 2011.
4 The Company divested DAYTRANA to Noven effective October 1, 2010.
5 DERMAGRAFT was acquired by Shire on June 28, 2011. Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 25 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 25 SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS VYVANSEADHD INTUNIVADHD VYVANSE product sales grew strongly in 2011 as a result of higher INTUNIV product sales were up 34% compared to 2010, primarily prescription demand, due to an increase in VYVANSEs market share driven by significant growth in US prescription demand together with and growth in US ADHD market 10%, and the effect of a price a price increase taken during 2011.
These positive factors were offset increase taken in 2011.
These factors more than offset the effect of by lower stocking and higher sales deductions in 2011 compared destocking and higher sales deductions in 2011 compared to 2010. to 2010, and the effect of the inclusion of launch stocking shipments within reported 2010 product sales.
Litigation proceedings regarding VYVANSE are ongoing.
Further information about this litigation can be found in Note 20 Commitments Litigation proceedings relating to the Companys INTUNIV patents and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements.
For further information see Note 20 Commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements.
ADDERALL XRADHD ADDERALL XR product sales grew by 48%, or $172 million, principally LIALDA MEZAVANTUlcerative colitis as a result of lower sales deductions as a percentage of branded gross The growth in product sales for LIALDA MEZAVANT in 2011 was product sales, increases in US prescription demand in line with growth primarily driven by higher US prescription demand following increases in in the US ADHD market and a price increase taken during 2011.
US market share, a price increase taken since the fourth quarter of 2010 and the effect of stocking in 2011 compared to destocking in 2010.
Sales deductions in 2011 represented 57% of branded gross product sales 2010: 65% of branded gross product sales.
The decrease Litigation proceedings regarding LIALDA MEZAVANT are ongoing.
in sales deductions was primarily due to the lowering of our estimate Further information about this litigation can be found in Note 20 of inventory in the US retail pipeline and the related sales deduction Commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial reserve in the third quarter of 2011 representing 2% of gross statements.
product sales in 2011 and the mix of customer sales affecting the rebate calculation.
The eight percentage point decrease in sales PENTASAUlcerative colitis deductions as a percentage of branded gross product sales Product sales of PENTASA continued to grow despite lower US contributed $85 million to ADDERALL XRs net product sales in 2011. prescription demand, due to the impact of a price increase taken ADDERALL XR sales deductions in 2012 are expected to be in the during 2011. range of 6065%.
 There are potentially different interpretations as to how shipments Product sales of FOSRENOL outside the US decreased marginally of authorized generic ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax should be primarily because of mandatory price reductions that were imposed in included in the Medicaid rebate calculation.
Since authorized generic several key markets.
Product sales of FOSRENOL in the US decreased launch in 2009 the Company has recorded its accrual for Medicaid due to lower US prescription demand and higher sales deductions rebates based on its best estimate of the rebate payable, consistent compared to 2010, which more than offset a 2011 price increase.
with the Companys interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation.
Shire believes that its interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation Litigation proceedings regarding Shires FOSRENOL patents are is reasonable and correct.
Additionally, from October 1, 2010 forward, ongoing.
Further information about this litigation can be found in provisions of the 2010 Affordable Care Act provide further clarity, Note 20 Commitments and contingencies to the consolidated in a manner consistent with the Companys interpretation, as to how financial statements.
shipments of authorized generics from that date should be included in the Medicaid rebate calculation.
HUMAN GENETIC THERAPIES The CMS could disagree with Shires interpretation of the Medicaid REPLAGALFabry disease rebate legislation for shipments of authorized generic products prior The 35% growth 30% on a Non GAAP CER basis in REPLAGAL to October 1, 2010.
CMS could require Shire to apply an alternative product sales was driven by the treatment of new patients, being interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation and request that Shire both nave patients and switches from patients being treated with pays up to $212 million above the recorded liability.
Reported REPLAGAL sales also benefited from believes it has a strong legal basis supporting its interpretation of the favorable foreign exchange, due to the weaker US dollar over the Medicaid rebate legislation, and that there would be a strong basis course of 2011 compared to 2010. to limit any additional payment to a level approximating the full, un-rebated cost to the States of ADDERALL XR equivalent to Litigation proceedings regarding REPLAGAL are ongoing.
Further approximately $134 million above the recorded liability, and to initiate information about this litigation can be found in Note 20 Commitments litigation to recover any amount paid in excess of the recorded liability.
and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements.
The result of any such litigation cannot be predicted.
ELAPRASEHunter syndrome Litigation proceedings regarding ADDERALL XR are ongoing.
Further Product sales for ELAPRASE increased as a result of increased patients information about this litigation can be found in Note 20 Commitments on therapy across all regions in which ELAPRASE is sold.
Reported and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements.
ELAPRASE sales also benefited from favorable foreign exchange.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 26 26 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review VPRIVGaucher disease REGENERATIVE MEDICINE VPRIV product sales growth was driven by the treatment of new patients, being both nave patients and patients switching from DERMAGRAFTDFU CEREZYME.
Reported sales also benefited from favorable foreign DERMAGRAFT continues to see strong revenue growth in the US, up 1 exchange.
33% for the full year 2011 compared to the full year 2010.
The growth resulted from a combination of an expanding US diabetic population, FIRAZYRHAE continued adoption of DERMAGRAFT as a treatment for DFU, and The significant growth rate in global product sales in 2011 follows the continued investment in marketing programs and additional sales the successful launch of FIRAZYR in the US in August 2011 representatives to market the product.
and the approval for self-administration in the EU in March 2011.
1 Shire acquired DERMAGRAFT through its acquisition of ABH in June 2011.
Royalties 2011 2010 Change Year to December 31, $M $M % ADDERALL XR 107.1 100.3 7% 3TC and ZEFFIX 82.7 154.0 46% FOSRENOL 46.5 26.8 74% Other 47.2 47.0 1% Total 283.5 328.1 14% Royalty income decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 as lower R&D royalties from 3TC and ZEFFIX more than offset higher royalty income R&D expenditure for the year to December 31, 2011 increased from ADDERALL XR and FOSRENOL.
to $770.7 million 20% of product sales, compared to $661.5 million in the corresponding period in 2010 21% of product sales.
Royalty income from 3TC and ZEFFIX continues to be adversely impacted by increased competition from other products.
Additionally, R&D in 2010 included an up front payment of $45.0 million with effect from the second quarter of 2011, Shire has not recognized representing 1% of product sales on entering the collaboration with royalty income for 3TC and ZEFFIX in certain territories due to a Acceleron for development of the ActRIIB class of molecules.
Excluding disagreement between GSK and Shire about how the relevant royalty this up front payment, R&D increased by $154.2 million in 2011, rates should be applied given the expiry dates of certain patents.
reflecting the Companys continued investment in a number of targeted GSK and Shire are holding discussions in order to seek to resolve the R&D programs, including new uses for VYVANSE, Sanfilippo and other disagreement.
In 2012 royalty terms for 3TC and ZEFFIX will begin development programs.
In addition, R&D in 2011 also included a full to expire in most territories outside of the US, and in the US royalty year of Movetiss development programs and ABHs expenditure in the terms for 3TC and ZEFFIX expire between 2014 and 2018. second half of 2011, an impairment charge of $16.0 million 2010: $nil After expiry the Company will cease to receive royalties from GSK in respect of certain IPR&D assets and the adverse impact of foreign on sales of 3TC and ZEFFIX in those territories.
Cost of product sales For the year to December 31, 2011 R&D included depreciation Cost of product sales increased to $588.1 million for the year to of $25.2 million 2010: $19.0 million and an impairment charge December 31, 2011 15% of product sales, up from $463.4 million of $16.0 million 2010: $nil.
in the corresponding period in 2010 15% of product sales.
SG&A Cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales stayed SG&A expenses increased to $1,751.4 million 44% of product constant as the effect of slightly higher margins from existing products sales for the year to December 31, 2011 from $1,526.3 million and lower costs incurred on the transfer of manufacturing from 49% of product sales in the corresponding period in 2010.
Owings Mills in 2011 were offset by the inclusion of DERMAGRAFT including the unwind of the fair value adjustment for inventory acquired In 2010 SG&A included an impairment charge of $42.7 million to with ABH and a write down of expired ELAPRASE unpurified bulk write down the DAYTRANA intangible asset to its fair value less costs material which was not prioritized for purification as capacity was to sell, prior to the divestment of DAYTRANA to Noven.
Excluding directed towards meeting demand for REPLAGAL and VPRIV in 2011. this impairment charge SG&A increased by $267.8 million as the Company supported the growth of its existing and recently launched For the year to December 31, 2011 cost of product sales included products along with developing its international infrastructure.
SG&A in 2011 also included a full year of Movetiss operating costs, ABHs expenditure in the second half of 2011 and the adverse impact of foreign exchange in 2011 compared to 2010.
For the year to December 31, 2011 SG&A also included depreciation of $63.1 million 2010: $62.1 million and intangible asset amortization of $165.0 million 2010: $133.5 million.
Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 27 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 27 Reorganization costs Results of operations for the years to December 31, 2010 and 2009 For the year to December 31, 2011 Shire recorded reorganization Financial highlights for the year to December 31, 2010 are as follows: costs of $24.3 million 2010: $34.3 million relating to the transfer Product sales were up 16% to $3,128 million 2009: $2,694 million.
of manufacturing from its Owings Mills facility to a third party and Product sales excluding ADDERALL XR grew strongly through 2010 the establishment of an international commercial hub in Switzerland.
up 34% to $2,767 million, more than offsetting the decline in ADDERALL XR product sales down 42% to $361 million following Integration and acquisition costs 1 loss of market exclusivity in April 2009.
On a Non GAAP CER For the year to December 31, 2011 Shire recorded integration and basis, product sales excluding ADDERALL XR were up 35%.
acquisition costs of $13.7 million 2010: $8.0 million, which related to the acquisition and integration of ABH $13.6 million and theThe 34% growth in product sales excluding ADDERALL XR to integration of Movetis $8.3 million, offset by an adjustment $2,767 million was driven by VYVANSE up 26% to $634 million, to contingent consideration payable for EQUASYM $8.2 million.
REPLAGAL up 81% to $351 million, LIALDA MEZAVANT In 2010 integration and acquisition costs primarily related to the up 24% to $293 million, and recently launched INTUNIV acquisition of Movetis.
Total revenues were up 15% Non GAAP CER: up 16% Interest expense to $3,471 million 2009: $3,008 million due to the growth For the year to December 31, 2011 Shire incurred interest expense in product sales and higher royalties up 12% to $328 million.
Interest expense principally relates to the coupon and amortization of issue costs on Shires $1,100 millionOperating income increased by $174 million, or 28%, to $794 million 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014.
2009: $620 million, due to higher revenues and continued operating leverage, which allowed the Company to absorb the effects of Other income expense, net increased investment in its targeted R&D programs and an increase For the year to December 31, 2011 the Company recognized other in selling, general and administrative SG&A activities to support income, net of $18.1 million 2010: $7.9 million.
Other income in the year its recent and future growth.
to December 31, 2011 included a gain of $23.5 million arising on the Net income attributable to Shire increased by $96 million to disposal of substantially all of Shires holding in Vertex Shire received $588 million 2009: $492 million and diluted earnings per Ordinary these shares as partial consideration for its investment in ViroChem Share increased by 17% to 105.3 2009: 89.7. following ViroChem being acquired by Vertex.
Other income in the year 1 The Companys management analyzes product sales and revenue growth for to December 31, 2010 included a gain of $11.1 million arising on the certain products sold in markets outside of the US on a CER basis, so that product disposal of Shires investment in ViroChem.
sales and revenue growth can be considered excluding movements in foreign exchange rates.
Product sales and revenue growth on a CER basis is a Non GAAP Taxation financial measure, computed by comparing 2010 product sales and revenues The effective rate of tax in 2011 was 21% 2010: 24%.
The effective restated using 2009 average foreign exchange rates to 2009 actual product sales and revenues.
This Non GAAP financial measure is used by Shires management, tax rate in 2011 is lower than 2010 due to favorable changes in profit and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the Companys mix in 2011, including the full year effect in 2011 of the Companys results of operations, because it facilitates an evaluation of the Companys year-onestablishment of an international commercial hub in Switzerland in the year performance on a comparable basis.
Average key exchange rates for year fourth quarter of 2010, together with the effect of certain expenses to December 31, 2010 were $1.55:1.00 and $1.33:1.00 2009: $1.57:1.00 and in 2010 including the up front payment to Acceleron being incurred $1.39:1.00. in territories with a tax rate lower than Shires effective tax rate.
Exit market share represents the average US market share in the month ended December 31, 2010.
3 Not sold in the US in the year to December 31, 2010.
4 INTUNIV was launched in the US in the fourth quarter of 2009.
In 2009 VPRIV generated sales from early access programs, prior to obtaining US and EU approval in 2010.
5 The Company divested DAYTRANA to Noven effective October 1, 2010.
SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS Litigation proceedings regarding ADDERALL XR are ongoing.
Further information about this litigation can be found in Note 20 Commitments VYVANSEADHD and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements.
The increase in VYVANSE product sales was driven by both an increase in VYVANSEs market share and US ADHD market growth INTUNIVADHD 12% as well as the effect of price increases taken since the fourth US prescription demand for INTUNIV continued to increase throughout quarter of 2009.
These factors offset the effect of higher sales 2010.
INTUNIV was launched in the US in November 2009, and deductions in 2010 due to the impact of increased Medicaid rebates product sales in 2010 included both shipments made in 2010 and principally as a result of US healthcare reforms.
the recognition into revenue of launch stocks which had been deferred in 2009 in accordance with Shires accounting policies.
ADDERALL XRADHD ADDERALL XR product sales decreased due to lower US prescription LIALDA MEZAVANTUlcerative colitis demand following the launch of authorized generic versions in 2009, Product sales for LIALDA MEZAVANT continued to grow in 2010, which more than offset US ADHD market growth and higher sales driven by an increase in US market share and price increases taken deductions in 2010 65% of branded gross sales in 2010 compared since the fourth quarter of 2009.
These factors were partially offset to 47% in 2009.
These factors more than offset the effects of stocking by higher sales deductions compared to the same period in 2009 in 2010 compared to destocking in 2009. due in part to US healthcare reforms.
Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 29 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 29 Litigation proceedings regarding LIALDA MEZAVANT are ongoing.
commencing therapy across North America, Latin America and Europe, Further information about this litigation can be found in Note 20 Middle East and Asia.
On a Non GAAP CER basis sales grew by 16%.
Commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements.
REPLAGALFabry disease The 81% growth 87% on a Non GAAP CER basis in REPLAGAL PENTASAUlcerative colitis product sales was driven by a significant increase in demand in 2010 Product sales of PENTASA continued to grow despite lower US in all countries where REPLAGAL is sold as new patients commenced prescription demand due to the impact of price increases taken therapy and existing patients switched to REPLAGAL from a competitor during 2010. product.
This was attributable in part to supply shortages of that competitor product.
 Product sales of FOSRENOL outside the US increased by 6% primarily Litigation proceedings regarding REPLAGAL are ongoing.
Further because of higher prescription demand partially offset by mandatory information about this litigation can be found in Note 20 Commitments price reductions that were imposed in 2010.
Product sales of FOSRENOL and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements.
in the US decreased by 7% due to lower US prescription demand and higher sales deductions compared to 2009, which more than offset VPRIVGaucher disease the effect of price increases taken since the fourth quarter of 2009.
Following the grant of a marketing authorization from the European Commission on August 26, 2010, VPRIV is now being reimbursed on an Litigation proceedings regarding Shires FOSRENOL patents are approved basis in several countries in the EU as well as in the US.
Further information about this litigation can be found was approved by the FDA on February 26, 2010.
Reimbursement in Note 20 Commitments and contingencies to the consolidated on a pre-approval basis continues in other EU countries.
FIRAZYRHAE HUMAN GENETIC THERAPIES Product sales grew in line with increased volumes across markets in Europe.
FIRAZYR is the first new product for HAE in Europe in ELAPRASEHunter syndrome 30 years and has orphan exclusivity for acute attacks of HAE in adults The growth in sales of ELAPRASE was driven by new patients in the EU until 2018.
Royalties Royalty revenue increased by 12% to $328.1 million for the year to December 31, 2010 2009: $292.5 million.
The following table provides an analysis of Shires royalty income: 2010 2009 Change Year to December 31, $M $M % 3TC and ZEFFIX 154.0 164.0 6 ADDERALL XR 100.3 68.0 48 Others 73.8 60.5 22 Total 328.1 292.5 12 The increase in royalty revenue in 2010 was primarily due to higher of $25.7 million 2009: $12.0 million following a change in the estimate royalties received on sales of authorized generic versions of of the useful lives of the property, plant and equipment at Shires Owings ADDERALL XR ADDERALL XR royalties have been received from Mills facility as a result of the anticipated closure of the facility in 2011.
Impax since October 2009, and were received from Teva, at a lower rate, between April and September 2009.
Royalties received for R&D 3TC and ZEFFIX from GSK were lower in 2010 compared to 2009 R&D expenditure for the year to December 31, 2010 increased to as 3TC based treatments continue to be adversely impacted by $661.5 million 21% of product sales, compared to $639.9 million increased competition from other products.
in the corresponding period in 2009 24% of product sales.
R&D expenditure in the year to December 31, 2010 included the up front Cost of product sales payment of $45.0 million 1% of product sales on entering the Cost of product sales increased to $463.4 million for the year to collaboration with Acceleron for development of the ActRIIB class December 31, 2010 15% of product sales, up from $388.0 million of molecules.
R&D in the year to December 31, 2009 included in the corresponding period in 2009 14% of product sales.
Cost $36.9 million 1% of product sales related to the payment to amend of product sales as a percentage of product sales increased by one an INTUNIV in-license agreement, $62.9 million 2% of product sales percentage point compared to 2009 as lower gross margins on following the agreement with Duramed to terminate development ADDERALL XR in 2010 and higher costs incurred in 2010 on the of the Womens Health products, and the up front payment to transfer of manufacturing from the Companys Owings Mills facility Santaris of $6.5 million for technology access and R&D funding.
to a third party offset the positive effect on gross margins of recently launched, higher margin products and higher gross margins from Excluding these termination, license and up front payments, R&D existing products excluding ADDERALL XR.
increased by $82.9 million in the year to December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 as the Company continued to increase For the year to December 31, 2010 cost of product sales included investment in a number of targeted R&D programs, including depreciation of $38.1 million 2009: $21.8 million.
Depreciation VYVANSE international and investigative uses of VYVANSE for new charged in 2010 is higher than 2009 due to accelerated depreciation indications, Guanfacine Carrier Wave, R&D programs acquired with 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 30 30 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review Movetis and other early stage development programs.
For the year Taxation to December 31, 2010 R&D included depreciation of $19.0 million The effective rate of tax in 2010 was 24% 2009: 22%.
The effective rate of tax in 2010 benefited from increased profits in SG&A lower tax territories, including Switzerland following the implementation SG&A expenses increased to $1,526.3 million 49% of product sales of an international commercial hub there in 2010, and an increase for the year to December 31, 2010 from $1,342.6 million 50% of in US tax incentives notably the domestic production deduction, product sales in the corresponding period in 2009.
SG&A increased partially offset by up front payments to Acceleron which were in 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 due to costs incurred deductible at tax rates lower than the Companys effective tax rate.
to support the launches of INTUNIV and VPRIV, growth in new markets and the inclusion of Movetis operating costs from the fourth quarter The effective rate of tax in 2009 benefited from the decrease of 2010 following completion of the acquisition.
For the year to in valuation allowances relating to state tax credits and loss December 31, 2010 SG&A also included depreciation of $62.1 million carryforwards following Massachusetts state tax changes, and 2009: $67.7 million, intangible asset amortization of $133.5 million the favorable rate effect of the termination of the Womens Health 2009: $136.9 million and intangible asset impairment charges development agreement with Duramed and the amendment of $42.7 million 2009: $nil to write down the DAYTRANA intangible to the INTUNIV in-license, which were both tax effected at rates asset to its fair value less costs to sell prior to divestment to Noven.
higher than the Companys effective rate.
Gain on sale of product rights Financial condition at December 31, 2011 and 2010 For the year to December 31, 2010 the Company recorded gains on sale of product rights of $16.5 million 2009: $6.3 million of which Cash and cash equivalents $10.4 million 2009: $nil resulted from the remeasurement of Cash and cash equivalents increased by $69.4 million to $620.0 million contingent consideration receivable on divestment of DAYTRANA December 31, 2010: $550.6 million.
Cash generated by operating to its fair value, and $6.1 million 2009: $6.3 million from the disposal activities of $1,073.6 million and proceeds of $106.0 million on disposal of other non-core products.
of non-current investments and PP&E were offset by the cost of acquiring ABH, other capital expenditure, the purchase of shares Reorganization costs by the ESOT and dividend payments.
For the year to December 31, 2010 Shire recorded reorganization costs of $34.3 million 2009: $12.7 million of which $13.0 million Accounts receivable, net 2009: $12.7 million related to the transfer of manufacturing from its Accounts receivable, net increased by $152.5 million to $845.0 million Owings Mills facility to a third party and $21.3 million 2009: $nil related December 31, 2010: $692.5 million due to increased total revenues to the establishment of an international commercial hub in Switzerland.
Days sales outstanding remained constant at 50 days December 31, 2010: 50 days.
Integration and acquisition costs For the year to December 31, 2010 the Company recorded integration Investments and acquisition costs of $8.0 million 2009: $10.6 million, which Investments decreased by $71.7 million to $29.9 million December 31, in 2010 principally related to the acquisition of Movetis, and in 2009 2010: $101.6 million due to the disposal of substantially all of the to the integration of Jerini.
Companys holding in Vertex for a cash consideration of $94.7 million.
Interest expense Goodwill For the year to December 31, 2010 the Company incurred interest Goodwill has increased by $190.1 million to $592.6 million December expense of $35.1 million 2009: $39.8 million.
Interest expense 31, 2010: $402.5 million, principally due to goodwill arising on the principally relates to the coupon and amortization of issue costs acquisition of ABH.
on Shires $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014.
Other Intangible assets, net Other income expense, net Other intangible assets have increased by $514.1 million to For the year to December 31, 2010 the Company recognized Other $2,493.0 million December 31, 2010: $1,978.9 million, principally income, net of $7.9 million 2009: $60.7 million, primarily due to the due to intangible assets for DERMAGRAFT product technology recognition of a gain of $11.1 million 2009: $55.2 million relating of $710.0 million acquired with ABH, offset by intangible asset to the disposal of its investment in ViroChem in March 2009.
At the amortization and impairment charges of $182.7 million.
time of disposal an element of the consideration was held in escrow for twelve months pending any warranty claims.
The consideration Convertible bondscurrent was released from escrow in March 2010, resulting in the remaining Convertible bondscurrent have increased by $1,100 million due to gain being recognized in the year to December 31, 2010. the reclassification of the Companys $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 and convertible into fully paid Ordinary Shares of Other income expense, net also includes a loss of $3.6 million in the Shire plc the Bonds from non-current to current liabilities in 2011, as year to December 31, 2010 relating to the extinguishment of building the exercise of the Put Option see Liquidity and capital resources, finance obligations at Lexington Technology Park, and in 2009 below could require the Company to redeem the Bonds in 2012. includes a gain of $5.7 million following the substantial modification The Company does not consider it likely that the Put Option will be of a property lease.
However, if the Bonds were redeemed in full in 2012, the Companys operating cash flow together with available cash, cash equivalents and the new RCF see Liquidity and capital resources, below would be sufficient to fund repayment of the Bonds.
In lieu of settling any such redemption wholly in cash, the terms of the Bonds also permit the Company to deliver the underlying Ordinary Shares and, if necessary, a cash top-up amount.
Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 31 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 31 Liquidity and capital resources The Bonds may be redeemed at the option of the Company, at their principal amount together with accrued and unpaid interest if: i at any General time after May 23, 2012 if on no less than 20 dealing days in any period The Companys funding requirements depend on a number of factors, of 30 consecutive dealing days the value of Shires Ordinary Shares including the timing and extent of its development programs: corporate, underlying each Bond in the principal amount of $100,000 would business and product acquisitions: the level of resources required for exceed $130,000: or ii at any time conversion rights have been the expansion of certain manufacturing and marketing capabilities as the exercised, and or purchases and corresponding cancelations, and or product base expands: increases in accounts receivable and inventory redemptions effected in respect of 85% or more in principal amount which may arise with any increase in product sales: competitive and of Bonds originally issued.
The Bonds may also be redeemed at the technological developments: the timing and cost of obtaining required option of the Bondholder at their principal amount including accrued regulatory approvals for new products: the timing and quantum of but unpaid interest on May 9, 2012 the Put Option, or following the milestone payments on collaborative projects: the timing and quantum occurrence of a change of control of Shire.
The Bonds are repayable of tax and dividend payments: the timing and quantum of purchases by in US dollars, but also contain provisions entitling the Company to the ESOT of Shire Ordinary Shares or ADSs in the market to satisfy settle redemption amounts in Pounds sterling, or in the case of the option exercises: the timing and quantum of any amount that could be Final Maturity Date and following exercise of the Put Option, by paid by the Company if CMS were to employ an alternative interpretation delivery of the underlying Ordinary Shares and a cash top-up amount.
of the Medicaid rebate legislation in respect of ADDERALL XR Medicaid At February 21, 2012 the Bonds were trading at above par, and the rebates for periods prior to October 1, 2010: and the amount of cash Company does not currently consider it likely that the Put Option will generated from sales of Shires products and royalty receipts.
However, in accordance with US GAAP, as the exercise of the Put Option could require the Company to redeem An important part of Shires business strategy is to protect its products the Bonds within twelve months of the balance sheet date, the Bonds and technologies through the use of patents, proprietary technologies have been presented as a current liability at December 31, 2011. and trademarks, to the extent available.
The Company intends to defend its intellectual property and as a result may need cash for The Bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares during the conversion funding the cost of litigation.
period, being the period from June 18, 2007 until the earlier of: i the close of business on the date falling 14 days prior to the The Company finances its activities through cash generated from Final Maturity Date: ii if the Bonds have been called for redemption operating activities, credit facilities, private and public offerings of equity by the Company, the close of business 14 days before the date fixed and debt securities, and the proceeds of asset or investment disposals.
for redemption: iii the close of business on the day prior to a Bondholder giving notice of redemption in accordance with the Shires balance sheet includes $620.0 million of cash and cash conditions: and iv the giving of notice by the trustee that the Bonds equivalents at December 31, 2011.
Substantially all of Shires debt are accelerated by reason of the occurrence of an event of default.
relates to its $1,100 million 2.75% Convertible Bond which matures in 2014, although these Bonds include a Put Option as defined below Upon conversion, the Bondholder is entitled to receive Ordinary which could require repayment of the Bonds in May 2012.
In addition, Shares at the conversion price of $32.83 per Ordinary Share, Shire has committed multicurrency revolving and swing line facilities subject to adjustment as outlined below.
of $1,200 million, which mature in 2015, and are currently undrawn.
The conversion price is subject to adjustment in respect of i any Shire 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 dividend or distribution by the Company, ii a change of control On May 9, 2007 Shire issued the Bonds and the net proceeds and iii customary anti dilution adjustments for, inter alia, share of the issuance, after deducting the commissions and other direct consolidations, share splits, spin-off events, rights issues, bonus costs of issue, totaled $1,081.7 million.
In connection with the Scheme issues and reorganizations.
The initial conversion price of $33.5879 the Trust Deed was amended and restated in 2008 in order to was adjusted to $33.17 with effect from March 11, 2009 as a result provide that, following the substitution of Shire plc in place of Shire of cumulative dividend payments during the period from October 2007 Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Old Shire as the principal obligor to April 2009 inclusive, and was further adjusted to $32.83 with effect and issuer of the Bonds, the Bonds would be convertible into from March 11, 2011 as a result of cumulative dividend payments Ordinary Shares of Shire plc.
during the period April 2009 to April 2011 inclusive.
The Ordinary Shares issued on conversion will be delivered credited as fully paid, and will The Bonds were issued at 100% of their principal amount, and rank pari passu in all respects with all fully paid Ordinary Shares in issue unless previously purchased and canceled, redeemed or converted, on the relevant conversion date.
will be redeemed on May 9, 2014 the Final Maturity Date at their principal amount.
Revolving credit facilities agreement On November 23, 2010 the Company entered into a committed The Bonds bear interest at 2.75% per annum, payable semi-annually multicurrency revolving and swingline facilities agreement with a number in arrears on November 9 and May 9.
The Bonds constitute direct, of financial institutions, for which Abbey National Treasury Services plc unconditional, unsubordinated and unsecured obligations of the trading as Santander Global Banking and Markets, Bank of America Company, and rank pari passu and ratably, without any preference Securities Limited, Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, amongst themselves, and equally with all other existing and future Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc acted as unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company.
mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners the new RCF.
The new RCF is for an aggregate amount of $1,200 million and canceled the Companys then existing committed revolving credit facility the old RCF.
The new RCF, which includes a $250 million swingline facility, may be used for general corporate purposes and matures on November 23, 2015.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 32 32 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review The interest rate on each loan drawn under the new RCF for each Cash flow activity interest period is the percentage rate per annum which is the aggregate Net cash provided by operating activities for the year to December 31, of the applicable margin ranging from 0.90 to 2.25 percent per annum 2011 increased by $118.7 million or 12% to $1,073.6 million 2010: and LIBOR for the applicable currency and interest period.
Higher cash receipts from gross product sales and pays a commitment fee on undrawn amounts at 35 percent per annum lower cash tax payments were offset by the timing and quantum of of the applicable margin.
both sales deduction and operating expenditure payments, and lower royalty receipts in 2011 compared to 2010.
Under the new RCF it is required that i Shires ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined within the new RCF agreement does not exceed Net cash provided by operating activities for the year to December 31, 3.5 to 1 for either the twelve month period ending December 31 2010 increased by $328.0 million to $954.9 million 2009: $626.9 or June 30 unless Shire has exercised its option which is subject million, primarily due to higher cash receipts from product sales and to certain conditions to increase it to 4.0 to 1 for two consecutive royalties, cash inflows from forward foreign exchange contracts in 2010 testing dates: ii the ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest as defined in the compared to outflows in 2009, partially offset by higher payments on new RCF agreement must not be less than 4.0 to 1, for either the sales deductions, operating costs and taxes in the year to December twelve month period ending December 31 or June 30, and iii additional 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. limitations on the creation of liens, disposal of assets, incurrence of indebtedness, making of loans, giving of guarantees and granting Net cash used in investing activities was $809.2 million in the year security over assets.
These financial and operating covenants have to December 31, 2011, principally relating to the cash paid net of cash not had, and are not expected to have, an effect on the Companys acquired of $725.0 million for the acquisition of ABH and expenditure financial position and liquidity.
on property, plant and equipment of $194.3 million, offset by proceeds of $94.7 million received on the disposal of substantially all of Shires On entering into the new RCF in November 2010 the Company paid holding in Vertex.
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment arrangement costs of $8.0 million, which have been recorded as includes $110.0 million on construction work at HGTs facility at deferred charges, with amortization of these costs to the Companys Lexington Technology Park LTP.
income statement over the contractual term of the new RCF.
The availability of the loans under the RCF is subject to customary conditions.
Net cash used in investing activities was $797.4 million in the year to December 31, 2010.
This included the cash paid net of cash Financing acquired of $449.6 million for, and payments of $33.4 million on Shire anticipates that its operating cash flow together with available foreign exchange contracts related to, the acquisition of Movetis cash, cash equivalents and the new RCF will be sufficient to meet its in October 2010, and expenditure on property, plant and equipment anticipated future operating expenses, capital expenditures, tax and of $326.6 million.
Capital expenditure on property, plant and interest payments and lease obligations as they become due over the equipment includes $121.9 million for the acquisition of new properties next twelve months.
and properties previously occupied under operating leases and $134.5 million on construction work, at LTP.
The Company anticipates that its operating cash flow together with available cash, cash equivalents and the new RCF would be sufficient Net cash used in financing activities was $195.4 million for the year to enable repayment of the Bonds if the Put Option was exercised to December 31, 2011, principally due to dividend payments, the in 2012.
In lieu of settling any such redemption wholly in cash, the purchase of shares by the ESOT and the repayment of debt acquired terms of the Bonds also permit the Company to deliver the underlying with ABH, offset by the tax benefit associated with the exercise of Ordinary Shares and, if necessary, a cash top-up amount.
If the Company decides to acquire other businesses, it expects Net cash used in financing activities was $99.5 million for the year to fund these acquisitions from existing cash resources, the new to December 31, 2010, including dividend payments of $62.0 million RCF and possibly through new borrowings and the issue of new and $43.1 million to extinguish building finance obligations at LTP.
Outstanding letters of credit Sources and uses of cash At December 31, 2011, the Company had irrevocable standby letters The following table provides an analysis of the Companys gross and of credit and guarantees with various banks totaling $34.7 million, net debt excluding restricted cash, as at December 31, 2011 and 2010: providing security for the Companys performance of various obligations.
These obligations are primarily in respect of the 2011 2010 recoverability of insurance claims, lease obligations and supply December 31, $M $M commitments.
The Company has restricted cash of $9.2 million, 1 as required by these letters of credit.
Cash and cash equivalents 620.0 550.6 Shire 2.75% Convertible bonds 1,100.0 1,100.0 Building financing obligation 8.2 8.4 Total debt 1,108.2 1,108.4 Net debt 488.2 557.8 1 Substantially all of the Companys cash and cash equivalents are held by foreign subsidiaries i. e, those subsidiaries incorporated outside of Jersey, Channel Islands, the jurisdiction of incorporation of Shire plc, Shires holding company.
The amount of cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries has not had, and is not expected to have, a material impact on the Companys liquidity and capital resources.
Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 33 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 33 Cash requirements At December 31, 2011 the Groups cash requirement for long-term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet and other contractual obligations were as follows: Payments due by period Less than More than Total 1 year 13 years 35 years 5 years $M $M $M $M $M 1 Convertible Bonds 1,175.7 30.3 1,145.4 2 Operating leases obligation 182.9 43.5 61.6 36.4 41.4 3 Purchase obligations 669.9 534.2 119.7 14.1 1.9 4 Other long-term liabilities reflected on the Balance sheet 131.8 1.2 127.9 1.3 1.4 Total 2,160.3 609.2 1,454.6 51.8 44.7 1 Shires $1,100 million principal amount of 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 and the interest on the Bonds has been included based on their contractual payment dates.
The principal amount of $1,100 million has been included within payments due in one to three years based on the Final Maturity Date of the Bonds.
The Bondholders have a Put Option which would require the Company to redeem the Bonds at their principal amount in May 2012, and the Company has the option to call the Bonds subject to certain conditions after May 2012.
As a result of the Put Option the Bonds have been classified as a current liability at December 31, 2011: nevertheless, the Company does not currently consider it likely that the Put Option will be exercised in 2012.
Further details are included within Liquidity and capital resources: Shire 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 above.
2 The Company leases certain land, facilities, motor vehicles and certain equipment under operating leases expiring through 2021.
3 Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods, investments or services including clinical trials, contract manufacturing and capital equipment, including open purchase orders, that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms.
Shire expects to fund these commitments with cash flows from operating activities.
4 Unrecognized tax benefits and associated interest and penalties of $79.7 million are included within payments due in one to three years.
The contractual obligations table above does not include certain Research collaboration with Santaris Pharma A S Santaris milestones and other contractual commitments where payment on Locked Nucleic Acid LNA Drug Platform is contingent upon the occurrence of events which are yet to On August 24, 2009 Shire announced that it had entered into a occur and therefore payment is not yet due.
The most significant research collaboration with Santaris, to develop its proprietary LNA of the Companys milestone and contractual commitments which technology in a range of rare diseases.
LNA technology has the are contingent on the occurrence of future events are as follows: benefit of shortened target validation and proof of concept, potentially increasing the speed and lowering the cost of development.
As part Collaboration with Acceleron Pharma Inc. Acceleron of the joint research project Santaris will design, develop and deliver for activin receptor type IIB ActRIIB class of molecules preclinical LNA oligonucleotides for Shire-selected orphan disease On September 9, 2010 Shire announced that it had expanded its targets, and Shire will have the exclusive right to further develop and HGT pipeline by acquiring an exclusive license in markets outside commercialize these candidate compounds on a worldwide basis.
of North America for the ActRIIB class of molecules being developed by Acceleron.
The collaboration will initially focus on further developing In the year to December 31, 2009 Shire made an upfront payment HGT-4510 also called ACE-031, the lead ActRIIB drug candidate, to Santaris of $6.5 million, for technology access and R&D funding, which is in development for the treatment of patients with Duchenne which was expensed to R&D.
The Phase 2a trial is on hold and clinical safety is under review.
HGT-4510 and the other ActRIIB In the year to December 31, 2011 Shire paid success milestones class of molecules have the potential to be used in other muscular and other support costs of $2.5 million 2010: $4.0 million: 2009: and neuromuscular disorders with high unmet medical need.
$nil and $5.3 million 2010: $2.3 million: 2009: $0.1 million to Santaris respectively, which were expensed to R&D.
Shire has remaining In the year to December 31, 2010 Shire made an upfront payment obligations to pay Santaris $13.5 million subject to certain success of $45 million to Acceleron which has been expensed to R&D.
criteria, and development and sales milestones up to a maximum of $70.5 million for each indication.
Shire will also pay single or double In the year to December 31, 2011 Shires share of R&D costs under this digit tiered royalties on net sales of the product.
collaboration agreement was $10.1 million 2010: $2.7 million: 2009: $nil which were expensed to R&D.
Shire will pay Acceleron up to a Shire and Santaris have formed a joint research committee to further $165.0 million, subject to certain development, regulatory and monitor R&D activities through preclinical lead candidate selection sales milestones being met for HGT-4510 in DMD, up to an additional at which point all development and commercialization costs will $288 million for successful commercialization of other indications and be the responsibility of Shire.
molecules, and royalties on product sales.
Shire and Acceleron will conduct the collaboration through a joint steering committee, with subcommittees including a joint manufacture committee, and a joint patent committee to monitor the development of HGT-4510 and other compounds.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 34 34 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review Collaboration and license agreement with Sangamo BioSciences, GCRM Inc. Sangamo to develop therapeutics for hemophilia The Risk Council is assisted by the GCRM Department, which On February 1, 2012 Shire and Sangamo announced that they is responsible for supporting the development and implementation have entered into a collaboration and license agreement to develop of practices that facilitate employees compliance with laws therapeutics for hemophilia and other monogenic diseases based and Group policy.
The department provides assistance to help on Sangamos zinc finger DNA-binding protein ZFP technology.
employees meet high ethical standards and comply with applicable Shire will receive exclusive worldwide rights to ZFP Therapeutics laws and regulations.
designed to target four genes in hemophilia and will also receive the right to designate three additional gene targets.
Sangamo The principal focus of Shires compliance effort is to prevent and detect is responsible for all activities through submission of Investigational misconduct or non-compliance with laws or regulations through the New Drug Applications and European Clinical Trial Applications promotion of ethical behavior, policy development, appropriate training, for each product and Shire will reimburse Sangamo for its internal monitoring and audit.
Shire employees are encouraged to seek help and external research program-related costs.
Shire is responsible and to report suspected cases of misconduct without fear of retaliation.
for clinical development and commercialization of products arising Employees can report suspected cases of misconduct to management from the alliance.
Shire will pay Sangamo an upfront fee followed or through the confidential reporting lines managed by GCRM.
by research, regulatory, development and commercial milestone Concerns and allegations are fairly and independently investigated payments, and royalties on product sales.
and appropriate disciplinary action is taken if warranted.
Principal risks and uncertainties The GCRM department is managed by the Chief Compliance and The Group has adopted a risk management strategy designed Risk Officer, who reports directly to the CEO.
The Chief Compliance to identify, assess and manage the significant risks that it faces.
and Risk Officer chairs the Risk Council and regularly provides While the Group aims to identify and manage such risks, no risk summary reports on the Risk Council and Compliance activities management strategy can provide absolute assurance against loss.
to the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
The Chief Compliance and Risk Officer has access at all times to the ACR Committee Mitigation of principal risks chair which provides a mechanism for bypassing the executive The management and mitigation of risks are a key focus for the Group.
management should the need ever arise.
The Group has established The Risk Council which is supported by the Global Compliance and Risk Management GCRM Department Set out below are the key risk factors associated with the business, to oversee the management and mitigation of the principal risks faced that have been identified through the Groups approach to risk by the Group, as set out below.
Some of these risk factors are specific to the Group, and others are more generally applicable to the pharmaceutical Risk Council industry in which the Group operates.
The Group considers that The Risk Council comprises a number of senior executives, from these risk factors apply equally and therefore all should be carefully functions across the Group, and is charged with overseeing the risk considered before any investment is made in Shire.
management process and activities of the Group.
Chaired by the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, the Risk Councils membership includes senior members of each of the Group businesses, in addition to the Head of Internal Audit.
Each business unit and corporate function is required to periodically review the significant risks facing their businesses, and are provided with a framework for use in their review.
This review includes identifying operational risks, compliance risks and risks to the achievement of goals and objectives.
That review occurs twice annually and material risks are recorded on a corporate risk schedule for review and assessment of the risks and associated mitigation plans.
The Risk Council identifies a manager who is given responsibility for the management of any given risk.
The risk schedule is reviewed and validated by the Leadership Team.
In addition, the risk schedule is reviewed twice yearly by the Audit Compliance & Risk ACR Committee, and on an annual basis by the Board.
Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 35 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 35 RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE COMPANYS BUSINESS The Company sells authorized generic versions of ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax and currently receives royalties from Impax in The Companys products may not be a commercial success respect of sales of its authorized generic.
Shire continues to sell the The commercial success of the Companys marketed products branded version of ADDERALL XR.
and other new products that the Company may launch in the future, will depend on their approval and acceptance by physicians, patients Factors that could negatively impact total revenue from ADDERALL XR and other key decision makers, as well as the timing of the receipt include, but are not limited to: of additional marketing approvals, the scope of marketing approvals erosion of ADDERALL XR product sales if the authorized generic as reflected in the products label, the countries in which such versions capture Shires branded market share: approvals are obtained, the authorization of price and reimbursement in those countries where price and reimbursement is negotiated, any approval by the FDA of any ANDAs for ADDERALL XR which and safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of the could further reduce branded market share.
Any such approval product as compared to competitive products.
may eliminate or reduce royalties currently received from Impax: issues impacting the production of ADDERALL XR or the supply The Company may not be able to grow its product revenues of amphetamine salts including, but not limited to, the ability as quickly as anticipated if any or all of the following occur: to get sufficient quota from the US DEA: if Shires products or competitive products are genericized or if the changes in reimbursement policies of third party payors: and prices of competitor products are otherwise reduced significantly: changes to the level of sales deductions for ADDERALL XR if there are unanticipated adverse events experienced with the for private or public payors.
Companys products or those of a competitors product in the same therapeutic area not seen in clinical trials that impact In addition, in respect of the period prior to October 1, 2010, the physicians willingness to prescribe the Companys products: when certain provisions of the 2010 Affordable Care Act became if issues arise from clinical trials being conducted for post marketing effective and provided further clarity, there were potentially different purposes or for registration in another country or if regulatory interpretations as to how shipments of authorized generic ADDERALL agencies in one country act in a way that raises concerns for XR to Teva and Impax should be included in the Medicaid rebate regulatory agencies or for prescribers or patients in another country: calculation.
The CMS may disagree with the Companys interpretation as to how shipments of authorized generic ADDERALL XR should be if patients, payors or physicians favor other treatments over the included in the Medicaid rebate calculation, and require the Company Companys products: to apply an alternative interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation, if government regulation is stricter for the Companys products than resulting in additional liability to be recorded by the Company.
for other treatments: The failure to obtain and maintain reimbursement, loss of patent protection or ability of competitors to challenge or or an adequate level of reimbursement, by third party circumvent patents see Note 20 Commitments and contingencies payors in a timely manner for the Companys products to the consolidated financial statements for details of current patent may impact future revenues and earnings litigation : The Companys revenues are partly dependent on the level if planned geographical expansion into emerging markets is not of reimbursement provided to the Company by governmental successful: reimbursement schemes for its products.
Changes to governmental policy or practices could adversely affect the Companys revenues, if the sizes of the patient populations for the Companys products financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, the are less than expected or the Company fails to identify new patients reimbursement of treatments by healthcare providers, private for its products: or health insurers and other organizations, such as health-maintenance if there are lawsuits filed against Shire, including but not limited organizations and managed care organizations is under downward to, product liability claims, consumer law claims, and payor pressure and this, in turn, could impact on the prices at which the or reimbursement litigation.
Company can sell its products.
If the Company is unable to commercialize any of its products The market for the Companys products could be significantly successfully, there may be a material adverse effect on the influenced by the following, which could result in lower prices for the Companys revenues, financial condition and results of operations.
Companys products and or a reduced demand for the Companys products: Unanticipated decreases in revenues from ADDERALL XR higher levels of controls on the use of the Companys products could significantly reduce the Companys revenues and earnings and or requirements for additional price concessions by managed Following the launch of authorized generic versions of ADDERALL XR healthcare organizations: in 2009, Shires sales of ADDERALL XR decreased by 42% in 2010 compared to 2009.
In the year to December 31, 2011 product sales legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance of ADDERALL XR increased 48% to $532.8 million, representing programs in many of the Companys markets: and approximately 12% of the Companys total revenues, sales of price controls and non-reimbursement of new and highly priced ADDERALL XR in the years to December 31, 2010 and 2009 were medicines for which the economic and therapeutic rationales are $360.8 million and $626.5 million respectively.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 36 36 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review The prices for certain of the Companys products, in particular The Company uses bovine-derived serum sourced from New Zealand products for the treatment of rare genetic diseases such as and North America in the manufacturing process for ELAPRASE and REPLAGAL, ELAPRASE and VPRIV, may be high, compared to other DERMAGRAFT.
The discovery of additional cattle in North America pharmaceutical products.
The Company may encounter difficulty in or the discovery of cattle in New Zealand with bovine spongiform obtaining satisfactory pricing and reimbursement for such products.
encephalopathy, or mad cow disease, could cause the regulatory The failure to obtain and maintain pricing and reimbursement agencies in some countries to impose restrictions on these products, at satisfactory levels for such products may adversely affect the or prohibit the Company from using them.
This could disrupt the Companys revenues, financial condition and results of operations.
Companys ability to supply these products and would have a material adverse effect on the Companys revenues, financial conditions or A disruption to a products supply chain may result in the results of operations.
Company being unable to continue marketing or developing a product, or may result in the Company being unable to do The actions of certain customers can affect the Companys so on a commercially viable basis ability to sell or market products profitably, as well as impact The Company sources some products from third party contract net sales and growth comparisons manufacturers, and for certain products has its own manufacturing A small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant capability.
Although the Company dual-sources certain key products share of the US and certain European markets.
In 2011, for example, and or active ingredients.
The Company currently relies on a single 49% of the Companys product sales were attributable to three source for production of the final drug product for each of ADDERALL customers in the US: McKesson Corp. Cardinal Health, Inc. and XR, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, PENTASA, RESOLOR and VPRIV, AmerisourceBergen Corp.
In the event of financial failure of either relies on a single active ingredient source for each of ELAPRASE, of these customers, the Company may suffer financial loss and FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, REPLAGAL, RESOLOR and VPRIV a decline in revenues and earnings.
In addition, the number of and relies on a single source for certain serum reagents, the mesh independent drug stores and small chains has decreased as retail framework and the manifold used in the manufacture of DERMAGRAFT.
Consolidation or financial difficulties could cause customers to reduce their inventory levels, In the event of: or otherwise reduce purchases of the Companys products.
Such actions could have an adverse effect on the Companys financial failure of a third party contract manufacturer: or revenues, financial condition and results of operations.
A significant the failure of a third party manufacturer to comply with its contractual portion of the Companys SP product sales are made to major obligations: or pharmaceutical wholesale distributors as well as to large pharmacies in both the US and Europe.
Consequently, product sales and growth the failure of the Company or a third party contract manufacturer comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns to comply with mandatory manufacturing standards Current Good of major distributors and other trade buyers.
These fluctuations may Manufacturing Standards or cGMP : or result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions, or other the failure of the Company or a third party contract manufacturer factors.
In addition, a significant portion of the Companys revenues to manufacture sufficient quantities of product to meet demand: or for certain products for treatment of rare genetic diseases are concentrated with a small number of customers.
Changes in the any other form of disruption to the supply chain buying patterns of those customers may have an adverse effect on the Company may experience a delay in supply or be unable to supply, the Companys revenues, financial condition and results of operations.
market or develop its products.
Any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on the Companys revenues, Investigations or enforcement action by regulatory authorities financial condition and results of operations.
or law enforcement agencies relating to the Companys activities in the highly regulated markets in which it operates may result There is no assurance that suppliers will continue to supply in the distraction of senior management, significant legal costs on commercially viable terms, or be able to supply components and the payment of substantial compensation or fines that meet regulatory requirements.
The Company is also subject The Company engages in various marketing, promotional and to the risk that suppliers will not be able to meet the quantities educational activities pertaining to, as well as the sale of, needed to meet market requirements, which may result in the pharmaceutical products in a number of jurisdictions around the world.
shortage of product supplies in the market The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products is The development and approval of the Companys products depends highly regulated and the operations of market participants, such as on the ability to procure active ingredients and special packaging the Company, are closely supervised by regulatory authorities and law materials from sources approved by regulatory authorities.
As the enforcement agencies, including the US Department of Health and marketing approval process requires manufacturers to specify their Human Services HHS, the FDA, the US Department of Justice, own proposed suppliers of active ingredients and special packaging the SEC and the DEA.
These authorities and agencies have broad materials in their applications, regulatory approval of a new authority to investigate market participants for violations of federal laws supplier would be required if active ingredients or such packaging relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products, materials were no longer available from the supplier specified in the including the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute and the marketing approval.
The need to qualify a new supplier could delay Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, among others, for alleged improper the Companys development and commercialization efforts.
conduct, including corrupt payments to government officials, improper payments to medical professionals, off-label marketing of pharmaceutical products, and the submission of false claims for reimbursement by the federal government.
Pharmaceutical companies may be subject to enforcement actions or prosecution Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 37 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 37 for such conduct, as well.
Any inquiries or investigations into the RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE PHARMACEUTICAL operations of, or enforcement or other regulatory action against, the AND BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRIES IN GENERAL Company by such authorities could result in the distraction of senior management for prolonged periods of time, significant defense costs, The actions of governments, industry regulators and the substantial monetary penalties and require extensive government economic environments in which the Company operates monitoring of Company activities in the future.
As an example, on may adversely affect its ability to develop and profitably September 23, 2009 the Company received a subpoena from the market its products HHS Office of Inspector General in coordination with the US Attorney Changes to laws or regulations impacting the pharmaceutical industry, for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, seeking production of in any country in which the Company conducts its business, may documents related to the sales and marketing of ADDERALL XR, adversely impact the Companys revenues, financial condition and VYVANSE and DAYTRANA.
Shire is co-operating and responding results of operations.
For example, changes to the regulations relating to this subpoena for further information see Note 20 Commitments to orphan drug status may affect the exclusivity granted to products and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements.
Adverse outcomes in legal matters could have a material adverse A slowdown of global economic growth, or continued effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations instability of the Eurozone, could have negative consequences During the ordinary course of its business the Company may be for our business and increase the risk of non-payment by the involved in claims, disputes and litigation with third parties, employees, Companys customers regulatory agencies, governmental authorities and other parties.
The Growth of the global pharmaceutical market has become increasingly range of matters of a legal nature that might arise is extremely broad tied to global economic growth.
Accordingly a substantial and lasting but could include, without limitation, employment claims and disputes, slowdown of the global economy or major national economies intellectual property claims and disputes, contract claims and disputes, could negatively affect growth in the markets in which the Company product liability claims and disputes, regulatory litigation and tax audits.
Such a slowdown, or any resultant austerity measures adopted by governments in response to a slowdown, could also Any unfavorable outcome in such matters could adversely impact the reduce the level of reimbursement that governments are willing and Companys ability to develop and commercialize its products, distract able to provide to the Company for its products and, as a result, senior management to the detriment of the business, adversely affect adversely affect the Companys revenues, financial condition and the profitability of existing products, possibly subject the Company to results of operations.
substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, and possibly result in the imposition of regulatory controls or exclusion Any slowing economic environment may also lead to financial of certain products or the Company from government reimbursement difficulties for some of the Companys significant customers.
Any such outcomes could have a material adverse In such situations, the Company could experience delays in payment effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations.
or non-payment of amounts owed which may result in a rising level For further information see Note 20 Commitments and contingencies of contractual defaults by its contractual counterparties.
The Company to the consolidated financial statements.
does business, both directly with government hospitals, clinics, pharmacies and other agencies and indirectly through wholesalers Contractual relationships can create a significant dependency on and distributors, with a number of Eurozone governments including third parties, the failure of whom can affect the ability to operate the governments of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain that the Companys business and to develop and market products have experienced or may continue to experience declines in their The Company has entered into many agreements with third parties for creditworthiness which may result in the continuation of significant the provision of goods and services to enable it to operate its business.
cuts to public spending in an attempt to manage their budget deficits.
If the third party does not provide the goods or services on the agreed basis, the Company may not be able to continue the development or In addition, there are concerns for the overall stability and suitability commercialization of its products as planned or on a commercial basis.
of the Euro as a single currency, given the economic and political Additionally, it may not be able to establish or maintain good relationships challenges facing individual Eurozone countries.
deterioration in the creditworthiness of Eurozone countries, the withdrawal of one or more member countries from the EU, or the failure The Company has entered into licensing, co-development and other of the Euro as a common European currency could adversely effect agreements with third parties.
These contractual agreements may be the Companys revenues, financial condition or results of operations.
altered, terminated or expire and the Company may not be able to renew, extend or contract on similar commercial terms, with the party The introduction of new products by competitors may impact or another third party.
In such circumstances, the Company may be future revenues unable to continue to develop or market its products as planned and The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive.
could be required to abandon or divest a product line.
Many of the Companys competitors are large, well known pharmaceutical, biotechnology, chemical and healthcare companies with considerable resources.
Companies with more resources and larger R&D expenditures have a greater ability to fund clinical trials and other development work necessary for regulatory applications.
They may also be more successful than the Company in acquiring or licensing new products for development and commercialization.
If any product that competes with one of the Companys principal drugs is approved, the Companys sales of that drug could be negatively impacted.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 38 38 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and regenerative medicine The failure to secure new products or compounds industries are also characterized by continuous product development for development, either through in-licensing, acquisition and technological change.
The Companys products could, therefore, or internal research and development efforts, may have be rendered obsolete or uneconomic, through the development an adverse impact on the Companys future results of new products, technological advances in manufacturing or The Companys future results will depend, to a significant extent, upon production by its competitors.
its ability to in-license, acquire or develop new products or compounds.
The Company also expends significant resources on research and The successful development of products is highly uncertain development.
The failure to in-license or acquire new products or and requires significant expenditures and time compounds, on a commercially viable basis, could have a material Products that appear promising in research or development may adverse effect on the Companys revenues, financial condition and be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market results of operations.
The failure of these efforts to develop products for several reasons, including: appropriate for testing in human clinical trials could have a material adverse effect on the Companys revenues, financial condition and preclinical or clinical tests may show the product to lack safety results of operations.
or efficacy: delays may be caused by slow enrolment in clinical studies: regulatory The Company may fail to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend requirements for clinical trial drug supplies: extended length of time the intellectual property rights required to conduct its business to achieve study endpoints: additional time requirements for data The Companys success depends upon its ability and the ability analysis or dossier preparation: time required for discussions with of its partners and licensors to protect their intellectual property regulatory agencies, including regulatory agency requests for rights.
Where possible, the Companys strategy is to register intellectual additional preclinical or clinical data: delays at regulatory agencies property rights, such as patents and trademarks.
The Company due to staffing or resource limitations: analysis of or changes to study also relies variously on trade secrets, unpatented know-how and design: unexpected safety, efficacy, or manufacturing issues: delays technological innovations and contractual arrangements with third may arise from shared control with collaborative partners in the parties to maintain its competitive position.
planning and execution of the product development, scaling of the manufacturing process, or getting approval for manufacturing: Patents and patent applications covering a number of the technologies and processes owned or licensed to the Company have been granted, manufacturing issues, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other or are pending in various countries, including the US, Canada, major factors may render the product economically unviable: European countries and Japan.
The Company intends to enforce the proprietary rights of others and their competing products vigorously its patent rights and believes that its partners intend to and technologies may prevent the product from being developed enforce vigorously patent rights they have licensed to the Company.
or commercialized: and However, patent rights may not prevent other entities from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals.
equivalent to the Companys products or technologies.
The Companys patent rights may be successfully challenged in the future or laws Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that providing such rights may be changed or withdrawn.
The Company large-scale clinical trials will be successful.
Clinical results are frequently cannot assure investors that its patents and patent applications or susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit, or prevent those of its commercial partners, licensors and third party regulatory approvals.
The length of time necessary to complete clinical manufacturers will provide valid patent protection sufficiently broad to trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final protect the Companys products and technology or that such patents decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be will not be challenged, revoked, invalidated, infringed or circumvented difficult to predict.
If the Companys large-scale or late stage clinical by third parties.
In the regular course of business, the Company is party trials for a product are not successful, the Company will not recover to litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights.
its substantial investments in that product.
See Note 20 Commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements for details of current patent litigation.
In addition, even if the products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, including, for Additionally, the Companys products, or the technologies or processes example, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other nonused to formulate or manufacture those products may now, or in the clinical testing, changes to the product label which could impact its future, infringe the patent rights of third parties.
It is also possible that marketability and prospects for commercial success, new or revised third parties will obtain patent or other proprietary rights that might requirements for manufacturing, written notifications to physicians, be necessary or useful for the development, manufacture or sale of the or product recalls or withdrawals.
Further, a number of the Companys Companys products.
If third parties are the first to invent a particular ADHD products contain controlled substances and are subject to product or technology, it is possible that those parties will obtain regulation by the US DEA and equivalent agencies in other countries.
patent rights that will be sufficiently broad to prevent the Company or its strategic partners from developing, manufacturing or selling its The failure of a strategic partner to develop and commercialize products.
The Company may need to obtain licenses for intellectual products could result in delays in approval or loss of revenue property rights from others to develop, manufacture and market The Company enters into strategic partnerships with other companies commercially viable products and may not be able to obtain these in areas such as product development and sales and marketing.
licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.
In addition, any In these partnerships, the Company is sometimes dependent on its licensed patents or proprietary rights may not be valid and enforceable.
While these partnerships are governed by contracts, the Company may not exercise direct control.
If a partner The Company also relies on trade secrets and other unpatented fails to perform or experiences financial difficulties, the Company proprietary information, which it generally seeks to protect by may suffer a delay in the development, a delay in the approval or confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with its employees, a reduction in sales or royalties of a product.
These agreements may not Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 39 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 39 effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may Treasury policies and organization not provide the Company with an adequate remedy in the event The Companys principal treasury operations are coordinated by of unauthorized disclosure of such information.
If the Companys its corporate treasury function.
All treasury operations are conducted employees, scientific consultants or partners develop inventions or within a framework of policies and procedures approved annually processes that may be applicable to the Companys products under by the Board of Directors.
As a matter of policy, the Company does development, such inventions and processes will not necessarily not undertake speculative transactions that would increase its credit, become the Companys property, but may remain the property of currency or interest rate exposure.
those persons or their employers.
Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of the Companys Interest rate risk proprietary rights.
The failure to obtain or maintain patent and trade The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on restricted cash, cash secret protection, for any reason, could allow other companies to make and cash equivalents and on foreign exchange contracts on which competing products which could have a material adverse effect on interest is at floating rates.
This exposure is primarily to US dollar, the Companys revenues, financial condition or results of operations.
Pounds sterling and Euro interest rates.
As the Company maintains all of its cash, liquid investments and foreign exchange contracts on The Company has filed applications to register various trademarks a short-term basis for liquidity purposes, this risk is not actively for use in connection with its products in various countries including managed.
In the year to December 31, 2011 the average interest rate the US and countries in Europe and Latin America and intends to received on cash and liquid investments was less than 1% per trademark new product names as new products are developed.
The largest proportion of these cash and liquid investments In addition, with respect to certain products, the Company relies was in US dollar money market and liquidity funds.
on the trademarks of third parties.
These trademarks may not afford adequate protection or the Company or the third parties may not The Company incurs interest at a fixed rate of 2.75% on $1,100 million have the financial resources to enforce any rights under any of these in principal amount convertible bonds due 2014. trademarks.
The Companys inability or the inability of these third parties to protect their trademarks because of successful third party No derivative instruments were entered into during the year to claims to those trademarks could allow others to use the Companys December 31, 2011 to manage interest rate exposure.
The Company trademarks and dilute their value.
continues to review its interest rate risk and the policies in place to manage the risk.
If a marketed product fails to work effectively or causes adverse side-effects, this could result in damage to the Foreign exchange risk Companys reputation, the withdrawal of the product and The Company trades in numerous countries and as a consequence legal action against the Company has transactional and translational foreign exchange exposures.
Unanticipated side-effects or unfavorable publicity from complaints concerning any of the Companys products, or those of its competitors, Transactional exposure arises where transactions occur in currencies could have an adverse effect on the Companys ability to obtain different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
The main or maintain regulatory approvals or successfully market its products.
trading currencies of the Company are the US dollar, Pounds sterling, The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sales of pharmaceutical Swiss franc and the Euro.
It is the Companys policy that these products entails a risk of product liability claims, product recalls, exposures are minimized to the extent practicable by denominating litigation and associated adverse publicity.
The cost of defending transactions in the subsidiarys functional currency.
against such claims is expensive even when the claims are not merited.
A successful product liability claim against the Company could require Where significant exposures remain, the Company uses foreign the Company to pay a substantial monetary award.
If, in the absence exchange contracts being spot, forward and swap contracts to of adequate insurance coverage, the Company does not have manage the exposure for balance sheet assets and liabilities that are sufficient financial resources to satisfy a liability resulting from such denominated in currencies different to the functional currency of the a claim or to fund the legal defense of such a claim, it could become relevant subsidiary.
These assets and liabilities relate predominantly insolvent.
Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, difficult to inter company financing, accruals for royalty receipts and specific to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms.
The foreign exchange contracts have not been Although the Company carries product liability insurance when designated as hedging instruments.
Cash flows from derivative available, this coverage may not be adequate.
In addition, it cannot instruments are presented within net cash provided by operating be certain that insurance coverage for present or future products will activities in the consolidated cash flow statement, unless the be available.
Moreover, an adverse judgment in a product liability suit, derivative instruments are economically hedging specific investing even if insured or eventually overturned on appeal, could generate or financing activities.
substantial negative publicity about the Companys products and business and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other products.
Translational foreign exchange exposure arises on the translation into US dollars of the financial statements of non-US dollar functional Loss of highly qualified management and scientific personnel subsidiaries.
could cause the Company subsequent financial loss The Company faces competition for highly qualified management At December 31, 2011 the Company had 20 swap and forward foreign and scientific personnel from other companies, academic institutions, exchange contracts outstanding to manage currency risk.
The swaps government entities and other organizations.
It may not be able to and forward contracts mature within 90 days.
The Company did successfully attract and retain such personnel.
The Company has not have credit risk related contingent features or collateral linked to agreements with a number of its key scientific and management the derivatives.
At December 31, 2011 the fair value of these contracts personnel for periods of one year or less.
The loss of such personnel, was a net asset of $3.0 million.
Further details are included below.
or the inability to attract and retain the additional, highly skilled employees required for its activities could have an adverse effect on the Companys business.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 40 40 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Financial review Foreign exchange risk sensitivity The following exchange rate sensitivity analysis summarizes the sensitivity of our reported revenues and net income to hypothetical changes in the average annual exchange rates of the Euro, Pounds sterling and Swiss franc against the US dollar, assuming a hypothetical 10% strengthening of the US dollar against each of the aforementioned currencies in the year to December 31, 2011 : Increase Increase reduction reduction in revenues in net income $M $M Euro 64 32 Pounds sterling 21 10 Swiss franc 15 A 10% weakening of the US dollar against the aforementioned currencies would have an equal and opposite effect.
The table below provides information about the Companys swap and forward foreign exchange contracts by currency pair.
The table presents the net principal amounts and weighted average exchange rates of all outstanding contracts.
All contracts have a maturity date of less than three months.
Principal Weighted value of average amount exchange receivable rate Fair value December 31, 2011 $M $M Swap foreign exchange contracts Receive USD Pay EUR 203.5 1.32 3.4 Receive GBP Pay USD 80.7 1.56 0.4 Receive CAD Pay USD 51.7 0.98 Receive USD Pay SEK 4.9 6.91 Receive USD Pay AUD 1.5 1.00 Receive USD Pay CHF 4.7 1.07 Concentration of credit risk The Company has taken positive steps to manage any credit risk associated with these transactions and operates clearly defined credit Financial instruments that potentially expose Shire to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of short-term cash investments, trade evaluation procedures.
However, an inability of one or more of these wholesalers to honor their debts to the Company could have an accounts receivable and derivative contracts.
Cash is invested in shortterm money market instruments, including money market and liquidity adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
funds and bank term deposits.
The money market and liquidity funds in which Shire invests are all triple A rated by both Standard and Poors A substantial portion of the Companys accounts receivable in countries outside of the US is derived from product sales to government-owned and by Moodys credit rating agencies.
The Companys recovery of these accounts receivable is therefore dependent upon The Company is exposed to the credit risk of the counterparties with which it enters into derivative instruments.
The Company limits this the financial stability and creditworthiness of the relevant governments.
In 2011 the creditworthiness and general economic condition of a exposure through a system of internal credit limits which require counterparties to have a long-term credit rating of AA3 or better from number of Eurozone countries including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain has continued to deteriorate.
As a result, in some of these the major rating agencies.
The internal credit limits are approved by the Board and exposure against these limits is monitored by the corporate countries the Company is experiencing delays in the remittance of receivables due from government-owned or government-supported treasury function.
The counterparties to these derivatives contracts are major international financial institutions.
The Companys revenues from product sales in the US are mainly The Companys aggregate accounts receivable, net of the allowance governed by agreements with major pharmaceutical wholesalers and for doubtful accounts, in total from government-owned or  with other pharmaceutical distributors and retail pharmacy supported healthcare providers in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and chains.
For the year to December 31, 2011 there were three customers Spain the Relevant Countries are as follows: in the US that accounted for 49% of the Companys product sales.
However, such customers typically have significant cash resources and as such the risk from concentration of credit is considered acceptable.
December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 $M $M Total accounts receivable, net in the Relevant Countries 184 144 Total accounts receivable, net in the Relevant Countries as a percentage of total outstanding accounts receivable, net 22% 21% Accounts receivable, net due from government-owned or government-supported healthcare providers for the Relevant Countries 170 126 Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 41 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 41 Accounts receivable due from government-owned or governmentInflation supported healthcare providers in the Relevant Countries of $170 million Although at reduced levels in recent years, inflation continues to apply 2010: $126 million are split by country as follows: Greece $4 million upward pressure on the cost of goods and services which are used 2010: $8 million : Ireland $1 million 2010: $1 million : Italy $81 million in the business.
However, the Company believes that the net effect 2010: $60 million : Portugal $14 million 2010: $5 million and Spain of inflation on its revenues and operations has been minimal during $70 million 2010: $52 million.
In 2011 the Company received $193 million in settlement of accounts Off-balance sheet arrangements receivable in the Relevant Countries$11 million was from Greece There are no off-balance sheet arrangements, aside from the including $2.1 million in the form of Greek Government Bonds collaborations containing contractual commitments and milestones GGBs : $18 million from Ireland: $94 million from Italy: $5 million which are contingent on future events as outlined above, that have, from Portugal and $65 million from Spain.
or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on the Companys financial condition, revenues or expenses, results To date the Company has not incurred significant losses on the of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
accounts receivable in the Relevant Countries, and continues to consider that such accounts receivable are recoverable.
Other than the GGBs principal amount $2.1 million, carrying value $0.7 million as at December 31, 2011 and accounts receivable from government-owned or supported healthcare providers outlined above, Graham Hetherington the Company does not hold any other government debt from the Chief Financial Officer Relevant Countries.
Additionally the Company does not consider February 23, 2012 it is currently exposed to significant sovereign credit risk outside of the Relevant Countries.
The Company continues to evaluate all its accounts receivable for potential collection risks and has made provision for amounts where collection is considered to be doubtful.
If the financial condition of the Relevant Countries or other Eurozone countries suffer significant deterioration, such that their ability to make payments becomes uncertain, or if one or more Eurozone member countries withdraws from the Euro, additional allowances for doubtful accounts may be required, and losses may be incurred, in future periods.
Any such loss could have an adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
